BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-290
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                11 APRIL 2001

                                                                   AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                    Supplement 1
                                                                                         5 MARCH 2004

                                                                                       Flying Operations

                                                      COCKPIT/CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
                                                                       TRAINING PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOT                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
       (Capt Kenneth J. Bauer)                                           (Maj Gen Charles R. Henderson)
Supersedes AFI 11-290, 1 July 1998                                                             Pages: 16
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures. It establishes the USAF aircrew
training program that supports Air Force objectives and is applicable to all units assigned to or gained by
major commands (MAJCOMs) and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and aircrews assigned
or attached to all flying activities of these commands. Lead commands will publish guidance in the spe-
cific mission design series (MDS), 11-2 MDS specific vol. 1 and vol. 2, regarding CRM requirements,
currency, tracking, and evaluation. If MAJCOMs publish supplements to AFI 11-290, the supplements
will define implementation of CRM program, but may not be less restrictive. MAJCOMs will coordinate
their supplements with HQ USAF/XOOT. This instruction establishes requirements for developing and
managing tailored, mission-specific Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM) training programs and
requires CRM training for all Air Force aircrew members. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs)
and HQ USAF direct reporting units (DRUs) are responsible for establishing and managing their respec-
tive programs in accordance with this instruction. CRM programs are mandatory for aircrew members
and historically have been geared toward the operational flying environment, the potential exists to adapt
fundamental program principles to any task or functional area requiring cooperative or interactive time
critical efforts. Attachment 1 provides a glossary of references, acronyms, and terms used in this instruc-
tion. AF Form 4031, CRM Skill Criteria Training/Evaluation Form lists specific CRM skills which
measure the effectiveness of CRM training.
Submit suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through training channels, to HQ/USAF/XOOT, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC
20330-1480. This is a new instruction replacing AFI 36-2243, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Pro-
gram. Requests for waivers to this instruction should be directed to Chief Operations Training Division,
HQ AF/XOOT, 1480 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20332-1480, DSN 227-7706, Commercial
(202) 697-7706, FAX DSN 225-1489, FAX Commercial (202) 695-1489. MAJCOMs should accept
2                                                          AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


another MAJCOM or Department of Defense (DoD) training only if: it meets the intent of this instruction,
a source document is provided, and MAJCOM determines training is equivalent. This publication applies
to the Air National Guard (ANG) when published in the ANGIND 2.

(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-290,
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, 11 April 2001. The AFI is published
word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve supplementary material will be displayed in
the integrated publication by the tag (AFRC). This supplement describes Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) procedures to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this integrated
supplement discard the Air Force Basic.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates IC 2001-1 and replaces the term discipline with flight discipline in paragraph
6.1.4. This revision also provides a definition for flight discipline in the Terms section in Attachment 1.
The entire text of IC 2001-1 is at Attachment 2. Changed or revised material is indicated by a bar (|).
(AFRC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
(AFRC) This revision updates/refines the definition of crewmember (paragraph 1.), adds a requirement to
track CRM currency in ARMS (paragraph 8.3.2.), adds a "NOTE" dealing with AFRC C-130 CRM train-
ing requirements (paragraph 8.3.3.1. (Added)), adds guidance for AFRC FAP pilots (paragraph 8.9.
(Added)), add guidance on inspections (paragraph 9.2. (Added)), and adds a AFRC CRM Self-Inspection
Checklist to aid units in ensuring they are complying with CRM guidance (Attachment 3 (Added )).

Section A—CRM Program Description

1. The Air Force CRM program provides crewmembers with performance-enhancing knowledge and
skills directly applicable to their roles in the aerospace mission of the Air Force. CRM training is a key
component of a combined effort to identify and manage the conditions that lead to error. The CRM pro-
gram begins with crewmembers' initial Air Force flying training and is continuously built upon through-
out their operational careers. Training objectives will be tailored to the knowledge and skill level of the
aircrew member. As the aircrew member becomes more proficient, CRM training should emphasize per-
formance skills more than academic objectives. Lead commands define "crewmember" in terms of their
own operational mission requirements.
1. (AFRC) AFRC defines crewmember as an aircrew member who is on aeronautical orders, flies in a
designated crew position, and has a related AFSC with a prefix of K, Q, or X – to include aero-medical
evacuation, para-rescue, combat Rescue Officer (CRO), aerial gunner, and AWACS mission aircrew
members.
    1.1. The CRM program goals are:
       1.1.1. Maximize operational effectiveness and combat capability.
       1.1.2. Preserve Air Force personnel and material resources.
    1.2. CRM training will be designed and managed to accomplish the following objectives:
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                        3


       1.2.1. Develop aircrew skills in recognizing and responding to the conditions that lead to aircrew
       error.
       1.2.2. Develop aircrew proficiency in CRM skills.

2. Program Requirements.
   2.1. Lead Command guidance will:
       2.1.1. Establish training frequency, required attendees, and method for tracking crewmember cur-
       rencies.
       2.1.2. Use CRM skills criteria, AF Form 4031, to establish the skills training/evaluation criteria.
   2.2. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM training program must:
       2.2.1. Provide training to develop and improve CRM knowledge and skills based on paragraph 6.
       and AF Form 4031.
       2.2.2. Be updated annually to incorporate: "real-world" operational experiences, mishap data,
       research data, critiques, and flight evaluation trends.
       2.2.3. Identify the process for gathering, analyzing and incorporating trend data from MAJCOMs
       into existing training and evaluation programs.
       2.2.4. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM managers will insure continuity of course content with
       AETC’s introductory courses.
   2.3. CRM skills will:
       2.3.1. Be integrated into flight briefings and debriefings.
       2.3.2. Be integrated into training syllabi.
       2.3.3. Be evaluated during initial qualification and recurring evaluations.

Section B—Program Management

3. Top-Level Direction. Operational control of the content and delivery of Air Force CRM programs
will rest within the MAJCOM, FOA and DRU operations directorates. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU safety
and surgeon general directorates will act as advisors and respective subject matter experts to the MAJ-
COM, FOA and DRU operations directorates for providing input to course content and delivery. The
USAF CRM Steering Committee standardizes CRM program requirements, terminology, and core sylla-
bus. Each functional area using the CRM training concept must be represented on the USAF CRM Steer-
ing Committee. The committee will meet annually.
   3.1. Steering Committee Membership:
       3.1.1. HQ USAF director of operations training (XOOT Chair).
       3.1.2. HQ AETC/DOF.
       3.1.3. HQ ACC/DOT.
       3.1.4. HQ AMC/DOT.
       3.1.5. HQ AFSOC/DOT.
4                                                          AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


       3.1.6. HQ PACAF/DOT.
       3.1.7. HQ USAFE/DOT.
       3.1.8. ANG/XOO.
       3.1.9. HQ AFRC/DOT.
       3.1.10. HQ AFMC/DOV.
       3.1.11. HQ AFSPC/DOO.
       3.1.12. Air Force Academy Operations Support Squadron (34 OSS).
       3.1.13. War Fighter Training Research Division Armstrong Labs (AFRL/HEA) (advisor).
       3.1.14. HQ AFSC/SEF (advisor).
       3.1.15. Air Force Aerospace Physiology (AFMOA/SGOO) (advisor).
       3.1.16. Other technical advisors as required.

4. USAF CRM Working Group.
    4.1. Action officers representing each of the members of the Steering Committee constitute the USAF
    CRM Working Group. The working group reviews program execution and policy issues and will meet
    as required. Mandatory topics will include Training Continuum, Standardization, and Research and
    Development needs. Working group members are:
       4.1.1. HQ USAF/XOOT CRM Program Manager (Chair).
       4.1.2. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM program managers.
       4.1.3. MAJCOM CRM advisors (SE, SG, etc.--maximum two per MAJCOM).
       4.1.4. HQ AFSC/SEFF and SEPA representatives (technical advisors).
       4.1.5. HQ AFFSA/XOFD representative (technical advisor).
       4.1.6. AFMOA/SGOO (technical advisor).
       4.1.7. AFRL/HE (technical advisor)
       4.1.8. Other technical advisors as required.

5. MAJCOM CRM Programs. Individual MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs manage their programs as fol-
lows:
5. (AFRC) MAJCOM CRM Programs. This supplement describes the specific requirements of the
AFRC CRM Training. It contains essential guidance on how to implement annual CRM training and spec-
ifies what training is required for each specific AFRC Mission Design Series (MDS).
    5.1. CRM Program Manager. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU will appoint a CRM program man-
    ager within their operations or equivalent directorate. This individual should be a rated officer whose
    primary duty should be the management of their MAJCOM’s respective CRM training program. CRM
    program managers should attend CRM industry conferences to keep abreast of current CRM technol-
    ogy and practices. The program manager is responsible for:
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                      5


     5.1.1. Ensuring Lead Command’s AFI 11-2 MDS specific vol. 1 and vol. 2s provide CRM policy
     guidance.
     5.1.2. Implementing Lead Command CRM policy guidance.
     5.1.3. Ensuring each applicable CRM training phase (paragraph 8.) is implemented and evalu-
     ated.
     5.1.4. The forwarding of AF Form 4031, trend data to CRM Instructors/Facilitators.
     5.1.5. Ensuring a system is in place to collect performance data (i.e. Stan/Eval trends (Skills cri-
     teria), mishap reports and HATRs, and Inspector General reports) and send to CRM instructors
     and facilitators.
     5.1.6. Evaluating contractor implementation of CRM program objectives. Where discrepancies
     are identified, initiate corrective actions.
     5.1.7. Ensuring Quality Assurance Representatives (QARs) and IGs have current evaluation
     guidance to evaluate CRM program objectives. Where discrepancies are identified, initiate correc-
     tive actions.
     5.1.8. Providing feedback to CRM Working Group regarding program status covering: Training
     Continuum, Standardization, and Research and Development needs.
     5.1.9. Interacting with MAJCOM, FOA or DRU CRM advisors (Safety, Aerospace Physiology,
     etc.) ensuring CRM training is effective and minimizes redundancies with other programs given
     by Safety, Aerospace Physiology, etc.
  5.2. Command Steering Committees . MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may establish command steer-
  ing committees to identify the most effective methods for delivering and administering CRM pro-
  grams. Command steering committees identify the means and resources for effectively managing the
  CRM program. The MAJCOM, FOA or DRU commander for operations determines the appropriate
  Chair for their Steering Committee. These Steering Committees develop consolidated command posi-
  tions on issues presented before the USAF CRM Steering Committee. Each MAJCOM, FOA and
  DRU CRM Steering Committee should include:
     5.2.1. Safety and aerospace medicine functional managers.
     5.2.2. Representatives of other functions as required (i.e., IN, LG, Operations, etc.).
     5.2.3. (Added-AFRC) The HQ AFRC program manager will host a CRM Conference every one
     and a half to every two years to discuss new ideas and directions for AFRC CRM training. Notifi-
     cation will be provided to AFRC units no later than three months prior to the conference dates.
         5.2.3.1. (Added-AFRC) The following AFRC members are required to attend the AFRC
         CRM Conference:
            5.2.3.1.1. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC program manager (Chair).
            5.2.3.1.2. (Added-AFRC) Numbered Air Force (NAF) CRM program managers.
            5.2.3.1.3. (Added-AFRC) Individual AFRC unit program managers.
            5.2.3.1.4. (Added-AFRC) Contractors providing AFRC CRM training materials.
         5.2.3.2. (Added-AFRC) The following individuals are invited to the AFRC CRM Conference:
6                                                        AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


              5.2.3.2.1. (Added-AFRC) HQ USAF/XOOT CRM action officer.
              5.2.3.2.2. (Added-AFRC) Other MAJCOM CRM program managers.
              5.2.3.2.3. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFSC/SEFF representative.
              5.2.3.2.4. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFFSA/XOFD representative.
              5.2.3.2.5. (Added-AFRC) AFMOA/SGOO CRM action officer.
              5.2.3.2.6. (Added-AFRC) AFRL/HE representative.
              5.2.3.2.7. (Added-AFRC) Other technical advisors as required.
              5.2.3.2.8. (Added-AFRC) HQ AFRC/SEF representative.
           5.2.3.3. (Added-AFRC) AFRC CRM conference items include, but are not limited to:
              5.2.3.3.1. (Added-AFRC) Developing consolidated command positions on issues pre-
              sented before the USAF CRM Steering committee.
              5.2.3.3.2. (Added-AFRC) Making recommendations to maximize commonality between
              various CRM training programs.
              5.2.3.3.3. (Added-AFRC) Determining future training, focusing on common CRM
              refresher training.
              5.2.3.3.4. (Added-AFRC) Reviewing status of CRM program procurement and contract
              change proposals.
              5.2.3.3.5. (Added-AFRC) Recommending course content for weapons systems and under-
              graduate crewmember CRM training.
              5.2.3.3.6. (Added-AFRC) Reviewing individual unit CRM training, highlighting its
              strengths and weaknesses.
    5.3. (Added-AFRC) NAF CRM Program Manager. The NAF CRM program manager is the NAF
    Chief of Stan/Eval or other individual designated by the NAF/DO.
    5.4. (Added-AFRC) Civilian Contractors. C ivilian contractors develop AFRC CRM training mate-
    rials and tailor them to each specific MDS.

Section C—Program Development

6. Core CRM Curriculum . CRM knowledge and skill objectives will be tailored to fit the unique char-
acteristics of each primary mission. Navy Aircrew Coordination Training (ACT) equivalent terms are in
parenthesis.
    6.1. Managing Core Curriculum. CRM will be integrated into existing training programs to the max-
    imum extent possible.
       6.1.1. Situational Awareness. (Situational Awareness) Includes knowledge and skill objectives
       for preventing the loss of situational awareness, skills for recognizing the loss of situational
       awareness, and techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness.
       6.1.2. Crew Coordination/Flight Integrity. (Leadership and Assertiveness) Knowledge and
       skill objectives covering the impact on aircrew performance of command authority, leadership,
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                          7


       responsibility, assertiveness, conflict resolution, hazardous attitudes, behavioral styles, legitimate
       avenues of dissent, and team-building.
       6.1.3. Communication. (Communication) Includes knowledge of common errors, cultural
       influences, and barriers (rank, age, experience and position). Skills will encompass listening, feed-
       back, precision and efficiency of communication with all members and agencies (i.e., Crewmem-
       bers, Wingmen, Weather, ATC, Intelligence, etc.).
       6.1.4. Risk Management/Decision Making. (Decision Making) Includes risk assessment, the
       risk management process, tools, breakdowns in judgment and flight discipline, problem-solving,
       evaluation of hazards, and control measures.
       6.1.5. Task Management (Adaptability/Flexibility). Includes establishing priorities, overload,
       underload, complacency, management of automation, available resources, checklist discipline,
       and standard operating procedures.
       6.1.6. Mission Planning/Debrief (Mission Analysis). Includes pre-mission analysis and plan-
       ning, briefing, ongoing mission evaluation, and post mission debrief. Also, specific tools and tech-
       niques to be used in operational and training missions.

7. Supporting Information . HQ AFSC, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU safety staffs will screen mishap
reports for human performance errors. This safety information should be available for use at all phases of
CRM training, either as part of simulator scenarios or for CRM case studies. The safety mishap report
information must be sanitized according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. Current safety
mishap “For Official Use Only” and sanitized “Limited Use” information will be provided to CRM pro-
gram managers in a timely manner by command/unit safety staff(s) according to AFI 91-204. The safety
mishap report information provided may be retained as part of the CRM training program active files until
the training value is exhausted. The safety information will then be destroyed or returned to the safety
staff that provided it.

8. CRM Training Phases. Five phases follow crewmembers through their professional development.
MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU participation in course development is essential to training effectiveness and
smooth transition from one phase to the next. Each phase of training should prepare individuals to apply
the knowledge and skills acquired in their specialty and motivate participants for the next phase of train-
ing. This training should utilize the most effective training methods and avoid simply lecturing to stu-
dents. Video feedback should be used for debriefing. If video recordings or other feedback tools are used,
they will be immediately destroyed or erased upon completion of the feedback session to encourage hon-
est student inputs in a non-threatening learning environment. Integrate skills identified in AF Form 4031.
   8.1. Introductory or Awareness Training. This may be a crewmember's first exposure to CRM. It is
   normally conducted in a formal training environment by AETC. Trainees learn standard CRM termi-
   nology and core concepts. Lesson plans will include a description of the building block approach to
   CRM training the individual will participate in throughout their operational career.
   8.2. Formal Training Unit (FTU)/Combat Crew Training School (CCTS) CRM Training. Stu-
   dents learn to apply knowledge and skills related to their assigned aircraft. Academic training is com-
   plemented during aircraft/simulator training. Emphasis should be placed on preflight planning,
   briefing, in-flight utilization, and debrief techniques for CRM. This should include a brief review of
   CRM core concepts paragraph 6.1. Mission Oriented Simulator Training (MOST) sessions or other
8                                                            AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


    simulated or actual operational scenarios may be used as an integral part of CRM training. Evaluate
    students for technical expertise, as well as the skills based on the six core concepts. If aircrew training
    devices are not available, students should participate in group problem-solving exercises.
    8.3. Mission-Specific Continuation Training. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs are responsible for
    CRM continuation training. This training will reinforce the aircrew’s CRM academic knowledge and
    refocus on skills to accomplish the mission. It also helps aircrews identify and respond to the condi-
    tions that lead to error.
       8.3.1. Emphasize CRM skills in the mission qualification and continuation training programs so
       they become inseparable parts of operational practices.
       8.3.2. Frequency for recurring CRM continuation training is defined in AFI 11-2 MDS specific
       vol. 1s. Lead commands are responsible for providing guidance to standardize CRM MDS spe-
       cific training policy and requirements. All aircrew require Mission-Specific Continuation Train-
       ing. Separating training by crew position should be avoided. However, it is not mandatory to
       conduct this training with a complete aircrew.
       8.3.2. (AFRC) Recurring CRM continuation training will be accomplished annually (once each
       training cycle year) at a minimum. When using the AFRC CRM training program outlined in para-
       graph 8.6. (Added), CRM continuation training will be accomplished quarterly. In both cases,
       accomplishment of training will be recorded in ARMS.
       8.3.3. (Added-AFRC) The CRM annual training requirement can be fulfilled by attending an AFI
       11-2 MDS Specific, Volume 1, directed simulator training session where CRM is part of the cur-
       riculum or by participating in the AFRC CRM training program outlined in paragraph 8.6.
       (Added)
           8.3.3.1. (Added-AFRC) AFRC crewmembers who are required by the appropriate AFI 11-2
           MDS Specific Volume 1 to attend a simulator or ground training session where CRM is part of
           the curriculum will fulfill the annual CRM training requirement by participation in the
           directed simulator/ground training for the training cycle year in which the training was
           received.
NOTE: AMC-gained C-130 aircrew members who attend the simulator and receive CRM Mission Ori-
ented Simulator Training (MOST) cannot take credit for the academic refresher CRM training.
           8.3.3.2. (Added-AFRC) AFRC crewmembers who are not provided the opportunity to attend
           a simulator or ground training session where CRM is part of the curriculum will fulfill their
           annual CRM training requirement by participating in the AFRC CRM training program out-
           lined in paragraph 8.6. (Added) as administered by the flying unit.
           8.3.3.3. (Added-AFRC) When only a portion of a crew complement attend a directed simula-
           tor/ground session where CRM training is provided, the crewmembers not attending will uti-
           lize the AFRC CRM training outlined in section 8.6. of this supplement to fulfill their annual
           training requirement.
           8.3.3.4. (Added-AFRC) Crewmembers who have a directed simulator/ground training session
           where CRM training is provided every 1 ½ to 2 years will utilize the AFRC CRM training out-
           lined in section 8.6. of this supplement to fulfill their annual training requirement for those
           training cycle years which do not include the directed simulator/ground training session.
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                         9


         8.3.3.5. (Added-AFRC) Crewmembers who receive CRM training during a directed simula-
         tor/ground session should supplement this training with the AFRC CRM training outlined in
         section 8.6. of this supplement to support aircrew members or mission crew members who do
         not receive CRM training in the simulator sessions. This practice will reinforce behaviors
         associated with good CRM practices and acknowledges operational issues which require
         inputs from all crew positions inputs to ensure increased mission effectiveness.
  8.4. Flight Instructor Training. All flight and simulator instructors will complete instructor specific
  CRM training. This training will normally be accomplished as part of instructor upgrade program.
  Courseware must build upon the previous blocks of training, both to reacquaint candidates with CRM
  fundamentals and to maintain continuity of terminology and techniques. MAJCOMs, FOAs and
  DRUs develop courseware related to instructing and evaluating key skills that apply to command and
  aircraft-specific missions. Personnel may conduct this training at operational units, flying training
  units, or a combination, as required. Training will include, but is not limited to, proper use of AF Form
  4031.
     8.4.1. CRM instructors and evaluators must be highly proficient in all CRM skills, and be experts
     in the recognition, observation, and reinforcement of these skills as they are applied by aircrew
     members in a mission environment.
     8.4.2. CRM instructor or evaluator training will be included into instructor upgrade programs.
  8.5. Facilitator Training. Formal CRM academic curricula must be delivered by a trained CRM
  facilitator. Facilitator training will include training in running exercises, structured crew observation,
  and effective academic feedback.
     8.5.1. (Added-AFRC) Each AFRC unit will assign a CRM program manager. Unless the OG/CC
     selects another individual, the operations group chief of Stan/Eval will serve as unit CRM pro-
     gram manager. The CRM program manager is required to supervise the unit CRM training.
     8.5.2. (Added-AFRC) Unit CRM training must be administered by a trained CRM facilitator. A
     CRM program manager should receive and complete CRM facilitator training. Any trained unit
     CRM facilitator may administer unit CRM training and can train other unit crewmembers to
     become facilitators – adding to the crewmembers available to administer CRM training. CRM
     training should be administered by different unit trained CRM facilitators to get an enhanced per-
     spective on issues and ideas.
     8.5.3. (Added-AFRC) Information on how AFRC crewmembers can attend CRM facilitator train-
     ing can be found at http://www.cti-crm.com/crm/afrc/.
  8.6. (Added-AFRC) AFRC CRM Training Program. This CRM training program facilitates the
  refresher training of AFRC aeromedical, AWACS, bomber, C-130, fighter, Special Operations, and
  KC-135 aircrew members as well as those aircrew members associated with helicopters, KC-10s, and
  strategic airlift who do not receive academic CRM training during simulator sessions AFRC CRM
  training consists of two elements initiated by a quarterly HQ AFRC and/or NAF Special Interest Item
  (SII) based on a them derived from one of the six core CRM curriculum listed in Section C, paragraph
  6. of AFI 11-290. The first element is an operational scenario which highlights one or more human
  behaviors listed on the AF Form 4031 or in AFI 11-2 MDS specific Volume 2 (if CRM criteria is not
  incorporated in the grading areas). The second element is a Power-Point presentation based on the
  theme for that quarter. AFRC-hired contractors will provide the training materials via the Internet
  (https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/hq/do/dot/CRM/default.htm for .mil access; or
10                                                          AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


     http://www.cti-crm.com/crm/afrc/ for residential access). HQ AFRC and/or NAF Stan/Eval func-
     tions will distribute the quarterly SII via existing means.
        8.6.1. (Added-AFRC) Each weapon system will have training materials provided that emphasize
        the CRM concepts and behaviors specific to their mission.
        8.6.2. (Added-AFRC) The contractor will provide the AFRC and/or NAF program managers a
        copy of the upcoming quarterly CRM presentation for review one month prior to the beginning of
        the next quarter.
        8.6.3. (Added-AFRC) The quarterly CRM presentations:
            8.6.3.1. (Added-AFRC) Cover one of the core CRM curriculum listed in Section C, para-
            graph 6. of AFI 11-290.
            8.6.3.2. (Added-AFRC) Are delivered by a unit instructor or CRM program manager during a
            formal ground training block.
            8.6.3.3. (Added-AFRC) Are updated quarterly, covering all CRM core concepts over the
            course of 1 ½ years.
            8.6.3.4. (Added-AFRC) Are developed to be 15-20 minutes in duration.
        8.6.4. (Added-AFRC) In addition to the quarterly presentation, the contractor will provide one to
        three effective and ineffective skill scenarios a month via the Internet (same address as above) as
        they relate to the current AFRC CRM SII. These scenarios:
            8.6.4.1. (Added-AFRC) Are provided to use during daily flying operations briefings.
            8.6.4.2. (Added-AFRC) Are on a specific CRM behavior listed on AF Form 4031, 11-2 MDS
            Specific Volume 2 (if CRM criteria is incorporated in the grading areas) or another weapons
            specific behavior list as approved by HQ AFRC.
            8.6.4.3. (Added-AFRC) Are specific to each MDS.
        8.6.5. (Added-AFRC) The AFRC CRM Internet site has a Critical Incident Reporting (CIR) link.
        This feature allows aircrew to report operational or training scenarios, which exhibited either pos-
        itive or negative for CRM Lessons Learned. This information will be incorporated in future quar-
        terly presentations or skill scenarios and will allow aircrew to share CRM experiences. All inputs
        will be gathered directly by the CRM contractor. Individuals providing the information will be
        kept anonymous. Additionally all information linking the scenario to a unit will be removed.
        8.6.6. (Added-AFRC) Use of any materials generated by the AFRC-hired CRM contractors are
        not restricted to the program described above. Units may tailor these materials to meet unit
        requirements (e.g., a complete review of quarterly SIIs and associated skill scenarios can be pro-
        vided newly assigned aircrew members to address specific CRM LIMFACs identified during
        training and flying operations.
     8.7. (Added-AFRC) AETC-Gained AFRC Crewmembers. All AETC-gained AFRC crewmem-
     bers follow guidance as outlined by AFI 11-290, AETC supplement 1 for your CRM training require-
     ments.
     8.8. (Added-AFRC) AFRC First Standards Aviation Flight Crewmembers. All AFRC First Stan-
     dards Aviation Flight Crewmembers receive their annual CRM training as provided by the Federal
     Aviation Administration.
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                      11


   8.9. (Added-AFRC) Fighter Associate Program (FAP) Fighter Pilots. All AFRC Fighter Associ-
   ate Program (FAP) fighter pilots attached to an active duty squadron will be provided CRM training
   by the active duty IAW guidance outlined in the active duty MAJCOM supplement to AFI 11-290. All
   active duty FAP fighter pilots attached to an AFRC squadron follow the AFRC CRM training program
   as outlined in this supplement.

9. Data Disposition Schedule. Data collected using AF Form 4031 must be retained for 6 months. After
6 months data may be destroyed. Disposition approval will be published in AFMAN 37-139 Records
Disposition Schedule.
   9.1. (Added-AFRC) CRM Evaluated. All crewmembers are evaluated on CRM during all periodic
   flight evaluations. AF Form 4031 or CRM specified grading areas from the appropriate 11-2 MDS
   Specific Volume 2 (if CRM criteria is incorporated in the grading areas), are the assessment tools used
   for CRM during periodic evaluations. Unit Stan/Eval sections will consolidate any CRM trend infor-
   mation and highlight any CRM trends identified for immediate incorporation into their unit CRM
   training. The unit's program manager will pass along the consolidated trends at the end of each quarter
   to the NAF CRM program manager. A negative reply to the NAF CRM program manager is not
   required if there are not any trends to pass along. The NAF CRM program manager consolidates the
   CRM trends at their level and passes them along to the HQ AFRC CRM program manger. The HQ
   AFRC CRM program manager will pass along identified trends to the appropriate contractor and
   ensures they are incorporated into AFRC CRM training materials.
   9.2. (Added-AFRC) AFRC Unit CRM Program Reviews. AFRC unit CRM programs will be
   reviewed by AFRC Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) during Staff Assistance Visits and by Active Duty
   NAFs during Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation visits. An HQ AFRC CRM self-inspection check-
   list (attachment one) is provided to ensure compliance with the AFRC CRM program.

10. Forms Prescribed: AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form will be used
for CRM skills training and CRM evaluation as prescribed in the MAJCOM supplement. The goal is to
identify weak areas as trends to improve CRM training before incidents or accidents occur.
NOTE: MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will determine the primary weapon system for all dual-qualified
personnel and will ensure CRM training is oriented toward the primary weapon system.
10. (AFRC) Forms Prescribed. If CRM behaviors are incorporated into the affected AFI 11-2 MDS
Specific Volume 2 or in unit developed form 8 grading sheets, use of AF Form 4031 is not required.



                                     ROBERT H. FOGLESONG, Lt General, USAF
                                     DCS/Air & Space Operations
12                                                       AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-403, Air Force Aerospace Physiological Training Program
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course(IRC) Program
OPNAV Instruction 1542.7B

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATD—Aircrew Training Device
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOST—Mission Oriented Simulator Training
SA—Situational Awareness

Terms
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM)—The effective use of all available resources--people,
weapon systems, facilities, and equipment, and environment -- by individuals or crews to safely and
efficiently accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term "CRM" will be used to refer to the training
program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. MAJCOMs may implement their programs as
either "cockpit" or "crew" resource management based on their respective missions.
Communication—The act of sharing information with others to cause some kind of action: to direct, to
inform, to question, or to persuade.
Crew—As used in this instruction, any collection of Air Force personnel who routinely work together to
accomplish an Air Force mission. For example, an air task order-designated team of fighter pilots and
airborne battle managers prosecuting an interdiction mission uses "crew" skills to maximize its
effectiveness.
Crew Coordination—As used in this instruction the act of working with all the members of the crew to
accomplish the tasks of the mission.
Decision Making—The ability to choose a course of action using logical and sound judgment based on
available information.
Flight Discipline—The judgement and actions exercised by AF personnel to adhere to the spirit, intent,
and written word of governing guidelines in the presence of temptation to do otherwise, while executing
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                                           13


the Air Force flying mission. It also includes the prioritization of tasks based on crew responsibilities to
ensure safe mission accomplishment while demonstrating the highest degree of integrity in the
performance of flight duties.
Flight Integrity—Utilizing all the members of a flying package to accomplish the mission at hand.
Mission Debrief—Reviewing and discussing mission accomplishment looking at what was achieved,
what barriers were encountered and how the mission could be accomplished better next time.
Mission Oriented Simulator Training (MOST)—Training presented as a part of a CRM program in a
realistic, operationally-based simulator environment in real time.
Mission Planning—Taking all of the information for a mission and developing short term, long term, and
contingency plans to coordinate, allocate, and monitor crew/flight and aircraft resources. Effective
planning leads to flight conduct that removes uncertainty, increases mission effectiveness and enhances
safety.
Risk Management—Logic-based, common sense approach to making calculated decisions on human,
material, and environmental factors before, during, and after Air Force mission activities and operations,
i.e., on- and off-the-job.
Situational Awareness (SA)—In flying, this refers to a aircrew member's continuous perception of self
and aircraft in relation to the dynamic environment of flight, threats, and mission, and the ability to
forecast, then execute, tasks based upon that perception.
Skills Criteria—Defined skills used as the basis for operational training and evaluation. The
characteristics of the skill are that they are easily identifiable and offer consistency in grading evaluation.
Task Management—The ability to alter a course of action based on new information, maintain
constructive behavior under pressure, and adapt to internal and external environment changes.
14                                                          AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


                                              Attachment 2

           IC 2001-1 TO AFI 11-290, COCKPIT/ CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
                                    TRAINING PROGRAM
11 APRIL 2001
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This interim change (IC) 2001-1 replaces the term discipline with flight discipline in paragraph 6.1.4. This
change also provides a definition for flight discipline in the Terms section in Attachment 1.
6.1.4. Risk Management/Decision Making. (Decision Making) Includes risk assessment, the risk man-
agement process, tools, breakdowns in judgment and flight discipline, problem-solving, evaluation of
hazards, and control measures.


                                          Attachment 1
Terms shall have the following definition added:
Flight Discipline -- The judgement and actions exercised by AF personnel to adhere to the spirit, intent,
and written word of governing guidelines in the presence of temptation to do otherwise, while executing
the Air Force flying mission. It also includes the prioritization of tasks based on crew responsibilities to
ensure safe mission accomplishment while demonstrating the highest degree of integrity in the perfor-
mance of flight duties.
AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004                                                               15


                                   Attachment 3 (Added-AFRC)

                       CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CHECKLIST


HQ AFRC STANDARDIZATION/EVALUATION


               CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CHECKLIST
                    (IAW AFI 11-290/AFRC Sup 1 (1 Dec 2003)


  Unit:                                   Date Inspected:
AFRC CRM PROGRAM FOR AIRCREW NOT ATTENDING SIMULATORS                                     YES   NO
(AFI 11-290/AFRC Sup 1)
1. Are CRM skills integrated into flight briefings and debriefings? (AFI 11-290/AFRC
SUP 1, par. 2.3.1.)
2. Are CRM skills integrated into new and existing training syllabi where applicable?
(AFI 11-290/AFRC SUP 1, par. 2.3.2.)
3. Are CRM skills evaluated during initial and recurring evaluations? (AFI 11-290/AFRC
SUP 1, par. 2.3.3. and 9.1. (Added))
 4. Are crewmembers provided the HQ AFRC approved CRM continuation training pro-
gram quarterly? (N/A if CRM academic training is accomplished at a simulator session)
(AFI 11-290/AFRC SUP 1, par. 8.3.2.)
5. Is CRM training currency tracked in ARMS quarterly/annually as applicable?
6. Has the wing CRM program manager (Chief of Stan/Eval or other individual) been
identified by the OG/CC? (AFI 11-290/AFRC SUP 1, par. 8.5.)
7. Has the wing/squadron appointed CRM program manager attended CRM facilitator
training?
 Who provided the training:__________________
8. Is human factor data being collected (i.e. using Form 8, AF Form 4031 or unit-devel-
oped form), is it retained for six months and is it forwarded to the AFRC CRM Program
Manager through the NAF CRM program manager? (AFI 11-290/AFRC SUP 1, par. 9.1.
(Added) )
9. Is the HQ AFRC and/or NAF Stan/Eval provided quarterly Special Interest Item being
posted?
AFRC Units with CRM material presented in a Simulator Training
10. Are crewmembers attending simulator training and receiving credit for CRM train-
ing? (AFI 11-290/FRC SUP 1, par. 8.8. (Added)) (NOTE: AMC-Gained C-130 units
cannot take credit for academic CRM training during their simulator sessions)
16                                                         AFI11-290_AFRCSUP1_I 5 MARCH 2004


11. If so, is the simulator training annual? If not, is the squadron utilizing the AFRC CRM
training program as outlined in paragraph 8.6. (Added) of AFI 11-290/AFRC SUP 1 for
their annual training? (HQ AFRC/DO message, DTG 291509z Oct 99.
Comments:
