BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2PR,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  VOLUME 1

                                                                            5 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Intelligence

                                                        PERSONNEL RECOVERY (PR) UNIT
                                                              INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 38


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum standards
for training personnel performing intelligence duties in PR units. This publication applies to
Active Duty, Reserve, Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence personnel supporting PR
operations. National Guard Bureau will be considered functionally as a major command
(MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. This publication requires the collection or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Privacy Act System of
Records Notice F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel Records System, covers required
information. The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are Title 10
U.S.C. §8013, Secretary of the Air Force; as implemented by AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel
Records System, and AFI 14-202, and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal
Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments
to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System. This publication may be supplemented, but all supplements
must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate MAJCOM functional
chain of command. Units may request waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence
 2                                                                                    AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


(A2) is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through
the chain-of-command to the publication OPR. In order for units to have time to prepare for
compliance, this publication becomes effective 60 days after the publication date.



Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                      4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   References. .............................................................................................................      4
       1.3.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................     4
       1.4.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               4
       1.5.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.6.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   In-Unit IQT. ...........................................................................................................       8
       2.3.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                             10

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             17
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.    PR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements. .....................................                                    18
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              20
       5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           20
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   21
       5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE). ....................................................................................             22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              24
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                         3


Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                              28

Attachment 3—PERSONNEL RECOVERY MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING
             GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                                    29

Attachment 4—PERSONNEL RECOVERY SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET
             ELEMENTS                                               36

Attachment 5—PERSONNEL RECOVERY MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING,
             SPECIALIZED TRAINING, AND READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
             REQUIREMENTS                                           37
 4                                                          AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013



                                            Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. This volume provides guidance for training PR unit intelligence personnel.
Together with the cited references, it establishes the requirements and procedures for personnel
to attain the qualifications and maintain currencies required to support PR unit operations. These
requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-level written guidance. Unit-
level guidance will not be less restrictive.
1.2. References. The primary references for PR unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2PR,
Volume 2, Personnel Recovery (PR) Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2PR, Volume
3, Personnel Recovery (PR) Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual;
AFTTP 3-1.HC-130, Tactical Employment—HC-130; AFTTP 3-1. HH-60, Tactical
Employment-HH-60, and AFTTP 3-1.Guardian Angel, Tactical Employment—Guardian Angel.
These references can be supplemented with other classified and unclassified authoritative
publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins,
Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc., as long as the source is appropriately referenced.
1.3. Waivers. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if
such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance. MAJCOMs
will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and responses.
1.4. Roles and Responsibilities.
     1.4.1. AF/A2, through AF/A2D, will review and monitor MAJCOM intelligence training
     policies, guidance and supplements to this publication for consistency with the AFI 14-202
     program and for standardization across the intelligence mission set.
     1.4.2. ACC/A2. In addition to the lead command responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202,
     Volume 1, ACC/A2 will:
        1.4.2.1. Coordinate with affected MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for PR intelligence personnel training.
        1.4.2.2. In coordination with other organizations, develop or obtain and provide endorsed
        baseline training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification
        Training (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST). These
        materials will include:
            1.4.2.2.1. A training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for IQT through
            formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.4.2.2.2. Baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and
            neutral forces aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface to air missiles (SAM), air
            defense artillery (ADA), electronic warfare (EW), directed energy weapons (DEW),
            ground forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat
            capabilities, limitations and employment techniques.
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


         1.4.2.2.3. Softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics and
         digital audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide
         adversary, neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of
         battle (OB) as well as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and
         camouflage, concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.4.2.3. Assist subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.4.2.4. Assist MAJCOM/A2s with PR units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
     1.4.2.5. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Solicit feedback on lead command-endorsed training materials; discuss applicability of
     emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes in
     requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level 'best
     practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
  1.4.3. MAJCOM/A2. MAJCOM/A2s with unit-level intelligence personnel providing
  support to PR units will:
     1.4.3.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements and supporting training materials.
     1.4.3.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs.
     1.4.3.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.4.4. Unit SIO. The unit SIO will:
     1.4.4.1. Execute orientation, mission qualification, continuation and specialized
     qualification training programs with sufficient frequency, consistency and accuracy, to
     ensure personnel knowledge, skills and abilities remain current in accordance with locally
     developed standards and this publication. Provide written guidance detailing how
     programs will be conducted. (T-2)
     1.4.4.2. Designate the qualification to which each position will train. All personnel must
     maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification. Upon request, provide
     MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with a list of Combat
     Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC positions. Review this designation annually. (T-3)
     1.4.4.3. Appoint an intelligence qualification training program manager to oversee
     accomplishment and documentation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST of unit personnel. When
     assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor Course graduate will provide input
     into the training programs. (T-3)
     1.4.4.4. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all personnel. Assigned
     Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped according to
     established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
     1.4.4.5. Assign personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and current personnel
     when required to participate in operational events or perform tasks for which they are not
     qualified and current. (T-2)
6                                                          AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


       1.4.4.6. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
       attachment 2 for an example report. (T-3)
       1.4.4.7. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations to address standardized training requirements, training materials, training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level 'best practices' exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.4.5. Intelligence Qualification Training Program Manager. The Intelligence Qualification
    Training Program Manager will:
       1.4.5.1. Develop and manage an intelligence qualification training program. Design
       training programs to achieve the highest degree of mission readiness consistent with
       safety and resource availability. Training must balance the need for realism against the
       expected threat, unit mission and capabilities. (T-2)
       1.4.5.2. Use lead command-developed training materials to assist in the development and
       conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training materials
       and augment with locally-derived products to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.4.5.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements                     and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on training issues. (T-3)
       1.4.5.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports IAW local procedures for tracking
       overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.4.5.5. Provide a copy of individual qualification training records upon member’s
       change of station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing current
       qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
    1.4.6. Work Center Supervisor. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.4.6.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.4.6.2. Assist the Qualification Training Manager in developing and executing unit
       intelligence qualification training programs. (T-3)
       1.4.6.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve the qualifications required for their assigned duty position. (T-2)
    1.4.7. Intelligence Personnel. Assigned intelligence personnel will:
       1.4.7.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.4.7.2. Notify supervisor of any issues affecting training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.4.7.3. When changing station or assignment, ensure qualification records are delivered
       to the gaining unit. (T-3)
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      7


1.5. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. Training
received during internal training is achieved via skills practice/demonstration during exercises or
special events, group academics or as otherwise devised by the SIO. The internal intelligence
training plan will include all identified training requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.6. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs progress intelligence personnel
from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks and achieve CMR status.
CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST qualifies individuals to perform
specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be conducted in conjunction with skill-
level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202
Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this publication.
1.7. Documentation. Units will document qualification training in coordination with AF/A2
approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                             AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                               Chapter 2

                             INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training and concludes
with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial Qualification Course (IIQC). The PR IIQC
is designed to meet the IQT requirements for personnel assigned to support PR weapons systems.
2.2. In-Unit IQT. When individuals are unable to attend the IIQC to receive IQT, it may be
accomplished at the unit when authorized via waiver (see paragraph 1.2). If authorized, conduct
in-unit IQT using the PR IIQC syllabus and training courseware provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI
14-202, Volume 1. Waiver requests for in-unit IQT will include (T-2):
     2.2.1. Justification for the in-unit training in lieu of formal course training.
     2.2.2. Summary of individual’s intelligence career field experience.
     2.2.3. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
     2.2.4. Requested exceptions to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
2.3. IQT Requirements.
     2.3.1. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the PR IIQC syllabus. Failure to
     complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
     person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-3)
     2.3.2. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the PR IIQC training standard. In-unit
     IQT, when authorized will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the
     individual’s proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-3)
     2.3.3. Personnel completing in-unit IQT will be evaluated according to the same criteria as
     individuals completing the PR IIQC. Course completion will be annotated in coordination
     with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-3)
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   9


                                          Chapter 3

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting PR missions/operations. This chapter provides guidance to
assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will take into
account assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training, currency,
documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. Accomplish MQT
through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training
opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Use applicable portions of MQT to create a
requalification program for personnel who are in non-CMR (N-CMR) or non-BMC (N-BMC)
status. (T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT before fully completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR. MQT
   will be completed within the time specified below. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting
   requirements are specified in the following paragraphs.
       3.1.2.1. Active duty unit personnel will complete MQT within 120 days after start.
       Notify MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. AFRC unit personnel and IMAs will complete MQT within 120 days if
       seasoning days are available. Without seasoning days, complete MQT within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
       MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
       IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training timelines are exceeded. (T-2)
       3.1.2.3. ANG unit personnel will complete MQT within 120 days if seasoning days area
       available. Without seasoning days, complete MQT within 180 calendar days, or the
       execution of six-months cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training. Notify
       the National Guard Bureau /A2 and gaining MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this
       timeline. (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis. (T-3)
   3.1.4. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. Use the AF Form 4381 to document the
   trainee’s progression through each individual training item. Specific MQT intelligence
   gradesheet elements are located in attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT and a successful
   Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
   14-2PR Volume 2, and SIO endorsement.
 10                                                         AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission. Derive training from lead command-endorsed and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for PR intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position. Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination (RAD),
   intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) and visual recognition (VR)
   by successfully completing a test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent
   minimum to pass). To demonstrate the VR knowledge requirements, trainees must
   successfully complete a VR test via a visual presentation system (85 percent minimum to
   pass). RAD and IPOE involves imparted knowledge that intelligence personnel should be
   applying throughout all areas of the training and will be evaluated as subsets of each
   applicable graded area. (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. RAD and Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan
          (OPLAN)/Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Identify
          unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Explain strengths and weaknesses
          of specific types of intelligence in the context of PR weapons systems and unit
          missions. Identify Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence
          producers useful for intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate use of
          intelligence systems and software to request intelligence from outside sources when
          unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Draft and transmit requests for information
          using US Message Text Format (USMTF) when reporting directives do not exist or
          when intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to unit aircrews/operators,
          mission planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful).
          Specific tasks: Describe intelligence needed by PR aircrews/operators and mission
          planners. Define rules of engagement and operations security. Describe general
          intelligence requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and
          other functional areas supported by intelligence.             Describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of unit-
          level resources, points and methods of dissemination to aircrews/operators, mission
          planners, wing/group leadership and other end-users of intelligence as determined by
          the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Describe the use
          of intelligence systems and information displays to disseminate data. Describe
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    11


        used by the unit. Identify aircrew/operator, mission planner and unit information
        resources and ways to integrate updated intelligence into the information flow.
        Describe methods to identify currency and expiration of intelligence provided to end
        users. Identify fundamentals of information security classification marking and
        controls and sources of authoritative guidance. Describe rules, procedures and
        restrictions for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified
        intelligence and information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
        methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Describe the IPOE process (e.g.,
        define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
        evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action. Identify IPOE
        products and producers based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and
        the ability to identify/extract intelligence for unit operations.
     3.2.1.2. PR Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the
     unit’s specific PR weapons systems and operations. Specific tasks: Describe PR
     missions, capabilities and limitations in relation to specific unit missions; self-protection
     systems (e.g., identification, friend or foe, electronic countermeasures pod, radar warning
     receiver, expendables); communications capabilities; global positioning systems; infrared
     principles; aerodynamic terms and concepts; radar propagation principles; and weapons.
     Relate facts on how Air Force and joint doctrine drive the unit’s missions and
     employment.
     3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Identify details of
     aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces and associated
     equipment, cyber and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations.    Describe
     employment techniques of adversary/threat forces in the operational environment.
     Describe how these threats could affect unit mission accomplishment.
     3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Identify details of aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground and naval forces
     and associated equipment, and asymmetric threat capabilities and limitations. Describe
     employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces in the operational environment.
     3.2.1.5. Visual Recognition. Objective: When shown a video or still image of sufficient
     quality, identify enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral weapon systems in the operational
     environment. Specific task: Visually identify enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral
     aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing), ground equipment, and naval vessels by appropriate
     name or numerical designator and determine whether the object is a threat or non-threat.
     Training will include all aspects/angles; theater-specific paint schemes; national
     markings; various configurations; employment characteristics; muzzle flashes; smoke
     plumes; and burst patterns as applicable. (T-2)
     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role intelligence
     personnel play in preparing aircrew/operators for the possibility of survival, evasion,
12                                                      AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Identify
     environmental, operational and combat search and rescue (CSAR) information contained
     in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence requirements during PR
     operations. Identify theater specific evasion plan of action (EPA) requirements based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.                 Describe specific PR materials
     intelligence provides to aircrew/operators.
     3.2.1.7. CSAR Fundamentals. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of CSAR terms and
     concepts and how CSAR operations are integrated. Specific tasks: State unit specific
     CSAR tasking processes, information flow, tactics and employment, collaborative
     relationships, and available resources. State the roles and responsibilities of PR in the
     CSAR Task Force.
     3.2.1.8. Civil Search and Rescue (SAR) and Humanitarian Assistance (HA)
     Fundamentals. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of considerations for intelligence
     support to Civil SAR and HA operations. Specific task: Describe unique imagery
     product requirements/sources, site survey/bare base set-up considerations, unclassified
     force protection products from state/local law enforcement, and intelligence oversight
     considerations involved in providing intelligence support to civil SAR and HA
     operations.
     3.2.1.9. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Identify
     hostile forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot areas. Give
     examples of hostile force tactics and weapons employment. Identify intelligence FP
     resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and FP conditions. Describe unit FP
     considerations. State facts concerning base-specific and regional threats.
 3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
 IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting threat briefings IAW standards established by the SIO. Specific Tasks:
     Conduct research on specific threat systems. Compile data and develop a concise
     briefing with focus on the threat to the PR mission. Tailor information to the PR airframe
     and countertactics. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools. Deliver a threat briefing.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without intelligence systems
     IAW SIO standards and based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific
     tasks: Select the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display. Identify the
     proper components to be included on a situation display IAW AFI 14-2PR, Volume 3.
     Research, analyze and plot situation display elements using correct symbology IAW
     Military-Standard (MIL-STD) 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army
     Field Manual (FM) 1-02/US Marine Corps Reference Publication (MCRP) 5-12A,
     Operational Terms and Graphics.
        3.2.2.2.1. Manual OB. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in maintaining OB on
        situation displays without intelligence systems IAW SIO standards and based on unit
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    13


        mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Identify OB production
        sources for the AOR. Research and analyze OB data. Identify critical elements of
        the table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
        Differentiate between coordinate systems. Plot OB using the correct symbology.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Identify OB production
        sources for the AOR. Research and analyze OB data. Identify critical elements of
        the table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Use
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB. Verify accuracy of
        computer generated symbology. Use intelligence software applications to convert
        between coordinate systems.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing IAW unit standards.
     Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify significant events
     leading to the crisis. Identify adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deploying unit. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and
     irregular force disposition and activity, most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary
     courses of action (COA). Identify FPI for the local area. Tailor information in the
     briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, and the audience.
     Determine intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Construct and deliver an initial situation briefing.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing IAW unit standards. Specific
     tasks: Extract relevant updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE
     research and analysis. Identify changes in the operational environment since the last
     update. Identify any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that affect the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit. Identify changes to enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and
     irregular force disposition and activity. Identify FPI for the local area. Determine the
     most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for the next 12, 24, and 25-96
     hours. Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking, and the audience. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely
     answers to the gaps. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a situation briefing.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting a changeover briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Organize and
     prioritize key information. Compile data and develop a concise briefing with focus on
     events to prepare personnel for their shift. Identify issues needing immediate attention.
     Include a situation update, review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team (CAT) directives, mission report
     (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Tailor information in the briefing based on
14                                                     AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


     unit mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display
     and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a changeover briefing.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing IAW unit standards and the
     requirements of the deploying commander. Specific tasks: Identify unit taskings (e.g.,
     warning order, execution order) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces tasking.
     Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Develop a synopsis of political-military
     situation generating the deployment. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air, ground,
     naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity along deployment route.
     Determine the most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the
     deployment. Identify FPI for the local area and deployment location. Determine en route
     hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing sites. Identify reporting instructions,
     essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local
     situation. Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission, OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking, and the audience. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely
     answers to the gaps. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a deployment briefing.
     3.2.2.7. Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Airspace Control Order (ACO)/SPINS and Other
     Tasking Documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and
     extracting applicable elements of tasking documents IAW unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document as
     applicable. Determine unit tasking, airspace control, PR information and intelligence
     related data from tasking documents. Breakout unit tasking from tasking documents
     using manual and automated techniques and tools.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in providing intelligence support to mission planners IAW with unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Describe the mission planning process. Review the tactical problem/scenario.
     Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout and derive specified and implied intelligence
     requirements (including mission materials). Plot unit tasking. Analyze operating area
     threats (e.g., integrated air defense system, air, SAMs, ADA) and terrain. Identify
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Construct and
     deliver mission planning situation briefing, as applicable. Coordinate with operations to
     recommend mission route based on threat and terrain analysis. Identify other mission
     support assets.
     3.2.2.9. Mission Folder Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in mission
     folder construction, IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks: Conduct appropriate research
     and analysis. Identify and obtain geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) products to build
     mission materials. Tailor mission materials to the planned mission type and objective
     area. Portray objective area threats and hazards as well as ingress and egress factors.
     Use mission planning software to construct mission folders as applicable.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing IAW unit standards. Specific
     tasks: Extract updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research
     and analysis. Identify changes in the operational/tactical environment. Determine en
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 15


     route, objective area, and egress threats (e.g., air, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground,
     naval, and asymmetric), FPI for the local area, target information, PR information, EEIs,
     in-flight report requirements, threat update code (TUC), debrief location, and other
     factors essential to mission success. Tailor information in the briefing to the mission.
     Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a mission briefing.
     3.2.2.11. Alert Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an alert briefing IAW unit standards. Specific
     tasks: Extract updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research
     and analysis. Identify changes in the operational/tactical environment. Determine en
     route, objective area, and egress threats (e.g., air, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground ,
     naval, and asymmetric), active PR events, most likely location for potential PR events
     and other factors essential to mission success. Tailor information in the briefing to the
     mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a mission/alert briefing.
     3.2.2.12. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Identify critical last-
     minute changes in threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data, latest
     TUC, and any other changes impacting the mission. Tailor information in the briefing to
     the mission. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display
     and dissemination tools. Construct and deliver a step briefing.
     3.2.2.13. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in monitoring mission
     execution and in communicating with other agencies and coordination centers IAW unit
     procedures. Specific tasks: Monitor and use communication systems including
     collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions. React as
     necessary to support the mission. Log significant communications in a locally developed
     mission tracking log. Track mission debriefings and appropriate reports.
     3.2.2.14. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing IAW with unit standards. Specific tasks: Prepare
     appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist. Extract mission intelligence from
     aircrew/operators. Identify time-sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and
     expediently. Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements. Identify
     key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying questions relevant to the
     mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Control the flow and pace of the
     debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and accurate information collection without
     wasting time. Be aware and control environmental factors that may distract crew or
     impede the debriefing process. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools.
     3.2.2.15. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting MISREPs and other intelligence reports (e.g., intelligence summary
     (INTSUM), intelligence report (INTREP)) IAW unit standards and theater reporting
     directives. Specific tasks: Describe the purpose and content of theater reporting
     directives. Analyze and extract information of intelligence value from in-flight reports
     (INFLTREP) and other aircrew-submitted formats. Validate accuracy and completeness
16                                                    AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


     of reports. Generate intelligence reports using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and dissemination tools. Draft and transmit intelligence
     reports using USMTF when reporting directives do not exist.
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      17


                                           Chapter 4

                                CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with PR
operations and weapons systems capabilities, threat systems and unit intelligence functions. The
second aspect of CT is the Ready Intelligence Program (RIP), which consists of specific mission-
related training required to accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This section
provides a baseline of basic knowledge and performance tasks. SIOs will supplement these
requirements, as necessary. Training Program Managers will use lead-MAJCOM provided
training materials and other resources as needed to provide the most effective and efficient
training. CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate RIP requirements. Compile basic
knowledge examinations from the unit MQF. Annotate completion of CT tasks using the
approved online training documentation system. At a minimum, cover the following topics
during CT (T-2):
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. PR Unit Weapons Systems and Operations – to include avionics, capabilities and
   limitations, employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, mission profiles, armament and
   on-board systems.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA, EW, DEWs, ground, naval, and cyber threat system capabilities
   and limitations with respect to PR operations.
   4.2.4. Visual Recognition – to include identification features and employment characteristics
   of enemy/adversary, friendly and/or neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence systems, software
   applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit mission.
   4.2.6. Personnel Recovery – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater Isolated
   Personnel Report/EPA requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. Force Protection Intelligence – to include intelligence support to FP principles;
   irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist
   threat levels; and unit force protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
   4.2.10. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking document/SPINS
   breakout, mission planning software applications and route/operating area analysis, GEOINT
 18                                                        AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


   familiarization to determine product requirements (e.g., quantity, chart type, appropriate
   scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission folder construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparation for and techniques to conduct a debriefing,
   handling of time-sensitive information and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct
RIP tasks in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-2)
   4.3.1. The task requirements listed in Table 4.1, PR Ready Intelligence Program and
   Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and BMC.
   Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status
   and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO.
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency. If
   an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform
   that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for
   documenting RIP task completion.

Table 4.1. PR Ready Intelligence Program Currency Requirements.
 SUBJECT                                        Frequency to Maintain     Frequency to Maintain
                                                CMR Status                BMC Status
 Situation Displays                             Semi-annually             Annually
 Manual OB                                      Semi-annually             Annually
 Automated OB                                   Semi-annually             Annually
 Initial Situation Briefing                     Annually                  Annually
 Situation Briefing                             Annually                  Annually
 Changeover Briefing                            Annually                  Annually
 Deployment Briefing                            Annually                  Annually
 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking                Semi-annually             Annually
 Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning       Semi-annually             Annually
 Mission Folder Construction                    Semi-annually             Annually
 Mission Briefing                               Quarterly                 Annually
 Alert Briefing                                 Quarterly                 Annually
 Step Briefing                                  Quarterly                 Annually
 Mission Tracking                               Quarterly                 Annually
 Debriefing                                     Quarterly                 Annually
 Intelligence Reports                           Quarterly                 Annually
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months;
 semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months.
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                19


4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC status, as applicable. The SIO will direct the member
who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Document regression and
the steps required to correct the situation in the individual's training record. Intelligence
personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program
to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification
program are credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 20                                                          AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                              Chapter 5

                                     SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Unless governed by a
formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for the appropriate gradesheet elements).
Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2)
      5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected to be an EIT trainer must:
         5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
         5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
         5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
         listed below.
      5.2.2. EIT Trainer Profiles:
         5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
         instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks: Modify
         training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of delivering training using
         visual, auditory and physical applications. Demonstrate one-on-one, small group and
         large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify trainee achievement.
         5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide threat
         training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2PR, Volume 3. Specific tasks:
         Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual
         and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare and deliver an
         instructional session for a threat based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
         5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Visual Recognition. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide VR
         training. Specific tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use
         computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
         tools. Prepare and deliver a VR instructional session for threat and friendly weapons
         systems based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
         5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate ability to
         provide C&R training based on reporting directives and SIO guidance. Specific tasks:
         Identify collection requirements and EEIs. Describe the use of aircrew-originated reports
         (INFLTREP or other formats) and intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP,
         MISREP, INTSUM). Prepare and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit
         mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     21


       5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide PR
       training based on theater and unit requirements. Specific tasks: Coordinate with tactics,
       aircrew flight equipment, and SERE personnel. Tailor information in the briefing to the
       audience. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
       dissemination tools. Prepare and deliver an instructional session on intelligence PR
       operational support processes as required based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
       tasking. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be graduates of SV-80A Survival
       Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist (1T0X1) may omit this block.
       5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide
       FPI training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2PR, Volume 3. Specific
       tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-based,
       audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare and
       deliver an instructional session for FPI based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
       tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and SIO
   endorsement.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until their currency is
   regained. Non-current trainers must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised
   by another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                 Specialized Training                    Currency Requirement
 Threat Knowledge      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific       Instruct one threat training
                       tasks.                                  event quarterly.
                       Pass MQF test (threat specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 VR                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific       Instruct one VR training event
                       tasks.                                  semi-annually.
                       Pass VR test.
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R                   Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific       Instruct one C&R training
                       tasks.                                  event annually.
                       Pass MQF test (C&R specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 PR                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific       Instruct one PR training event
                       tasks.                                  annually.
                       Pass MQF test (PR specific).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 22                                                         AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


 FPI                    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific         Instruct one FPI training event
                        tasks.                                    annually.
                        Pass MQF test (FPI specific).
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 Note: For the purposes of this instruction quarterly is defined as once every three months;
 semi-annually is defined as once every six months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months. If an MQF test was accomplished for these areas during MQT, another MQF test is
 not required.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE). This program establishes the minimum guidelines for
intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform IE duties within the unit. Intelligence
evaluator trainees must be immersed in the knowledge of governing directives and task
procedures. Intelligence Evaluator training consists of two steps; observation and performance
proficiency. Only qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected to be an IE must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
       5.3.1.3. Complete one or both of the observation profiles and the proficiency profile
       listed below.
   5.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Training Profiles:
       5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Through observation of a qualified
       evaluator conducting a mission evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and
       procedures. Specific tasks: Observe a mission evaluation. Describe the evaluation
       criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN
       evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and
       techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Trainer Observation. Objective: Through observation of a
       qualified evaluator conducting an EIT Trainer evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation
       techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe an EIT Trainer evaluation. Describe
       the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT
       EIT or EIT evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
       and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.3. IE 3 – IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in conducting
       intelligence evaluations. Specific tasks: Conduct an evaluation and provide a thorough
       debrief with the person being evaluated. Use evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
       proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms.
   5.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized
   training is completed. The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after
   completing training, successful completion of the initial IE evaluation and SIO endorsement.
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                          23


  5.3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
  evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
  evaluations IAW AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2.




                                       Robert p. otto, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                       Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 24                                                     AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2HC-130, Volume 1, HC-130 Aircrew Training, 16 September 2011
AFI 11-2HH-60, Volume 1, HH-60 Aircrew Training, 7 May 2010
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2PR, Volume 2, PR Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 5 December 2013
AFI 14-2PR, Volume 3, PR Unit Intelligence Procedures, 5 December 2013
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.GUARDIAN ANGEL, Tactical Employment—GUARDIAN ANGEL 8 May 2012 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.HC-130, Tactical Employment—HC-130, 2 February 2010 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.HH-60, Tactical Employment—HH-60G, 28 October 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                        25


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Course of Action
CONPLAN—Concept of Operations Plan
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapon
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
FM—Field Manual
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
HA—Humanitarian Assistance
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Training Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
 26                                                   AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCRP—Marine Corps Reference Publication
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OB—Order of Battle
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis, and Dissemination
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SAR—Search and Rescue
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TUC—Threat Update Code
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                               27


Terms
Tier 2 (T—2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T—3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA commander level.
 28                                                  AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                      Attachment 2
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report.

[DATE]

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. (Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a
major impact on training.)
EVENT                                  PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE
                                       PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                                            SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                                            CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                                       LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 29


                                         Attachment 3
 PERSONNEL RECOVERY MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET
                          ELEMENTS

A3.1. PR MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through training events. File the completed gradesheets in the trainee’s training record. (T-2)

Table A3.1. PR Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
2. General knowledge
2.1. Primary threat countries
2.2. Capabilities and limitations
2.3. Employment characteristics
2.4. Countertactics
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. PR Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
1. Construct, post, update and maintain quality situation displays
2.1. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
2.2. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
2.3. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. PR Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
1. Identified OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Differentiated between coordinate systems
 30                                                         AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


3.2. Geographic coordinates
3.3. MGRS/UTM
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. PR Automated OB Gradesheet Elements.
1. Identified OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Used intelligence systems to post and maintain OB
3.1. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
3.2. Performed coordinate conversion
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. PR Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition
2.4. Potential enemy COAs
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. PR Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Changes to IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                    31


2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition
2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. PR Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Presented situation update briefing
3. Identified issues needing immediate attention
4. Addressed relevant areas
4.1. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
4.2. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
4.3. Reviewed situation displays
4.4. Reviewed CAT directives
4.5. Review incoming/outgoing messages
4.6. Reviewed MISREP status
5. Delivery
5.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
5.2. Effective use of visual aids
5.3. Appropriate level of detail
5.4. Applicability to audience
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. PR Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Unit tasking
 32                                                          AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
and activity
2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location
2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
2.7. PR
2.8. Reporting instructions
2.9. EEIs
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. PR ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Located and obtained correct tasking documents
2.   Determined unit tasking, airspace control, PR information and intelligence related data
3.   Extracted unit data using manual and automated processes
4.   Adherence to unit standards
5.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. PR Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
1. Provide intelligence support to mission planner
2. Described the PR mission planning process
3. Reviewed tactical problem/scenario
4. Analyzed the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout and plotted unit tasking
4.1. Determined intelligence requirements
4.2. Determined mission material requirements
5. Identified intelligence gaps and made assessments
6. Analyzed operating area threats and terrain
7. Presented Mission Planning Situation Briefing (as applicable)
8. Coordinated with operations to recommend mission route
8.1. Ingress
8.2. Objective/Mission Area
8.3. Egress
9. Indentified other mission support assets
10. Adherence to unit standards
11. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. PR Mission Folder Construction Gradesheet Elements.
1. Mission folder construction
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                    33


1.1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
1.2. Identified and obtained mission materials
1.3. Used mission planning software
2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. PR Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
2.2. En route, objective area, and egress threats
2.3. FPI for the local area
2.4. PR information
2.5. EEIs
2.6. INFLTREP requirements
2.7. Threat update code
2.8. Debrief location
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. PR Alert Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Commander’s intent
2.2. Acceptable level of risk
2.3. Active PR events/most likely location for potential PR events
2.4. Closed significant PR events
2.5. Significant geopolitical developments
2.6. Significant military activity within area of operations
2.7. FPI for the local area
2.8. Current enemy force disposition
 34                                                      AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


2.9. Potential enemy COAs
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. PR Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Last minute changes in threat that affect the mission
2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
2.3. PR data changes/reminders
2.4. Latest TUC
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. PR Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Monitored and used appropriate communication systems
2.   Maintained situational awareness of ongoing missions
3.   Reacted as necessary to support the mission
4.   Logged all significant communications
5.   Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
6.   Made provisions for diverted missions
7.   Adherence to unit standards
8.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. PR Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Debriefing preparation
1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General performance
2.1. Extracted mission intelligence from aircrew
2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                 35


2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.17. PR Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
1. Described the purpose and content of theater reporting directives
2. Analyzed and extracted information from INFLTREP and other aircrew-submitted formats
3. Used of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
3.1. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports
3.2. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using USMTF when reporting directives do not
exist
4. Time management
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines
 36                                                       AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 4
     PERSONNEL RECOVERY SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. PR Specialized Training Gradesheet Elements. The ST task gradesheet elements in
this attachment are to be when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers
will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST gradesheets
will be filed in the trainee’s training record. (T-2)

Table A4.1. PR EIT Trainer ST Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Followed security guidelines

Table A4.2. PR IE ST Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                              37


                                       Attachment 5
 PERSONNEL RECOVERY MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING, SPECIALIZED
    TRAINING, AND READY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5.1 consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used by
unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. PR MQT, ST and RIP Requirements.
Requirement                                                 MQT       ST         RIP
RAD and IPOE                                                X         ---        ---
PR Weapons Systems Academics                                X         ---        ---
Threat Knowledge                                            X         ---        ---
Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                        X         ---        ---
VR                                                          X         ---        ---
PR                                                          X         ---        ---
CSAR Fundamentals                                           X         ---        ---
Civil SAR and HA Fundamentals                               X         ---        ---
FPI                                                         X         ---        ---
Threat Briefings                                            X         ---        ---
Situation Displays                                          X         ---        X
Manual OB                                                   X         ---        X
Automated OB                                                X         ---        X
Initial Situation Briefing                                  X         ---        X
Situation Briefing                                          X         ---        X
Changeover Briefing                                         X         ---        X
Deployment Briefing                                         X         ---        X
ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents                   X         ---        X
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning                    X         ---        X
Mission Folder Construction                                 X         ---        X
Mission Briefing                                            X         ---        X
Alert Briefing                                              X         ---        X
Step Briefing                                               X         ---        X
Mission Tracking                                            X         ---        X
Debriefing                                                  X         ---        X
Intelligence Reports                                        X         ---        X
EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods                            ---       X          ---
EIT 2 - Threat Knowledge                                    ---       X          ---
EIT 3 - VR                                                  ---       X          ---
EIT 4 - C&R                                                 ---       X          ---
EIT 5 - PR                                                  ---       X          ---
EIT 6 - FPI                                                 ---       X          ---
IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                                   ---       X          ---
IE 2 - IE EIT Trainer Observation                           ---       X          ---
IE 3 - IE Proficiency                                       ---       X          ---
38   AFI14-2PRV1 5 DECEMBER 2013
