BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-246,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 5

                                                                           23 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                              AIR FORCE AIRCRAFT
                                                 DEMONSTRATIONS, AC-130, MC-130, EC-
                                                                         130J, CV-22

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/OC                                                         Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                  (Brig Gen Giovanni K. Tuck)
Supersedes:   AFI11-246V5, 26 April 2004                                              Pages: 17


This instruction implements guidance in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircrew
Operations; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation,
and General Operations Structure, and AFI 11-209, Air Force Aerial Events. It provides
guidance and procedures for Air Force performance of specific model design series (MDS)
single-ship aircraft demonstrations and mission capabilities demonstrations. It designates
Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) as lead command for
aircraft demonstrations conducted by the following MDS aircraft: AC-130; MC-130; EC-130J
and CV-22. Major Command (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOAs), and direct reporting
units (DRUs) may supplement this instruction. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will coordinate
their supplements with HQ AFSOC, Director of Operations, prior to publishing and forward one
copy to HQ USAF/A3O-AO after publication. This instruction applies to the Air National Guard
(ANG). This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserves Command (AFRC). See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and terms. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                       AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was revised and must be completely reviewed. This version implements
new guidelines identifying AFSOC as the lead MAJCOM for the CV-22 aircraft for Aircraft
Demonstrations. AFI 11-246, Vol 3, dated 13 December 2002, which identified HQ Air Force
Material Command (AFMC) as lead MAJCOM for CV-22, while in the test phase has been
rescinded. This version also incorporates the EC-130 into the Standard Profiles in Attachment
3, and removed the MC130E. Tier level requirements have been annotated.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  3



                                          Chapter 1

                             OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES

1.1. General Guidance. At the direction of United States Air Force Vice Commander
(USAF/CV), HQ AFSOC is the lead MAJCOM for the standardized flying procedures applicable
to aircraft capabilities demonstrations for the following MDS aircraft: AC-130, MC-130,
EC130J, and CV-22.
1.2. Standardized procedures for flyovers, funeral or memorial flyovers, and aerial reviews
are not required. However, if one of these events is to be performed, written procedures must
be established and approved by the MAJCOM/A3 prior to demonstration. (T-2).
1.3. For aircraft where another MAJCOM has been designated the “lead” use the
guidance provided by that MAJCOM. However, the HQ AFSOC/A3 must approve any
AFSOC demonstrations. (T-2).
1.4. The terminology “aircraft capabilities demonstration” as used in this AFI, is used
interchangeably with aircraft exercise (CAPEX). See Attachment 1 for definitions.
Applicable tier requirement levels are defined below.
   1.4.1. “Tier 1” (T-1) requirements are may only be waived by the MAJCOM/CC or
   delegate. When multiple MAJCOMs are affected, then T-1 is appropriate.
   1.4.2. “Tier 2” (T-2) requirements may only be waived by the MAJCOM/CC or delegate.
1.5. Flying procedures and guidance within this AFI do not constitute authority to deviate from
AFI 11-209, Air Force Aerial Events, AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 1, MDS Aircrew Training,
AFI 112MDS, Vol 3, MDS Operations Procedures, and AFI 11-202, Vol 3, General Flight
Rules.
 4                                                              AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                              Chapter 2

                       AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES DEMONSTRATION

2.1. General. Aircraft capabilities demonstrations include the following: Assault Landing,
Assault Takeoff, Personnel Airdrop, High-Altitude Low-Opening (HALO) Personnel Airdrop,
Heavy Equipment Airdrop, Containerized Delivery System (CDS) Airdrop, Alternate
Insertion/Extraction (AIE), Close Air Support (CAS), Helicopter Air-to-Air Refueling/Tilt-rotor
Air-to-Air Refueling (HAAR/TAAR) and the performance maneuvering of an aircraft in a
runway environment.
2.2. Capabilities demonstrations will be performed using established procedures in MDS
Operating Instructions. Sample profiles are shown in attachments to this AFI, however,
procedures established in aircraft MDS Operating Instructions and Technical Orders have
precedence.
2.3. The MAJCOM, in a supplement to this AFI, must establish an approval process and
authority for all Capabilities Demonstrations. Approval documentation must include
sufficient information with the proposed profile to permit evaluation by the established approval
authority. The required information includes a brief synopsis of what will take place and will, at
a minimum, address the following:
     2.3.1. Airspeeds and altitudes to be flown.
     2.3.2. Holding patterns.
     2.3.3. Ground tracks to be flown.
     2.3.4. Type of aircraft capabilities demonstration to be flown. If requesting an airdrop,
     include intended point of impact relative to the crowd line and show line. If a demonstration
     includes use of munitions, include intended point of impact/detonation point and safety zone
     relative to the crowd line and show line.
     2.3.5. Aircrew qualifications.
     2.3.6. On-scene ground supervisor and on-scene communications and control procedures.
     2.3.7. If a rehearsal/practice run is planned, include date, time, location and participants.
2.4. If a planned demonstration must deviate from established procedures this must be
addressed in the approval documents provided to the MAJCOM approval authority. When
multiple MAJCOMs are affected, (T-1), for single MAJCOM (T-2).
2.5. The AC-130 and CV-22 do not have standard demonstration profiles established in
this AFI. Profiles will be planned on an as needed basis as the requirement occurs.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                 5


                                         Chapter 3

           AIRCREW QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATION PROCESS

3.1. General. Aircrews that are scheduled to fly capabilities demonstrations must be qualified
and certified in the demonstration to be performed. Qualification is accomplished at each wing
and group in accordance with (IAW) applicable Air Force and MAJCOM Instructions, and
wing/group training and evaluation procedures.
 6                                                         AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                          Chapter 4

                           CRITIQUE AND REVIEW PROCESS

4.1. General. Each MAJCOM will implement procedures to critique airshow/aircraft
capabilities demonstrations and review results at the headquarters level. When an Aerial Control
Team (ACT) is required by AFI 11-209, the ACT chief will critique the performance and
forward results through channels to the appropriate MAJCOM Director of Operations. When the
presence of the ACT chief is not required, the on-scene ground supervisor will task the aircraft
commander to conduct the critique. The critique may also be accomplished by an additional
airborne pilot or navigator. See Attachment 2 for suggested critique format.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    7


                                           Chapter 5

          APPROVAL PROCESS FOR PARTICIPATION IN AERIAL EVENTS

5.1. General. AFI 11-209 and MAJCOM supplements describe the approval process for Air
Force participation in military and civilian events, such as, military base open houses, civilian
sponsored airshows, international air and trade shows, etc.




                                            BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 8                                                         AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Standardization Agreement (STANAG) 3533
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 January 2012
AFI 11-2, MDS, Vol 1, ”MDS” Aircrew Training
AFI 11-2, MDS, Vol3, “MDS” Operations Procedures
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation and General Operations Structure,
19 January 2012
AFI 11-202, Vol 3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-209, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, 4 May 2006
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, 2 Apr 2008
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, 18 August 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIE—Alternate Insertion/Extraction
ACT—Aerial Control Team
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AGL—Above Ground Level
AIE—Alternate Insertion/Extraction
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        9


ANG—Air National Guard
CAPEX—Aircraft Capabilities Demonstration”, is used interchangeably with Aircraft Exercise
CAS—Close Air Support
CDS—Containerized Delivery System
DRU—Direct Reporting Units
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAAR—Helicopter Air-to-Air Refueling
HALO—High-Altitude Low-Opening
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Model Design Series
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TAAR—Tilt-rotor Air-to-Air Refueling
USAF—United States Air Force
USAF/CV—United States Air Force Vice Commander

Terms
Aerial Demonstration—A generic phase that includes virtually every type of aerial
participation in military or civilian events (except for static display, aerial review and flyover):
aerobatics, aircraft capabilities demonstration, assault landing/takeoff, aircraft weapons or tactics
demonstration, in-flight refueling demonstration, and airdrop demonstrations of personnel or
equipment. Used interchangeably with the phrases “aircraft demonstration” and “aircraft
capabilities demonstration.”
Aerial Event—A military, or civilian event such as a civilian air show, an air fair, a military
open house, or an Air and Trade Show, featuring aerial participation by the Air Force, or by
other flying organizations, whether military or civilian.
Aerial Review—A formal, aerial presentation of aircraft “passing in review”. In essence, an
aerial review consists of a number of flyovers over a specific point on the ground-e.g., over a
reviewing stand, in conjunction with a formal ceremony, such as a parade, a retirement ceremony
for an authorized individual, etc. Participating aircraft are of multiple types and many come
from the same Service, from more than one Service, or from other nations as well as the US.
The flyover consists of single ships and/or formation, with elements in trail formation and do not
involve precision maneuvers. Spacing between elements is less than one minute.
Aircraft Demonstration—See Aircraft Capabilities Demonstration.
 10                                                          AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


Aircraft Capabilities Demonstration—An aerial demonstration in which an aircraft conducts
maneuvers usually associated with its employment and which are common to the airframe being
shown. The purpose is to illustrate the unique flying capabilities of the aircraft. Also called a
Capabilities Exercise (CAPEX). Includes Aerobatics, Assault Landing/Takeoff, Aircraft Tactics
Demonstration, In-flight Refueling Demonstration, and Airdrop Demonstrations. Also referred
to as, simply, an “aircraft demonstration.”
Aircraft Weapons or Tactics Demonstration—An aerial demonstration of aircraft employing
or simulating the employment of munitions, weapons, or combat tactics. May include use of
ground-based pyrotechnics for effect.
Alternate Insertion/Extraction (AIE)—Infiltration or exfiltration via a method (helicopter
only) not requiring landing the aircraft. Some examples include fast rope, rope ladder, and
rappel.
Assault Landing Demonstration—An aerial demonstration, and more specifically, an aircraft
capabilities demonstration, illustrating a technique used for landing on short runways. The
aircraft is flown at a speed slightly above aircraft stall speed at a steeper than normal approach
path. After touchdown, maximum engine reverse thrust and braking are applied to stop the
aircraft. Also known as Maximum Performance Landing or Max Effort Landing.
Assault Takeoff Demonstration—An aerial demonstration, and more specifically, an aircraft
capabilities demonstration, illustrating a takeoff technique used for departing short runways
employing maximum takeoff power and climb rate for the aircraft. Also referred to as
“Maximum Performance Takeoff” or “Maximum Effort Takeoff.”
Container Delivery System (CDS) Demonstration—An aerial demonstration involving the air
drop of supplies or equipment packaged in individual web containers of canvas and nylon. The
containers, numbering up to 16 and weighing up to 2,200 lbs. each, are mounted on skid boards.
Gravity is used to extract the load from the aircraft at approximately 600 feet AGL over the
intended target.
Equipment Airdrop Demonstration—An aerial demonstration, and more specifically, an
aircraft capabilities demonstration, illustrating the airdrop of equipment on platforms rigged with
parachutes, in individual containers rigged with parachutes, or in small door bundles rigged with
parachutes.
Exfiltration—The removal of personnel or units from areas under enemy control by stealth,
deception, surprise or clandestine means.
Fast Rope—AIE method of infiltration from a hover using a thick braded nylon rope (fast rope)
on which personnel slide down on from the helicopter.
Flyover—A straight and level flight by a single aircraft or by a single formation (up to four
aircraft of the same type and Service) over a fixed point. Flyovers do not involve aerobatics or
aerial demonstrations; however, bank angles of up to 45 degrees may be used to maneuver to, or
from, the flyover ground track to improve the visibility of the aircraft to the spectators. A
flyover can be performed with the aircraft in a clean configuration or with the aircraft configured
(e.g., partially configured or fully configured). An example of a partial configuration is a KC135
with only the boom deployed; full configuration would be the same aircraft with the gear, flaps
and boom all deployed.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  11


Funeral Flyover—A single-pass flyover at a funeral service by a single aircraft or by a single
formation (up to four aircraft). The formation may be flown as a missing-man formation.
Helicopter Air Refueling Demonstration—A formation of aircraft demonstrating helicopter air
refueling in the pre-contact position.
High-Altitude Low-Opening (HALO) Airdrop Demonstration—A demonstration involving
the airdrop of a precision parachute demonstration team, such as the Air Force STARS, the
Wings of Blue or the Golden Knights, from an altitude of 3,000 feet AGL or higher. The
parachutists free fall to a predetermined altitude before deploying their parachutes to complete
the descent.
Hoist—Extraction of an individual(s) using a rescue hoist from a hover. Attachment devices
vary; stokes litter and forest penetrator, are the most common.
Infiltration—The insertion of personnel or units into areas under enemy control by stealth,
deception, surprise, or clandestine means.
Jump Platform—An aircraft used to airdrop personnel in support of a military or civilian event
is referred to as a jump platform.
Memorial Flyover—A single-pass flyover at a memorial service by a single aircraft or by a
single formation (up to four aircraft). The formation may be flown as a missing-man formation.
Rope Ladder—An alternate insertion/extraction method, usually for exfiltration, using a flexible
caving ladder hanging from the helicopter.
Tilt-Rotor Air-to-Air Refueling Demonstration—A formation of aircraft demonstrating tilt-
rotor air refueling in the pre-contact position.
 12                                                 AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                     Attachment 2
                      AERIAL DEMONSTRATION CRITIQUE

Figure A2.1. Aerial Demonstration Critique.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     13


                                          Attachment 3
                 MC-130 AND EC-130J STANDARD PROFILES 1 THRU 4

A3.1. Profile 1 Synopsis: This airdrop profile is an aircraft capabilities demonstration
beginning with an aircraft already airborne. The aircrew approaches the airfield at drop altitude
for a single-ship airdrop. Over the airfield Drop Zone, paratroopers are released in a static line
jump. The paratroopers land and gather up their gear while the MC/EC-130 climbs to 4,500’
above ground level (AGL) to set up for a random steep approach. A random steep approach is
then flown and terminated in an assault landing to demonstrate short field landing capability.
The MC/EC-130 then maneuvers to a designated point, giving consideration to the
demonstration of the reverse capability of the C-130, and the paratroopers board via the ramp.
The aircraft then performs a maximum effort takeoff, departing the air show area. The
procedures in this profile are general guidelines and the aircrew may adjust them, for cause, to
accommodate the requirements of the jump team or paratroopers, to accommodate the kind of
equipment (material) to be airdropped (heavy equipment or CDS), or to accommodate the unique
requirements of the event or site at which the event takes place. In no circumstances will
aircrews deviate from applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 3.
A3.2. Profile 2 Synopsis: This ground-to-ground profile is an aircraft capabilities
demonstration and begins with a single MC/EC-130 executing an Assault Takeoff followed by a
climb to 500’ AGL over the runway. The MC/EC-130 then maneuvers back toward the airfield,
setting up for a random shallow approach. A random shallow approach is then flown and
terminated in an assault landing, demonstrating short field landing capability. After landing the
MC-130 backs to a designated point to demonstrate reverse taxi capability, (engine running)
offloads a Humvee and driver (if applicable) and then exits the runway. The procedures in this
profile are general guidelines and the aircrew may adjust them, for cause, to accommodate the
requirements of the event or of the site at which the event takes place. In no circumstances will
aircrews deviate from applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 3.
A3.3. Profile 3 Synopsis: This air-to-ground profile is an aircraft capabilities demonstration
and begins with a MC-130 already airborne. As the MC-130 approaches the airfield, the aircrew
executes a random shallow approach to an assault landing. The aircrew then conducts a reverse
taxi maneuver on the runway and (engine running) offloads a Humvee and driver (if applicable).
Finally, the aircrew executes an assault takeoff and departs. The procedures in this profile are
general guidelines and the aircrew may adjust them, for cause, to accommodate the requirements
of the event or of the site at which the event takes place. In no circumstances will aircrews
deviate from applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 3.
A3.4. Profile 4 Synopsis: Note: Profile 4 Synopsis not applicable for EC-130. Recommended
MC-130 Tanker Air Refueling Demonstration Profile. This is a helicopter/tilt-rotor air refueling
capabilities demonstration and begins with all aircraft involved already airborne and in
formation. If simultaneous air refueling demonstration is planned, both helicopters should be in
the observation position with all air refueling checklists completed (Note: simultaneous TAAR
operations are not permitted). The MC-130 will begin the demonstration flyover at the pre-
briefed airspeed and altitude IAW directives and local limitations. The MC-130 will direct, via
radio or light signals, for receiver to move into pre-contact position no later than 2 minutes from
the demonstration location. Receiver will remain in pre-contact position throughout the
demonstration. Under no circumstances will receiver make contact, wet or dry, during the
 14                                                        AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


demonstration. After passing the demonstration area, the MC-130 will direct the receiver to the
observation position via radio or light signals. Formation break up after the demonstration will
be as briefed.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                15


Figure A3.1. MC-130 and EC-130J Standard Profile 1 Aircraft Capabilities
Demonstrations Airdrop/Random Steep/Assault Takeoff.
 16                                                 AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014


Figure A3.2. MC-130 and EC-130J Standard Profile 2 Aircraft Capabilities
Demonstrations Assault Takeoff/Random Shallow Approach/Full Stop or Depart the Area.
AFI11-246V5 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                17


Figure A3.3. MC-130 and EC-130J Standard Profile 3 Aircraft Capabilities
Demonstrations Random Shallow Approach/Assault Takeoff.
