BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARIES                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-401
OF THE AIR FORCE, ARMY, AND NAVY                                 ARMY REGULATION 70-50
                                                                    NAVAIRINST 13100.16

                                                                                   16 MAY 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                                   DESIGNATING AND NAMING DEFENSE
                                                       MILITARY AEROSPACE VEHICLES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A8PE                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A8P
                                                                                (Maj Gen Boera)
Supersedes:    AFI 16-401_IP;                                                         Pages: 42
               AR 70-50;
               NAVAIRINST 13100.16;
               14 April 2005


This Air Force publication implements DoD Directive 4120.15E, Designating and Naming
Military Aerospace Vehicles. It provides guidance and procedures for designating and naming
defense military aerospace vehicles across the DoD. This AFI defines the roles and
responsibilities of required organizations, the processes for requesting new or retiring old
designators and popular names, and the relationship between and military aerospace vehicle
designators and names. Additionally, descriptions of standardized Mission Design Series (MDS)
designation symbols, military department contacts, and sample MDS and Popular Name request
letters are provided. This instruction applies to all military services and departments, including
Reserve and National Guard components, which require official designators or names for
defense aerospace vehicles.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                                                                     AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include MDS roles/responsibilities and request processing have been implemented in this Air
Force Instruction revision. These changes assign HAF/A8PE as the primary focal point for
collecting, assigning, and processing both designator and popular name requests. AFMC has
been relieved as the MDS entry point DoD-wide. Additionally, SAF/PA has been reassigned as
coordinating POC only for popular names and SAF/GCQ has gained the responsibility of
conducting trademark search from AFLOA/JAQ. The request process has been redefined to
reflect the realignment of responsibilities and detailed to provide clear MDS request criteria,
request preparation, submission, and close-out. All references to organizations and office have
been updated as appropriate. Acronyms and terminology have been updated as necessary;
references to unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) have been replaced with unmanned aircraft (UA).
Added request and processing time constraints, MDS designator position interpretation
tables/examples, emphasis between standard and non-standard aircraft, and sample MDS
designator and popular name packages.

       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    3
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             4
       3.     Relationship Between MDS Designator and Popular Name. ................................                                       5
       4.     MDS Designator. ...................................................................................................          5
       5.     MDS Popular Name. ..............................................................................................             8
       6.     Retirement/Reactivation of an MDS Designator or Popular Name. ......................                                        11
       7.     Publication of Approved MDS Designators and Popular Names. .........................                                        13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            14

Attachment 2—STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR POSITION DESCRIPTIONS                                                                            18

Attachment 3—STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR SYMBOL DESCRIPTIONS FOR
             AIRCRAFT                                                                                                                     23

Attachment 4—STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR SYMBOL DESCRIPTIONS FOR
             GUIDED MISSILES, ROCKETS, PROBES, BOOSTERS, AND
             SATELLITES                                                                                                                   29

Attachment 5—MILITARY DEPARTMENT POINTS OF CONTACT MAILING
             ADDRESSES                                                                                                                    34

Attachment 6—MDS DESIGNATOR REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE                                                                                       35

Attachment 7—SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS DESIGNATOR REQUEST LETTER                                                                              36

Attachment 8—MDS POPULAR NAME REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE                                                                                     37

Attachment 9—SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS POPULAR NAME REQUEST LETTER                                                                            38
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                            3


Attachment 10—MDS RETIREMENT REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE                                            39

Attachment 11—SAMPE (NOTIONAL) MDS RETIREMENT REQUEST LETTER
             TEMPLATE                                                                           40

Attachment 12—SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS DESIGNATOR APPROVAL LETTER                                  41

Attachment 13—SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS POPULAR NAME APPROVAL LETTER
                                                                                                42


1. Overview.
   1.1. This Air Force instruction establishes guidance and procedures for requesting a Mission
   Design Series (MDS) designator and/or an MDS popular name for military aerospace
   vehicles. All requested and approved MDS designators will adhere to the DoD designator
   reporting system established in 1961 to standardize identification of military aerospace
   vehicles. This system uses letters and numbers to symbolize identifying characteristics of
   military aerospace vehicles of direct interest to the DoD (reference Attachments A3 and A4).
   All requested and approved MDS popular names will be suitable, in accordance with Air
   Force standards and values, for public release and not violate registered brand names,
   trademarks, or otherwise infringe upon copyright laws.
   1.2. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) serves as the DoD Executive Agent (reference
   DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent) for the MDS program (reference DoDD 4120.15E).
   The SECAF delegated authority relating to standardizing references to military aerospace
   vehicles to HAF/A8PE (reference HAFMD 1-56, Deputy Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and
   Programs). Acting on the behalf of the DoD Executive Agent, HAF/A8PE may not re-
   delegate full authority of the MDS program, but does reserve the authority to arrange for and
   execute inter-Service support agreements, memoranda of understanding, and other necessary
   arrangements, as required, to fulfill assigned DoD Executive Agent responsibilities,
   functions, and authorities (reference DoDD 5101.1).
   1.3. This instruction provides DoD-wide guidance on the following: generating, collecting,
   evaluating, and processing MDS designator and popular name requests, specifying required
   and essential coordinating organizations, outlining MDS designator and popular name
   approval authorities, determining “next-in-series” MDS designators, and publishing updates
   to this instruction and a single DoD-wide list of approved MDS designators and popular
   names for aerospace vehicles. Additionally, this instruction will provide the required
   evaluation criteria and MDS request package templates, standardized MDS designator
   symbols, and respective military department points of contacts.
   1.4. For the remainder length of this instruction, it will be understood that either “MDS
   designator” or “MDS popular name” terms will relate to the designator or name for military
   defense aerospace vehicles and/or DoD aerospace vehicles only. Furthermore, when
   references are made to the generic term “vehicle,” it will be understood that it is in reference
   to military aerospace vehicle unless otherwise described. This instruction does not apply to
   ground-based systems or vehicles (except for UAV control segments related to aerospace
   vehicles required to be controlled by rated pilots), any hybrid ground/aerospace vehicle in
 4                                                                      AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


     which its intended operational environment is ground-based, or any specific attachment or
     subsystem of a military defense aerospace vehicle.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Department of the Air Force:
        2.1.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF):
            2.1.1.1. Serves as the DoD Executive Agent for designating and naming military
            aerospace vehicles (reference DoDD 4120.15E).
            2.1.1.2. Oversees all delegated aspects of the MDS program
            2.1.1.3. Is the approval authority for MDS popular names
            2.1.1.4. Coordinates on assignment for MDS designators
        2.1.2. Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF):
            2.1.2.1. Coordinates on assignment of MDS designators and popular names
        2.1.3. Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense of Public Affairs (OASD/PA):
            2.1.3.1. Coordinates on assignment of MDS popular names
            2.1.3.2. Ensures public suitability of proposed MDS popular names (reference DoDD
            4120.15E)
        2.1.4. Secretary of the Air Force of Public Affairs (SAF/PA):
            2.1.4.1. Coordinates on assignment of MDS popular names
            2.1.4.2. Ensures public suitability of proposed MDS popular names
        2.1.5. Operations, Plans and Requirements (HAF/A3/5):
            2.1.5.1. Coordinates on MDS designators and popular names
        2.1.6. Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (HAF/A4/7):
            2.1.6.1. Coordinates on MDS designators and popular names
        2.1.7. Strategic Plans and Programs Directorate (HAF/A8):
            2.1.7.1. Serves on behalf of the DoD Executive Agent’s authority for the MDS
            program (reference HAFMD 1-56)
            2.1.7.2. Executes the responsibilities and functions as delegated by the DoD
            Executive Agent for the MDS program
            2.1.7.3. Is the approval authority for MDS designators
            2.1.7.4. May delegate any aspect of the MDS program, as appropriate, that would
            best serve in the capacity of fulfilling MDS program execution
        2.1.8. Department of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC):
            2.1.8.1. Coordinates on assignment of MDS popular names
            2.1.8.2. Conducts trademark search of proposed MDS popular names
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                           5


      2.1.9. Program Integration Division (HAF/A8PE):
          2.1.9.1. Serves as the central point of contact for administrating the MDS program
          2.1.9.2. Is the central collection point for MDS designator and popular name requests
          2.1.9.3. Reviews, processes, tracks, and staffs MDS designator and popular name
          requests
          2.1.9.4. Assigns the “next-in-series” MDS designator (as applicable)
          2.1.9.5. Publishes and maintains a DoD-wide single source list of approved MDS
          designators and popular names (updated monthly, if changes occur)
          2.1.9.6. Notifies SECAF, CSAF, and Service POC of final request status
   2.2. Department of the Army:
      2.2.1. Headquarters, Army Materiel Command (HQ AMC), G3/4 (Aviation) AMCOM-
      CA:
          2.2.1.1. Serves as the Army’s single point of contact and is the official requesting
          agency for the Department of the Army
      2.2.2. Headquarters, Army Materiel Command (HQ AMC), Public Affairs:
          2.2.2.1. Reviews and coordinates on MDS popular name requests processed through
          HQ AMC
   2.3. Department of the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard:
      2.3.1. Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division, Systems Standardization Division
      (Code 4L8000B120-3):
          2.3.1.1. Serves as the single point of contact and is the official requesting agency for
          the Department of the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard
3. Relationship Between MDS Designator and Popular Name.
   3.1. The MDS designator is the official designation for military defense aerospace vehicles.
   The designator represents a specific category of vehicles for operations, support, and
   documentation purposes. The MDS popular names characterize aerospace vehicle missions
   and aid communications and media references. You may use either reference as a
   management tool; however, only refer to the MDS designator in official publications and
   technical manuals.
   3.2. The MDS designator and popular name for a military defense aerospace vehicle are
   requested in separate packages and processed and staffed separately. An MDS designator for
   a new aerospace vehicle or a new configuration of an existing aerospace vehicle must be
   approved first before the popular name can be approved. Requests for both an MDS
   designator and popular name relating to the same aerospace vehicle may be submitted
   simultaneously. Stand-alone requests for an MDS popular name will automatically be
   rejected if it relates to the following: an unapproved MDS designator, an aerospace vehicle
   without an MDS designator, or any anticipated MDS designator request that has not yet been
   submitted and accepted for processing.
4. MDS Designator.
6                                                                    AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


    4.1. Designator Definition:
       4.1.1. The MDS designator is an official DoD recognized alpha-numeric symbol
       designation of a military defense aerospace vehicle. A standardized set of symbols,
       established by the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF), are used for solely designating
       military defense aerospace vehicles categorized as: aircraft (standard or non-standard),
       guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites. The designator describes the
       aerospace vehicle in two components where the components are separated by a dash.
       The first component, comprised only of alpha characters, describes the mission of the
       vehicle. The second component, comprised of both alpha-numeric characters, describes
       the design number and design series of the vehicle.
       4.1.2. Standard aircraft MDS designators are comprised of the following: status prefix
       (optional), modified mission (optional), basic mission (required), design number
       (required), design series (required).
       4.1.3. Non-standard aircraft MDS designators are comprised of the following: status
       prefix (optional), modified mission (optional), basic mission (required), vehicle type
       (required), design number (required), design series (required).
       4.1.4. Guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites MDS designators are
       comprised of the following: status prefix (optional), launch environment (required), basic
       mission (required), design number (required), design series (required).
       4.1.5. Only one designator symbol can be selected from each optional and required
       symbol categories. For example, standard aircraft may only have one symbol selected (as
       applicable) as a status prefix, modified mission, and basic mission.
       4.1.6. For aircraft (standard and non-standard), modified mission symbols cannot be
       attached to similar basic mission symbols (e.g. “FF-16A”) except for the modified and
       basic mission symbol “L”.
       4.1.7. Designators not assigned and approved through the process outlined herein, but by
       the aerospace vehicle’s manufacturer or another non-DoD agency or country is strictly
       prohibited and is not recognized as an official MDS designator. Furthermore, the current
       format of the MDS designator was established by the US DoD on 18 Sep 1962 with the
       publishing of AFR 66-11, AR 700-26, and BUWEPS Instruction 13100.7 (a joint service
       instruction) and therefore the MDS designator format is owned by the DoD.
    4.2. Designator Request Eligibility:
       4.2.1. Prior to submitting any MDS designator request package, the following basic
       criteria must be met:
           4.2.1.1. The request pertains to an aerospace vehicle intended to become part of or
           already is part of the active DoD inventory.
           4.2.1.2. The designator is intended for a permanent aerospace vehicle acquisition.
               4.2.1.2.1. Requests are not accepted for military aerospace vehicles procured to
               meet Urgent Operational Needs (UON) or other temporary/non-permanent
               acquisition requirements including lease of the vehicle.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                       7


         4.2.1.3. The request pertains to a new designation or modification/revision to an
         existing designator.
            4.2.1.3.1. For military defense aerospace vehicles with an extensive history of
            MDS designations, requests are not accepted for designators in reverse or skipped
            sequences.
  4.3. Procedures for Requesting a Designator:
     4.3.1. Preparing the Request.
         4.3.1.1. Fully complete the MDS Designator Request Letter (reference Attachment
         A6)
            4.3.1.1.1. Request letter paragraph two and attachment one will remain blank or
            completed notionally until the Program Executive Officer (PEO) or Program
            Manager (PM) and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department concurs
            with requested MDS designator
            4.3.1.1.2. Research and determine the “next-in-series” MDS designator to be
            requested (reference the MDS page on the DTIC DoDTechipedia website, see
            Attachment A1, or contact HAF/A8PE, see Attachment A5). For standard
            aircraft, reference the basic mission designator and research the last approved
            design number and design series of that basic mission designator to determine the
            “next-in-series” MDS designator. For non-standard aircraft, guided missiles,
            rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites, reference the basic mission and vehicle
            type designators and research the last approved design number and design series
            of that basic mission/vehicle type designator to determine the “next-in-series”
            MDS designator.
         4.3.1.2. Coordinate letter with requesting organization’s respective Military
         Department point of contact (reference Attachment A5).
            4.3.1.2.1. (For Air Force) Coordinate letter through requesting organization’s
            applicable PEO or PM.
            4.3.1.2.2. (For Air Force PEO/PM) Coordinate letter through the applicable
            lead command at the O-6 level.
         4.3.1.3. Update request letter paragraph two and attachment one to reflect PEO/PM
         and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department concurrence with requested
         MDS designator.
     4.3.2. Submitting the Request.
         4.3.2.1. Review the request letter for the following information:
            4.3.2.1.1. Complete/accurate MDS designator requested
            4.3.2.1.2. Validate manufacturer, approved popular name (if known), engine data
            (number, type, and designation), and using department(s).
            4.3.2.1.3. Ensure the vehicle description is short, unclassified, and distinctive
            such that it is suitable for publication on the DTIC DoDTechipedia webpage.
8                                                                     AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


              4.3.2.1.4. Ensure the name, office symbol, email address, and telephone number
              of the requesting official and agency is listed
           4.3.2.2. If designation request is classified, include declassification instructions.
           Additionally, include an unclassified vehicle description for publication on the DTIC
           DoDTechipedia webpage. Classified designation requests must adhere to the process
           outlined herein and routed to the appropriate organization and/or workflow account
           on a classified environment or communications system.
           4.3.2.3. Send completed, fully coordinated MDS designator request letter to the
           requesting organization’s respective Military Department point of contact.
              4.3.2.3.1. (Air Force, PEOs/PMs, and Lead/Using                 Commands) Send
              completed request letter package to HAF/A8PE.
              4.3.2.3.2. (POCs for Military Departments) Send completed request letter
              package to HAF/A8PE after receipt, review, and approval from respective
              military department.
    4.4. Designator Request Letter Status and Closure:
       4.4.1. Upon receipt of a fully completed, coordinated MDS designator request letter
       package, HAF/A8PE will acknowledge the requesting department or agency normally
       within five working days as either “Accepted” or “Rejected.”
           4.4.1.1. If the MDS designator request letter is accepted, the requested designator
           will be processed within 90 calendar days after acceptance. Processing includes
           designator review and assignment, staffing the designator through HAF and SAF at
           the four- (O-6), three- (O-7 or O-8), and two-letter levels (O-9), and final approval
           determination by HAF/A8. The organization or agency requesting the designator will
           only be notified upon approval/disapproval of the designator or if processing exceeds
           90 calendar days, whichever occurs first.
           4.4.1.2. If the MDS designator request letter is rejected, the requesting department or
           agency will be immediately notified with concise rationale for rejection. Request
           letter packages requiring revision or modification in order to re-apply for requested
           designator must be fully re-submitted by the requesting department or agency.
           HAF/A8 or HAF/A8PE will not retain partial or rejected request packages.
       4.4.2. Request letter acceptance does not constitute approval of the MDS designator.
       Referencing an unapproved or pending MDS designator in regards to military defense
       aerospace vehicles in public announcements or other documentation is strictly prohibited.
       4.4.3. Upon approval of the MDS designator, HAF/A8PE will notify the Service POC,
       the SECAF, the CSAF, and other offices and agencies as appropriate, and provide a
       courtesy copy of the signed MDS designator approval letter (reference Attachment A12).
           4.4.3.1. HAF/A8PE will add/update the MDS designator on the DTIC
           DoDTechipedia webpage (monthy update, if changes occur) or other appropriate
           venue for public release.
5. MDS Popular Name.
    5.1. Popular Name Definition:
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                      9


     5.1.1. The MDS popular names characterize military aerospace vehicle missions and aid
     communications and media references. Names should consist of no more than two
     distinct words.
     5.1.2. Names assigned or used by the aerospace vehicle’s manufacturer are prohibited
     from use or reference as a DoD MDS popular name without the manurfacturer’s
     permission and DoD approval. Manufacturer assigned names may be requested after a
     trademark review and the manufacturer’s permission is granted – all transactions must be
     routed through local PA offices and documented.
  5.2. Popular Name Guidelines:
     5.2.1. Names must be brief. Use no more than two short words. Choose a name that
     characterizes the mission and operational capabilities of the vehicle (see DTIC
     DoDTechipedia for examples).
     5.2.2. Do not request a name that sounds phonetically the same as another (i.e. gryphon,
     griffin).
     5.2.3. Each MDS with the same basic mission and design number will normally keep the
     same popular name assigned to the original MDS, regardless of variations in
     manufacturer, operational use, or change in series.
  5.3. Popular Name Request Eligibility:
     5.3.1. Prior to submitting any MDS popular name request package, the following basic
     criteria must be met:
         5.3.1.1. The popular name to be requested is intended for a military aerospace
         vehicle that has been assigned an MDS designator or that has a designator request
         currently being processed.
            5.3.1.1.1. The aerospace vehicle has reached production or has immediate
            prospects of entering the DoD active inventory.
         5.3.1.2. The popular name does not violate any known brand names, trademarks, or
         otherwise infringe upon copyright laws.
         5.3.1.3. The popular name is within scope of DoD values and morals such that the
         name would not reflect negatively upon the DoD and is suitable for public release.
  5.4. Procedures for Requesting a Popular Name:
     5.4.1. Preparing the Request.
         5.4.1.1. Fully complete the MDS Popular Name Request Letter (reference
         Attachment A8)
            5.4.1.1.1. Request letter paragraph two and attachment one will remain blank or
            completed notionally until PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command/Service
            Department concurs with requested MDS popular name
            5.4.1.1.2. Research trademarked names and approved MDS popular names and
            determine any unused popular names to be requested (reference DTIC
            DoDTechipedia or contact HAF/A8PE).
10                                                                  AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


            5.4.1.1.3. Include at least three popular names, in order of preference, to increase
            the likelihood that one will clear the review process. May submit up to five
            popular names in a single popular name request package. No more than one
            popular name request package can be submitted for the same MDS designator.
         5.4.1.2. Coordinate letter with requesting organization’s respective Military
         Department point of contact (reference Attachment A5).
            5.4.1.2.1. (For Air Force) Coordinate letter through requesting organization’s
            applicable PEO or PM.
            5.4.1.2.2. (For Air Force PEO/PM) Coordinate letter through the applicable
            lead command at the O-6 level.
         5.4.1.3. Update request letter paragraph two and attachment one to reflect PEO/PM
         and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department concurrence with requested
         MDS popular name.
         5.4.1.4. Coordinate letter with local organization’s or agency’s general counsel or
         Public Affairs office.
     5.4.2. Submitting the Request.
         5.4.2.1. Review the request letter for the following information:
            5.4.2.1.1. Verify each requested name is no more than two short words.
            5.4.2.1.2. At least three requested names are submitted.
            5.4.2.1.3. Verify the requested names are not already listed on the DTIC
            DoDTechipedia.
                5.4.2.1.3.1. If a derivation of the name is listed on the DTIC DoDTechipedia
                or if it is known that the name or derivation of the name is being used, provide
                documentation (as a third attachment to popular name request letter) verifying
                that the requested popular name was vetted through the owner of the original
                name and that they have given permission for the government to use it.
            5.4.2.1.4. Ensure the name, office symbol, email address, and telephone number
            of the requesting official and agency is listed.
         5.4.2.2. Send completed, fully coordinated MDS popular name request letter to the
         requesting organization’s respective Military Department point of contact.
            5.4.2.2.1. (Air Force, PEOs/PMs, and Lead/Using                  Commands) Send
            completed request letter package to HAF/A8PE.
            5.4.2.2.2. (POCs for Military Departments) Send completed request letter
            package to HAF/A8PE after receipt, review, and approval from respective
            military department.
  5.5. Popular Name Request Letter Status and Closure:
     5.5.1. Upon receipt of a fully completed, coordinated MDS popular name request letter
     package, HAF/A8PE will acknowledge the requesting department or agency normally
     within five working days as either “Accepted” or “Rejected.”
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                        11


          5.5.1.1. If the MDS popular name request letter is accepted, the requested popular
          name will be processed within 90 calendar days after acceptance. Processing
          includes popular name(s) review, staffing the name through HAF and SAF at the
          four- (O-6), three- (O-7 or O-8), and two-letter levels (O-9), and final approval
          determination by the SECAF. The organization or agency requesting the popular
          names will only be notified upon approval/disapproval of the selected popular name
          or if processing exceeds 90 calendar days, whichever occurs first.
             5.5.1.1.1. Due to the potential impact that DoD sanctioned popular names can
             have on public and political views and perceptions of DoD agencies, all popular
             names are coordinated with OASD/PA to ensure public and DoD suitability of the
             names (reference DoDD 4120.15E). Prior to receiving OASD/PA coordination,
             popular names will be processed/coordinated through SAF Public Affairs.
             5.5.1.1.2. Additionally, due to the potential infringement of popular names on
             trademarks and copyright laws, all popular names are coordinated with
             SAF/GCQ. SAF/GCQ coordination and findings during a trademark search on
             requested popular names is provided to HAF/A8PE.
          5.5.1.2. If the MDS popular name request letter is rejected, the requesting department
          or agency will be immediately notified with concise rationale for rejection. Request
          letter packages requiring revision or modification in order to re-apply for requested
          popular names must be fully re-submitted by the requesting department or agency.
          HAF/A8 or HAF/A8PE will not retain partial or rejected request packages.
      5.5.2. Request letter acceptance does not constitute approval of an MDS popular name.
      Referencing an unapproved or pending MDS popular name in regards to military defense
      aerospace vehicles in public announcements or other documentation is strictly prohibited.
      5.5.3. Upon approval of a selected MDS popular name, HAF/A8PE will notify the
      requesting department or agency the SECAF, the CSAF, and other offices and agencies
      as appropriate, and provide a courtesy copy of the signed MDS popular name approval
      letter (reference Attachment A13).
          5.5.3.1. HAF/A8PE will add/update the MDS popular name on the DTIC
          DoDTechipedia (monthy update, if changes occur) or other appropriate venue for
          public release
6. Retirement/Reactivation of an MDS Designator or Popular Name.
   6.1. MDS Designator or Popular Name Retirement Request Eligibility:
      6.1.1. One of the following conditions applies:
          6.1.1.1. The vehicles’ MDS designator and/or popular name is currently
          active/approved.
          6.1.1.2. All vehicles within a specific MDS designator and/or popular name have
          been retired from the service’s (or services’) inventory(ies).
          6.1.1.3. All vehicles within a specific MDS designator and/or popular name will be
          retired from the service’s (or services’) inventory(ies) within 90 calendar days.
12                                                                 AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


     6.1.2. The Military Department(s) have requested or approved the request to retire the
     MDS designator and/or popular name.
         6.1.2.1. (Air Force, PEOs/PMs, and Lead/Using Commands) The PEO or PM,
         along with coordination of the respective lead and/or using command, has
         approved/concurred with a requirement to retire the designator and/or name.
         6.1.2.2. (POCs for Military Departments) The respective Military Department or
         DoD agency has approved/concurred with a requirement to retire the designator
         and/or name.
  6.2. MDS Designator or Popular Name Reactivation Request Eligibility:
     6.2.1. One of the following conditions apply:
         6.2.1.1. The vehicles’ MDS designator and/or popular name is currently retired.
         6.2.1.2. The vehicles have been returned to their retired MDS and popular name (if
         applicable) or vehicles have been modified to a retired MDS and popular name (if
         applicable).
         6.2.1.3. The vehicles will be returned to its retired MDS and popular name (if
         applicable) or vehicles will be modified to a retired MDS and popular name (if
         applicable) within 90 calendar days.
     6.2.2. The Military Department(s) have requested or approved the request to reactivate
     the MDS designator and/or popular name.
         6.2.2.1. (Air Force, PEOs/PMs, and Lead/Using Commands) The PEO or PM,
         along with coordination of the respective lead and/or using command, has
         approved/concurred with a requirement to reactivate the designator and/or name.
         6.2.2.2. (POCs for Military Departments) The respective Military Department or
         DoD agency has approved/concurred with a requirement to reactivate the designator
         and/or name.
  6.3. Procedures for Retiring or Reactivating an MDS Designator or Popular Name:
     6.3.1. Complete the MDS Retirement Request Letter (reference Attachment A10).
     6.3.2. (Air Force, PEOs/PMs, and Lead/Using Commands) Send completed request
     letter package to HAF/A8PE.
     6.3.3. (POCs for Military Departments) Send completed request letter package to
     HAF/A8PE after receipt, review, and approval from respective military department.
  6.4. Retirement or Reactivation Request Letter Status and Closure:
     6.4.1. Upon receipt of a fully completed, coordinated MDS retirement or reactivation
     request letter package, HAF/A8PE will acknowledge the requesting department or
     agency normally within five working days as either “MDS Retirement Request
     Received” or “MDS Reactivation Request Received”.
     6.4.2. For MDS retirement requests, HAF/A8PE transfers the designator and/or popular
     name from an active to a retired status, and removes the designator and/or popular name
     from DTIC DoDTechipedia (monthy update, if changes occur).
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                      13


          6.4.2.1. MDS designators and/or popular names that have been retired cannot be used
          again to identify another aerospace vehicle.
      6.4.3. For MDS reactivation requests, HAF/A8PE transfers the designator and/or popular
      name from a retired status to an active status, and adds the designator and/or popular
      name to the DTIC DoDTechnipedia (monthy update, if changes occur).
7. Publication of Approved MDS Designators and Popular Names.
   7.1. DTIC DoDTechipedia lists approved MDS designators for all military aerospace
   vehicles in the DoD inventory. The list displays the approved MDS designator,
   manufacturer(s), approved popular name (if any), engine data, using department(s), and a
   brief description of the vehicle.
      7.1.1. HAF/A8PE provides monthly updates (only if changes have occurred) to DoD for
      inclusion in the next update of the DTIC DoDTechipedia or other DoD publication
      venue. Updates include any additions/changes to approved MDS designators and popular
      names as of the last day of the month.
   7.2. The DTIC DoDTechipedia is the primary approved MDS designator and popular name
   sources for all DoD Components. DoD Components, other Federal Agencies, and the public
   may view or obtain an electronic tabular list by visiting http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/.
   7.3. DoDD 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles, will no longer be
   maintained as the primary source of approved MDS designators and popular names.
   However, other Federal Agencies and the public may obtain the last updated version from the
   U. S. Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal
   Road, Springfield, VA 22161. Phone: (703) 605-6000. E-mail Address: info@ntis.gov.




                                           MICHAEL R. MOELLER
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs

                                           RAYMOND T. ODIERNO
                                           General, United States Army
                                           Chief of Staff

                                           GERALD B. O’KEEFE
                                           Administrative Assistant to the
                                           Secretary of the Army

                                           D.A. DUNAWAY, Vice Admiral
                                           U.S. Navy, Commander
                                           Naval Air Systems Command
 14                                                              AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, September 3, 2002 (Certified November 21, 2003)
DoDD 4120.15E, Designating and Naming Military Aerospace Vehicles, November 29, 2004
(Certified October 23, 2008)
DoDD 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles, May 12, 2004
HAF MD 1-56, Deputy Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and Programs, September 25, 2007
DTIC, http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/
DTIC DoDTechipedia, http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/stresources/index.html#dodtechipedia
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1J1—Navy Program Executive Officers
A8PE—Air Force Directorate of Programs, Program Integration Divsion
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLOA/JAQ—Headquarters Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Air Force Commerical
Litigation Division
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AMC—Air Materiel Command
AR—Army Regulation
BUWEPS—Bureau of Naval Weapons
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
COMNAVAIRSYSCOM—Commander, Naval Air Systems Command
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DSN—Defense Switched Network
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                  15


FKA1A—Navy distribution list for: Deputy Commanders, Assistant Commanders, Comptroller,
Command Special Assistants, Designated Program Managers, Directorate Directors, and Office
and Division Directors
FKR—COMNAVAIRSYSCOM Shore Activities
FSC—Federal Supply Class
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAF MD—Headquarters, Air Force Mission Directive
HQ—Headquarters
IDN—Initial Distribution Number
IMT—Information Management Tool
MDS—Mission Design Series
NAVAIRINST—Naval Air Systems Command Instruction
OASD/PA—Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, Public Affairs
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
SAF/GC—Secretary of the Air Force, General Counsel
SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force, Public Affairs
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
STOL—Short Takeoff and Landing
SUAS—Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems
UA—Unmanned Aircraft
UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System
UAV—Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UCAV—Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle
UON—Urgent Operation Need
USAF—United States Air Force
VTOL—Vertial Takeoff and Landing
 16                                                                    AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


Terms
Aerospace Vehicle—Includes aircraft in Federal Supply Class (FSC) 1510 and 1520, gliders in
FSC 1540, UAVs and aerial target drones in FSC 1550, guided missiles in FSC 1410, and spaces
systems (boosters, satellites/upper stages, and missiles).
Aircraft—Vehicle designed primarily for flight in the atmosphere. It can carry a crew and
payload (passengers; cargo; command, control, and communications systems; weapons, etc.).
Booster—An initial or auxiliary propulsion system, which travels with a missile or aircraft, and
which may or may not separate from the parent craft when its impulse has been delivered. A
booster system may contain, or consist of, one or more units.
Guided Missile—An unmanned vehicle moving above the surface of the earth, whose trajectory
or flight path is capable of being altered by an external or internal mechanism.
Mission Design Series (MDS)—The official designation for aerospace vehicles used to
represent a specific category of aerospace vehicles for operations, support, and documentation
purposes.
Nonstandard Vehicle—An aerospace vehicle with a vehicle type designator that must be
accompanied by a basic mission or modified mission symbol.
Popular Name—Characterizes aerospace vehicle missions and aid communications and media
references.
Probe—A non-orbital, instrumented vehicle designed to penetrate the aerospace environment,
commonly used for collecting meteorological data.
Rocket—A thrust-producing system that derives its thrust from ejection of hot gases generated
from material carried in the system, not requiring intake of air or water (rockets may be either of
liquid or solid propellant types).
Satellite—A vehicle placed in various orbits to collect and transmit various types of data for
multiple purposes.
Unmanned Aircraft (UA)—An Aircraft or balloon that does not carry a human operator and is
capable of flight under remote control or autonomous programming. UAs may also be referred
to as RPA, UAS (aerospace vehicle component only), UAV or UCAV.
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)—A powered aerial vehicle that does not carry a human
operator, uses aerodynamic forces to provide vehicle lift, can fly autonomously or is piloted
remotely, can be expendable or recoverable, and carries a non-lethal payload. Ballistic or semi
ballistic vehicles, cruise missiles, and artillery projectiles are not considered UAVs.
Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS)—A system whose components include the necessary
equipment, network, and personnel to control an unmanned aircraft. Note: This AFI applies to
military defense aerospace vehicles only; the term “UAS” is only provided here for informative
purposes – a “UAS” is not permitted to receive a designation, only the aerospace vehicle
component of that system.
Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle (UCAV)—Same definition as UAV except that it carries a
lethal payload.
Interservice Publication Distribution List—Air Force: Distribution F
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                   17


Army:—To be distributed in accordance with the initial distribution number (IDN) 093737,
intended for command levels D and E for Active Army, the Army National Guard, and the U. S.
Army Reserve.
Navy:—FKA1A (Deputy Commanders, Assistant Commanders, Comptroller, Command Special
Assistants, Designated Program Managers, Directorate Directors, and Office and Division
Directors); FKR.
Copy to: Navy; A1J1A; A1J1B; A1J1C.
Stocked: Defense Logistics Agency, Defense Supply Center, 700 Robbins Avenue,
Philadelphia PA 19111—5092. Phone: 1-877-352-2255, Option 2 or DSN 932-7766.
 18                                                                  AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 2
         STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR POSITION DESCRIPTIONS

A2.1. MDS Designator Position Descriptions:
   A2.1.1. Status Prefix:
      A2.1.1.1. Is an optional designator symbol which (if used) indicates a non-standard use
      of an aerospace vehicle (e.g. test, experimental, prototype, etc.).
      A2.1.1.2. (For standard aircraft and non-standard aircraft) It will appear to the
      immediate left of the modified mission symbol or basic mission symbol for the aircraft.
      A2.1.1.3. (For rockets and missiles) It will appear to the immediate left of the launch
      environment symbol or basic mission symbol for rockets and missiles.
      A2.1.1.4. For example, in the designator YF-16A, the status prefix symbol “Y” denotes
      an F-16A prototype.
   A2.1.2. Modified Mission:
      A2.1.2.1. Is an optional designator symbol used in conjunction with standard or non-
      standard aircraft only. It identifies modifications to the basic mission of an aircraft.
      A2.1.2.2. It will appear to the immediate left of the basic mission symbol. The use of
      modified mission symbol that are similar to the basic mission symbol is strictly prohibited
      (e.g. FF-16A) except for the symbol “L”.
      A2.1.2.3. For example, in the designator AT-38B, the modified mission symbol “A”
      identifies a T-38B modified for attack.
   A2.1.3. Launch Environment:
      A2.1.3.1. Is a required designator symbol for rockets and missiles only. It identifies the
      launch environment or platform parameter.
      A2.1.3.2. It will appear to the immediate left of the basic mission symbol.
      A2.1.3.3. For example, in the designator LGM-118A, the launch environment symbol
      “L” indicates the aerospace vehicle is a silo-launched missile.
   A2.1.4. Basic Mission:
      A2.1.4.1. Is a required designator symbol for all standard and non-standard aircraft and
      all guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites. It identifies the primary
      function and capability of an aerospace vehicle and is the initial symbol assigned to that
      series.
      A2.1.4.2. (For standard aircraft) It will appear to the immediate left of the design
      number separated by a dash.
          A2.1.4.2.1. For example, in the designator F-16A, the basic mission symbol “F”
          denotes fighter.
      A2.1.4.3. (For nonstandard aircraft, guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and
      satellites) It will appear to the immediate left of the vehicle type symbol.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                         19


         A2.1.4.3.1. For example, in the designator LGM-118A, the basic mission symbol
         “G” indicates the guided missile is used for surface attack.
  A2.1.5. Vehicle Type:
     A2.1.5.1. Is a required designator symbol for all non-standard aircraft (e.g. helicopters,
     vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) vehicles, spaceplanes, etc.), guided missiles, rockets,
     probes, boosters, and satellites only. A basic mission or modified mission symbol must
     accompany the vehicle type symbol.
     A2.1.5.2. It will appear to the immediate left of the design number, separated by a dash.
     A2.1.5.3. For example, in the designator CH-53A, the vehicle type symbol “H” indicates
     the aerospace vehicle is a helicopter with a basic mission of transport “C”.
  A2.1.6. Design Number:
     A2.1.6.1. Is a required designator numeric symbol for all standard and non-standard
     aircraft and all guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites. It identifies
     major design changes within the same basic mission. Design numbers run consecutively
     from “1” to “999” and will appear to the immediate right of the basic mission or vehicle
     type symbols, separated by a dash.
         A2.1.6.1.1. In the event that a design number of an aerospace vehicle reaches “999”,
         the design number range will be expanded to “9999” and future design numbers will
         be assigned accordingly. The designator character positions to the right of the dash
         separator will be expanded to accommodate the increased design number range.
         A2.1.6.1.2. HAF/A8PE reserves the authority to skip design number at discretion.
         Skipped design numbers cannot be requested or used.
     A2.1.6.2. It will appear to the immediate right of the basic mission or vehicle type
     symbols, separated by a dash.
     A2.1.6.3. For example, in the designator F-16A, the design number “16” represents the
     sixteenth approved MDS designator for an aircraft with a fighter mission under the
     current MDS reporting system.
  A2.1.7. Series:
     A2.1.7.1. Is a required designator symbol for all standard and non-standard aircraft and
     all guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites. It identifies the production
     model of a particular design number and later models representing major modifications
     that significantly alter the aerospace vehicle’s systems, components, or change the
     logistics support of the vehicle.
     A2.1.7.2. It will appear to the immediate right of the design number and follows a
     consecutive assignment starting with “A”. To avoid confusion with the design number,
     the use of letters “I” and “O” for this symbol are prohibited.
         A2.1.7.2.1. At the end of the series symbol “Z”, the next sequence will be to advance
         the design number to the next consecutive unused number and begin with series
         symbol “A”.
 20                                                                      AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


       A2.1.7.3. For example, in the designator F-16C, the series symbol “C” indicates the third
       production model of the F-16.
   A2.1.8. Aerospace Vehicle Configuration or Specification:
       A2.1.8.1. The following descriptions for configuration, block, and serial numbers further
       identify configuration or specific vehicles, but are not part of an MDS designator. DTIC
       DoDTechipedia MDS listing does not contain these numbers. Assignments of
       configuration, block, and serial numbers do not require coordination/approval by
       HAF/A8.
            A2.1.8.1.1. Configuration or Component Number:
                A2.1.8.1.1.1. Denotes configuration changes that affect performance, tactics, or
                integral components of a weapon system which require the same operations or
                logistics reporting as the aerospace vehicle.
                A2.1.8.1.1.2. It will appear to the immediate right of the series symbol, separated
                by a dash. Each Military Department determines its own method for assigning
                configuration numbers.
            A2.1.8.1.2. Block Number:
                A2.1.8.1.2.1. Denotes a production group of identically configured aircraft within
                a particular design series. The Military Departments may reserve intermediate
                block numbers for field modifications.
            A2.1.8.1.3. Serial Number:
                A2.1.8.1.3.1. Identifies a specific aerospace vehicle.             Military Departments
                determine the method for assigning serial numbers.
A2.2. MDS Designator Positions:
   A2.2.1. For standard aircraft, an MDS designator may range between three to seven
   characters total. Immediately to the left of the dash, symbols may range between one to
   three. Immediately to the right of the dash, symbols may range between two and four.
       A2.2.1.1. In order to provide a consistent conception of MDS designator positions for
       standard aircraft, the following table will assume a seven character designator in which
       any unused positions are set to “0”:

Table A2.1. MDS Designator Positions for Standard Aircraft
Position:      1            2            3          -       4            5               6          7
              ___          ___          ___         -      ___          ___             ___        ___
Symbol:
                                       (Required)
             (Optional)




                          (Optional)




                                                         (Hundreds)
                                                         (Required)




                                                                      (Required)




                                                                                      (Required)




                                                                                                   (Required)
                           Modified
                           Mission




                                        Mission




                                                          Number




                                                                       Number




                                                                                       Number
                                                           Design




                                                                        Design




                                                                                        Design
               Status
               Prefix




                                                                                        (Ones)
                                                                        (Tens)
                                         Basic




                                                                                                     Series




                                                    -
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                                                  21




Table A2.2. Notional Examples of MDS Designators for Standard Aircraft
Position:        1              2              3                -       4            5             6           7
F-16A            0              0              F                -       0            1             6           A
AT-38B           0              A              T                -       0            3             8           B
XWC-
                 X             W               C                -       1            3             0            J
130J
YF-22A           Y              0              F                -       0            2             2           A
   A2.2.2. For non-standard aircraft, an MDS designator may range between four to eight
   characters total. Immediately to the left of the dash, symbols may range between two to four.
   Immediately to the right of the dash, symbols may range between two and four.
       A2.2.2.1. In order to provide a consistent conception of MDS designator positions for
       non-standard aircraft, the following table will assume an eight character designator in
       which any unused positions are set to “0”:

Table A2.3. MDS Designator Positions for Non-Standard Aircraft
Position:     1            2            3            4              -        5            6          7          8
             ___          ___          ___          ___             -       ___          ___        ___        ___
Symbol:
                                      (Required)




                                                   (Required)
            (Optional)




                         (Optional)




                                                                        (Hundreds)
                                                                        (Required)




                                                                                     (Required)




                                                                                                  (Required)




                                                                                                               (Required)
                          Modified
                          Mission




                                       Mission



                                                    Vehicle




                                                                         Number




                                                                                      Number




                                                                                                   Number
                                                                          Design




                                                                                       Design




                                                                                                    Design
              Status
              Prefix




                                                                                                    (Ones)
                                                                                       (Tens)
                                        Basic




                                                                                                                 Series
                                                     Type




                                                                    -


Table A2.4. Notional Examples of MDS Designators for Non-Standard Aircraft
Position:       1           2             3           4             -        5            6            7         8
HH-53A          0           H             0           H             -        0            5            3         A
GMQ-
                G           M             0           Q             -        0            0            1         B
1B
YQRQ-
                Y           Q             R           Q             -        0            0            5         F
5F
   A2.2.3. For guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites, an MDS designator
   may range between four to eight characters total. Immediately to the left of the dash,
   symbols may range between two to four. Immediately to the right of the dash, symbols may
   range between two and four.
       A2.2.3.1. In order to provide a consistent conception of MDS designator positions for
       guided missiles, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellites, the following table will assume
       an eight character designator in which any unused positions are set to “0”:
 22                                                                               AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


Table A2.5. MDS Designator Positions for Guided Missiles, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and
Satellites
Position:     1              2           3            4          -      5            6            7          8
             ___            ___         ___          ___         -     ___          ___          ___        ___
Symbol:


                         Environment




                                       (Required)




                                                    (Required)
            (Optional)



                          (Rockets &




                                                                     (Hundreds)
                                                                     (Required)




                                                                                  (Required)




                                                                                               (Required)




                                                                                                            (Required)
                                        Mission



                                                     Vehicle
                           Missiles




                                                                      Number




                                                                                   Number




                                                                                                Number
                            Launch




                                                                       Design




                                                                                    Design




                                                                                                 Design
              Status
              Prefix




                                                                                                 (Ones)
                                                                                    (Tens)
                                         Basic




                                                                                                              Series
                             Only)




                                                      Type
                                                                 -


Table A2.6. Notional Examples of MDS Designators for Guided Missiles, Rockets, Probes,
Boosters, and Satellites
Position:       1             2            3            4        -       5            6            7          8
AGM-
                0            A            G            M         -       0            8            4          N
84N
LS-15A          0            L             0            S        -       0            1            5          A
DATM-
                D            A             T           M         -       0            8            6          B
86B
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                                     23


                                                    Attachment 3
  STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR SYMBOL DESCRIPTIONS FOR AIRCRAFT

A3.1. The following table outlines the symbols used in aircraft (standard and non-
standard) MDS designators:

Table A3.1. Standardized MDS Designator Symbols for Aircraft
Designator Symbols for Non-Standard Aircraft (columns 1-4):
Designator Symbols for Standard Aircraft (columns 1-3):
Status Prefix          Modified Mission        Basic Mission                       Vehicle Type
G – Permanently Grounded       A – Attack                 A – Attack               D – UAV Control Segment

J – Special Test (Temporary)   C – Transport              B – Bomber               G – Glider

N – Special Test (Permanent)   D – Director               C – Transport            H – Helicopter

X – Experimental               E – Special Electronic     E – Special Electronic   Q – Unmanned Aircraft (UA)
                               Installation               Installation

Y – Prototype                  F – Fighter                F – Fighter              S – Spaceplane

Z – Planning                   H – Search/Rescue/         L – Laser                V – VTOL/STOL
                               MEDEVAC

                               K – Tanker                 O – Observation          Z – Lighter-Than-Air
                                                                                   Vehicle

                               L – Cold Weather           P – Patrol

                               M – Multi-Mission          R – Reconnaissance

                               O – Observation            S – Anti-Submarine

                               P – Patrol                 T – Trainer

                               Q – Drone                  U – Utility

                               R – Reconnaissance         X – Research

                               S – Anti-Submarine

                               T – Trainer

                               U – Utility

                               V – Staff

                               W – Weather
 24                                                                    AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014




Table A3.2. Notional Example of an Aircraft MDS Designator
Aircraft MDS Designator:                          YEH-60B

Status Prefix:                                    “Y” – Prototype
Basic Mission:                                    “E” – Electronics
Vehicle Type:                                     “H” – Helicopter
Design Number:                                    “60” – 60th design
Series:                                           “B” – 2nd version of the design
A3.2. List of aircraft (standard and non-standard) status prefix symbol descriptions (in
consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A3.3. List Of Aircraft Standard and Non-Standard Status Prefix Symbol
G (Permanently Grounded)—Aircraft that have been permanently grounded (may be used for
ground training).

J (Temporary Special Test)—Aircraft in special test programs by authorized organizations, on
bailment contract with a special test configuration, or with installed property temporarily
removed to accommodate a test.

N (Permanent Special Test)—Aircraft in special test program by authorized activities or on
bailment contract where the configuration changes so drastically that returning to the original
operational configuration is impractical or uneconomical.

X (Experimental)—Aircraft in a developmental or experimental stage.

Y (Prototype)—A model suitable for evaluation of design, performance, and production
potential.

Z (Planning)—Aircraft in the planning or predevelopment stage.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                           25



A3.3. List of aircraft (standard and non-standard) modified mission symbol descriptions
(in consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A3.4. List of Aircraft Standard and Non-Standard Modified Mission Symbol
A (Attack)—Aircraft modified to find, attack, and destroy enemy targets using conventional or
special weapons. This symbol also describes aircraft used for interdiction and close air support
missions.

C (Transport)—Aircraft modified to carry personnel, cargo, or both.

D (Director)—Aircraft modified for controlling drone aircraft or missiles.

E (Special Electronic Installation)—Aircraft modified with electronic devices for one or more
of the following missions: (1) Electronic warfare, (2) Airborne early warning radar, (3) Airborne
command and control, including communications relay, and (4) Tactical data communications
link for all non-autonomous modes of flight.

F (Fighter)—Aircraft modified to intercept and destroy other aircraft or missiles.

H (Search and Rescue/MEDEVAC)—Aircraft modified for search and rescue and/or
MEDEVAC missions.

K (Tanker)—Aircraft modified to refuel other aircraft in flight.

L (Cold Weather)—Aircraft modified for operation in Arctic and Antarctic regions. Includes
skis, special insulation, and other equipment for extreme cold weather operations.

M (Multi-Mission)—Aircraft modified to perform several different missions.

O (Observation)—Aircraft modified to observe (through visual or other means) and report
tactical information concerning composition and disposition of forces.

P (Patrol)—Long range, all weather, multiengine aircraft that operate from land or water bases
modified for independent antisubmarine warfare, maritime reconnaissance, and mining.

Q (Drone)—A powered aerial vehicle that does not carry a human operator, uses aerodynamic
forces to provide vehicle lift, can fly autonomously or is piloted remotely, can be expendable or
recoverable, and can carry lethal or non-lethal payloads. Ballistic or semi ballistic vehicles,
cruise missiles, and artillery projectiles are not considered drones.

R (Reconnaissance)—Aircraft modified for photographic or electronic reconnaissance missions.

S (Antisubmarine)—Aircraft modified to find, identify, attack, and destroy enemy submarines.

T (Trainer)—Aircraft modified for training purposes.
 26                                                                  AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014



U (Utility)—Aircraft modified to perform multiple missions such as battlefield support,
localized transport, and special light missions.

V (Staff)—Aircraft modified to provide support for the President or Vice President of the United
States.

W (Weather)—Aircraft modified and equipped for meteorological missions.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                             27



A3.4. List of aircraft (standard and non-standard) basic mission symbol descriptions (in
consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A3.5. List Of Aircraft Standard and Non-Standard Basic Mission Symbol
A (Attack)—Aircraft designed to find, attack, and destroy enemy land or sea targets using
conventional or special weapons. This symbol also applies to aircraft used for interdiction and
close air support missions.

B (Bomber)—Aircraft designed for bombing enemy targets.

C (Transport)—Aircraft designed primarily to carry personnel, cargo, or both.

E (Special Electronic Installation)—Aircraft designed for one or more of the following
missions: (1) Electronic warfare, (2) Airborne early warning radar, (3) Airborne command and
control including communications relay, and (4) Tactical data communications link for all non-
autonomous modes of flight.

F (Fighter)—Aircraft designed to intercept and destroy other aircraft or missiles. Includes
multipurpose aircraft also designed for ground support missions such as interdiction and close air
support.

L (Laser)—Vehicle designed for employing a high-energy laser weapon.

O (Observation)—Aircraft designed to observe (through visual or other means) and report
tactical information concerning composition and disposition of forces.

P (Patrol)—Long range, all weather, multiengine aircraft operating from land or water bases
designed for independent antisubmarine warfare, maritime reconnaissance, and mining.

R (Reconnaissance)—Aircraft designed for photographic or electronic reconnaissance missions.

S (Antisubmarine)—Aircraft designed to find, detect, identify, attack, and destroy enemy
submarines.

T (Trainer)—Aircraft designed for training purposes.

U (Utility)—Aircraft designed to perform multiple missions such as battlefield support, localized
transport, and special light missions. Included are aircraft designed for small payloads.

X (Research)—Aircraft designed for testing highly experimental configurations. These aircraft
are not generally intended for use as operational aircraft.
 28                                                                   AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


A3.5. List of aircraft (standard and non-standard) vehicle type symbol descriptions (in
consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A3.6. List Of Aircraft Standard and Non-Standard Vehicle Type Symbol
D (Unmanned Aircraft Control Segment)—Control Segment for unmanned aircraft (UA)
required to be controlled by rated pilots.

G (Glider)—Fixed wing aircraft flown by using air currents to keep it aloft.

H (Helicopter)—Rotary wing aircraft (deriving lift from a rotating lifting surface).

Q (Unmanned Aircraft)—An UA is an aircraft or balloon that does not carry a human operator
and is capable of flight under remote control or autonomous programming. UAs may also be
referred to as RPA, UAS (aerospace vehicle component only), UAV or UCAV.

S (Spaceplane)—Aircraft designed to travel above the earth's atmosphere and return to earth in
support of space operations.

V (VTOL and STOL)—Aircraft designed to take off and land vertically or in a very short
distance.

Z (Lighter-Than-Air-Vehicle)—Non-rigid or semi-rigid aircraft that achieves its primary lift
through use of hot gases or lighter-than-air gases (includes blimps and balloons).
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                                        29


                                                   Attachment 4
    STANDARDIZED MDS DESIGNATOR SYMBOL DESCRIPTIONS FOR GUIDED
         MISSILES, ROCKETS, PROBES, BOOSTERS, AND SATELLITES

A4.1. The following table outlines the symbols used in guided missile, rocket, probe,
booster, and satellite MDS designators:

Table A4.1. Standardized MDS Designator Symbols for Guided Missiles, Rockets, Probes,
Boosters, and Satellites
Designator Symbols for Guided Missiles, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and Satellites
(columns 1-4):
Status Prefix          Launch                  Basic Mission            Vehicle Type
                       Environment
C – Captive                    A – Air                   C – Transport                  B - Booster

D – Dummy                      B – Multiple              D – Decoy                      M – Guided Missile

J – Special Test (Temporary)   C – Coffin                E – Electronic /               N - Probe
                                                         Communications

N – Special Test (Permanent)   F – Individual            G – Surface Attack             R - Rocket

X – Experimental               G – Surface               I – Aerial / Space Intercept   S – Satellite

Y – Prototype                  H – Silo Stored           L – Launch Detection /
                                                         Surveillance

Z – Planning                   L – Silo Launched         M – Scientific / Calibration

                               M – Mobile                N – Navigation

                               P – Soft Pad              Q – Drone

                               R – Ship                  S – Space Support

                               S – Space                 T – Training

                               U – Underwater            U – Underwater Attack

                                                         W – Weather

Table A4.2. Notional Example of a Missile MDS Designator
Missile MDS Designator:                                  BGM-109G

Launch Environment:                                      “B” – Multiple
Basic Mission:                                           “G” – Surface Attack
Vehicle Type:                                            “M” – Guided Missile
Design Number:                                           “109” – 109th design
Series:                                                  “G” – 7th version of the design
 30                                                                 AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


A4.2. List of guided missile, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellite status prefix symbol
descriptions (in consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A4.3. List of Guided Missile, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and Satellite Status Prefix
Symbol
C (Captive)— Flyable inert vehicle designed for carry on a launch platform, but incapable of
being fired. May contain active guidance and control section electronics for aircrew target
acquisition, but warhead and engine are normally inert or ballasted.

D (Dummy)— Non-flyable inert vehicle designed for load crew training. Guidance and control
section, warhead, and engine are normally inert or ballasted.

J (Temporary Special Test)—Vehicle in special test programs by authorized organizations, on
bailment contract with a special test configuration, or with installed property temporarily
removed to accommodate tests.

N (Permanent Special Test)—Vehicle in special test programs by authorized activities or on
bailment contract whose configuration changes so drastically that returning to its original
operational configuration is beyond practical or economical limits.

X (Experimental)—Vehicle in a development or experimental stage.

Y (Prototype)—A model for evaluation of design, performance, and production potential.

Z (Planning)—Vehicle in the planning or predevelopment stage.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                         31



A4.3. List of guided missile, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellite launch environment
symbol descriptions (in consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A4.4. List of Guided Missile, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and Satellite Launch
Environment Symbol
A (Air)—Vehicle launched in the air by another vehicle.

B (Multiple)—Vehicle capable of being launched from more than one environment.

C (Coffin)—Vehicle stored horizontally or at less than a 45-degree angle in a protective
enclosure (regardless of structural strength) and launched from ground level.

F (Individual)—Vehicle hand carried and launched by combat personnel.

G (Surface)—Vehicle launched from a runway or the ground.

H (Silo Stored)—Vehicle vertically stored but not launched from below ground level.

L (Silo Launched)—Vehicle vertically stored and launched from below ground level.

M (Mobile)—Vehicle launched from a ground vehicle or movable platform.

P (Soft Pad)—Vehicle partially protected or unprotected in storage and launched from ground
level.

R (Ship)—Vehicle launched from a surface vessel (ship or barge).

S (Space)—Vehicle launched from an aerospace vehicle that operates outside the earth's
atmosphere.

U (Underwater)—Vehicle launched from a submarine or other underwater device.
 32                                                                    AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014



A4.4. List of guided missile, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellite basic mission symbol
descriptions (in consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A4.5. List of Guided Missile, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and Satellite Basic Mission
Symbol
C (Transport)—Vehicle designed to carry personnel, cargo, command, control, and
communications equipment or weapons systems.

D (Decoy)—Vehicle designed or modified to confuse, deceive, or divert enemy defenses by
simulating an attack vehicle.

E (Electronic/Communications)—Vehicle designed or modified with electronic equipment for
communications, countermeasures, electronic radiation sounding, or other electronic recording or
relay missions.

G (Surface Attack)—Vehicle designed to destroy enemy land or sea targets.

I (Aerial/Space Intercept)—Vehicle designed to intercept aerial/space targets in defensive or
offensive roles.

L (Launch Detection/Surveillance)—Vehicle designed for the systematic observation of
aerospace for the purpose of detecting, tracking, and characterizing objects, events, and
phenomena associated with satellites, in flight missiles, including intrusion detection.

M (Scientific/Calibration)—Vehicle designed for the collection, evaluation, analysis, and
interpretation of scientific and technical information.

N (Navigation)—Vehicle designed to provide data for navigation purposes.

Q (Drone)— A powered aerial vehicle that does not carry a human operator, uses aerodynamic
forces to provide vehicle lift, can fly autonomously or is piloted remotely, can be expendable or
recoverable, and can carry lethal or non-lethal payloads. Ballistic or semi ballistic vehicles,
cruise missiles, and artillery projectiles are not considered drones.

S (Space Support)—Vehicle designed to ensure maintainability of space control and support of
terrestrial forces. Includes activities such as launching and deploying space vehicles, maintaining
and sustaining space vehicles while in orbit and recovering space vehicles if required.

T (Training)—Vehicle designed or permanently modified for training purposes.

U (Underwater Attack)—Vehicle designed to detonate underwater and to destroy submarines
or other underwater targets.

W (Weather)—Vehicle designed to observe, record, or relay meteorological data.
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                            33


A4.5. List of guided missile, rockets, probes, boosters, and satellite vehicle type symbol
descriptions (in consecutive order; includes symbol, short title, and description):

Table A4.6. List of Guided Missile, Rockets, Probes, Boosters, and Satellite Vehicle Type
Symbol
B (Booster)—A primary or auxiliary propulsion system used as a source of thrust for a satellite,
missile, or aerospace vehicle. A booster system may consist of one or more units.

M (Guided Missile)—An unmanned vehicle that flies in and above the atmosphere and an
external or internal guidance system controls its trajectory or flight path.

N (Probe)—Non-orbital, instrumented vehicle designed to penetrate the aerospace environment.
Commonly used for collection of meteorological data.

R (Rocket)—A vehicle propelled by an engine that derives its thrust from ejection of hot gases
generated by liquid or solid propellants carried in the vehicle. A rocket has no guidance (internal
or external) after launch.

S (Satellite)— A vehicle placed in various orbits to collect and transmit various types of data for
multiple purposes.
 34                                                        AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                     Attachment 5
      MILITARY DEPARTMENT POINTS OF CONTACT MAILING ADDRESSES

Figure A5.1. Air Force and DoD
HAF/A8PE
Program Integration Division
1070 Air Force Pentagon
Washington, D.C. 20330-1070
Email: usaf.pentagon.af-a8.mbx.af-a8pe-workflow@mail.mil


Figure A5.2. Army
HQ AMC
G-3/4 (Aviation)
Attn: AMCOL-CA
4400 Martin Road
Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898-5000
Phone: DSN: 320-7021/7508; Comm: 256-450-7021/7508


Figure A5.3. Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard
Naval Air Warfare Center Aircraft Division
Systems Standardization Division
Code 4L8000B120-3
Highway 547
Lakehurst, NJ 08733-5100
ATTN: Team Leader, Nomenclature Program Team
Phone: DSN: 624-1333; Comm: 732-323-1333
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                             35


                                           Attachment 6
                   MDS DESIGNATOR REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE

Figure A6.1. MDS DESIGNATOR REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE
                                   (Use Official Letterhead)
                                                                                  DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

FROM: Place your information here

SUBJECT: Mission Design Series (MDS) for (aircraft/missile/etc).

1. Request approval to assign MDS to aerospace vehicle (aircraft/missile/etcetera).

2. Reference PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department concurrence
attached to this request. This attachment should be fairly detailed in describing the requirements
of the PEO/PM/Using Command and the description - in greater detail than in paragraph 3.g.
below - of the items(s) being requested for MDS approval. The attached letter should not only
request the MDS officially or give concurrence to, but should expound on the items in detail
listed in paragraph 3, below. Normally, it is not longer than one page. It should also be on the
Official Letterhead, list a point-of-contact, and be signed as well. Both of these letters define the
position of the service or other department concerning the MDS, in case there is any litigation.

3. The following information is offered for inclusion in DoD publication:

a.   MDS:                   (reference Attachments A2 through A4)
b.   Manufacturer:          Self-explanatory
c.   Popular Name:          List “None” if it does not have an officially approved popular name.
d.   Using Service:         Self-explanatory
e.   Engine/Motor Type:     Self-explanatory
f.   Number of Engines:     Self-explanatory
g.   Description:           Keep it short/simple; this is what will go in DoD publication.

4. Any questions can be directed to point of contact name, phone number (DSN and or
commercial), and email address.


                                                      Signature
                                                      NAME
                                                      Title (area of responsibility)

3 Attachments:
1. PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command Request/Concurrence
2. Comparison Matrix
3. Photographs of Vehicle
 36                                                                  AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 7
             SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS DESIGNATOR REQUEST LETTER

Figure A7.1. Sample (Notional) MDS Designator Request Letter
                                    (Official Letterhead)
                                                                                 15 MAR 2012
MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

FROM: ASC/WISL

SUBJECT: Mission Design Series (MDS) for AC-130H Recapitalization Program

1. Request approval to assign MDS to aerospace vehicle AC-130H of “AC-130J” to Air Force
Special Operations Command’s (AFSOC) recapitalized gunship aircraft.

2. AFSOC concurrence memorandum is attached.

3. The following information is offered for inclusion in DoD publication:

a.   MDS:                 AC-130J
b.   Manufacturer:        Lockheed Martin
c.   Popular Name:        Spectre II
d.   Using Service:       USAF, USSOCOM
e.   Engine/Motor Type:   Roll-Royce AE2100D3
f.   Number of Engines:   4
g.   Description:         This aircraft performs close air support, air interdiction, and armed
                          reconnaissance missions. Modifications have been made to mission
                          management center, electro-optical/infrared sensors, fire control
                          equipment, small precision guided munitions, and one side-firing gun
                          and associated munitions storage system.
4. Any questions can be directed to Ms. Jane Smith or Mr. John Smith, DSN 123-4567 or
COMM 000-123-4567, jane.smith@afb.af.mil or john.smith@afb.af.mil.


                                                   //Signed,jds,19 Mar 2012, 1200//
                                                   J. D. SMITH
                                                   Chief, Systems Branch
                                                   SOF Division

3 Attachments:
1. AFSOC/A5K, Concurrence Memo, 1 Mar 2012
2. AC-130H and “AC-130J” Comparison Matrix
3. “AC-130J” Photographs
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                          37


                                          Attachment 8
                MDS POPULAR NAME REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE

Figure A8.1. MDS Popular Name Request Letter Template
                               (Use Official Letterhead)
                                                                         DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

FROM: Place your information here

SUBJECT: Popular Name Request for (aircraft/missile/etcetera)

1. Request consideration of and approval to assign a Popular Name to aerospace
vehicle (aircraft/missile/etcetera).

2. Reference PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department,
request/concurrence attached to this request. This attachment should be fairly detailed
in describing the requirements for the Popular Names(s) being requested for approval.
The attached letter should not only request the Popular Name(s) officially or give
concurrence to, but should place them in an order of priority. Normally, it is not longer
than one page. It should also be on Letterhead, list a point-of-contact, and be signed as
well. Both of these letters define the position of the Air Force or other department
concerning the Popular Name(s), in case there is any litigation. List any further
pertinent information related to this subject that will help in the process of obtaining the
Popular Name.

3. The following names are being submitted for consideration as Popular Name(s) in
their order of priority.
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
4. Any questions can be directed to point of contact name, phone number (DSN and/or
commercial), and email address.

                                                      Signature
                                                      NAME
                                                      Title (area of responsibility)

2 Attachments:
1. PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command Request/Concurrence
2. Photographs of Vehicle
 38                                                               AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 9
         SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS POPULAR NAME REQUEST LETTER

Figure A9.1. Sample (Notional) MDS Popular Name Request Letter
                                (Official Letterhead)
                                                                          9 JUL 2012

  MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

  FROM: HQ AFSOC/A5K
        100th Street
        Hurlburt Field, FL

  SUBJECT: Popular Name Request for AC-130J Aircraft

  1. Request consideration of and approval to assign a Popular Name to aerospace
  vehicle AC-130J of “Ghostrider”.

  2. As the using command is requesting the popular name, no concurrence memo is
  required/attached. Local AFSOC PA office has concurred; found no issue with
  requested popular name.

  3. The following names are being submitted for consideration as Popular Name(s) in
  their order of priority.

  a.   “Ghostrider”
  b. “Waverider”
  c.   “Ghost Rain”
  4. Any questions can be directed to Ms. Jane Smith or Mr. John Smith, DSN 123-
  4567 or COMM 000-123-4567, jane.smith@afb.af.mil or john.smith@afb.af.mil.


                                                    //Signed,jds,16 Jul 2012, 1200//
                                                    J. D. SMITH
                                                    Chief, Systems Branch
                                                    SOF Division

  1 Attachment:
  1. “Ghostrider” photographs
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                         39


                                        Attachment 10
                 MDS RETIREMENT REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE

Figure A10.1. MDS Retirement Request Letter Template
                              (Use Official Letterhead)
                                                                       DD MMM YYYY

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

FROM: Place your information here

SUBJECT: MDS Retirement Request for (aircraft/missile/etcetera)

1. Request consideration of and approval to retire an MDS (designator/popular
name/designator and name) for aerospace vehicle (aircraft/missile/etcetera).

2. Reference PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command/Service Department,
request/concurrence attached to this request. Normally, it is not longer than one page. It
should also be on Letterhead, list a point-of-contact, and be signed as well. Both of
these letters define the position of the Air Force or other department concerning the
MDS retirement, in case there is any litigation. List any further pertinent information
related to this subject that will help in the process of retiring the designator or popular
name or both.

3. The following MDS designator and popular name (if applicable) are being submitted
for consideration as retired:

Designator:
Popular Name (if applicable):
4. Any questions can be directed to point of contact name, phone number (DSN and/or
commercial), and email address.

                                                     Signature
                                                     NAME
                                                     Title (area of responsibility)

1 Attachment:
1. PEO/PM and/or Lead and Using Command Request/Concurrence
 40                                                               AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                      Attachment 11
      SAMPE (NOTIONAL) MDS RETIREMENT REQUEST LETTER TEMPLATE

Figure A11.1. Sampe (Notional) Mds Retirement Request Letter Template
                                (Official Letterhead)
                                                                            7 Dec 2012

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ HAF/A8PE

FROM: ASC/WISL

SUBJECT: MDS Retirement Request for AC-130J Aircraft

1. Request consideration of and approval to retire an MDS designator and name for
aerospace vehicle AC-130J Aircraft.

2. AFSOC concurrence memorandum is attached.

3. The following MDS designator and popular name (if applicable) are being submitted
for consideration as retired:

Designator:                                  AC-130J
Popular Name (if applicable):                “Ghostrider”

4. Any questions can be directed to Ms. Jane Smith or Mr. John Smith, DSN 123-4567 or
COMM 000-123-4567, jane.smith@afb.af.mil or john.smith@afb.af.mil.


                                                  //Signed,jds,11 Dec 2012, 1200//
                                                  J. D. SMITH
                                                  Chief, Systems Branch
                                                  SOF Division

1 Attachment:
1. AFSOC/A5K, Concurrence Memo, 3 Dec 2012
AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014                                                                   41


                                    Attachment 12
         SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS DESIGNATOR APPROVAL LETTER

Figure A12.1. Sample (Notional) MDS Designator Approval Letter
                                  (Official Letterhead)
                                                                                  8 Jun 2012

MEMORANDUM FOR ASC/WISL

FROM: HAF/A8
      1070 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1070

SUBJECT: Mission Design Series (MDS) Designator Request for AC-130J (ASC/WISL Letter,
15 Mar 12)

1. MDS designation AC-130J is approved. HAF/A8PE will submit this MDS update for DoD
publication (DTIC DoDTechipedia or other DoD publication venue).

2. HAF/A8 point of contact agency is HAF/A8PE, usaf.pentagon.af-a8.mbx.af-a8pe-
workflow@mail.mil.


                                             //Signed,jds,15 Jun 2012, 1200//
                                             J. D. SMITH
                                             Assistant DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs

cc: SAF/PA
    SAF/AQ
    AF/A3/5
    AF/A4/7
 42                                                              AFI16-401 16 MAY 2014


                                    Attachment 13
        SAMPLE (NOTIONAL) MDS POPULAR NAME APPROVAL LETTER

Figure A13.1. Sample (Notional) Mds Popular Name Approval Letter
                                 (Official Letterhead)
                                                                                  23 Jul 2012

MEMORANDUM FOR ASC/WISL

FROM: SAF/OS
      1670 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330-1670

SUBJECT: Mission Design Series (MDS) Popular Name Request for AC-130J (ASC/WISL
Letter, 9 Jul 12)

1. MDS popular name “Ghostrider” for the AC-130J is approved. HAF/A8PE will submit this
MDS update for DoD publication (DTIC DoDTechipedia or other DoD publication venue).

2. HAF/A8 point of contact agency is HAF/A8PE, usaf.pentagon.af-a8.mbx.af-a8pe-
workflow@mail.mil.


                                             //Signed,jds,26 Jun 2012, 1200//
                                             J. D. SMITH
                                             Secretary of the Air Force

cc: SAF/PA
    SAF/AQ
    AF/A3/5
    AF/A4/7
