BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-290
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 OCTOBER 2012

                                                         AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                           20 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                                 COCKPIT/CREW RESOURCE
                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-AI                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                        (Maj Gen James J. Jones)
Supersedes:    AFI11-290, 11 April 2001                                                Pages: 20
                                            (AFMC)
OPR: HQ AFMC/A3V                                                   Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3V
                                                                     (Col Michael R. Contratto)
Supersedes:    AFI11-290_AFMCSUP,                                                      Pages:9
               25 June 2002


This Instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, and AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training,
Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure. It establishes the USAF
cockpit/crew resource management program and is applicable to all units assigned to or gained
by major commands (MAJCOMs) and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and
aircrews assigned or attached to all flying activities of these commands. This publication applies
to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG). This Instruction may be
supplemented. Coordinate supplements with AF/A3O-AI prior to publication. Submit suggested
improvements to this Instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through training channels, to AF/A3O-AI, afa3oai.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition                Schedule                   (RDS)               located               at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims//afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                           AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


(AFMC) AFI 11-290, 15 October 2012 , is supplemented as follows:

(AFMC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFPD 11-4, Aviation
Service, and AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and Gerneral
Operations Structure, and supplements. It expands on the guidance provided in the AFI and
applies to all AFMC organizations. This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or
US Air Force Reserve units and members. If required, AFMC units may further supplement this
command supplement. If supplemented, send a copy to HQ AFMC/A3V.

(AFMC) Submit suggested improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication, through official channels, to HQ AFMC/A3V Workflow,
afmc.a3v@us.af.mil. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS).

(AFMC) This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information
Management. It provides guidance and procedures on creating, managing, and disseminating
directive and nondirective publications and forms throughout the Air Force. It applies to
individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate and/or use
official Air Force publications and forms, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard (ANG), except where noted otherwise. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all
supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/AAII Policy Branch
for coordination prior to certification and approval.

(AFMC) Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items.

(AFMC) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Format is
revised and procedural guidance is reduced throughout the AFI to place emphasis on
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU program oversight. Program goals are updated (paragraph 1.1), program
requirements are modified (paragraph 2), Steering Committee and Working Group information
is updated (paragraph 6 and paragraph 7), oversight responsibility is specified (paragraph 8)
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                                                        3


and waiver guidance is added (paragraph 9).                               Updates reflect administrative changes and
prescribed format requirements.

(AFMC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Major changes to format have occurred to match parent Air Force Instruction. No major changes
to policy have been made to the supplement. Minor changes have been made to update AFMC
defined crewmembers. Terminology/Acronyms have been updated to match AFMC operations.
CRM Exercise has been added to numerous areas to provide clarity on training. Renumbering of
attachments to accommodate for parent Air Force Instruction. Updates reflect administrative
changes and prescribed format requirements.

Section A—CRM Program Description                                                                                                            3
       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    4
       1.     (AFMC) General. ...................................................................................................            4
       2.     Program Requirements. .........................................................................................                4
       3.     CRM core curricula. ..............................................................................................             6
       3.     (AFMC) CRM core curriculum. ............................................................................                       6
       4.     CRM Training Phases. ...........................................................................................               7
       5.     Supporting Information. .........................................................................................              8
       5.     (AFMC) Supporting Information. ..........................................................................                      9

Section B—Program Management                                                                                                                 9
       6.     The USAF CRM Steering Committee. ..................................................................                            9
       7.     USAF CRM Working Group. ................................................................................                       9
       7.     (AFMC) USAF CRM Working Group. .................................................................                               9
       8.     Oversight. ...............................................................................................................     9
       8.     (AFMC) Oversight. ................................................................................................             9
       9.     Waivers. .................................................................................................................    10
       9.     (AFMC) Waivers. ..................................................................................................            10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              11

Attachment 2—(Added-AFMC) AFMC CORE CRM CURRICULUM                                                                                          14

Attachment 3—(Added-AFMC) CRM TRAPS AND TOOLS                                                                                               17

Attachment 4—(Added-AFMC) CRM BRIEFING/DEBRIEFING GUIDE                                                                                     20


Section A—CRM Program Description
 4                                             AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


1. General. The Air Force Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM) program provides
crewmembers with performance-enhancing knowledge and skills directly applicable to their
roles in the aerospace mission of the Air Force. CRM training is a key component of a combined
effort to identify and manage threats to safe and effective mission operations. The CRM program
begins with crewmembers' initial Air Force flying training and is continuously built upon
throughout their operational careers. Training objectives will be tailored to the knowledge and
skill level of the aircrew member. As the aircrew member becomes more proficient, CRM
training should emphasize performance skills more than academic objectives. Lead commands
define "crewmember" in terms of their own operational mission requirements.
1. (AFMC)General. AFMC defines crewmember, for the purpose of CRM, as all pilots,
navigators, combat system operators, non-rated aircrew, flight surgeon, flight engineers, special
mission aviators, loadmasters, and boom operators. Flight Operations Authority may designate
other personnel (such as test conductors) as crewmembers for the purpose of this supplement.
     1.1. The CRM program goals are:
        1.1.1. Maximize operational effectiveness and combat capability.
        1.1.2. Preserve personnel and material resources.
        1.1.3. Ensure the safety of non-combatant civilians.
        1.1.4. Facilitate mishap reduction by providing skills, processes, tools and techniques to
        aircrew members to effectively identify threats and mitigate errors in aviation operations.
     1.2. CRM training will be designed and managed to accomplish the following objectives:
        1.2.1. Develop aircrew skills in recognizing and responding to the conditions and/or
        threats that lead to aircrew error.
        1.2.2. Develop aircrew proficiency in CRM skills to anticipate conditions and/or threats
        and minimize their impact in order to safely and effectively meet mission requirements.
2. Program Requirements. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs) and HQ USAF direct
reporting units (DRUs) are responsible for establishing and managing their respective programs
in accordance with this Instruction. CRM programs are mandatory for aircrew members.
     2.1. Lead Commands will publish guidance in AFI 11-2 mission design series (MDS)
     specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 AFIs (Note: guidance may also be published in a Ready Aircrew
     Program (RAP) tasking memo or similar product), regarding CRM requirements, currency,
     tracking, and evaluation, to include:
        2.1.1. Establishing training frequency, required attendees, and method for tracking
        crewmember currencies.
        2.1.1. (AFMC) For the purpose of AFMC, initial CRM training is defined as CRM
        training that was either conducted as part of initial flight training (i.e., ATC/AETC), or
        the first academic CRM training that a crewmember received. If units receive
        crewmembers that have not received any type of initial CRM training, they will require
        CRM academics with emphasis on initial CRM skills and concepts. CRM academic
        training will be accomplished every three years. Continuation training/CRM exercise
        may include either ground training or simulator/flying training. Aircrews and those
        aircrews designated by the Flight Operations Authority (IAW para 1) requiring CRM will
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                        5


     accomplish a minimum of one CRM continuation/CRM exercise training event every 12
     months. AFMC crewmembers attached to another MAJCOM flying unit will maintain
     that MAJCOM’s CRM currency/training requirements and are authorized to update their
     CRM currency/training with AFMC upon completion of training. CRM academic and
     continuation/CRM exercise training events will be documented and tracked through
     ARMS/COOL.        For small flying organizations (with less than four primary
     crewmembers) which do not utilize ARMS/COOL. CRM events may be tracked in
     training folders.
     2.1.2. Use of AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form, or
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute, to establish the skills training/evaluation
     criteria.
     2.1.2. (AFMC) CRM skills will be evaluated during all initial and recurring flight
     evaluations IAW applicable AFI 11-202 series publications. Unit program managers will
     develop procedures to ensure that flight evaluations are trended in which CRM skills
     received a “Q-” or “U.” Units will use AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria
     Training/Evaluation, for CRM skills training and course evaluation. If used, unit CRM
     program managers will compile results of the form for trend analysis and provide
     feedback to the contractor/training program. Disposition of AF Form 4031 will be IAW
     Records Disposition Schedule.
     2.1.3. If using a contract vehicle, provide a uniform CRM program via a contract vehicle
     that covers all applicable units to include units gained from AFRC or ANG.
     2.1.3. (AFMC) The unit Flight Operations Authority will determine if CRM training
     completed in a previous command satisfies the unit’s requirements. In this case, non-
     AFMC CRM courses may count as fulfilling the requirements of AFI 11-290 and this
     supplement and will be documented according to the applicable AFI 11-202/11-2FT
     series publications. CRM training completed during simulator refresher training satisfies
     the requirement of this supplement.
  2.2. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM training program must:
  2.2. (AFMC) The AFMC-sponsored CRM training is provided by contractor(s) or unit
  CRM program managers who have completed AFMC approved facilitator training, and
  targets the unique AFMC flight test mission. The training focuses on crew management with
  emphasis on the interaction between flight crews and their supporting test teams.
     2.2.1. Provide training to develop and improve CRM knowledge and skills based on
     paragraph 3 and AF Form 4031. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute may be
     used in lieu of AF Form 4031.
     2.2.2. Be updated annually to incorporate: "real-world" operational experiences,
     sanitized mishap data, research data, critiques, and flight evaluation trends.
     2.2.3. Identify the process for gathering, analyzing and incorporating trend data from
     MAJCOMs into existing training and evaluation programs.
     2.2.4. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM managers will ensure continuity of course
     content with AETC’s introductory courses.
 6                                               AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


        2.2.5. Ensure that data collected and/or generated through CRM and trend gathering
        processes is not used for monitoring aircrew performance to initiate punitive or adverse
        action.
        2.2.6. Provide proportional funding as necessary to support the lead MAJCOM CRM
        program.
     2.3. CRM skills will:
        2.3.1. Be integrated into flight briefings and debriefings.
        2.3.1. (AFMC) CRM will be briefed prior to and following all flights. Consult
        Attachment’s 2 and 3 for topics that may be included as part of the pre and post mission
        briefing.
        2.3.2. Be integrated into training syllabi.
        2.3.2. (AFMC) CRM skills and behaviors will be included in all initial, requalification,
        mission and upgrade training syllabi as outlined in the applicable AFI 11-202 series
        publications.
        2.3.3. Be evaluated during initial qualification and recurring evaluations.
3. CRM core curricula. Core curricula will include the following knowledge and skill sets:
3. (AFMC) CRM core curriculum. Attachment 2 (Added) outlines the AFMC core
curriculum. It will be included as part of the HQ AFMC/A3V approved CRM
continuation/exercise and academic CRM training plan.
     3.1. Communication. Includes knowledge of common errors, cultural influences, and
     barriers (i.e., rank, age, experience, position, etc.). Skills will encompass listening, feedback,
     precision and efficiency of communication with all members and agencies (i.e.,
     Crewmembers, Wingmen, Weather, ATC, Intelligence, etc.).
     3.2. Crew/Flight Coordination. Knowledge and skills required within (internal) and outside
     the crew/flight members (external) for mission coordination, flight/mission integrity
     contracts, team-building, leadership, command authority, responsibility, behavioral styles,
     assertiveness, persistence, conflict resolution, hazardous attitudes, legitimate
     avenues/methods of dissent, and solution driven statements.
     3.3. Mission Analysis. Includes pre-mission analysis and planning, briefing, ongoing
     mission evaluation, and post mission debrief. Analysis instruction will include specific
     Threat and Error Management tools and techniques. Debrief instruction will include aircrew
     responses and outcomes to threats and errors.
     3.4. Risk Management (RM)/Decision Making. Includes risk assessment, the risk
     management processes (Deliberate, Real Time RM)/tools, breakdowns in judgment and flight
     discipline, problem-solving, evaluation of hazards, and control measures.
     3.5. Situational Awareness. Includes knowledge and skill objectives for identifying errors,
     preventing the loss of situational awareness, recognizing the loss of situational awareness,
     and techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness.
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             7


   3.6. Task Management. Includes establishing priorities, overload, under-load, complacency,
   management of automation, available resources, checklist discipline, and standard operating
   procedures.
4. CRM Training Phases. Each phase of training should prepare individuals to apply the
knowledge and skills acquired in their specialty and motivate participants for the next phase of
training.
   4.1. Introductory or Awareness Training. Normally conducted in a formal training
   environment by AETC. Trainees learn standard CRM terminology and core concepts. Lesson
   plans will include a description of the building block approach to CRM training the
   individual will participate in throughout their operational career.
   4.2. Formal Training Unit (FTU)/Combat Crew Training School (CCTS) CRM Training.
   Students learn to apply knowledge and skills related to their assigned aircraft. Academic
   training is complemented during aircraft/simulator training. Emphasis should be placed on
   preflight planning, briefing, in-flight utilization, and debrief techniques for CRM. This
   should include a brief review of CRM core concepts identified in paragraph 3. Mission-
   Oriented Simulator Training (MOST) sessions or other simulated or actual operational
   scenarios may be used as an integral part of CRM training. Evaluate students for technical
   expertise, as well as the skills based on the six core concepts. If aircrew training devices are
   not available, students should participate in group problem-solving exercises.
   4.3. Mission-Specific Continuation Training. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs are responsible
   for CRM continuation training. This training will reinforce the aircrew’s CRM academic
   knowledge and refocus on skills to accomplish the mission. It also helps aircrews identify
   and respond to the conditions and/or threats that lead to error.
   4.3. (AFMC) CRM Continuation training/exercise may be conducted in the simulator,
   aircraft or in an academic environment. This training will include the normal complement of
   applicable air and ground crew associated with each unit’s specific mission. Training will be
   accomplished using the following guidelines:
       4.3.1. Emphasize CRM skills in the mission qualification and continuation training
       programs so they become inseparable parts of operational practices.
       4.3.2. Frequency for recurring CRM continuation training is defined in the AFI 11-2
       MDS specific volumes 1, a RAP tasking memorandum, or a similar product. Lead
       commands are responsible for providing guidance to standardize CRM MDS specific
       training policy and requirements. All aircrew require Mission-Specific Continuation
       Training. Separating training by crew position should be avoided. However, it is not
       mandatory to conduct this training with a complete aircrew.
       4.3.3. (Added-AFMC) CRM scenarios will be briefed prior to the mission following
       guidance contained in this instruction and developed by the unit.
       4.3.4. (Added-AFMC) For multiplace aircraft with mission/operational support
       crewmembers assigned, emphasis should be placed on enhancing interaction with the
       total crew compliment during simulated aircraft emergencies (i.e., smoke and fume
       elimination, egress, etc.).
 8                                               AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


        4.3.5. (Added-AFMC) For dual placed aircraft, emphasis should be placed on pilot and
        WSO/FTE interaction during simulated inflight emergencies.
        4.3.6. (Added-AFMC) For single seat aircraft, emphasis should be placed on pilot and
        ground control/test operations interaction during simulated inflight emergencies.
        4.3.7. (Added-AFMC) Crewmembers may credit an actual aircraft emergency as an
        annual CRM continuation/exercise training event provided that during the debrief crew
        performance, interaction, CRM skills, and feedback to improve crewmember skills, are
        thoroughly critiqued and reviewed. For multiplace aircraft, the entire crew must be
        present during the debriefing.
        4.3.8. (Added-AFMC) During mission debriefing, critique the CRM scenario,
        crew/pilot performance and interaction, and provide feedback to improve individual and
        team performance.
     4.4. Flight Instructor Training. All flight and simulator instructors will complete instructor
     specific CRM training. This training will normally be accomplished as part of instructor
     upgrade program. Courseware must build upon the previous blocks of training, both to
     reacquaint candidates with CRM fundamentals and to maintain continuity of terminology and
     techniques. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs develop courseware related to instructing and
     evaluating key skills that apply to command and aircraft-specific missions. Personnel may
     conduct this training at operational units, flying training units, or a combination, as required.
     Training will include, but is not limited to, proper use of AF Form 4031 (or approved
     substitute).
     4.4. (AFMC) Flight Instructor Training. All crewmembers upgrading to instructor
     qualification will be trained in CRM as part of their instructor training syllabus IAW
     applicable AFI 11-202/11-2FT series publications.
        4.4.1. CRM instructor or evaluator training will be included into instructor upgrade
        programs.
        4.4.2. CRM instructors and evaluators must be highly proficient in all CRM skills and be
        experts in the recognition, observation, and reinforcement of these skills as they are
        applied by aircrew members in a mission environment.
     4.5. Facilitator Training. Formal CRM academic curricula must be delivered by a trained
     CRM facilitator. Facilitator training will include training in running exercises, structured
     crew observation, and effective academic feedback.
     4.5. (AFMC) Facilitator Training. Unit CRM program managers will attend (as training
     allocation slots become available) an HQ AFMC/A3V approved facilitator course prior to
     instructing CRM continuation or academic training but no later than one year after assuming
     duties as the unit CRM program manager. Units who are awaiting training allocation slots
     may continue to instruct, using their locally developed courseware, until completing HQ
     AFMC/A3V approved facilitators course. Units will ensure personnel selected to attend this
     course will have one year retainability as the unit program manager upon graduation. This
     provision does not apply to those units who receive their CRM training from a contractor.
5. Supporting Information. HQ Air Force Safety Center, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU safety
staffs will screen mishap reports for human performance errors. This safety information should
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                          9


be available for use at all phases of CRM training, either as part of simulator scenarios or for
CRM case studies. Sanitized “Limited Use” information will be provided to CRM program
managers in a timely manner by command/unit safety staff(s) according to AFI 91-204, Safety
and Investigation Reports.
5. (AFMC) Supporting Information. HQ AFMC/SEF will forward to HQ AFMC/A3V all
safety mishap reports in which human performance was a contributing factor(s) to the mishap.
All levels within the command will ensure the provisions of AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation
and Reports, are complied with in regards to releasing privileged information. The AFMC CRM
program manager will forward these sanitized reports to AFMC flying organization CRM
program managers for incorporation into their local academic and continuation training program.

Section B—Program Management

6. The USAF CRM Steering Committee. The Steering Committee standardizes CRM
program requirements and terminology.
   6.1. Steering Committee Membership:
       6.1.1. AF/A3O-AI, Chair.
       6.1.2. AF/A3O-AC
       6.1.3. AF/A3O-AM
       6.1.4. AF/A3O-AS
7. USAF CRM Working Group. The CRM Working Group will consist of members of the
Steering Committee, AFSEC/SE representative, plus MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A3 (or equivalent)
representatives and additional personnel as designated by the Steering Committee. The working
group reviews program execution and policy issues and will meet in conjunction with Aircrew
Management Executive Council (AMEC) meetings.
7. (AFMC) USAF CRM Working Group. For AFMC/A3 the Chief, Stan/Eval Division, HQ
AFMC/A3V will be the MAJCOM representative.
8. Oversight. Oversight of Air Force CRM programs will rest within the MAJCOM, FOA and
DRU operations directorates. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU safety and surgeon general directorates
will act as advisors and respective subject matter experts to the operations directorates for
providing input to course content and delivery.
8. (AFMC) Oversight. Operational control of the CRM Program is delegated to Chief,
Stan/Eval Division, HQ AFMC/A3V.
   8.1. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU will appoint a CRM program manager within the
   operations (or equivalent) function. The program manager is responsible for:
       8.1.1. Ensuring Lead Command’s AFI 11-2 MDS specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 publications
       (or RAP tasking memo/similar product) provide CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.2. Implementing Lead Command CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.3. Ensuring each applicable CRM training phase (paragraph 4) is implemented and
       evaluated.
 10                                         AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


      8.1.4. The forwarding of AF Form 4031 (or approved substitute) trend data to CRM
      Instructors/Facilitators.
      8.1.5. Ensuring a system is in place to collect performance data (i.e. Stan/Eval trends
      (Skills criteria), sanitized mishap data, Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR), and
      Inspector General reports), and send to CRM instructors and facilitators.
      8.1.6. Evaluating contractor implementation of CRM program objectives. Where
      discrepancies are identified, initiate corrective actions.
      8.1.7. Ensuring Quality Assurance Representatives (QARs) and IGs have current
      evaluation guidance to evaluate CRM program objectives. Where discrepancies are
      identified, initiate corrective actions.
      8.1.8. Providing feedback to CRM Working Group regarding program status covering:
      Training Continuum, Standardization, and Research and Development needs.
      8.1.9. Interacting with MAJCOM, FOA or DRU CRM advisors (Safety, Aerospace
      Physiology, etc.) ensuring CRM training is effective and minimizes redundancies with
      other programs given by Safety, Aerospace Physiology, etc.
   8.2. Command Steering Committees. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may establish command
   steering committees to identify the most effective methods for delivering and administering
   CRM programs.
9. Waivers.
9. (AFMC) Waivers. Submit all waivers through official channels, to HQ AFMC/A3V
Workflow, .
   9.1. AF/A3O is the waiver authority for provisions of this Instruction. Request waivers
   through applicable channels to MAJCOM/A3 (or equivalent). As applicable, MAJCOM/A3s
   will forward requests to AF/A3O, with an info copy to AF/A3O-AI.
   9.2. Waiver authority for supplemental guidance will be as specified in the supplement and
   approved through higher level coordination authority.
   9.3. Waiver authority for MAJCOM/DRU/FOA CRM guidance is the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
   A3 or equivalent.




                                      BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                      DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                      (AFMC)

                                      WILLIAM J. THORNTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                         11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure,
19 Jan 2012
AFI 11-403, Air Force Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
(Added-AFMC) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
Prescribed Form
AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form (MAJCOM/FOA/DRU-
approved substitute may be used in lieu of AF Form 4031.)
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMEC—Aircrew Management Executive Council
CCTS—Combat Crew Training School
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MOST—Mission-Oriented Simulator Training
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
RM—Risk Management
SA—Situational Awareness
TEM—Threat and Error Management

Terms
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM)—The effective use of all available resources--
people, weapon systems, facilities, and equipment, and environment -- by individuals or crews to
safely and efficiently accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term "CRM" will be used to
 12                                            AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


refer to the training program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. MAJCOMs may
implement their programs as either "cockpit" or "crew" resource management based on their
respective missions.
Communication—The act of sharing information with others to cause some kind of action: to
direct, to inform, to question, or to persuade.
Coordination—As used in this Instruction the act of working with all the members of the
crew/flight to accomplish the tasks of the mission.
Crew—As used in this Instruction, any collection of Air Force personnel who routinely work
together to accomplish an Air Force mission. For example, an air task order-designated team of
fighter pilots and airborne battle managers prosecuting an interdiction mission uses "crew" skills
to maximize its effectiveness.
Decision Making—The ability to choose a course of action using logical and sound judgment
based on available information.
Errors—Actions or inactions that lead to deviations from organizational or flight crew
intentions or expectations. Unmanaged and/or mismanaged errors can lead to undesired aircraft
states. Errors in the operational context tend to reduce the margins of safety and increase the
probability of adverse events.
Flight Discipline—The judgment and actions exercised by AF personnel to adhere to the spirit,
intent, and written word of governing guidelines in the presence of temptation to do otherwise,
while executing the Air Force flying mission. It also includes the prioritization of tasks based on
crew responsibilities to ensure safe mission accomplishment while demonstrating the highest
degree of integrity in the performance of flight duties.
Flight Integrity—Utilizing all the members of a flying package to accomplish the mission at
hand.
Mission Debrief—Reviewing and discussing mission accomplishment looking at what was
achieved, what barriers were encountered and how the mission could be accomplished better
next time.
Mission-Oriented Simulator Training (MOST)—Training presented as a part of a CRM
program in a realistic, operationally-based simulator environment in real time.
Mission Planning—Taking all of the information for a mission and developing short term, long
term, and contingency plans to coordinate, allocate, and monitor crew/flight and aircraft
resources. Effective planning leads to flight conduct that removes uncertainty, increases mission
effectiveness and enhances safety.
Risk Management—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk, making
control decisions, implementing control decisions and supervising/reviewing the activity for
effectiveness for both on- and off-duty missions/activities.
Situational Awareness (SA)—In flying, this refers to a aircrew member's continuous perception
of self and aircraft in relation to the dynamic environment of flight, threats, and mission, and the
ability to forecast, then execute, tasks based upon that perception.
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            13


Skills Criteria—Defined skills used as the basis for operational training and evaluation. The
characteristics of the skill are that they are easily identifiable and offer consistency in grading
evaluation.
Task Management—The ability to alter a course of action based on new information, maintain
constructive behavior under pressure, and adapt to internal and external environment changes.
Threat—An event or error that occurs outside the influence of the aircrew (i.e., it was not
caused by the crew), increases the operational complexity of a flight, and requires crew attention
and management if safety margins are to be maintained.
Threat and Error Management—Crews and flight members proactively using a combination
of CRM skills and automation to address internal and external threats to avoid, trap or mitigate
their impacts on mission safety and effectiveness.
 14                                          AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                               Attachment 2 (Added-AFMC)
                           AFMC CORE CRM CURRICULUM

A2.1. (AFMC) AFMC Core CRM Curriculum. The six fundamental areas are shown below
with subareas to provide all facilitators, instructors, and evaluators with common ground from
which to reinforce CRM principles. This attachment can also be used to develop local training
syllabus or developing CRM scenarios. It also provides a baseline from which to evaluate
performance.
A2.2. (AFMC) Situational Awareness
   A2.2.1. (AFMC) Communication: Crewmembers check in with each other during times of
   high and low workload to maintain situational awareness and to remain alert.
   A2.2.2. (AFMC) Automated Systems: The crew establishes guidelines for the operation of
   automated systems (i.e., when they will disable systems and when they must verbalize and
   acknowledge programming actions).
   A2.2.3. (AFMC) Optimal Use: When programming demands could reduce situational
   awareness and create work overloads, the crew reduces the level of automation or disengages
   automated systems.
   A2.2.4. (AFMC) Divisions of Duties: The crew outlines the duties of the pilot flying and
   the pilot not flying with regard to automated systems (i.e., data entry and cross-checking).
   A2.2.5. (AFMC) Status Updates: Crewmembers periodically review and verify the status of
   aircraft automated systems.
   A2.2.6. (AFMC) Coordination: Crewmembers verbalize and acknowledge entries and
   changes to automated systems parameters.
   A2.2.7. (AFMC) Programming: The crew plans for sufficient time for programming of
   flight management computer prior to maneuvers.
A2.3. (AFMC) Crew Coordination/Flight Integrity
   A2.3.1. (AFMC) Team Building: The crew establishes guidelines for coordination between
   all crew positions and ground or flight test personnel. The entire crew participates in
   briefings as a team, when appropriate.
   A2.3.2. (AFMC) Crew Environment: Crewmembers establish and maintain a team concept
   and an environment for open communication (i.e., crewmembers listen with patience, do not
   interrupt or “talkover,” do not rush through briefings, make eye contact when appropriate).
   A2.3.3. (AFMC) Operational Situation: The group climate matches the operational
   situation (i.e., presence or lack of social conversation). The crew also ensures these
   nonoperational factors do not interfere with necessary tasks.
   A2.3.4. (AFMC) Effective Inquiry: Crewmembers openly ask questions regarding crew
   actions and decisions.
   A2.3.5. (AFMC) Effective Advocacy and Assertion: Crewmembers speak up and state their
   information with appropriate persistence, until there is some clear resolution and decision.
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                       15


   A2.3.6. (AFMC) Conflict Resolution: When conflicts arise, the crews focus remains on the
   problem or situation at hand. Crewmembers listen actively to ideas and opinions and admit
   mistakes when wrong.
   A2.3.7. (AFMC) Communication:
      A2.3.7.1. (AFMC) Crew Briefings: Operationally thorough, interesting, and address
      crew coordination while planning for potential problems. The crew sets expectations on
      how to handle deviations from normal operations.
      A2.3.7.2. (AFMC) Performance Feedback: Crewmembers provide positive and negative
      performance feedback at appropriate times and create a positive learning experience for
      the whole crew - feedback is specific, objective, based on observable behavior, and
      constructive.
      A2.3.7.3. (AFMC) Feedback Acceptance: Crewmembers accept performance feedback
      objectively and nondefensively.
   A2.3.8. (AFMC) Workload Communication: Crewmembers clearly communicate workload
   and task distribution and receive acknowledgment from other crewmembers. The crew allots
   adequate time to complete tasks.
A2.4. (AFMC) Risk Management and Decision Making
   A2.4.1. (AFMC) Aircraft Commander/Flight Lead Leadership: The aircraft commander
   coordinates activities to establish a proper balance between command authority and
   crewmember participation while acting decisively when the situation requires.
   A2.4.2. (AFMC) Crew Participation: Crewmembers clearly state operational decisions to
   other crewmembers and receive acknowledgment. The crew includes all crewmembers and
   others when appropriate.
   A2.4.3. (AFMC) Crew Preparation: The crew prepares for expected and/or contingency
   situations including approaches, weather, etc.
A2.5. (AFMC) Task Management
   A2.5.1. (AFMC) Task Prioritization: The crew prioritizes secondary operational tasks (e.g.,
   completing required test points versus completing training events) to retain sufficient
   resources to deal effectively with primary flight duties.
   A2.5.2. (AFMC) Fatigue: During long duty periods, crewmembers are proactive in
   remaining alert and plan and use fatigue countermeasures.
   A2.5.3. (AFMC) Self-Imposed Stress: The crew’s actions do not create self-imposed stress
   and additional workload (e.g., late descent due to lack of situational awareness/planning).
   A2.5.4. (AFMC) Overload Recognition: Crewmembers recognize and report when their
   duties or the duties they observe others performing cause an overload.
   A2.5.5. (AFMC) Stress Level: The crew remains calm under stress.
A2.6. (AFMC) Mission Planning/Debrief
   A2.6.1. (AFMC) Mission Planning: Did the planned mission match the flown mission? If
   not, what actions could the crew have taken to accomplish the planned mission?
16                                          AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


  A2.6.2. (AFMC) Debrief: The aircraft commander/flight lead should discuss, with the
  crewmembers’ participation, the flight history. Emphasis should be placed on steps to
  enhance crew and mission effectiveness, and lessons learned.
  A2.6.3. (AFMC) Communication: Test conductors, mission commanders, or designated
  representative will be the single point of contact with the aircrew for the mission, planning
  and coordination.
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             17


                                 Attachment 3 (Added-AFMC)
                                  CRM TRAPS AND TOOLS

A3.1. (AFMC) This attachment was developed to highlight CRM areas that crews may
want to consider when briefing CRM: prior to flight and developing or evaluating CRM
training scenarios. Units are authorized to reproduce this attachment and place it in local flight
briefing guides.
A3.2. (AFMC) Traps: Accidents have been caused by inadequate performance of people who
had the capacity to perform effectively yet failed to do so. This ineffective behavior results from
a combination of personality traits and attitudes. These “traps” become BARRIERS to effective
teamwork. They reveal themselves on every flight; they are always there. We must constantly be
aware of them and find ways to prevent them from not allowing us to achieve safe and efficient
flight operations.
A3.3. (AFMC) Excessive Professional Courtesy: In general, we are hesitant to call attention
to deficient performance in others, particularly if they are senior to us. Thus, even when one
crewmember does address our performance, which is outside of established parameters, it is
typically done with very little emphasis. For example, the copilot will usually inform the pilot
that he or she is “a little fast” or “a little slow” no matter how far off he or she is.
A3.4. (AFMC) Halo Effect: The Halo Effect comes into play when an individual with a
significant amount of experience on one type of aircraft is transitioning to a new type of aircraft.
Typically that pilot or crewmember is given a very accelerated checkout on the new aircraft,
because if they have so much experience on “X,” they can certainly handle “Y.” The “Halo” of
expertise and the rush to get the person on line blinds everyone to the major differences between
the aircraft and the need for a more extensive training program.
A3.5. (AFMC) The Passenger Syndrome: This is sometimes call the “Copilot Syndrome”
and is based on a comforting premise that one or more other crewmembers have the situation
under control and are looking out for your best interest. The Halo Effect can lead to Passenger
Syndrome.
A3.6. (AFMC) Hidden Agenda: Sometimes a crewmember may be making suggestions or
decisions on information or desires the rest of the crew are not aware of, such as a strong desire
to make it back to base due to important plans. We need to communicate honestly all motives
involved so that decisions can be made rationally and based on the facts rather than on wishful
thinking.
A3.7. (AFMC) Accommodation Syndrome: This is a theory that explains a decreasing
human arousal to a stimulus because of repetition combined with the passage of time. If a
crewmember is subject to stress repeatedly during a mission, the theory holds that he or she
would be less responsive to stress later in the mission. For example, a stressful event in any
mission is the final descent and landing; and the landing phase is one of those where many
accidents occur. The Accommodation Syndrome could cause a letdown during that high accident
exposure time.
A3.8. (AFMC) Strength Of An Idea: Strength of an idea can be defined as an unconscious
attempt to make available evidence fit a preconceived situation. It has been observed that once a
person or group of people get a certain idea in their head(s), it can be difficult or impossible for
 18                                            AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


them to alter that idea no matter how much conflicting information is received. In a highly
stressful situation it becomes even more important that we not allow our attention to focus or
become channelized on only one area.
A3.9. (AFMC) Sudden Loss Of Judgement (SLOJ): This is a condition in which an
individual’s decision making abilities become impaired. Even the most capable and experienced
crews are susceptible to this condition. It’s generally precipitated by a real or perceived pressure
to perform or by workload/stress related issues.
A3.10. (AFMC) Hazardous Attitudes: There are six hazardous attitudes which can impede
our good judgment and decision-making abilities and often lead to Sudden Loss of Judgement.
These attitudes may be an inherent part of our personality, or may be a short term factor due to a
particular situation. The six hazardous attitudes are:
   A3.10.1. (AFMC) Anti-Authority
   A3.10.2. (AFMC) Resignation
   A3.10.3. (AFMC) Invulnerability
   A3.10.4. (AFMC) Macho
   A3.10.5. (AFMC) Impassivity
   A3.10.6. (AFMC) Get there-itis
A3.11. (AFMC) Error Chain: While accident reports will mention an event that was the
ultimate cause of the mishap, there are always “contributing causes.” This series of errors, poor
judgment, and poor decisions led up to the final and fatal cause. Our task as professional aviators
is to recognize the emerging “Error Chain” and “Break the Chain.”
A3.12. (AFMC) Tools - Performance techniques and procedures can be developed, trained and
used to avoid and defeat TRAPS. These practical TOOLS must be taken to the aircraft and used
on every flight.
A3.13. (AFMC) Standard Cockpit Operating PROCEDURES (SCOP): These procedures
provide a predictable environment for developing and reinforcing Crew Resource Management
skills. By SCOP we mean a written set of procedures which go beyond the existing checklists,
detailing:
   A3.13.1. (AFMC) Who flies the aircraft
   A3.13.2. (AFMC) Who briefs the emergency
   A3.13.3. (AFMC) Who makes the call outs and when
   A3.13.4. (AFMC) Who does the miscellaneous procedures
A3.14. (AFMC) The Assertive Statement: This is a nonthreatening method by which a
crewmember can directly communicate his or her concerns about a situation with which they are
uncomfortable. The five step process is: get the attention of the individual, state the concern,
state the problem, offer a solution and then obtain agreement.
A3.15. (AFMC) Time Out: An assertive statement which provides a clear warning sign of a
deviation or loss of situational awareness and provides an opportunity to break the “Error Chain”
before a mishap occurs. It is designed to provide each crewmember the opportunity to voice
AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                           19


inputs relative to the stated concern, which will improve the aircraft commander’s decision
quality.
A3.16. (AFMC) Two Challenge Rule: This rule provides for automatic assumption of duties
from any crewmember who fails to respond to two consecutive challenges. This overcomes our
natural tendency to believe the pilot flying must know what he or she is doing, even as they
depart from established parameters.
A3.17. (AFMC) Sterile Cockpit: This requires “business only” discussions during periods of
flight. The policy can happen when passing specific altitudes or upon completion of checklists,
whichever fits your particular mission.
A3.18. (AFMC) QPIDR: This is an acronym for a decision making model. The letters
represent Question, Propose Ideas, Decide, Review. This model is also a synergy formula.
Synergy will result if the crew will follow the model, because they are encouraged to participate
in and make decisions.
A3.19. (AFMC) AESOP: Another acronym that allows aircrew to identify all risks prior to
and during the flight. The five risk elements, which affect flight crew performance, are Aircraft,
Environment, Situation, Operational, and Personnel. Reviewing these can be a very effective
mind-jogger to be sure that important (though less obvious) factors are not inadvertently
overlooked.
A3.20. (AFMC) Antidotes For Hazardous Attitudes:
   A3.20.1. (AFMC) “Follow the rules; they’re usually right.”
   A3.20.2. (AFMC) “Not so fast! Think first.”
   A3.20.3. (AFMC) “It could happen to me”, “Taking a chance is foolish.”
   A3.20.4. (AFMC) “I’m not helpless, I can make a difference.”
   A3.20.5. (AFMC) “It’s better to get there late than not at all.”
A3.21. (AFMC) Aircrew Coordination (AC) Cycle: The AC Cycle is a useful tool that can
be applied throughout the flight. It is systematically organized, practical, and a very effective
operational approach for coping with challenges as an integrated flight crew.

Figure A3.1. AC Cycle
 20                                               AFI11-290_AFMCSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                                   Attachment 4 (Added-AFMC)
                             CRM BRIEFING/DEBRIEFING GUIDE

A4.1. (AFMC) Use this attachment as a guide for evaluating how well you or members of your
crew/test team interacted during missions. Identify strengths or weaknesses that you or members
of your crew/test team can build on with the focus on improving your CRM skills. Units are
authorized to reproduce this attachment and place it in local flight briefing guides.

Table A4.1. CRM Briefing/Debriefing Guide
Situational Awareness:
Anticipates, monitors, prevents loss,                Vs     Disoriented, confused, lost fixated
recognizes own/others loss, regains SA


Crew Coordination/Flight Integrity:
Leads, identifies roles/expectations, sets           Vs     Judges, ridicules, over reacts,
tone, respects, encourages, assertive                       ignores, imposes, accepts error


Communication:
Clear, concise, listens, interprets, efficient,      Vs     Interrupts, withholds, discounts,
gets/gives feedback                                         ambiguous, mumbles


Risk Management/Decision Making:
Identifies/assesses problem, explores                Vs     Avoids, delays, vacillates, argues,
solutions, makes appropriate decision                       fails to consider consequences of
involves and informs crew


Task Management:
Prioritizes, assign tasks, creates time, plans,      Vs     Rushed, overloaded, complacent
delegates, checklist discipline


Mission Planning/Debrief:
Objective, thorough feedback,                        Vs     Rushed, incomplete, vague,
nonthreatening, recaps key points solicits                  lectures, blames, ignores
inputs, provides corrective actions
