BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-402
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   30 MAY 2013
                                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                   7 APRIL 2014

                                                                             Operations Support

                                                  AEROSPACE VEHICLE PROGRAMMING,
                                                         ASSIGNMENT, DISTRIBUTION,
                                                     ACCOUNTING, AND TERMINATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A8PB                                                                Certified by: AF/A8
                                                                     (Maj Gen Michael R. Boera)
Supersedes:    AFI16-402, 15 May 2009                                                  Pages: 48
                                             (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/A8BF                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/A8/9
                                                                 (Brig Gen Jeffrey B. Taliaferro)
Supersedes:    AFI 16-402_ACCSUP, 20                                                     Pages:5
               August 2010


This publication implements AFPD 16-4, Accounting for Units, Installations, and Aerospace
Vehicles. It provides guidance and procedures for worldwide programming, assignment,
transfer, distribution, accounting, and termination of Air Force aerospace vehicles. It applies to
the US Air Force, Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, Civil Air Patrol, and US Air Force
Aero Clubs. It implements that portion of Department of Defense (DoD) 4160.21-M, Defense
Material Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997, that directs the transfer and disposal of excess
aircraft. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to
AF/A8PB for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
 2                                                     AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS).

(ACC) AFI 16-402 is supplemented as follows: This instruction provides guidance to Air
Combat Command staff on responsibilities and procedures for the transfer (reassignment or loan)
of all Combat Air Forces (CAF) aerospace vehicles. AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle
Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and Termination, implements AFPD 16-4,
Accounting for Units, Installations and Aerospace Vehicles, and provides procedural guidance
relative for the worldwide programming, assignment, transfer, distribution, accounting and
termination of Air Force aerospace vehicles. It establishes policy for the assignment and
reassignment of CAF aerospace vehicles to the United States Air Force (USAF), Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG). This publication applies to the
USAF, AFRC, National Guard Bureau (NGB), Civil Air Patrol and USAF Aero Clubs, units and
members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers as
required. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed
to ACC/A8BF prior to certification and approval. Submit requests for waivers to this
supplement for non-tiered compliance items through the chain of command to the publication
OPR. Refer comments and suggested changes regarding this publication using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through appropriate channels to HQ ACC/A8BF,
204 Dodd Blvd, Suite 331, Langley AFB VA 23665.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This volume has been substantially revised and must be thoroughly reviewed. Major revisions
include changing office symbols to reflect HQ Air Force reorganization. Also, websites and
terminology have been updated throughout. Procedures have been incorporated to reflect new
requirements for transferring aircraft from the reserve component to the active component and
for obtaining enterprise level approval for high cost repairs on damaged aerospace vehicles.
Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle inventory procedures have been added to this revision.
Attachment 3 has been revised to include only assignment purpose identifier codes and includes
the addition and definition of the TA and XD purpose identifier codes. Attachments 8 through
10 have been removed, and a new Attachment 8 provides a transfer Memorandum of Agreement
template.

(ACC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This revision reflects changes to HQ ACC organizational structure and expands on ACC-specific
force management processes.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                                                           3


Section A—-General Information                                                                                                             4
       1.     Definitions: ............................................................................................................    4

Section B—- Guidance                                                                                                                       6
       2.     General Programming Background: ......................................................................                       6
       3.     Force Programming Policies and Guidelines: ........................................................                          7

Section C—Fleet Management Procedures and Responsibilities                                                                                13
       4.     Fleet Management Procedures: ..............................................................................                 13

Section D—Fleet Management Responsibilities                                                                                               18
       5.     Fleet Management Responsibilities .......................................................................                   18
Table 1.      Report Required From AFMC ...............................................................................                   29

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            33

Attachment 2—TERMINOLOGY FOR AIRCRAFT INVENTORY MANAGEMENT                                                                                38

Attachment 3—ASSIGNMENT PURPOSE IDENTIFIER CODES                                                                                          39

Attachment 4—EXCESS REQUEST FOR AIRCRAFT DISPOSITION WEBSITE
             SAMPLE                                                                                                                       41

Attachment 5—AF FORM 913 COMMON TERM CROSSWALK AND PROJECT
             NUMBER ASSIGNMENT                                                                                                            43

Attachment 6—DISPOSITION PLAN SAMPLE                                                                                                      44

Attachment 7—PARTS REMOVAL APPROVAL LETTER SAMPLE                                                                                         45

Attachment 8—TRANSFER MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT TEMPLATE                                                                                    46
 4                                                      AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014



Section A—-General Information

1. Definitions:
     1.1. Aerospace vehicle includes the following:
        1.1.1. Aircraft in Federal Supply Class (FSC) 1510 and 1520. Gliders in FSC 1540.
        1.1.2. Remotely piloted vehicles and aerial target drones in FSC 1550.
        1.1.3. Guided missiles in FSC 1410.
        1.1.4. Space systems (Boosters, Satellites/Upper Stages, and Missiles).
        1.1.5. Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Family of Vehicles will be treated like
        an Aerospace Vehicle to utilize the weapon system inventory system developed for
        aircraft.
        1.1.6. Ground Control Station (GCS) family of systems MD-1 for MQ-9 and RD-2 for
        RQ-4 will be treated like an Aerospace Vehicle to utilize the weapon system inventory
        system developed for aircraft.
     1.2. Assignment. The basic command to which the aerospace vehicle belongs. It differs
     from possession, which shows the aerospace vehicle's current usage and organizational
     control. AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, specifies the
     procedures governing possession.
        1.2.1. Command includes:
            1.2.1.1. Major Commands (MAJCOMs).
            1.2.1.2. Field Operating Agencies (FOAs).
            1.2.1.3. Direct Reporting Units (DRUs).
            1.2.1.4. Air National Guard (ANG).
     1.3. Aerospace Vehicle Authorization and Inventory: Authorization refers to the number
     and type of aerospace vehicles an organization is programmed to possess. Inventory refers to
     the number of aerospace vehicles actually assigned to a unit and identified against a
     corresponding authorization. Authorizations and Inventory (Attachment 2) include:
        1.3.1. Primary Aerospace Vehicle Authorized (PAA):            Aircraft authorized for
        performance of the unit’s mission (e.g., Combat, Combat Support, Training, Test and
        Evaluation, etc.). The PAA forms the basis for the allocation of operating resources, to
        include manpower, support equipment, and flying hour funds. The operating command
        determines the PAA required to meet their assigned missions.
        1.3.2. Primary Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PAI): Aircraft assigned to meet the PAA.
        1.3.3. Backup Aerospace Vehicle Authorized (BAA): Aircraft authorized over and
        above the PAA to allow for scheduled and unscheduled depot level maintenance,
        modifications, inspections and repairs, and certain other mitigating circumstances without
        reduction of aircraft available for the assigned mission. Other mitigating circumstances
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                               5


     may include specialized maintenance requirements, medium-duration home-station
     modifications, and unique squadron sizing and location.
     1.3.4. Backup Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (BAI): Aircraft assigned to meet the BAA.
     1.3.5. Attrition Reserve (AR): Aircraft required to replace anticipated losses of PAI due
     to peacetime accidents or wartime attrition. Also includes aircraft stored or on the ramp
     which are planned for return to the operating forces in the event of mobilization,
     replacement, or reconstitution.
     1.3.6. Total Active Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (TAI): Total of all active aircraft,
     determined by adding PAI + BAI + AR.
  1.4. Purpose Identifier Code (PIC): Two-letter code that identifies a specific use or mission
  for an aerospace vehicle. See Attachment 3 for assignment PICs.
  1.5. Mission Design Series (MDS): Refers to the system of identifying various weapon
  systems as described in DoD Manual 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace
  Vehicles. For example, an F-22A is a fighter (mission), designated 22 (design), and the first,
  or “A” in the series. AFI 16-401(I), Designating and Naming Defense Military Aerospace
  Vehicles, contains the procedures for requesting/changing an MDS.
     1.5.1. Mission Assignment Series (MAS): Refers to a Mission Design Series-like code
     utilized for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Family of Vehicles. MRAPs are named as
     part of the Army’s ground vehicle nomenclature. This MAS code enables MRAPs to
     utilize complex aircraft maintenance data collection systems and processes without being
     renamed.
  1.6. Program Element Code (PEC): A code representing the aggregations of organizational
  entities and resources needed to perform a specific activity/assigned mission.
  1.7. Weapons System Code (WSC): Refers to a combination of one or more weapons with
  all related equipment, materials, services, personnel, and means of delivery and deployment
  (if applicable) required for self-sufficiency.
  1.8. Migration Plan: Migration planning is an integral part of life cycle planning as an
  element of inventory management of AF assets and addresses reclamation and disposal. The
  Weapon System Program Manager (PM) documents an assessment of when the initial
  Migration Plan is due in accordance with AFI 63/20-101. Generally, this would be when
  retirements of the weapon system are scheduled in the Future Years Defense Program
  (FYDP). The Migration Plan is developed by the PM and identifies the current and
  programmed force structure throughout the FYDP, the current and programmed divestiture of
  all aerospace vehicles throughout the FYDP (MDS changes, conversion to trainers, 309
  Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG) inductions, Foreign Military
  Sales (FMS), Security Assistance Program (SAP), transfers to other services or DoD
  agencies, donations to the NMUSAF etc.), and a summary of the inventory of 309 AMARG
  stored aerospace vehicles detailing their current and programmed status throughout the
  FYDP, as applicable. As aerospace vehicles are retired, the Migration Plan is used to
  determine present and future requirements to support the remaining inventory.
 6                                                       AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


     1.9. Air Force Form 913, Aerospace Vehicle Project Action: Used to provide aerospace
     vehicle assignment, transfer or termination authorization and instructions applicable to
     gaining and losing commands, system PMs and/or government contractors.

Section B—- Guidance

2. General Programming Background:
     2.1. Force programming is an iterative process assigning and balancing current and projected
     weapon systems against requirements.
        2.1.1. The requirements process determines the resources required to match our strategy.
        The Air Force develops, acquires, and maintains weapon systems based on an identified
        mission requirement. Strategic planning, using the Joint Strategic Planning System
        (JSPS), evaluates the threat, assesses existing capabilities, identifies deficiencies,
        examines alternatives, and provides recommendations on needed forces. The Core
        Function Lead Integrators (CFLIs)/MAJCOMs identify, state, and validate operational,
        test and test support needs for their assigned mission areas. HAF may also identify, state,
        and validate operational, test and test support needs in Air Force-wide situations.
        2.1.2. The basic force structure is derived from Guidance for the Development of the
        Force (GDF), Joint Programming Guidance (JPG), Defense Planning Guidance (DPG),
        Strategic Planning Guidance (SPG), Planning and Programming Update Guidance
        (PPUG), plus the necessary training, test, test support, backup and attrition reserve to
        sustain that force. HAF Mission Panels (e.g., Global Mobility, Air Superiority, etc.)
        match resources to the stated requirements. They then balance complementary systems
        (e.g., F-22 and F-15, C-17 and C-5) based upon mission requirements, weapon system
        availability and service life, and acquisition programs.
        2.1.3. Force Programmers match system capabilities with wartime and peacetime
        mission requirements. The programmers then balance test, test support, training, and
        attrition needs to support their weapon systems. This balance changes throughout the life
        cycle of an individual system. A new MDS will initially be tested to determine system
        capabilities and limitations, and to begin tactics development. Differing acquisition
        strategies may require different initial distributions of aerospace vehicles. USAF
        Programmers, the Program Manager and Lead MAJCOM Planners must engage early in
        the effort to affect the most appropriate MDS programming strategy. As the system
        enters the operational phase, test authorizations may typically give way to a higher
        percentage of training authorizations needed to train aircrew and support personnel.
        Gradually as the system enters the operational phase, test authorizations give way to a
        higher percentage of training authorizations needed to train aircrew and support
        personnel. Gradually, the operational authorizations acquire the majority of the
        resources. Some authorizations may be required for sustainment and developmental test
        support through the life cycle of an MDS
        2.1.4. The number of aerospace vehicles assigned as BAI and AR is cyclical based on
        system life cycle. Initially each unit will receive its full PAA and BAA allowance. At
        the start of production, AR resources are available through the production line, negating
        the requirement to stock additional aircraft above PAA and BAA at operational units. As
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                   7


      the production line terminates, sufficient airframes must be procured to sustain the force
      structure through its forecast life. These AR aerospace vehicles are distributed to
      operational, test, test support, and training units to evenly spread life cycle fatigue and
      ensure all aerospace vehicles receive periodic system upgrades and modifications. As a
      system nears the end of its life cycle, AR will fade to zero. Finally, programmatic actions
      balance remaining airframes to unit requirements, ultimately resulting in unit conversions
      to follow-on weapon systems.
3. Force Programming Policies and Guidelines:
   3.1. The US Air Force aerospace vehicle inventory has two major categories—active and
   inactive. HAF Force Programmers determine the authorizations and AF/A8PB assigns active
   aerospace vehicles, via AF Form 913, to commands for Air Force operational, support,
   training, test missions, and to the inactive inventory for other than operational mission
   requirements.
      3.1.1. HAF Force Programming OPR by vehicle type:
          3.1.1.1. AF/A1X-P&T: Trainer and Glider (T-6, T-38, all gliders, TH-1H)
          3.1.1.2. AF/A8PC: Fighter, Conventional Bomber, and Attack aircraft (F-15, F-16,
          F-22, F-35, B-1, A-10, EC-130H)
          3.1.1.3. AF/A8PI: Specialty aircraft (E-3, E-4, E-8), and RPA (MQ-1, RQ-4, MQ-9)
          and GCS family of associated systems (e.g. MD-1 for MQ-9)
          3.1.1.4. A8PM: Mobility aircraft, Special Operations aircraft and Personnel
          Recovery aircraft
          3.1.1.5. A8PN: Nuclear Capable Bombers (B-52, B-2), UH-1N, and Missiles
          (AGM-86, AGM-129, LGM-30)
          3.1.1.6. A8PS:  Space vehicles—Boosters (EELV, Delta, etc.), Satellites/Upper
          Stages (AEHF, WGS, GPS, etc.)
          3.1.1.7. AF/TER: RDT&E aircraft
          3.1.1.8. SAF/AQPW: Drone aircraft (QF-4, QF-16)
          3.1.1.9. A4/7PY: Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Family of Vehicles
          (Cougars, Maxx Pros, etc)
      3.1.2. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B, Basing and Force Structure Division:
          3.1.2.1. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B evaluates CAF force structure projections in
          relation to known and forecasted availability of resources. Prioritizes resources
          within a total force context, normally giving the highest priority to warfighting tasked
          forces. Prioritization will be accomplished in coordination with using commands.
          3.1.2.2. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B controls the transfer and loan of ACC CAF Total
          Aircraft Inventory (TAI) to include all aircraft assigned for mission, training, test, and
          maintenance functions in coordination with the using command IAW AFPD 10-9,
          Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems. Distributes
          aircraft to fill inventory requirements (authorizations) in the following priority:
8                                                  AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


       combat units, training units and test units. Primary Aircraft Authorization (PAA) will
       be filled first and then Backup Aircraft Authorization (BAA).
       3.1.2.3. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B controls the assignment and possession of all
       CAF Attrition Reserve (AR) aircraft. For AR assigned to/possessed by non-ACC
       units, coordinate with the using command IAW AFPD 10-9. Distributes AR
       equitably across the fleet with priority given to alleviation of PAA and BAA
       shortfalls, followed by test support and other high priority programs. When sourcing
       AR aircraft to fill these requirements, ACC/A8B generally draws first on AR
       possessed by wings with multiple squadrons and larger PAA units due to smaller
       relative impact on those units.
    3.1.3. (Added-ACC) ACC/A3C/A3I/A3T (C2ISR Operations, Information Operations,
    Flight Operations Divisions):
       3.1.3.1. (Added-ACC) Identifies and validates aircraft types and numbers needed
       for formal and continuation requirements for all ACC units.
    3.1.4. (Added-ACC) ACC/A5/8/9 Weapons System Teams (WSTs), ACC/A4 WSTs,
    and ACC/A8X, Capabilities and Requirements Division:
       3.1.4.1. (Added-ACC) Determines and validates aircraft types and numbers needed
       for ACC tests, higher headquarters, directed tests and lateral command testing
       support.
       3.1.4.2. (Added-ACC) Assesses the impact of command depot level maintenance
       and modification programs on assigned and possessed aircraft.
    3.1.5. (Added-ACC) ACC/A4Q (Maintenance Management Division) and ACC/A4M
    (Systems Support Division):
       3.1.5.1. (Added-ACC) Evaluates the impact of command depot-level maintenance
       and modification programs on assigned and possessed aircraft, related systems, and
       support equipment.
    3.1.6. (Added-ACC) ACC/A4QM-AVDO (Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Office):
       3.1.6.1. (Added-ACC) Monitors the distribution of aerospace vehicles within the
       command by maintaining the Equipment Inventory Status Utilization and Reporting
       Subsystem in the Reliability Maintainability Information System (REMIS).
       3.1.6.2. (Added-ACC) Reassigns aerospace vehicles and coordinates with USAF
       AVDO for issuing assignment directives when required IAW AFI 16-402.
       3.1.6.3. (Added-ACC) Coordinates with Air Staff and other MAJCOMS.
    3.1.7. (Added-ACC) ACC/A10 (Directorate of Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear
    Integration)
       3.1.7.1. (Added-ACC) Identifies and validates aircraft number and types needed for
       nuclear stockpile flight tests to verify nuclear weapon subsystems function in a
       variety of stockpile-to-target sequence environments and demonstrate continuing
       capability between Department of Energy and Air Force subsystems.
    3.1.8. (Added-ACC) ACC/A1M (Manpower and Organization Division):
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                9


         3.1.8.1. (Added-ACC) Validates aircraft maintenance manpower requirements
         associated with number and type of PAA assigned.
  3.2. Programming responsibilities include determining the number of PAA, BAA, and AR
  assigned per MAJCOM, base and unit, the Program Element Code (PEC) used to fund the
  aerospace vehicle, and the designation of the Purpose Identifier Code (PIC) for which an
  aerospace vehicle is assigned. Drone aircraft are not managed using PAA, BAA, and AR.
  3.3. The Force Structure Worksheet (FSW) reflects the allocation, assignment, mission, and
  PEC of all active aerospace vehicles in the inventory. Active inventory totals permitting,
  PAI will be equal to PAA. The FSW is located on the SIPRNET, using the AF Corporate
  Structure                                Suite                                Application:
  http://www.ccipl.hq.af.smil.mil/afcss/myfoldersview.cfm?ID=165
  3.4. If the inventory of active aerospace vehicles is more than needed to fill the PAA plus
  BAA, the excess becomes AR. If AR exceeds 10% of the total of PAA plus BAA, the HAF
  Force Programmer may consider storing the excess in 309 Aerospace Maintenance and
  Regeneration Group (AMARG). However, storage costs and regeneration times must be
  considered before choosing this option. NOTE: BAI vehicles supporting PAI depot
  maintenance requirements will have the same PIC and PEC as the PAI vehicles. HAF Force
  Programmers, in coordination with the Weapon System Program Manager (PM), can conduct
  a cost-benefit analysis to determine the feasibility of transferring excess AR aerospace
  vehicles to 309 AMARG for storage until needed. If the inventory is less than the PAA, the
  PAI will be less than PAA and there will be no BAI or AR.
  3.5. HAF Force Programmers will use standardized terminology and PICs for programming,
  identifying, and reporting aerospace vehicles (Attachments 2 and 3).
     3.5.1. Each aerospace vehicle authorization has a PIC that describes the predominant
     mission for which aircraft are assigned against that authorization. In general, all
     aerospace vehicles possessed by a squadron/unit will have the same PIC determined by
     the primary mission of that squadron (e.g., Combat, Training, Test, etc.). This situation
     may vary significantly for test and test support units. Inventory groupings by PICs are:
         3.5.1.1. Primary Mission Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PMAI): Aircraft assigned
         against a unit PAA for the performance of its wartime mission includes the following
         possible PICs: CC, CA and IF.
         3.5.1.2. Primary Training Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PTAI): Aircraft assigned
         against a training unit PAA primarily for technical and specialized training for crew
         personnel or leading to aircrew qualification. Includes the following possible PICs:
         TF.
         3.5.1.3. Primary Development/Test Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PDAI): Aircraft
         assigned against a test unit PAA primarily for testing of the aircraft or its components
         for purposes of research, development, test and evaluation, operational test and
         evaluation, or support for testing programs. Includes the following possible PICs:
         EI, CB, and EH.
10                                                    AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


         3.5.1.4. Primary Other Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (POAI): Aircraft required for
         special missions not elsewhere classified. Includes the following possible PICs: CF,
         ZA and ZB.
  3.6. HAF Force Programmers will program active aerospace vehicles (PAA, BAA, and AR)
  pursuant to the guidelines below. These determining factors and the resultant authorizations
  will be reevaluated during each annual budget cycle to ensure they continue to meet mission
  requirements. HAF Force Programmers will coordinate with AFRC and ANG before
  determining authorizations affecting those components.
     3.6.1. Primary Aerospace Vehicle Authorization (PAA). Program for sufficient numbers
     of PAA based upon validated CFLI/MAJCOM needs and fiscal guidance (See paragraph
     2.1). Unit size is a function of mission effectiveness, span-of-control, facility size and
     availability, airfield capacity (both peacetime operations and deployment throughput),
     total projected PAA, and Active and Reserve Component mix. For MDSs comprised of
     different blocks (e.g., different engines, avionics capabilities, etc.), efforts should be
     made to regionalize these assets to standardize capabilities, ease maintenance, and
     minimize cost.
     3.6.2. Backup Aerospace Vehicle Authorization (BAA). Program for sufficient numbers
     of BAA to allow for scheduled and unscheduled depot level maintenance, modifications,
     inspections and repairs, and certain other mitigating circumstances, without reduction of
     aerospace vehicles available for the assigned mission. Other mitigating circumstances
     may include specialized maintenance requirements, medium-duration home-station
     modifications, and unique squadron sizing and location. Typically, each unit will have at
     least 1 BAA.
     3.6.3. Attrition Reserve (AR).     AR is calculated based upon the number of PAA
     multiplied by the forecast (or historical) peacetime attrition rate to find the notional
     number of aircraft lost each year. That number is then multiplied over the expected
     service life of the weapon system to determine the required AR. Initially, programmers
     will flow new production aircraft directly to fill unit PAA and BAA requirements. As
     new production nears completion, aircraft delivered above PAA and BAA requirements
     will be distributed by MAJCOM to all operational and training units to hold as AR.
     Programmers must monitor actual attrition to update the projected force structure.
  3.7. PIC Specifics. HAF Force Programmers will follow the general guidelines (below) for
  programming forces based upon the PIC for the unit of assignment.
     3.7.1. Mission Aircraft. Program PAA as follows (plus the appropriate number of
     Backup and Attrition Reserve as specified above):
         3.7.1.1. Combat (CC-coded):
             3.7.1.1.1. Establish a total force mix of the required number of aerospace vehicles
             for air superiority, interdiction, close air support, long range and deep attack
             aircraft aerospace vehicles to satisfy requirements as directed in GDF, JPG, DPG,
             PPUG, SPG, Congressional language and to meet the current force planning
             construct with an acceptable level of risk.
             3.7.1.1.2. Program sufficient number of aerospace vehicles to support the
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                   11


            approved Air Defense requirement.
            3.7.1.1.3. Program sufficient CC-coded bombers to provide the approved number
            of deployable aircraft.
            3.7.1.1.4. Special Operations Forces (SOF) – Program according to AF SOF
            Master Plan to support Combatant Commander (CCDR) requirements as
            approved by the Air Force Council.
        3.7.1.2. Combat Support (CA and IF-coded):
            3.7.1.2.1. Establish a total force mix of the required number of aerospace vehicles
            for strategic airlift, tactical airlift, aerial refueling, C4ISR, and operational support
            aerospace vehicles to satisfy requirements as directed in GDF, JPG, DPG, PPUG,
            SPG, Congressional language and to meet the current force planning construct
            with an acceptable level of risk.
            3.7.1.2.2. Combat Search and Rescue – Sufficient assets according to Rescue
            Force Structure Plan as approved by the Air Force Council to support CCDR
            requirements as directed in GDF, JPG, DPG, PPUG, SPG, Congressional
            language and to meet the current force planning construct with an acceptable level
            of risk.
     3.7.2. Training Aircraft (TF). Training aerospace vehicle requirements are determined
     by the annual number of students to train, the number of syllabus sorties required to train
     each student, and the sustainable aircraft utilization (UTE) rate. The student
     requirements are determined from a combination of new aircrews, re-qualification
     training for re-entering aircrews (e.g., from staff assignments, other type aircraft), other
     military service requirements, students in the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program, and
     ANG and AFRC requirements. This category includes Undergraduate Flight Training
     assets (e.g., T-6, T-38), Follow-on Training, Formal Training Unit aircraft (e.g., F-16s
     assigned to AETC at Luke AFB, AZ) and Advanced Training Unit aircraft (e.g., 57 WG
     aircraft used for the Weapons School). HAF Force Programmers will validate MAJCOM
     training aircraft requirements during each budget cycle and program sufficient TF-coded
     PAA (plus the appropriate number of Backup and Attrition Reserve aircraft as specified
     above) to support AETC and MAJCOM programmed flying training requirements. The
     exact percentage of TF to CC/CA-coded aircraft will vary by weapon system type and
     projected training load.
     3.7.3. Test and Test Support Aircraft (CB, EI, EH). Test aerospace vehicle programs
     support two broad categories: Developmental, Test, and Evaluation (DT&E) and
     Operational Test, and Evaluation (OT&E). DT&E is developmental testing for new
     weapon systems, follow-on testing on modifications to weapon systems, and assessing
     hardware and/or software specifications. OT&E entails operational testing of software
     and hardware designs to ascertain their acceptability in their operationally defined
     environment, and impacts of new or developing capabilities on employment doctrines.
     Weapon System PMs determine the number of each type of aerospace vehicle needed to
     accomplish ground, flight, and structural testing, as well as initial OT&E, according to
     the Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP). Likewise, the Air Force Operational Test
     and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) and CFLI/MAJCOMs determine aerospace vehicles
12                                                  AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


     required to accomplish follow-on OT&E requirements as specified by the using
     commands. Some DT&E aerospace vehicles have unique modifications preventing them
     from returning to the operational fleet. HAF Force Programmers will validate test
     requirements during each budget cycle and program test aircraft as follows.
         3.7.3.1. DT&E Aerospace Vehicle. Program an appropriate number of initial
         production aerospace vehicles to accomplish developmental testing of a new weapon
         system. AFMC, the PM, and the appropriate contractor will determine the number of
         aerospace vehicle required for initial and follow-on DT&E. Program an appropriate
         number of follow-on DT&E aerospace vehicles to accomplish DT&E on
         modifications to weapon systems. HAF Force Programmers will receive DT&E
         aerospace vehicle changes for follow-on test requirements from AFMC/A3 and will
         coordinate the appropriate number of EH and EI test aerospace vehicles per weapon
         system with AF/TER
         3.7.3.2. OT&E Aerospace vehicles. Program an appropriate number of aerospace
         vehicles for weapons system testing. Lead MAJCOM, in coordination with OT MDS
         Program Offices, will determine the number of aerospace vehicles required to be CB-
         coded. NOTE: DT and OT agencies will coordinate new/changed requirements and
         receive concurrence for the additional test aerospace vehicles through the Lead
         MAJCOM for an MDS prior to submitting aerospace vehicle POM inputs or Program
         Change Requests (PCRs) to HAF.
         3.7.3.3. HQ AFMC/A3, MAJCOM FMC/DO and MAJCOM A8s will determine test
         and test support PAA and flying hour authorizations according to the TEMP,
         validated test program requirements, and fiscal reality.
     3.7.4. Other Aircraft (CF, ZA, ZB). Program PAA as necessary to meet the MAJCOM
     validated mission requirements for other Operational Support and Special missions (e.g.,
     missile field operational support, Presidential support, and priority personnel airlift
     support).
     3.7.5. Strategic Missile Weapon Systems. Strategic Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
     (ICBM) PAA are missiles on alert, modified alert, or off-alert status. ICBM BAI
     includes test assets, aging and surveillance assets, and pipeline spare assets.
  3.8. Inactive Inventory. AF/A8PB, in conjunction with HAF Force Programmers, assigns
  aerospace vehicles to the inactive inventory when not required for operational mission
  requirements. AF/A8PB will coordinate with the corresponding AF Force Programmer;
  AF/A5RC or AF/A5RM, as appropriate; AF/A4LY; SAF/IARW (FMS only); SAF/AQPW
  (drones only); AFMC Weapon System PM; and the CFLI/lead command prior to
  reassignment to the inactive inventory. These requirements include, but are not limited to,
  ground instructional training aircraft, storage for future use (to include parts), FMS/SAP,
  lease/loan, bailment, reclamation, and test aerospace vehicles. Once the action has been
  coordinated, AF/A8PB will assign the appropriate PEC and PIC. Typical PICs are listed
  below and are defined in column 2 of the Purpose Identifier Code table in Attachment 3.
     3.8.1. Storage (XS, XV, XX, XD)
     3.8.2. Storage for FMS/SAP (XT)
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                               13


      3.8.3. Lease/loan (XY, NY)
      3.8.4. Contractor test, test support, proto-type test and ground test (EB, ED, EJ)
      3.8.5. Permanently grounded (cannot practically return to flyable condition) (TX, TA)
      3.8.6. Bailment (EB, ED, VN, XU)
   3.9. Damaged Aerospace Vehicles. Damaged aerospace vehicles are those with structural or
   material damage from any means (e.g., crash landing, fire damage, battle damage, ground
   handling accident, wear and tear, etc.). Damaged aerospace vehicles will be returned to a
   serviceable condition when evaluation indicates repair is operationally warranted, feasible,
   practical and economical. The aerospace vehicle should be returned to service at least 24
   months prior to scheduled phase out. If cost of repair (excluding engine costs and/or
   Programmed Depot Maintenance over-and-above costs) exceeds Class A Mishap cost
   threshold as defined in AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, Weapon System PM
   will submit a disposition recommendation (see paragraph 5.8.12) to AF/A8 for final decision.
   For a retirement decision, AF/A8P will be the final approval authority. The recommendation
   will be coordinated by the PM through the Program Executive Office (PEO), receive using
   and lead MAJCOM/A3 concurrence and then be coordinated through the PM’s HQ
   MAJCOM/CV (AFMC/AFSPC) prior to submission to HAF. For repair costs below Class A
   Mishap cost threshold, the PM is the repair decision authority. Recommendation packages
   should be submitted to HAF no later than 90 days after damage occurs.
      3.9.1. Reporting of Damaged Aerospace Vehicles. Inventory and status reporting on
      damaged aerospace vehicles undergoing disposition decision will be in accordance with
      AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting.
      3.9.2. Crash-damaged aerospace vehicles determined to be a total loss by the assigned
      maintenance group commander in coordination with the Weapon System PM will be
      terminated from the inventory in accordance with procedures in AFI 21-103. If disposal
      action is required, the command of aircraft assignment will fund disposal cost. Funding
      responsibilities for aircraft on loan between MAJCOMs should be addressed in lease/loan
      agreements.

Section C—Fleet Management Procedures and Responsibilities

4. Fleet Management Procedures:
   4.1. The following aerospace vehicle inventory changes or additions require HAF approval:
      4.1.1. Assigned command changes.
      4.1.2. Assigned purpose identifier code changes.
      4.1.3. Assigned program element code changes.
      4.1.4. Reclamation and/or disposal of excess aerospace vehicles.
      4.1.5. Damaged aerospace vehicle disposition decisions exceeding established cost
      threshold (see paragraphs 3.9 and 5.8.12).
   4.2. Change or addition requests will be entered on the Aircraft Disposition Website
   (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil) by the losing MAJCOM Aerospace Vehicle
14                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


  Distribution Officer (AVDO). The gaining and losing MAJCOM AVDOs will coordinate
  applicable PECs and PICs for assigned command transfers prior to the losing MAJCOM
  AVDO entering the request on the aircraft disposition website. Once entered, AF/A8PB will
  take action to approve or disapprove the request. Approved requests are documented on an
  AF Form 913, Aerospace Vehicle Project Action.
     4.2.1. Active to active inventory changes: If the action is programmed and reflected in
     the AF Program Database or is the result of an approved Program Change Request
     (PCR), AF/A8PB will obtain documented coordination from the AF Force Programmer,
     lead command, Weapon System PM, and other offices as required.
     4.2.2. Active to inactive and inactive to active inventory changes: If the action is
     programmed and reflected in the AF Program Database or the result of an approved PCR,
     AF/A8PB will obtain documented coordination from the AF Force Programmer,
     AF/A4LY, AF/A5RC or AF/A5RM, SAF/IARW (for potential FMS aircraft only),
     AF/A1X-P&T (training aircraft only), AF/TER (RDT&E aircraft only), SAF/AQPW
     (drones only), the Weapon System Program Office, the lead command, and other offices
     as required.
     4.2.3. AF/A8PB is the approval authority for all programmed actions and for
     unprogrammed actions involving the inactive inventory.       AF/A8P is the approval
     authority for all unprogrammed actions for the active inventory with the exception of
     repair recommendations described in paragraph 3.9. If an unprogrammed request is
     approved, a programming action will be required by the appropriate AF Force
     Programmer to correct the AF Program Database.
     4.2.4. All disposition changes to aircraft and missiles subject to New Strategic Arms
     Reduction Treaty or other applicable arms control treaty require coordination with
     AF/A5XP. Missiles will be transferred and terminated in accordance with New Strategic
     Arms Reduction Treaty requirements. AFGSC, SMC Space Development and Test
     Wing, and Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center will manage excess assets.
  4.3. Assignment Transfer Procedures:
     4.3.1. AF/A8PB is responsible for coordinating, signing, and distributing approved AF
     Form 913s. AF/A8PB will distribute approved AF Form 913s to the AF AVDO, PM,
     309 AMARG workflow (as required), the lead, gaining and losing MAJCOMs, and all
     organizations that provided coordination and/or require a copy. The AF AVDO
     implements vehicle allocation changes approved by HAF.
     4.3.2. MAJCOM AVDOs will report projected reassignment of aerospace vehicles to the
     AF AVDO prior to, but not earlier than 30 days before the transfer. Upon this
     notification, AF AVDO will issue an assignment directive message to the losing and
     gaining MAJCOMs, the applicable Weapon System PM, and AFMC/A4U for further
     distribution within AFMC (to include Air Force Sustainment Center Logistics Division
     (AFSC/LOM) when applicable). At a minimum, the message will include: MDS, tail
     number(s) or Unique Item identifier, assigned Purpose Identification Code (PIC) and
     Program Element Code (PEC), losing MAJCOM, gaining MAJCOM, and effective
     transfer date. The losing and gaining activities will follow the reporting requirements in
     AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                              15


     4.3.3. The MAJCOMs may issue transfer messages only after receipt of an approved AF
     Form 913 authorizing the transfer.
  4.4. Change of Possession:
     4.4.1. An Active Air Force command needing additional aerospace vehicles for short-
     term mission requirements (nine months or less) can obtain a "possession only" change
     from another Active Air Force Command. A request exceeding nine months requires
     assignment and possession changes. If extenuating circumstances exist, a waiver request
     may be submitted to AF/A8PB and adjudicated by AF/A8P for the duration of the
     requested loan (“possession only change”) period. Lead command back-fills to O&M
     MAJCOMs for Programmed Depot Maintenance or depot level modification do not
     require a waiver and may exceed nine months. Reserve and Guard transfers to the Active
     Air Force must comply with Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 1225.6,
     Equipping the Reserve Forces, and Title 10 U.S.C. §8062 notes as applicable, prior to the
     transfer (see paragraph 4.4.4). (Note: This paragraph does not apply to cruise missile
     (AGM-86 B/C/D and AGM-129) reporting.)
     4.4.2. AFMC will assume assignment and possession of aerospace vehicles undergoing
     an MDS conversion at an AFMC depot or contractor facility. For aerospace vehicles
     transferring between MAJCOMs, AFMC will assume possession and the gaining
     command will assume assignment of an aerospace vehicle requiring depot maintenance
     or PDM immediately upon input at an AFMC depot or contractor facility.
     4.4.3. A "possession only" change arranged by inter-command coordination is
     appropriate when the following conditions are met:
         4.4.3.1. The assigned command, PIC, and assigned PEC remain unchanged.
         4.4.3.2. The affected commands jointly arrange and agree on maintenance, logistical,
         and any other required support (e.g., an aircraft goes in for maintenance by a depot or
         contract field team as a result of AFMC accepting repair responsibility pursuant to
         T.O 00-25-107, Maintenance Assistance).
         4.4.3.3. Both commands comply with AFI 21-103 possession reporting requirements
         at the time of the actual change in possession.
     4.4.4. For Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) transfers
     of aircraft assignment or possession to the Active Air Force, a Memorandum of
     Agreement (MOA) will be entered into between the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the
     Commander of the AFRC, and/or the Director of the ANG. The supported MAJCOM
     will draft the MOA. The signed MOA will be provided to Congress, prior to transferring
     aircraft assignment or possession from the Air Reserve Component (ARC) to the Active
     AF, in accordance with Title 10 U.S.C. §8062 notes, Requirements for Transferring
     Aircraft Within the Air Force Inventory.
         4.4.4.1. AF/A8PB will issue an annual data call to each MAJCOM during the third
         quarter of the fiscal year, requesting submission of coordinated MOA drafts between
         affected ARC component(s) and the Active AF MAJCOM(s) for all aircraft transfers
         scheduled to occur during the upcoming fiscal year between the ARC and the Active
         AF for which MOAs are required. The Supported MAJCOM’s Directorate with force
16                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


         structure responsibility will initiate and submit the proposed MOA. The proposed
         MOAs will be coordinated between and approved by the affected MAJCOM(s),
         AFRC and/or the ANG, SAF/MR, and must address all requirements mandated by the
         law. Use the MOA template found in Attachment 8.
            4.4.4.1.1. AF/A8PB will staff proposed MOAs for final coordination and
            approval. Final approval will be by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the
            Commander of the AFRC and/or the Director of the ANG, or as otherwise
            delegated. Subsequently, for transfers in excess of 90 days, approved MOAs will
            be forwarded to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense Reserve Affairs
            in accordance with DODI 1225.6, and then onward to the Congressional Defense
            Committees. Upon Congressional notification, AF/A8PB will notify affected
            parties of approval to proceed with the transfer.
         4.4.4.2. In conjunction with the annual data call, approved MOAs from previous
         fiscal years will be reviewed by the parties. Agreements will be renewed and/or
         amended as required by the affected parties. MOAs for transfers that have been
         completed and identified as no longer required will be archived by AF/A8PB.
         4.4.4.3. Out-of-cycle transfers, identified after the annual data call has closed out,
         still require an approved MOA between the affected parties listed in paragraph
         4.4.4.1.1. The supported (gaining) MAJCOM’s Directorate with force structure
         responsibility will submit a coordinated draft MOA to AF/A8PB as soon as possible
         after the need is known. Transfer of aircraft is not authorized until Congressional
         notification has been accomplished.
         4.4.4.4. MOAs are not required for the following types of transfers, and as
         adjudicated by AF/A8PB:
            4.4.4.4.1. Routine temporary transfers of possession solely for the benefit of the
            ARC (e.g., depot maintenance, modifications, or test and evaluation efforts).
            4.4.4.4.2. Mutually beneficial collective flying arrangements between the ARC
            and Active AF (e.g., multi-use flying arrangements).
            4.4.4.4.3. Transfers terminating an ARC’s equitable interest for which
            Congressional notification or approval has already been given and captured in the
            President’s Budget (e.g., programmed actions including aircraft retirements).
         4.4.4.5. Transfers requiring MOAs will not occur until the Congressional Defense
         Committees have been provided finalized copies of the relevant MOAs.
  4.5. Redistribution and Termination of Excess Aerospace Vehicles. The possessing assigned
  MAJCOM’s AVDO will report to AF/A8PB excess aerospace vehicles requiring disposition
  by MDS, tail number or Unique Item Identifier, and date it will become excess. Excess
  aerospace vehicles will be reported on the Aircraft Disposition website
  (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil/) using the “New Disposition” tab (Attachment 4).
     4.5.1. The Lead Command AVDO and Weapon System PM will assist AF/A8PB, as
     required, to identify and prioritize all known and potential AF requirements. Once all
     requirements have been identified, AF/A8PB will determine the disposition of the excess
     aerospace vehicle and issue disposition instructions on AF Form 913.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                             17


     4.5.2. Excess Aerospace vehicles to include Ground Instructional Training Aids and
     Training Aid Aircraft will be screened in accordance with DoD 4160.21-M, Defense
     Material Disposition Manual. For screening purposes excess aerospace vehicles fall into
     three categories.
        4.5.2.1. The priority for category A (authorized for sale and exchange for
        commercial use resalable) and category B (used for ground instructional and static
        display purposes and identified as ground use only) aerospace vehicles will be:
            4.5.2.1.1. Issue to another military service as complete aerospace vehicles for
            operational requirements.
            4.5.2.1.2. Issue to another DoD activity (includes Civil Air Patrol) as complete
            aerospace vehicles.
            4.5.2.1.3. Use for parts reclamation to satisfy DoD supply system needs with the
            needs of the owning Military service taking precedence.
            4.5.2.1.4. National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) for
            historical and static display.
            4.5.2.1.5. Issue to Federal and State law enforcement activities Law Enforcement
            Support Office (LESO).
            4.5.2.1.6. Issue for Security assistance needs.
            4.5.2.1.7. Transfer to a Federal civil agency through GSA.
            4.5.2.1.8. Donation to authorized recipients through GSA.
            4.5.2.1.9. Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (DLA) for sale or
            disposal.
        4.5.2.2. The priority for category C (having no commercial flight application based
        upon their military design characteristics) aerospace vehicles will be:
            4.5.2.2.1. Replacement of flyable and operational Air Force aerospace vehicles.
            Mission support needs (i.e. spares support, ground instructional training aircraft,
            aircraft battle damage repair aircraft, test aircraft etc.)
            4.5.2.2.2. National Museum of the United States Air Force (NMUSAF) for
            historical and static display. However, if there are known DoD operational
            requirements, the aerospace vehicle(s) will be transferred to fill the Service or
            DoD Agency requirement. This action will require AF/A8P approval.
            4.5.2.2.3. Other Military Services and DoD Agencies.
            4.5.2.2.4. Foreign Military Sales and Security Assistance Program.
            4.5.2.2.5. Other Federal Government Agencies.         Transfers are through the
            General Services Administration (GSA).
            4.5.2.2.6. Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service for sale or disposal
 18                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


Section D—Fleet Management Responsibilities

5. Fleet Management Responsibilities
   5.1. AF/A8PB will:
      5.1.1. Ensure all aerospace vehicles are assigned to the correct command, Program
      Element Code, and Purpose Identification Code.
      5.1.2. Manage the inactive fleet.
      5.1.3. Provide guidance for aerospace vehicles in storage. In coordination with HAF, the
      lead MAJCOM and Weapon System PMs ensure an adequate number of aerospace
      vehicles are available to meet Air Force requirements for potential recall to the active
      fleet, FMS/SAP, the Aerial Target Program (drones), future spare parts to support Air
      Force operational requirements, and other programs as required.
          5.1.3.1. Several factors affect determination of aerospace vehicle dispositions.
          Consider parts reclamation potential to improve operational mission capability and
          replenish wholesale inventories, aerial target (drone) program potential, future DoD
          peacetime or wartime operational requirements, NMUSAF requirements, and
          FMS/SAP potential.
      5.1.4. Coordinate with HAF Force Programmers , Lead MAJCOMs, AF/A5RC,
      AF/A5RM, AF/A4LY, AF/A4LM, SAF/IARW (FMS), SAF/AQQM, SAF/AQQU,
      SAF/AQPB, SAF/AQPF, SAF/AQPN, SAF/AQS, SAF/AQPW (drones only), AF/TER
      (RTD&E aerospace vehicles and drones) and the Weapon System PM to determine the
      appropriate storage category for aerospace vehicles that have been declared excess to AF
      operational needs. For aerospace vehicles inducted into storage, emphasis should be
      placed on reclaiming as soon as practical to alleviate spare part purchase requirements.
          5.1.4.1. If it is determined that aerospace vehicles are excess to Air Force needs,
          screen them IAW this AFI and DoD 4160.21-M.
          5.1.4.2. Once excess aerospace vehicles have been screened with DoD they become
          excess defense articles (EDA) and offered to FMS. If no one claims them, AF/A8PB
          will have the owning MAJCOM complete form SF 120, Report of Excess Personal
          Property. AF/A8PB will in turn submit the SF 120 to the General Services
          Administration (GSA) region 9. Once screening with GSA is complete and if they do
          not request the excess aerospace vehicle it will be turned over to DLA Disposition
          Services along with a GSA release letter.
             5.1.4.2.1. Aircraft requiring demilitarization per the guidelines in DoD 4160.28M
             will not be transferred to GSA until demilitarization of the airframe, and removal
             of components requiring demilitarization, is complete. Losing unit will complete
             the checklist items found on the DLA Distribution Services Aircraft Turn-In
             Checklist (DRMS-I 4160.14). Further demilitarization requirements, as described
             in DoD 4160.28M (e.g., removal of components requiring demil, cuts to the
             airframe, demil of weapons pylons, etc.), and as required by the PM, are at no cost
             to the government per Title 10 USC § 2572 and will be funded by the gaining
             GSA recipient.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                19


           5.1.4.3. Screen aerospace vehicles as EDA prior to placing into 1000 XT (FMS)
           storage. Upon placement into 1000 XT storage and if an FMS case has been initiated
           no further screening is required. If after placement into 1000 XT storage the amount
           of time exceeds one year before an FMS case is initiated the aerospace vehicle(s) will
           be required to be screened again to ensure no DoD requirements have developed
           since their initial induction into 1000 XT storage.
       5.1.5. AF/A8PB will develop an aerospace vehicle Disposition Plan for AF/A8P
       approval (Attachment 6) each fiscal year. It will include top level 309 AMARG
       inventory, planned aerospace vehicle dispositions, and costs associated with the inactive
       inventory management at 309 AMARG.
           5.1.5.1. AF/A8PB will coordinate the Disposition Plan with HAF Force
           Programmers, AF/A5R, AF/A4L, AF/TER, SAF/IAR, SAF/AQP, SAF/AQS, and
           other organizations on the Air Staff, as necessary, for AF/A8P approval no later than
           1 September each year. The AF Strike Board and Migration Plan will be the primary
           sources for the development of the Disposition Plan.
       5.1.6. Approve and issue transfer or status change instructions and authorizations on AF
       Form 913 for all aerospace vehicles. Disposition instructions will be comprehensive and
       fully outline all requirements, especially for aerospace vehicles that will be terminated
       from the Air Force. If the AF Form 913 directs assignment to a reclamation project,
       AFSC/LOM will coordinate with the Weapon System PM to determine whether a
       reclamation project will be performed per AFMCI 23-111, Reclamation of Air Force
       Property.
           5.1.6.1. For reclamation and disposal of 309 AMARG-stored aerospace vehicles,
           AFMC/AVDO will initiate the PIC change to XX or XD and request AF/A8PB to
           issue a reclamation-type project action. Reclamation-type actions will be coordinated
           with the AF Force Programmer, Lead MAJCOM, AF/A4LY, SAF/IARW (for
           aerospace vehicles in 1000 XT storage only), SAF/AQPW (drones only), AF/TER
           (RDT&E aerospace vehicles and drones only) and the appropriate Weapon System
           PM. NOTE: All aerospace vehicles transferring into 4000 storage with an XX
           purpose identifier code will be put into reclamation with reclamation project action
           directed on an AF Form 913.
       5.1.7. Provide an 8-digit project number (Attachment 5) for each AF Form 913 issued.
       5.1.8. Is responsible for the management of the Weapon System PM developed
       Migration Plan.
5.1.8.1. A Migration Plan is required for all aerospace vehicles programmed for retirement from
the active aerospace vehicle inventory. This includes transfers to inactive status for contractor
test/test support, ground trainers, NMUSAF, FMS/SAP, and transfers to other military services
or DoD agencies. It also addresses aerospace vehicles currently in storage, identified for
reclamation or disposal, or otherwise meets the definition in paragraph 1.8 of this AFI.
Migration Plans will cover the current year through the FYDP.
           5.1.8.2. Send the Migration Plan “Call Letter” to AFMC/A4 no later than 1 February
           each year. The Call Letter will include the Migration Planning Guide with detailed
           instructions/templates and requirements for completing the Migration Plan.
20                                                    AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


        5.1.8.3. In coordination with the HAF Force Programmers, develop a list of
        programmed retirements for all aerospace vehicles through the FYDP. Review and
        consolidate the data for inclusion in the annual Migration Plan Call Letter.
        5.1.8.4. In coordination with SAF/IARW, analyze aerospace vehicles currently set
        aside for FMS/SAP and projected requirements through the FYDP. Review and
        consolidate the data for inclusion in the annual Migration Plan Call Letter. Take
        action to determine the disposition of aerospace vehicles no longer required to
        support FMS/SAP.
        5.1.8.5. During the annual Migration Plan review, use the Weapon System PM-
        produced vehicle condition report to conduct an analysis to determine the optimum
        number of aerospace vehicles in 2000 and 4000 storage. The emphasis should be
        placed on reclaiming aerospace vehicles as soon as possible to alleviate spare part
        purchase requirements. Once the aerospace vehicle has been reclaimed, it is either
        disposed of on a disposal project or remains in Reclamation Insurance Type (RIT) for
        potential future parts removal.
        5.1.8.6. Obtain Air Staff coordination from AF/A4L, AF/A5R, AF/TER, SAF/AQP,
        SAF/AQQ, SAF/AQI, SAF/IAR, SAF/AQS, and AF/A8P approval of Migration Plan
        no later than 15 May each year.
        5.1.8.7. Distribute the approved Migration Plan to the Air Staff, AFMC/A4,
        AFSC/LOM, OC-ALC engine manager workflow box, and the 309 AMARG no later
        than 15 May each year.
        5.1.8.8. A semi-annual review of the current fiscal year Migration Plan update when
        received from AFMC/A4US (updates are due no later than the end of the first week
        of November). Forward updates, as required, to the HAF Force Programmers,
        AF/A5RC, AF/A5RM, AF/TER (RDT&E and drones only), SAF/IARW (FMS only),
        and SAF/AQPW (drones only).
     5.1.9. Organize and chair the Air Force Strike Board. The Strike Board will be held
     semiannually. The Air Force Strike Board is a strategic tool supporting execution of the
     AF Migration Plan. The Strike Board is co-hosted by AF/A8PB, AFMC/A4US, and 309
     AMARG and is designed to allow the System Program Offices (SPO) and MAJCOM
     Aerospace Vehicle Disposition Officers (AVDO) to brief Air Force retirements occurring
     throughout the FYDP. Additionally, the Strike Board provides a forum for discussion of
     other outstanding issues to include scheduling of aircraft inductions into AMARG,
     changes to storage types, reclamation and disposal. As a minimum, it will address
     requirements for aerospace vehicles retiring and those currently in storage, National
     Museum USAF (NMUSAF) requirements, FMS/SAP requirements, and other
     dispositions as appropriate. The Strike Board will serve as the final vetting forum and
     approval authority for the disposition of excess aerospace vehicles and the results will be
     reflected in the Migration Plan. Additional key attendees include AF/A4LY, AF/A4LM,
     SAF/IARW, AFMC Engine Manager, NMUSAF. Other Invitees include the following:
     Navy, General Services Administration (GSA), Defense Security Cooperation Agency
     (DSCA), and DLA Law Enforcement Support Office (LESO), DLA Disposition Services.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                            21


     5.1.10. Track aerospace vehicle retirements, ensuring they are in compliance with FY
     programming. Any retirements in excess of or below what is programmed must be
     approved by AF/A8P and the program corrected by the appropriate Force Programmer.
     5.1.11. File all aerospace vehicle disposition requests, approved AF Form 913s, and all
     coordination and correspondence for each disposition as appropriate.
     5.1.12. Provide AF/A8P a roll-up of aerospace vehicle disposition actions for the
     previous fiscal year no later than 15 October each year.
     5.1.13. Distribute aerospace vehicle termination messages to the appropriate divisions in
     AF/A8P (see paragraph 3.1. of this AFI), AF/A8PE, AF/A4LY, AF/A5RC or AF/A5RM,
     AF/A1MT (training aircraft only), AF/TER (RDT&E aircraft only), and SAF/AQPW
     (drones only).
     5.1.14. AF/A8PB, with coordination from HAF Force Programmers, AF/A4LY,
     AF/A5RC/A5M, SAF/IARW (FMS), SAF/AQPW (drones only), AF/TER (RDT&E
     aircraft and drones only), Commands, and Weapon System PMs will:
     5.1.15. Initiate and issue AF Form 913, Aerospace Vehicle Project Action, to assign
     aerospace vehicles as appropriate. Actions should normally be completed within 30 days.
     GSA screening will add at least 60 days to the process.
     5.1.16. Approve and authorize active PICs, PECs, and changes to these codes.
     5.1.17. Screens aerospace vehicles not at AMARG and excess to AF operational needs
     giving priority IAW this AFI and DoD 4160.21-M. For aircraft at AMARG, AMARG
     will conduct final GSA screening. If an aircraft is selected for transfer from AMARG as
     a result of the GSA screening, AMARG AVDO will submit the request to the AFMC
     AVDO and the AFMC AVDO will request a project action from AF/A8PB to document
     the transfer.
     5.1.18. Notify affected HAF Force Programmers of each aerospace vehicle termination
     message received.
     5.1.19. Manage the aircraft disposition website (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil/).
     5.1.20. Obtain HAF coordination from AF/A4/7, AF/A3/5, SAF/AQ, AF/A8P, and
     others, as required, and AF/A8 decision for aerospace vehicle repair recommendation
     packages.
     5.1.21. Distribute and archive decisions on aerospace vehicle repair recommendations to
     affected parties.
  5.2. HAF Force Programmers will:
     5.2.1. Advise AF/A8PB of the number of aerospace vehicles and timeframe they will
     become excess to operational requirements.
     5.2.2. Coordinate on the Weapon System PM-developed annual Migration Plan.
     5.2.3. Coordinate on AF/A8PB-developed Disposition Plans and aerospace vehicle
     disposition packages.
22                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


     5.2.4. Review guidance and directives (GDF, JPG, DPG, PPUG, SPG,) pertaining to
     their weapon systems for changes.
     5.2.5. Provide programmed aerospace vehicle retirements to AF/A8PB as required.
     5.2.6. Ensure the AF Program Database-produced Force Tabs accurately reflect the
     program of record. Corrections to the Force Tabs must be approved by AF Corporate
     Structure through a Program Change Request (PCR) or Zero Balance Transfer (ZBT)
     PCR. Changes to the Database will be implemented by the Force Programmer and
     AF/A8PE with an approved Resource Allocation Programming Information Decision
     System (RAPIDS) slide. Notify AF/A8PB and AF/A8PE, and affected MAJCOM Force
     Structure when PCRs outcomes are determined.
     5.2.7. Ensure the MAJCOMs adhere to the program of record and all transfers and
     retirements are in place no later than the last day of each fiscal year or other dates as
     directed by AF/A8P.
        5.2.7.1. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B will:
            5.2.7.1.1. (Added-ACC) Serve as the focal point for all CAF Force Structure
            activities and as such, oversees force structure management in order to ensure the
            overall health of the fleet.
            5.2.7.1.2. (Added-ACC) Identify and verify movement requests of all CAF
            assets.
            5.2.7.1.3. (Added-ACC) Receive, coordinate, and respond to all formal
            movement requests from ACC directorates or other staffs agencies working in
            conjunction with external field agencies.
            5.2.7.1.4. (Added-ACC) Establish informal contact with offices of primary and
            collateral responsibility. The informal coordination should clarify operational and
            maintenance requirements. Once coordination has been completed by these
            entities, the process is staffed by ACC/A8B for vetting.
            5.2.7.1.5. (Added-ACC) Submit coordinated CAF movements (transfers/loans)
            via memorandums to ACC/A5/8/9 for release to HAF, AFRC, NGB, MAJCOMs,
            NAFs, and wing agencies.
     5.2.8. Coordinate on aerospace vehicle repair/retire recommendation packages.
  5.3. AF/A4LY will:
     5.3.1. Serve as AF/A4L focal point for the Air Force Reclamation Program and all
     reclamation issues.
     5.3.2. Coordinate with the Air Force Disposal and Reclamation Program Manager,
     AFSC/LOM, on programmed and unprogrammed reclamation project efforts.
     5.3.3. Coordinate on the Weapon System PM-developed annual Migration Plan.
     5.3.4. Coordinate on AF/A8PB-developed Disposition Plans and aerospace vehicle
     disposition packages.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                           23


     5.3.5. Coordinate requests from the Weapon System PM for removal of parts to satisfy
     operational mission needs from aerospace vehicles in 1000 storage, purpose identifier
     codes XS and XT. Coordination for XS will be with the AF Force Programmer, AF/A8P,
     and SAF/AQP (drones only) prior to A4L approval (Attachment 7). For XT stored
     aerospace vehicles, the Weapon System PM is required to obtain coordination from
     AF/A4LY, AF/A8PB, and SAF/IARW.
     5.3.6. Coordinate on aerospace vehicle repair/retire recommendation packages.
  5.4. SAF/IARW will:
     5.4.1. Coordinate on the Weapon System PM-developed annual Migration Plan.
     5.4.2. Identify requirements for FMS/SAP aerospace vehicles to AF/A8PB.
     5.4.3. Perform an annual review of FMS/SAP stored aerospace vehicles for future
     requirements, with the objective to have AF/A8PB re-categorize the aerospace vehicles to
     another storage category if the FMS/SAP market no longer needs them.
     5.4.4. Coordinate on AF/A8PB-developed Disposition Plans and aerospace vehicle
     disposition packages.
     5.4.5. Coordinate on Weapon System PM request for removal of parts from aerospace
     vehicles in 1000 XT storage.
  5.5. SAF/IAPX will:
     5.5.1. Pursuant to AFMAN 16-101, International Affairs and Security Assistance
     Management, Attachment 11, note 5, coordinate with AF/A8PB on all cases or leases
     involving aircraft. Provide the case number to AF/A8PB of all approved FMS transfers to
     foreign governments for inclusion on the AF Form 913 authorizing the transfer.
  5.6. MAJCOM AVDO will:
     5.6.1. Enter aerospace vehicle disposition/transfer requests on the AF/A8PB aircraft
     disposition website (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil/) for aerospace vehicles
     assigned to their command (Attachment 4). The AFMC AVDO will enter aerospace
     vehicle disposition/transfer requests for 309 AMARG assigned aerospace vehicles.
     5.6.2. Pre-coordinate all draft AF 913 requests within their command and with other
     intersecting agencies. Disseminate all approved AF Form 913s within their command
     and other intersecting agencies.
     5.6.3. Contact AF AVDO when an aerospace vehicle transfer or assignment directive
     will take longer than 30 days or the transfer cannot meet the assignment instruction.
     5.6.4. Ensure the organization delivering the aerospace vehicle coordinates the delivery
     date with 309 AMARG/OBW and the 309 AMARG AVDO a minimum of seven days
     before arrival to 309 AMARG.
     5.6.5. Complete form SF 120 template for excess aerospace vehicles as directed by
     AF/A8PB.
24                                                    AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


  5.7. AFMC/A4 will:
     5.7.1. Receive quarterly report of AMARG inventory and distribute to AF/A8PB and
     AF/A4LY.
     5.7.2. Distribute the annual Migration Plan call message to all Weapon System PMs
     when received from AF/A8PB. Consolidate all completed Migration Plans and return to
     AF/A8PB no later than 6 weeks after the call letter is sent out each year (approx Feb-Mar
     timeframe). Review for accuracy and ensure required information is included in the
     standardized format as outlined in the Migration Plan Guide provided in the call message,
     before forwarding.
     5.7.3. Consolidate Migration Plan semi-annual update and forward to AF/A8PB no later
     than the seventh day of November. Review for accuracy and formatting before
     forwarding to AF/A8PB.
  5.8. Weapon System Program Manager will:
     5.8.1. Develop a Migration Plan for all aerospace vehicles programmed for retirement
     from the active aerospace vehicle inventory. This includes transfers to inactive status for
     contractor test/test support, ground trainers, NMUSAF, FMS/SAP, and transfers to other
     military services or DOD agencies. It also addresses aerospace vehicles currently in
     storage, identified for reclamation or disposal, or otherwise meets the definition in
     paragraph 1.8. of this AFI and as outlined in the annual Migration Plan call message.
     Migration Plans will cover the current year through the FYDP. As a minimum,
     coordinate the Migration Plan with the AF Force Programmer, lead command Force
     Programmer, MAJCOM Force Programmer (if different from lead command force
     programmer), MAJCOM AVDOs for in-place (field) disposals and approved by the
     Weapon Program Manager prior to submitting to AFMC/A4. AFMC/A4 will consolidate
     all Migration Plans and forward to AF/A8PB.
        5.8.1.1. Use the Migration Plan Guide and the template provided in the Migration
        Plan Call Letter to develop the Migration Plan. Also develop plan and document
        requirements in accordance with the Logistics Requirements Determination Process
        (LRDP) for AMARG storage funding requirements. The LRDP is maintained by
        AFMC/A4F.
        5.8.1.2. Furnish a copy of the approved Migration Plan to the applicable Engine
        Manager for information and planning purposes.
     5.8.2. Update bi-annually, the current fiscal year Migration Plan (bi-annual updates will
     cover current fiscal year only). Changes to the Migration Plan will be highlighted and
     address the reason for the change. Furnish any changes identified during the bi-annual
     Migration Plan update to the applicable Engine Manager.
     5.8.3. Attend each Air Force Strike Board, as required. To prepare for the Strike Board
     each Weapon System Program Manager will:
        5.8.3.1. Review programmed aerospace vehicle retirements and determine how many
        and to what storage category they should be inducted. The primary consideration is
        support to the remaining active inventory and foreign owned aerospace vehicles.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                               25


        5.8.3.2. Review aerospace vehicles currently in storage at 309 AMARG to determine
        the optimum number required for each storage category for present and future
        requirements. Emphasis should be placed on reclaiming them at the earliest
        opportunity to alleviate spare parts buys and minimize dollar expenditures.
        Preservation of supply sources should also be considered when determining the
        correct mixture of manufacturing verses reclamation.
        5.8.3.3. Identify by tail number or Unique Item Identifier any aerospace vehicle
        changing storage categories and going to disposal. These actions will be reviewed by
        the Strike Board, with the results to be included in the annual Migration Plan.
     5.8.4. Track the number and nomenclature of parts removed from each tail number or
     Unique Item Identifier in storage to the greatest extent possible. When a part(s) is
     required to be removed, the Weapon System PM will direct 309 AMARG personnel to a
     specified serial number(s). Every effort should be made to consolidate parts removals
     from as few aerospace vehicles as possible to expedite them through to disposal.
     5.8.5. Develop and prepare a Vehicle Condition Report of all 309 AMARG-stored
     aerospace vehicles. It will include the MDS, tail number or Unique Item Identifier,
     number of parts removed, how long it has been in storage, condition, and any pertinent
     remarks applicable to each aerospace vehicle. The report will be forwarded no later than
     15 November each year.
     5.8.6. Ensure funding is in place 14 days prior to delivery of aerospace vehicles to the
     309 AMARG.
     5.8.7. Recommend to AF/A8PB the storage code for aerospace vehicles being
     transferred to 309 AMARG. To change storage codes for aerospace vehicles already in
     storage, coordinate with the AFMC AVDO, who will submit the request to AF/A8PB.
     5.8.8. Initiate a formal request to AF/A4LY when parts are needed from 309 AMARG-
     stored aerospace vehicles in 1000 storage coded XS to satisfy operational mission needs
     (Attachment 7). The part must be MICAP or depot maintenance is at a work stoppage
     prior to making the request. The request should address the issue driving the part(s)
     removal, and identify when the parts will be replaced. The Weapon System PM will
     track the parts that have been removed and report to AF/A4LY the status of their return.
     Once the part is received it will be stored at 309 AMARG, but is not required to be
     reinstalled on the aerospace vehicle. The part may not be stored at any other location
     than 309 AMARG. AF/A4L is the approval authority for parts removal from aerospace
     vehicles in 1000 storage coded XS.
        5.8.8.1. For aerospace vehicles in 1000 storage coded XT or XS, coordination is
        required from AF/A4LY, AF/A8PB and SAF/IARW (XT only).
        5.8.8.2. Chronic spares shortages should prompt the Weapon System PM to request
        manufacturing sources, removing the aerospace vehicles from 1000 storage and
        placing them into programmed reclamation.
     5.8.9. Determine disposition of aerospace vehicle residue and associated support
     equipment assigned to them in the event of vehicle destruction or determination that the
     vehicle is not economically feasible to repair. If residue or the aerospace vehicle is to be
26                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


     stored at the 309 AMARG, a request should be sent through the MAJCOM AVDO to
     AF/A8PB who will document approval on an AF Form 913.
     5.8.10. Comply with AFMCI 23-111 for Save List policies.
     5.8.11. Evaluate the overall condition of the aircraft upon completion of programmed
     reclamation, with assistance from the 309 AMARG/OB. The PM then determines if the
     reclaimed aerospace vehicle should be retained and assigned to Reclamation Insurance
     Type (RIT) status to support future parts requirements or authorized for disposal. The
     PM must direct the 309 AMARG/OB to either assign these aircraft to a RIT project or
     take disposal action.
     5.8.12. For disposition of damaged aerospace vehicles exceeding the cost threshold in
     paragraph 3.9, the PM will submit a disposition recommendation through their PEO,
     receive using and lead MAJCOM/A3 concurrence, then HQ MAJCOM/CV and
     AFMC/AFSPC coordination, prior to submission to AF/A8PB. The recommendation
     will include the following items:
        5.8.12.1. Lead MAJCOM/A3 assessment of operational impacts if aerospace vehicle
        is not repaired.
        5.8.12.2. Assessment of reparability of the damaged aerospace vehicle including the
        following:
            5.8.12.2.1. MDS (mission, design, series), serial number, location of aerospace
            vehicle, and last Programmed Depot Maintenance date (if applicable).
            5.8.12.2.2. Overview of proposed repair strategy.
            5.8.12.2.3. Total cost estimate including labor, all materials and replacement
            equipment, fixtures, TDY, transportation, engineering design, packaging and
            shipping.
            5.8.12.2.4. Length of time required to complete repair, including procurement of
            long-lead items.
            5.8.12.2.5. Appropriate    Technical    Airworthiness    Authority    review    and
            certification.
            5.8.12.2.6. Cost, schedule and technical risk assessment.
            5.8.12.2.7. Proposed repair source and capacity.
            5.8.12.2.8. Funds availability.
            5.8.12.2.9. Configuration of vehicle (significant modifications installed or not
            installed).
            5.8.12.2.10. Current airframe hours and remaining service life.
            5.8.12.2.11. Fleet retirement/phase-out projection.
            5.8.12.2.12. Other constraints and considerations.
        5.8.12.3. Cost, schedule, funds availability and risk assessment of alternate strategies
        to replace the aircraft with similar aircraft if possible (i.e., activate from AMARG,
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                27


        procure), as well as estimates for demilitarization/disposal/packaging and shipping in
        the event final decision is retirement or disposal.
  5.9. 309 AMARG will:
     5.9.1. Have custodial responsibility for Air Force assets stored at their facility. They
     take direction from HAF, HQ AFMC, the Weapon System PM or other authorized
     activities for processing aerospace vehicles into storage, maintenance while in storage,
     flight preparation or overland shipment, reclamation, and disposal. The 309 AMARG
     removes parts, as directed by the Weapon System PM, from specific aerospace vehicle
     tail numbers or Unique Item Identifiers. They make recommendations and provide
     assistance, as requested, to customers, providing a broad range of expertise and data to
     aid in the management of stored aerospace vehicles and engines.
     5.9.2. 309 AMARG/OB will:
        5.9.2.1. For aerospace vehicles released to the Weapon System PM for reclamation,
        screen the aerospace vehicles with GSA upon notification by the respective PM prior
        to aerospace vehicles disposal. If an aircraft is selected for transfer as a result of the
        GSA screening, AFMC AVDO will request a project action from AF/A8PB to
        document the transfer.
        5.9.2.2. Provide an updated quarterly inventory, activity, and parts removal report by
        the end of the first week of each quarter to AF/A8PB and to each Weapon System
        PM.
            5.9.2.2.1. The inventory report will include MDS, serial/identification number,
            current project number, previous project number, storage category, status code,
            date received, flight hours, and any pertinent description or remarks.
            5.9.2.2.2. The activity report will be broken into three parts. Part 1 of the activity
            report will include aerospace vehicles inducted by MDS, serial number, and
            storage category. Part 2 of the report will include aerospace vehicles reclaimed
            by MDS, tail number or Unique Item Identifier, project number, and disposition
            after reclamation (disposal or reclamation insurance type). Part 3 of the report
            will include aerospace vehicles turned over to DLS Disposition Services
            contractor for disposal.
            5.9.2.2.3. The parts removal report will include the MDS, tail number or Unique
            Item Identifier, part nomenclature, part number, national stock number, and date
            removed. This report will be made available monthly upon request by the
            Weapon System PM.
        5.9.2.3. Receive aerospace vehicle assignment directives from AF AVDO based on
        AF Forms 913 issued by AF/A8PB. They receive, preserve, and maintain aerospace
        vehicles and engines as directed and specified in Air Force Technical Order 1-1-686,
        Desert Storage Preservation and Process Manual For Aircraft, Aircraft Engines, and
        Aircraft Auxiliary Power Unit Engines.
        5.9.2.4. Assist the NMUSAF to the maximum extent possible with all
        demilitarization verification requests for aerospace vehicles being loaned to private
        museums.
28                                                     AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


         5.9.2.5. Maintain a record of all AF/A4L approvals to remove parts from 1000 XS
         stored aerospace vehicles. Also maintain a record of Weapon System PM-
         coordinated requests to remove parts from any 1000 XT stored aerospace vehicles.
         These records will be maintained until the aerospace vehicle is transferred from 1000
         storage or the part is replaced.
         5.9.2.6. Maintain all parts removed from 1000 XS stored aerospace vehicles in a by
         tail number system. Munitions and shelf life items removed from aircraft upon
         induction into 1000 XS and XT storage will be turned into supply. All other parts
         removed must be identified and tagged for the specific MDS and serial number.
  5.10. Organizations with Requests for Aerospace Vehicles for Historical Display
     5.10.1. Organizations authorized under AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program,
     to receive display aircraft should submit a written request through their MAJCOM/HO to
     the NMUSAF. The request must include the type of aerospace vehicle desired, serial
     number (if applicable), justification, a plan to acquire and maintain it, a point of contact,
     and telephone number. The MAJCOM will forward the request with recommendations to
     NMUSAF/MU, 1100 Spaatz Street, Wright Patterson AFB OH 45433-7102. If an
     aerospace vehicle is available and excess to all AF operational requirements, the
     NMUSAF will request the aerospace vehicle from AF/A8PB and accept accountability
     when the aerospace vehicle is formally delivered to the specified site. The NMUSAF
     maintains all requests and fills them IAW AFI 84-103. Requesting organizations must be
     sure they can reclaim, demilitarize, perform hazardous material removal, and fund the
     aerospace vehicle transfer before accepting aerospace vehicle for static display.
     Aerospace vehicles being loaned to private museums are required to be demilitarized in
     accordance with DoD 4160.28M before being put on display. The NMUSAF will
     coordinate with the 309 AMARG to have personnel verify each aerospace vehicle for
     proper demilitarization before it is allowed to be put on display at civilian
     museums/organizations.
     5.10.2. All other requests for static display aerospace vehicles should be submitted in
     writing to the NMUSAF. The NMUSAF oversees and manages the Static Display
     Program and ensures the requestor is qualified under the provisions of Title 10 USC §
     2572. The NMUSAF further ensures compliance with DoD 4160.21-M and the
     procedures for disposition of excess aerospace vehicles in, AFMAN 23-110 USAF Supply
     Manual, Volume 6, Chapters 8 and 9.
  5.11. AF/A8PE will:
     5.11.1. Following the completion of each budget cycle, prepare and distribute Force
     Tabs and Worksheets from the Force Structure Worksheet to the HAF Force
     Programmers.
  5.12. AF AVDO will:
     5.12.1. Implement aerospace vehicle allocations as directed by HAF.
     5.12.2. Issue implementing instructions on HAF assignment directives and ensure
     prompt action on each assignment.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                29


       5.12.3. Maintain a centralized record of assignment and possession for each aerospace
       vehicle in the Air Force inventory.
       5.12.4. Monitor each termination action consistent with AFI 21-103 and adjust the
       inventory file, as appropriate.
       5.12.5. Maintain the stock record account (FA2303) for aerospace vehicles procured by
       or assigned to active and reserve force organizations.
       5.12.6. Provide AF/A8PB with aerospace vehicle termination messages.
       5.12.7. Ensure all AF Form 913s adhere to disposition and retention instructions IAW
       AFI 33-364, Chp 5. Additional support can be found on the following website:
       https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
       5.12.8. Submit the Aerospace Vehicle Inventory monthly report to the AF/A8PE
       program database. (The Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS)
       Program Office does this.)

Table 1. Report Required From AFMC
Prepare              As of          Description            Recipient    Due In
RCS: HAF-            Last day of    Basic US Air Force     AFPICA/GAPIC The 15th work
A8PE(M)7201,         each month     aerospace vehicle                   day after the first
HAF Aerospace                       inventory and net                   of each month
Vehicle Inventory,                  change to date for
Report                              the month
   5.13. Commands will:
       5.13.1. Carry out the aerospace vehicle assignments directed by HAF and implemented
       by HQ AFMC.
          5.13.1.1. (Added-ACC) The ACC staff agency of action officer(s) desiring to
          transfer or loan an aerospace vehicle will:
              5.13.1.1.1. (Added-ACC) Identify and verify the need for a transfer or loan.
              ACC/A8B receives and responds to requests from ACC directorates or other
              staffs agencies working in conjunction with external field agencies.
              5.13.1.1.2. (Added-ACC) Establish informal contact with offices of primary and
              collateral responsibility. The informal coordination should clarify operational and
              maintenance requirements. Once coordination has been completed by these
              entities, the process is staffed by ACC/A8B for vetting.
              5.13.1.1.3. (Added-ACC) Submit a formal request to ACC/A8B. As lead
              command for the CAF assets, IAW AFPD 10-9, ACC has the responsibility to
              advocate for weapon systems during their life cycle and clarify responsibilities for
              all using and supporting organizations. This includes the responsibility for force
              structure management in order to ensure the overall health of the fleet. ACC/A8B
              is the designated administrative body for all CAF Force Structure activities and as
              such is the focal point for the management functions of all aerospace vehicles in
              ACC.
30                                                  AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


        5.13.1.2. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B will evaluate and perform the necessary
        coordination and ultimately approve/disapprove the request. A8B’s entry process is
        to issue a bottom-line coordination request. This package is the vehicle by which
        ACC works through specific issues before issuing a request for top-line coordination.
        Topline coordination is MAJCOM two digit level and is official correspondence. As
        such, it does not go to action officer level and/or individual wings. The
        memorandums will contain the following information:
           5.13.1.2.1. (Added-ACC) Number           of    aerospace     vehicles     to    be
           transferred/loaned.
           5.13.1.2.2. (Added-ACC) Units losing and gaining assignment/possession of
           aerospace vehicles.
           5.13.1.2.3. (Added-ACC) Effective date of transfer or loan.
           5.13.1.2.4. (Added-ACC) Rationale for transfer or loan.
           5.13.1.2.5. (Added-ACC) Effective date and estimated return date for loan.
           5.13.1.2.6. (Added-ACC) Expectation of aerospace vehicles          condition upon
           transfer or loan.
        5.13.1.3. (Added-ACC) ACC/A8B will initiate coordination through ACC/A3 and
        A4 and secure ACC/5/8/9 approval for all aerospace vehicle transfers or loans that
        will result in any unit possessing fewer aircraft than authorized. This does not apply
        to movement of AR as these aerospace vehicles are assigned/possessed in excess of
        actual unit authorizations and remain CAF assets. ACC/A8B will redistribute AR as
        needed within the CAF to replace primary aircraft losses.
        5.13.1.4. (Added-ACC) ACC/A5 WSTs will coordinate with A8B and A4Q to
        identify aerospace vehicle serial numbers to be transferred or loan. ACC WSTs have
        the final authority over tail number selection.
        5.13.1.5. (Added-ACC) ACC/A4QM AVDO will:
           5.13.1.5.1. (Added-ACC) Upon receipt of the draft ACC/A5/8/9 transfer or loan
           memo, transmit a request for AF 913, Aerospace Vehicle Project Action, approval
           from AF/A8PB IAW AFI 16-402, paragraph 4.2 and AFI 21-103 CAF Sup 1.
           5.13.1.5.2. (Added-ACC) Coordinate unit requests for serial number changes or
           transfer/loan date extensions due to maintenance.
        5.13.1.6. (Added-ACC) ACC/A4RV will control the transfer and loan of MRAPs
        IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 26 Jan
        2012 and ACC supporting supplement, AFI 21-103, CAF SUP 1, 6 Jun 2013.
        5.13.1.7. (Added-ACC) On receipt of approved AF Form 913 from AF/A8PB,
        ACC/A8B will coordinate release of the transfer or loan memorandum executing
        transfer or loan of the aerospace vehicle(s).
     5.13.2. Maintain full responsibility of all assigned Aerospace Vehicles requiring
     disposition instructions until final disposition is determined by AF/A8PB and the
     Aerospace Vehicle is officially transferred or disposed.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                             31


     5.13.3. Recommend actions to HAF Force Programmers that will yield a better
     distribution of aerospace vehicles at each Air Force base under their command.
     5.13.4. Contact AF AVDO when a vehicle transfer or an assignment directive will take
     longer than 30 days, or when the transfer cannot meet the assignment instruction.
     5.13.5. Inform AF/A8PB and database managers (information copy to AF AVDO) no
     later than 90 days before an assignment ends or a vehicle becomes excess to command
     requirements.
     5.13.6. Coordinate with the 309 AMARG/OB, 30 days before each fiscal quarter, the
     aircraft scheduled for input during the forthcoming quarter; include command, input date,
     MDS, tail number, and project number when possible.
     5.13.7. Ensure the organization delivering the aircraft coordinates the delivery date with
     the 309 AMARG/OB within seven days before delivery to 309 AMARG. The delivery
     organization will send a message to the 309 AMARG/OB, MAJCOM/AVDO,
     AFMC/A4MM, and AF AVDO stating the name, office symbol, and telephone number
     of the 309 AMARG action officer who coordinated the delivery date.
  5.14. Command AVDO will:
     5.14.1. Submit aerospace vehicle transfer and disposition requests on the aircraft
     disposition website (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil/). Submit the request as soon
     as possible, but no later than 30 days before the required delivery date.
        5.14.1.1. Notify the Weapon System PM prior to submitting a disposition request to,
        within, or from the inactive inventory.
     5.14.2. Distribute approved AF Forms 913s to all affected offices.
     5.14.3. Monitor the distribution of aerospace vehicles within the command.
     5.14.4. Monitor aerospace vehicle reassignments.
  5.15. Unit AVDO will:
     5.15.1. Coordinate with the persons responsible for preparing the reports required by AFI
     21-103 on all transfers of aerospace vehicles.
     5.15.2. Coordinate input schedule of excess aircraft with the 309 AMARG and provide
     agreed upon schedule to MAJCOM AVDO.
     5.15.3. Prepare and distribute DD Forms 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping
     Document. Obtain the signature of aerospace vehicle delivery personnel and distribute
     documents pursuant to AFI 21-103.
     5.15.4. Ensure the maintenance group commander (or equivalent) certifies each
     transferred aerospace vehicle for condition, completeness of equipment (to include
     aerospace vehicle Data Plate), and serviceability (see Technical Order (T.O.) 00-20-1,
     Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Polices, and Procedures
     and AFI 21-103). Any equipment that has been removed from the aircraft must be
     documented on AFTO Form 781A in accordance with T.O. 00-20-1.
32                                                   AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


     5.15.5. Two weeks prior to scheduled arrival of an aerospace vehicle to 309 AMARG,
     coordinate with 309 AMARG/OBW and 309 AMARG AVDO to provide a listing of
     classified and nuclear weapons related materiel equipment installed on the aircraft, based
     on the current configuration. Additionally, provide the delivery configuration and
     equipment on the aircraft to 309 AMARG.
     5.15.6. Ensure the delivery personnel provides 309 AMARG, 578 Storage and Disposal
     Squadron, Receiving Section an AFTO Form 290, Aerospace Vehicle Delivery Receipt
     and all accompanying documentation from the releasing organization and confirm
     classified and nuclear weapons related materiel equipment status IAW T.O. 00-20-1
     Chapter 9.2.
  5.16. Contractors will:
     5.16.1. IAW Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), Appendix
     F, Part 4, 401(b), distribute DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, on
     shipments of new production aircraft and missiles, to AF AVDO.




                                          MICHAEL R. MOELLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs

                                          (ACC)

                                          GILMARY M. HOSTAGE III, General, USAF
                                          Commander, Air Combat Command
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                33


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 16 May 2012.
DOD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997.
DOD 4160-28-M Volume 3, Defense Demilitarization: Procedural Guidance, 7 June 2011.
CJCSI 4410.01F, Standardized Terminology for Aircraft Inventory Management, 10 May 2011.
AFPD 16-4, Accounting for Units, Installations, and Aerospace Vehicles, 7 September 1993.
AFMAN 16-101, International Affairs and Security Assistance Management, 15 February 2011.
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009.
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 26 January 2012.
DOD Manual 4120.15-L, Model Designation of Military Aerospace Vehicles, 12 May 2004.
AFI 16-401, Designating and Naming Defense Military Aerospace Vehicles, 14 April 05.
AFI 84-103, U.S. Air Force Heritage Program, 27 October 2004.
DFARS, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, Appendix F, Material Inspection
and Receiving Report, 20 Sep 2011.
T.O. 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation, Policies and
Procedures, 31 May 2005.
T.O. 00-25-107, Maintenance Assistance, 15 August 2011.
T.O. 1-1-686, Desert Storage Preservation and Process Manual for Aircraft, Aircraft Engines,
and Aircraft Auxiliary Power Unit Engines, 1 January 2009.
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009.
AFMCI 23-111, Reclamation of Air Force Property, 9 February 2012.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 9 April 2012.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 913, Aerospace Vehicle Project Action AFI Form 913
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, AFTO Form 290, Aerospace Vehicle
Delivery Receipt, DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, DD Form 1149,
Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document , AFTO Form 781A , and SF 120, Report of Excess
Personal Property

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADF—Air Defense Force
AND—Assignment Directive Number
 34                                                AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
309 AMARG—309 Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
ANG—Air National Guard
AR—Attrition Reserve
AVDO—Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Office
BAA—Backup Aerospace Vehicle Authorized
BAI—Backup Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
(Added-ACC) CAF—Combat Air Force
CCMD—Combatant Command
CCDR—Combatant Commander
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DRMS—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
EDA—Excess Defense Article
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSC—Federal Supply Class
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
GDF—Guidance for Development of the Force
GSA—General Services Administration
(Added-ACC) HQ ACC/A8B—ACC Basing/Force Structure Division
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                    35


JPG—Joint Programming Guidance
JSPS—Joint Strategic Planning System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MICAP—Mission Impaired Capability Awaiting Parts
MP—Migration Plan
NMUSAF—National Museum of the United States Air Force
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
PAA—Primary Aerospace Vehicle Authorized
PAI—Primary Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
PCR—Program Change Request
PDAI—Primary Development/Test Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PDS—Program Data System
PEC—Program Element Code
PIC—Purpose Identifier Code
PM—Program Manager
PMAI—Primary Mission Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
POIA—Primary Other Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
PPUG—Planning and Programming Update Guidance
PTAI—Primary Training Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
RCS—Report Control Symbol
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
(Added-ACC) REMIS—Reliability Maintainability Information System
RIT—Reclamation Insurance Type
SAP—Security Assistance Program
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SPG—Strategic Planning Guidance
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TAI—Total Active Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
 36                                                     AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TO—Technical Order
TOAI—Total Overall Aerospace Vehicle Inventory
USC—United States Code
WSC—Weapons System Code
(Added-ACC) WST—Weapon System Team

Terms
Aerospace Vehicle Retirement— Aerospace vehicles that are excess to AF operational needs
and transfer from the active inventory.
Aerospace Vehicle Termination— Aerospace vehicles that have been removed from the AF
active or inactive inventory (i.e., crashed, not economically feasible to repair, reclaimed,
disposed of, transferred to another service or DoD activity, or donated to the NMUSAF).
Attrition Reserve (AR)— Aircraft procured for the specific purpose of replacing the anticipated
losses of aircraft because of peacetime and/or wartime attrition.
Backup Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (BAI)— Aircraft above the primary mission inventory to
permit scheduled and unscheduled depot level maintenance, modifications, inspections and
repair and certain other mitigating circumstances without reduction of aircraft available for the
assigned mission. Other mitigating circumstances may include specialized maintenance
requirements, medium duration home station modifications, and unique squadron sizing and
location.
Bailment— Aircraft furnished to and under the controlling and physical custody of a non-
government organization pursuant to the requirements of a government contract. Purpose
Identifier Codes EB, ED, DN, VN, and XU.
Drone— A land, sea, or air vehicle that is remotely or automatically controlled.
Foreign Military Sales— That portion of United States security assistance authorized by the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, as
amended. This assistance differs from the Military Assistance Program and the International
Military Education and Training Program in that the recipient provides reimbursement for
defense articles and services transferred. Also called FMS (Purpose Identifier Code XT).
Lease— Military aircraft provided to agencies and organizations outside the Federal
Government on a temporary basis. Purpose Identifier Code XY.
Loan— Military aircraft provided to other Federal Government departments and agencies on a
temporary basis. Purpose Identifier Code NY.
Maintenance Training— Aircraft employed for ground training which do not require airborne
operations. Purpose Identifier Codes EJ, TX.
Primary Aerospace Vehicle Authorization (PAA)— The number of aircraft authorized to a
unit for performance of its operational mission. The primary authorization forms the basis for the
allocation of operating resources to include manpower, support equipment, and flying-hour
funds.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                 37


Primary Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PAI)— The aircraft assigned to meet the primary
aircraft authorization. Includes PMAI, PTAI, PDAI and POAI.
Primary Development/Test Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PDAI)— Aircraft assigned
primarily for testing of the aircraft or its components for purposes of research, development, test
and evaluation, operational test and evaluation, or support for testing programs. Purpose
Identifier Codes CB, EI, and EH.
Primary Mission Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PMAI)— Aircraft assigned to a unit for
performance of its wartime mission. Purpose Identifier Codes CC, CA, and IF.
Primary Other Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (POAI)— Aircraft required for special missions
not elsewhere classified. Purpose Identifier Codes CF, ZA, and ZB.
Primary Training Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (PTAI)— Aircraft required primarily for
technical and specialized training for crew personnel or leading to aircrew qualification. Purpose
Identifier Code TF.
Reclamation— Aircraft removed from operational service due to damage, depreciation,
administrative decision, or completion of projected service life.
Reclamation Insurance Type— Aircraft set aside for potential future parts reclamation.
Typically aircraft in RIT have already been reclaimed and terminated from the Air Force
inventory.
Storage— Aircraft removed from the active inventory and held in a preserved condition.
Purpose Identifier Codes XS, XT, XV, and XX. Can at times be referenced by T.O. 1-1-686
definition of 1000 (XS/XT), 2000 (XV) or 4000 (XX).
Total Active Inventory (TAI)— Aircraft assigned to operating forces for mission, training, test,
or maintenance functions. Sum total of PAI + BAI + AR.
Total Inactive Inventory (TII)— Aircraft in storage, bailment, loan or lease outside the defense
establishment, used as Government Furnished Property, or otherwise not available for military
service.
Total Overall Aerospace Vehicle Inventory (TOAI)— The sum of TAI and TII.
Unmanned Aerial System (UAS)— That system whose components include the necessary
equipment, network, and personnel to control a remotely piloted aircraft.
 38                                             AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


                                   Attachment 2
         TERMINOLOGY FOR AIRCRAFT INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

Figure A2.1. Terminology for Aircraft Inventory Management
 AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                                                               39


                                                             Attachment 3
                                 ASSIGNMENT PURPOSE IDENTIFIER CODES

 Figure A3.1. ASSIGNMENT PURPOSE IDENTIFIER CODES
1. Active Inventory. (AFI 21-103 Attachment 17)
Code       Short Title                            Data Code Definition
CA         Combat Support                         Direct support of units engaged in conflict
CB         Combat Tactics OT&E                    Developing, improving, or evaluating operational employment ability (OT&E)
CC         Combat                                 Delivering munitions or destructive material against or engaged in direct contact with enemy
                                                  forces
CF        Combat Auxiliary Support                Aerospace vehicles assigned or possessed to accomplish essential functions that cannot be
                                                  performed economically in the primary aerospace vehicles of combat and combat support
                                                  units.
EH        Test Support                            Participation in test programs
EI        Test                                    Complete systems evaluation or testing to improve the capabilities of the weapon system
IF        Industrial Fund                         Assigned by AMC for the accomplishment of weapon system program manager operations
                                                  for airlift service
TF        Training                                Student training, combat crew training or dissimilar air combat training or combat crew
                                                  training
ZA        Special Activity                        Special Missions (e.g., Aerial Demonstration, Embassy Liaison, Presidential Support)
ZB        Operational Support                     Air Force directed support airlift during peacetime contingencies and wartime. (e.g., priority
                                                  personnel or cargo)
2. Inactive Inventory.
Code        Short Title                           Data Code Definition
DN          Depot Assignment                      Depot level work resulting in an MDS change. Aerospace vehicles in this category will be
                                                  reported as both assigned and possessed by AFMC.
EB        Contractor Test/Test Support            Aerospace Vehicles provided to contractors as Government Furnished Property (GFP) in
                                                  support of a prime Air Force contract. These aerospace vehicles will be utilized for complete
                                                  system evaluation testing to improve the capabilities of the designated aerospace vehicle
                                                  support of specific test programs or production support.
ED        Prototype Test                          Unaccepted prototype experimental or preproduction aerospace vehicles procured and
                                                  utilized in support of a prime Air Force contract when conditions of acceptance are
                                                  contingent upon contractor achievement of a specified milestone. Aerospace vehicles in this
                                                  category are assigned for overall inventory accounting purposes only.
EJ        Ground Test                             Non-flying ground test of the vehicle or system.
NY        Non-Appropriated Fund                   On loan to USAF non-appropriated funds activities (e.g., aero clubs).
TA        Training Aid Aircraft Inactive          Aerospace Vehicle normally with a G prefix permanently assigned or possessed for ground
                                                  training objectives. Non-flyable aerospace vehicle, that at a minimum, utilizes the fuselage
                                                  of an aircraft that was in the AF Inventory to accomplish training objectives. Minimal
                                                  maintenance is required for systems and subsystems in use.
TJ        Ground Instruction Active               Trainer and temporarily assigned or possessed aerospace trainers and temporarily assigned
                                                  aerospace vehicles used for ground instruction purposes.
TX        Ground Instruction Inactive             Non-flyable aerospace vehicle specifically for ground instruction. Will usually have a G
                                                  prefix to the MDS.
VN        Contract Work - MDS Change              Contract Work Resulting in MDS Change: Aerospace vehicles on contract to a civilian
                                                  facility for the performance of vehicle modification or instrumentation resulting in Mission-
                                                  Design-Series (MDS) change. Aerospace vehicles in this category will be reported as both
                                                  assigned and possessed by AFMC.
XD        Excess Disposal                         Inactive aerospace vehicles which are excess to all DOD needs with no preservation of
                                                  airframe and engines (309 AMARG 4000 type storage). Aircraft will be reclaimed upon
                                                  designation to XD, unless programmed reclamation was previously accomplished, normally
                                                  upon placement into XX or unless the Air Force Reclamation Program Manager waives
                                                  reclamation. Weapon System PM can direct priority reclamation, as required. Components
                                                  and repair parts are not excess until DoD programmed reclamation requirements have been
                                                  satisfied. After programmed reclamation, the aircraft will be processed for disposal
XR        Inactivated Aerospace Vehicle           Removed from operational service due to damage, depreciation, administrative decision, or
                                                  completion of projected service life. Requires AF/A8P approval.
XS        Inviolate Storage                       Stored in anticipation of specific future AF operational requirements. Parts may only be
                                                  removed with approval of AF/A4L and only if serviceable replacement parts are ordered. If
                                                  parts are removed, the Weapon System PM and engine PM will take concurrent action to
                                                  acquire serviceable replacements, which need not be reinstalled, but must be earmarked for
                                                  the specific aerospace vehicles from which removed (parts must be collocated at the
                                                  installation the aerospace vehicle is stored). AF/A4L is the approval authority for any parts
                                                  not stored at 309 AMARG. If it is not feasible to acquire replacement parts, the Weapon
                                                  System PM will submit a waiver request to AF/A4L or a request to reclassify the aircraft to
     40                                                                            AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014

                                                  another storage category to AF/A8PB. Aerospace vehicles or trainers will not be moved to
                                                  “XS” until all replacement parts are acquired to restore the aerospace vehicle to a flyable
                                                  condition. Aerospace vehicles are under the authority of HAF.
XT         Security Assistance (SAP) Hold         Inactive aerospace vehicles or trainers stored in anticipation of specific future SAP
           Storage.                               requirements for transfer to foreign governments either as a foreign military sale (FMS) or at
                                                  no cost as excess defense articles (EDA). Aerospace vehicles and trainers in this category are
                                                  excess to DoD needs as flyable aircraft, but may not be excess to DoD spare parts or
                                                  component requirements. Aerospace vehicles in this category will normally be prepared for a
                                                  storage period in excess of 90 days and in a manner which will provide maximum aircraft
                                                  preservation (309 AMARG 1000 type storage). The Weapon System PM may initiate
                                                  selected parts removal on input to storage, and priority parts removal during storage, without
                                                  action to acquire or replace the removed parts. Since SAF/IA expects aerospace vehicles and
                                                  trainers made available for sale to be whole, the Weapon System PM will coordinate parts
                                                  removal actions with SAF/IA and AF/A8PB through AF/A4LY. Acquisition of replacement
                                                  parts will be initiated if the aircraft is reclassified to “XS” or designated for withdrawal in
                                                  other than “as is, where is” condition. Before aerospace vehicles and trainers in the category
                                                  may be offered for transfer as EDA (Foreign Assistance Act (FAA) Section 516, 517, 519,
                                                  etc.), AF/A4LY will coordinate with AF/A4R to determine if DoD spare parts or components
                                                  must be removed to support DoD needs as required by Federal Property Management
                                                  Regulations (41 CFR 101-43.102) and DoD policy (DoD 4160.21-M).
XU         Contractor Other                       Aerospace vehicles or trainers provided to approved USAF contractors as government
                                                  furnished property for other than RDT&E purposes. Aerospace vehicles in this category will
                                                  be reported as both assignment and possession codes.
XV         USAF Storage (Note 1)                  Inactive aerospace vehicles or trainers stored to provide spare parts and components for the
                                                  remaining operational mission aircraft. Aerospace vehicles and trainers in the category will
                                                  normally be prepared for a storage period in excess of 90 days and preserved in a manner that
                                                  will minimize expenditure of resources while maintaining components and parts in a
                                                  reclaimable condition (2000 type storage). The Weapon System PM may direct selected
                                                  parts removal on input to storage, and priority removals during storage, with no parts
                                                  procurement or replacement action required unless the aircraft are recategorized to “XS” or
                                                  designated for withdrawal in other than “as is, where is” condition. Aerospace vehicles or
                                                  trainers in this category are not excess to DoD requirements. When XV aircraft remain in
                                                  this storage category for an extended period of time and extensive priority parts removals
                                                  have occurred, the Weapon System PM should consider moving the aerospace vehicle into
                                                  programmed reclamation. PMs must review their rationales for holding aircraft in XV status
                                                  and justify their assumptions in the annual Migration Plan.
XX         Excess Storage (Note 1)                Inactive aerospace vehicles or trainers placed in short term economical storage with no
                                                  preservation of airframe and engines (309 AMARG 4000 type storage). AF/A8PB will
                                                  ensure aircraft in this category are excess to DOD operational needs and place them on a
                                                  reclamation project upon transfer to this storage category. After reclamation the Weapon
                                                  System PM will direct they be placed into Reclamation Insurance Type (RIT) or processed
                                                  for disposal. The PM may direct selected parts removal upon input to storage and priority
                                                  removals during RIT storage with no parts procurement or replacement action required unless
                                                  the aircraft are re-categorized to XS or designated for withdrawal in other than “as is, where
                                                  is” condition. Components and repair parts are not excess until DoD reclamation
                                                  requirements have been satisfied. Aircraft remain in this category until AF/A8PB or the
                                                  Weapon System PM directs disposal or other disposition.
XY         Lease/Loan                             Aerospace vehicles or trainers on lease to commercial agencies or loaned to other
                                                  governmental agencies for accomplishment of tests or other projects.

YZ         National Museum of the USAF,            Aerospace vehicles assigned to the National Museum of the USAF (NMUSAF), Aircraft
           ABDR, & Non - USAF REMIS                Battle Damage Repair (ABDR), non-USAF agencies (e.g., USA, USN, EDA, FMS, ONA).
           Accountability Only                     Not to be used for foreign government owned (FGO/GAF) aircraft under USAF operational
                                                   control.
Note 1: Aircraft Engines: When aircraft are assigned to a storage category other than XS or XT, the engines assigned to those aircraft are
available to the AF Engine Manager for use as whole engines or for parts support. The Weapon System PM shall notify the applicable engine
PM of these types of assignments/transfers.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                                                                41


                                                              Attachment 4
           EXCESS REQUEST FOR AIRCRAFT DISPOSITION WEBSITE SAMPLE

Figure A4.1. EXCESS REQUEST FOR AIRCRAFT DISPOSITION WEBSITE SAMPLE
Sample: Aircraft disposition request on disposition website (https://www.acdisposition.hq.af.mil/) The disposition website is intended to be
primarily accessed by MAJCOM AVDOs. Migration Planning data can be found in on the SharePoint website
(https://www.intelink.gov/sites/a8pb/wss/default.aspx ).

STATUS: Active to Inactive

TRACKING NUMBER: 7142-04

REQUESTOR: Capt John Doe

NAME: Mr. Joe Smith

ORGANIZATION: ANG/A4MM-AVDO

GAINING PROGRAM ELEMENT CODE: 0708016F

GAINING PURPOSE CODE: XV

SOURCE: ANG

FINAL RECIPIENT: MTC (309 AMARG)

SUBJECT: F-16 Battle Damage

REQUEST JUSTIFICATION: Subject aircraft sustained significant battle damage from enemy fire during a close air support mission over
Miami in December 02. Losing this aircraft will not adversely affect fleet sustainment. HQ ACC/A5 concurs with HQ ACC/A4
recommendation to not fix this aerospace vehicle, cann parts, and ship to 309 AMARG.

MDS, TAIL NUMBER (S/N), AND BASE LOCATION: F-16/81-XXXX/Homestead.

AIRCRAFT CONDITION/AIRFRAME HOURS: Aircraft is currently located at Homestead AFRB being packed and crated for shipment by
boat to 309 AMARG.

LIST OF SPECIAL MODIFICATIONS: There are about 100 total T-2 modifications installed on this aircraft. If required, one can be provided.

SPECIAL NONSTANDARD EQUIPMENT ITEMS INSTALLED: Most installed nonstandard equipment items are part of the installed T-2
modifications. The exceptions are the installation of Falcon Up/SLIP (Service Life Improvement Program), and Falcon Star structural Time
Compliance Technical Order (TCTO).

ESTIMATED COSTS TO RETURN THE VEHICLE TO STANDARD CONFIGURATION: The estimate that follows is based on the cost of a
full paint at Ogden Depot and the estimated hours provided by CFT (see attachment) minus 1276 hours for paint and bead blast (touch up
only). Estimate based on the Ogden Depot doing the work and not CFT. The Ogden Depot hourly rate of $117.66 was used for the calculation.

Ogden Depot paint: 1500 hours x $117.66 = $176,490.00; Includes In/Out Processing, Pylons, repairs, Wheel wells and 200 hours of safety of
flight Over & Above. The material cost associated with paint is included within the price, however it does not include major material cost. E.G.
major structural component found defective when paint is removed.

CFT Estimate: 3250 hours + 250 hours = 3500 x $117.66 = $411810.00

Depot Paint:         $176490.00
CFT Estimate: $411810.00
Estimated Total*: $586500

*Does not include the cost of parts that need replacing due to damage or cannibalization--numerous parts were cannibalized by the deployed unit
including the gun.

LISTING OF TCTO THAT ARE NEEDED TO RETURN THE AIRCRAFT TO A STANDARD CONFIGURATION: 1F-16-1404, 1735, 1825,
1832, 1910, 1947, 2034, 2059, 2060, 2080, 2131, 2183.

ESTIMATED DATE EXCESS VEHICLE WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR DISPOSITION/TRANSFER: As soon as possible, NLT 25 Mar 07.

RECOMMENDED DISPOSITION: Request that 81-XXXX be transferred from combat coded (CC) to excess (XX) for the purposes of
 42                                                                                 AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014

reclamation. Upon approval of mission change by AF/A8P, we would like this aircraft placed on a reclamation project. The wings will be pulled
in support of the F-16 FALCON STAR.

REMARKS: If the aircraft is transferred to another agency or museum, an agreement outlining the aircraft’s acceptable deliverable configuration
would have to be negotiated prior to transfer. In the event the aircraft is transferred to a museum, request is made for a waiver to be granted for
compliance of phase, time changes, or TCTO requirements. If required, a complete save list will be provided after disposition of the aircraft has
been decided.

POINTS OF CONTACT:

REQUESTOR: Mr/Ms AVDO/MAJCOM/Office Symbol/DSN Phone (Normally the command AVDO)

REQUESTING DIVISION CHIEF (0-6 OR EQUIVALENT): Col Smith, MAJCOM /Office/DSN Phone

LEAD COMMAND AVDO: Current AVDO/MAJCOM/Office Symbol/DSN Phone

Weapon System PM, Weapon System Program Office (PO), or Weapon System Program Director (PD): Weapons System PM/MAJCOM/Office
Symbol/DSN Phone.

FORCE PROGRAMMER: Current HAF Force Programmer/Office Symbol/DSN Phone

OTHERS: Title/Name/Office/Phone
 AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                                    43


                                                 Attachment 5
         AF FORM 913 COMMON TERM CROSSWALK AND PROJECT NUMBER
                              ASSIGNMENT

 Figure A5.1. AF Form 913 Common Term Crosswalk and Project Number Assignment
Purpose ID      USAF Storage Project Codes   Commonly                Used         T.O. 1-1-686
Codes                                        Terms                                Preservation Terms
XS              STS-xx-xxx                   Inviolate                            Type 1000
XT              STT-xx-xxx                   FMS/SAP Hold                         Type 1000
XV              STV-xx-xxx                   Potential Reclamation                Type 2000
XX              STX-xx-xxx                   Excess                               Type 4000
XD              STD-xx-xxx                   Excess Disposal                      Type 4000

PROJECT NUMBER ASSIGNMENT
Prefixes                      Fiscal Year and Aircraft Type     Fiscal Year Sequential        Eight Digit Project
                              Assignment                        Number                        Number
STS                           7A – 2007/Attack                  001 – 999                     STS-7A-001
STT                           7B – 2007/Bomber                  001 – 999                     STT-7B-010
STV                           7C – 2007/Cargo                   001 – 999                     STV-7C-012
STX                           7O – 2007/Observation             001 – 999                     STX-7O-065
STD                           7Q-2007/Remotely Piloted          001 - 999                     STD-7Q-091
                              Aircraft
FMS – Foreign Military Sales  7T – 2007/Trainer                 001 – 999                     FMS-7T-076
AFM – NMUSAF                  7F – 2007/Fighter                 001 – 999                     AFM-7F-089
RCL – Reclamation             7M – 2007/Missile                 001 – 999                     RCL-7M-098
MTC – AFMC                    7H - 2007/Helicopter              001 – 999                     MTC-7H-104
ONA – Other National Agencies
Outside DoD, NASA, CIA, GSA
etc
USA – US Army
USN – US Navy
USC – US Coast Guard
SPC – AFSPC
SOC – AFSOC
AFE – USAFE
PAF – PACAF
ACC – ACC
AMC – AMC
AFR – Air Force Reserve
ANG – Air National Guard
AET - AETC
GBS – AFGSC
 44                                                                                                     AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


                                                                                Attachment 6
                                                            DISPOSITION PLAN SAMPLE

Figure A6.1. Disposition Plan Sample

                                                                     FYXX DISPOSITION PLAN
                               FYXX Project Retirement Category            Number of Aircraft in Storage End of FYXX                     FYXX
           Ret Ret                                   Total Induction                                  Maintain-in ** Repres     FYXX Disposal Prep
MDS        FYXX XY        XS XT XV XX TX Other             Cost      XS XS* XT XV XX Total               Cost        Cost        XD      Cost      FYXX Total Cost




                                                      KEY                                                       108   3623508
XS: Type 1000 storage, the highest level of storage (Inviolate).                                              62640    946492
XS*: Type 1500 storage, represervation is only performed once.
XT: Type 1000 storage, held for FMS program.                                                                          4570000
XV: Type 2000 storage, held for future parts removal.
XX: Type 4000 storage, lowest level of storage, parts reclamation.
XD: Type 4000 storage and has been authorized reclamation and for disposal.
TX/TA: Ground Instructional Training Aircraft (GITA)
                                                     Notes:
** Repres Cost - Represerving storage cost is computed by using AF FYXX represerving costs at AMARG /
multiply by the number of aircraft in XS and XT storage then divided by 4

Other: Retiring aircraft will be screened to confirm requirements: Museum, Lease, Loan etc.
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                                                             45


                                                             Attachment 7
                            PARTS REMOVAL APPROVAL LETTER SAMPLE

Figure A7.1. Parts Removal Approval Letter Sample
 MEMORANDUM FOR AF/A4LY

 FROM: Program Office

 SUBJECT: Request for Parts Removal from MDS (A-10, for example) Aircraft in Type 1000 Storage at Aerospace Maintenance
 Regeneration Group (309 AMARG)

 1.    Request approval to remove X (number) each of the following part from aircraft which is/are currently in XS storage at 309 AMARG
       to support current MICAPs and/or Depot aircraft work stoppages:
       MDS: A-10 (example)
       Tail Number: 81-0001 (example)
       Noun: Aft Nose Landing Gear Door (example)
       NSN: 1560010349013FJ (example)
       P/N: 160D136171-1 (example)
       Quantity: 2 (example)
       Payback: October 06 (example)
       MICAPs: 1 (example)
      Work Stoppages: 1 (example)
       Monthly Demand Rate: .7 (example)

 2.    Justification: (What is the supply problem and reason for not pulling from aircraft in Type 2000, 3000 or 4000 storage at 309 AMARG)
       The Hill AFB depot repair shop is currently experiencing work stoppage due to lack of -93 pans. Delivery is dependent upon the first
       article passing and the delivery following within 90 days. In addition, these doors are trimmed to fit and we have exhausted all of the
       larger doors from the 126 aircraft in pick-and-pull at 309 AMARG. (example)

 3.    Payback: We are also working on a redesign of the door. The prototype is to be completed in July and then it will have to go through
       FAT. The item manager, (ORG/OFFICE SYMBOL/NAME) estimates he won't be able to get an NSN assigned and on contract before
       the end of FY05. These new redesigned doors will be used for payback unless repaired doors are available for issue. (example)

       If payback of part will not occur, include evaluation/rationale for keeping aerospace vehicle in type 1000 storage.




 4.    If there are any questions or comments, please contact SM (name/org/DSN).

                                                                                 SIGNATURE BLOCK
 NOTES: Send to “AF/A4LY Workflow”


 PARTS REMOVAL APPROVAL LETTER SAMPLE

 TO: SM

 1st IND, AF/A4L

 This action has been coordinated with AF/A8P. Request for parts removal is Approved/Disapproved. A copy of this memo must be
 submitted to 309 AMARG along with the Form 44 priority removal request, to the Item Manager. A copy or the approval must be
 maintained by the program office and the 309 AMARG until part is replaced or the donor aircraft is/are transferred from XS 1000 storage.




                                                                                 SIGNATURE BLOCK
 46                                                                                 AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014


                                                              Attachment 8
                    TRANSFER MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT TEMPLATE

Figure A8.1. Transfer Memorandum of Agreement Template
                                              MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
                                                        BETWEEN
                                      UNITED STATES AIR FORCE (ENTER MAJCOM HERE)
                                                          AND
                            AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND and/or AIR NATIONAL GUARD (As appropriate)
                                       FOR THE TEMPORARY TRANSFER OF AIRCRAFT

1. PURPOSE. This Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) outlines the major responsibilities and actions required for aircraft transfer between
ENTER THE ARC and MAJCOM INFORMATION HERE.

2. AUTHORITIES. 10 U.S.C. § 8013; Title 10 U.S.C., Subtitle E, Parts I & II; Title 32 U.S.C., Chapter 1 (USE ONLY FOR ANG
TRANSFERS). The contents of this MOA are consistent with Title 10 U.S.C. §8062 notes. Possession only transfer is authorized by AFI 16-402,
Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and Termination, paragraph 4.4.3.

3. PARTIES/SIGNATORIES. This agreement shall be executed by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), the Director, Air National
Guard, and/or the Commander, Air Force Reserve Command. The CSAF represents the equitable interest of ENTER AFFECTED MAJCOM,
taking into account the interests of the Active and Reserve Components.

4. PARTICIPANT ORGANIZATIONS. The Signatories shall execute this agreement for the temporary transfer of ENTER ARC HERE
aircraft to the active component on behalf of the following participating organizations.

  a. The supported (receiving) active duty organization is ENTER MAJCOM HERE

  b. The supporting (providing) ARC organizations is/are: ENTER ARC UNIT(S) INFO HERE

5. BACKGROUND. ENTER PERTINENT INFORMATON TO EXPLAIN SITUATION LEADING UP TO THE NEED FOR THE TRANSFER

6. OBJECTIVES. This MOA supports achievement of the following objective(s):

    a.    ENTER INFORMATION TO EXPLAIN WHAT OBJECTIVES THIS TRANSFER ENABLES

    b.   ENTER SECOND OBJECTIVE HERE, CONTINUE WITH PARAGRAPH C FOR THIRD OBJECTIVE, ETC.

7. RESPONSIBILITIES.

    a.   GENERAL. The Director ANG and/or AFRC/CC, and MAJCOM/CC HERE are mutually responsible for ensuring appropriate
         budgeting, funding, programming, administering, and executing the responsibilities and activities described herein, in coordination with
         each other. Each will ensure, in coordination with SAF/FM, all present and future budgets accurately reflect the responsibilities
         assigned under this agreement. All participants shall comply with AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting,
         possession reporting requirements.

    b.   SUPPORTED ACTIVE DUTY ORGANIZATION. MAJCOM HERE shall, consistent with Annex A and terms below, take
         temporary possession of the identified ANG/AFRC aircraft. For the period it is in temporary possession of an aircraft, MAJCOM HERE
         shall bear all responsibilities associated with delivery, operation, maintenance and return of the aircraft. These responsibilities include
         budgeting, funding, programming and administering aircraft operations and maintenance. Furthermore, MAJCOM HERE shall take the
         lead in ensuring that AF budget planning and execution properly reflects the mission responsibilities of the participants under this
         MOA.

    c.   SUPPORTING ANG/AFRC ORGANIZATION(S). The ANG/AFRC shall make the aircraft identified in Annex A available to
         ACTIVE MAJCOM HERE as specified.

8. AIRCRAFT.

   a. Number of aircraft and location(s) from which they will be temporarily transferred:
      ENTER THE NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT HERE, THE LOCATIONS OF THE BASES THEY
      ARE COMING FROM, AND WHEN THE TRANSFER WILL START AND STOP

   b. Possession of aircraft: All AFRC/ANG (as appropriate) aircraft will remain permanently
      assigned to their respective components. Temporary possession of the aircraft will pass to
      the ENTER ACTIVE COMPONENT WING HERE (ADD MAJCOM HERE). Responsibility
      for ensuring appropriate day-to-day maintenance, scheduling and utilization will be
      exercised by ENTER THE SUPPORTED COMMAND HERE, to facilitate efficient
AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014                                                                       47

     operation and maintenance consistent with normal Air Force procedures.

  c. Schedule for return of aircraft to unit of assignment: Aircraft will return to the unit (s) of
     assignment by ENTER DATE(S) HERE ALONG WITH ANY OTHER PERTINENT
     INFORMATION FOR THE RETURN SCHEDULE.

  d. Description of aircraft condition, including estimated remaining service life when returns
     to the unit of assignment: ATTACH AN ANNEX WITH A TABLE

9. MAINTENANCE.

  a. Field-level maintenance functions (e.g., hourly/phase inspections) and any unprogrammed
     depot maintenance, and/or operation-specific modifications (and associated costs with
     returning aircraft to pre-modification configuration) generated as a result of the transfer
     will be scheduled, executed and funded by the supported active duty command. Prior to
     aircraft return to unit of assignment, inspections having exceeded over 50% of their
     inspection interval will be accomplished IAW Technical Order 00-20-1, paragraph 8.1.8.

  b. Programmed depot maintenance and/or modification requirements will be funded by the
     command of assignment, consistent with funds appropriated to that command for that
     purpose.

10. FUNDING.

  a. Each party to this agreement is independently responsible for budgeting, funding and
     executing the responsibilities described herein. However, all commitments made in this
     MOA are subject to the availability of appropriated funds. Nothing in this Agreement, in
     and of itself, requires the participants to expend or obligate appropriations.

  b. Any endeavor involving reimbursement or contribution of funds between the participants
     to this MOA will be handled in accordance with DoDI 4000.19, and will be subject to
     separate subsidiary support agreements with reimbursements executed via Military
     Interdepartmental Purchase Requests.

11. IMPACT ON ANG/AFRC (as applicable).

  a. Effects on manpower for locations from which aircraft are transferred: There will be no
      effect on manpower for locations from which the aircraft are transferred. Units will
      retain current manpower authorizations in support of current mission requirements. (USE
      THIS PROVIDED STATEMENT IF THERE ARE NO NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON
     MANPOWER. IF THERE ARE NEGATIVE EFFECTS, ELIMINATE THE PROVIDED
     STATEMENT AND INSTEAD DESCRIBE THE EFFECTS IN THIS PARAGRAPH).

  b. Effects on skills and proficiency of ARC personnel affected by the transfer of aircraft:
     There will be no adverse effects anticipated on the skills and proficiency of ANG/AFRC
     (as applicable) personnel affected by the transfer. (USE THIS PROVIDED STATEMENT
     IF THERE ARE NO NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON SKILLS/PROFICIENCIES. IF THERE
     ARE NEGATIVE EFFECTS, ELIMINATE THE PROVIDED STATEMENT AND INSTEAD
     DESCRIBE THE EFFECTS IN THIS PARAGRAPH).

12. AGREEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.

  a. This Agreement is to take effect upon signature of all Parties. This Agreement may be
     amended at any time by mutual written consent of the Parties.

  b. This Agreement will be reviewed by the participants annually. It will remain in effect
     unless modified, it is determined the mission is completed, or, upon annual review, one or
     both parties determine the agreement is no longer necessary.

  c. This agreement may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties or 180 days after
     written notice of termination issued by a party/signatory.

  d. To the extent that the terms of any prior agreement within the Air Force, including any
     agreement between the components of the Air Force, may be inconsistent with the terms of
     this Agreement, this Agreement will take precedence.

  e. The participants to this agreement (MAJCOM AND ARC HERE) may enter into bi-lateral
     agreements not inconsistent with the terms of this MOA, and are encouraged to do so at
     the lowest appropriate level.
 48                                                                                 AFI16-402_ACCSUP_I 7 APRIL 2014

  f. Any concerns or disputes should be resolved by the participant at the lowest possible level.
     However, where matters may not be amicably resolved, they shall be elevated through the
     respective chains of command as required for resolution. If matters cannot be resolved by
     the participants, they shall be raised to the Parties/Signatories for final resolution.




__________________________Date:_____ and/or            ________________________Date:_____
AFRC/CC NAME HERE                                                 DANG NAME HERE
Commander, Air Force Reserve Command                   Director, Air National Guard




                                            ______________________________ Date:_____
                                            CSAF NAME HERE
                                            General, USAF
                                            Commander


Attachment:
ANNEX A- Aircraft Information
