BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-135
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 22 MAY 2014

                                                                                   Intelligence

                                                  INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND
                                                  RECONNAISSANCE (ISR) ENTERPRISE
                                                       IMAGE QUALITY VERIFICATION
                                                                  PROGRAM (EIQVP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2CJ                                                             Certified by: AF/A2C
                                                                    (Maj Gen Morris E. Haase)
                                                                                     Pages: 13




This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance Planning Resources and Operations and is consistent with DoDD 5105.60,
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) and DoDI 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence
(GEOINT). The purpose of this publication is to establish procedures for sustaining ISR imaging
sensors and associated data processing, data transmission, and display systems throughout their
programmed life cycle, and optimizing image quality (IQ) through the entire image chain. This
publication applies to Active Duty (AD), Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard (ANG),
and Department of the Air Force (AF) Civilians. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS). Submit change recommendations using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Units may request
waivers for tiered compliance items IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
AF/A2C is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted
through the chain of command to the publication OPR.


1. OVERVIEW
2                                                                     AFI14-135 22 May 2014


    1.1. The Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Enterprise Image Quality
    Verification Program (EIQVP). The ISR EIQVP provides the framework to establish and
    incorporate, as applicable, technical standards based on current industry "best practices"
    imaging and video benchmark quality standards for an end-to-end Image Quality (IQ)
    program, applicable to imaging sensors and their associated data processing, data
    transmission, and display systems throughout their programmed life cycle, and optimize IQ
    through the entire image chain. ISR EIQVP is a comprehensive program established to
    ensure consistent IQ is delivered from sensor to the imagery analyst.
    1.2. ISR EIQVP Applicability. This publication applies to traditional airborne ISR
    platforms; this includes, but is not limited to imaging sensors on: U-2, RQ-4, MQ-1, MQ-9,
    and MC-12. This publication does not apply to imaging capability (e.g. SAR) on Battle
    Management Command and Control (BMC2) e.g. E-8C; fighters, bombers or non-traditional
    ISR (NTISR) assets. ISR EIQVP covers sensor output from electro-optical (EO), infrared
    (IR), synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and film-based sensors; full-motion video (FMV) and
    wide-area motion imagery (WAMI); Advanced Geospatial Imagery collection (e.g., multi-
    and hyperspectral, thermal infrared imaging and advanced SAR processing); and transport
    and processing, exploitation, and dissemination (PED). The ISR EIQVP applies to the
    identified systems from fielding through sunset including those designated as Quick Reaction
    Capabilities (QRCs).
    1.3. Image Quality (IQ) Components. The process used to ensure consistently high IQ
    from sensor to analyst is referred to as Image Chain Analysis (ICA). ICA includes the
    subcategories of Sensor and Downlink/Relay Assessment, and Transport and PED
    Assessment.
       1.3.1. ICA is the continuous and systematic assessment and evaluation of IQ throughout
       the entire image chain. This includes establishing baseline system performance
       parameters (metrics), continuously monitoring performance as part of test, evaluation,
       and fielding processes, and evaluation of IQ at each node in the image chain (utility
       measures). ICA is a process that can be used for sensor design, validation, and
       confirmation during operations. Balanced metrics are required for all elements in the
       chain and should be considered/refined during development and upgrades. The image
       chain can be separated into a sensor and downlink/relay segment and a transport and PED
       segment.
       1.3.2. Sensor and Downlink/Relay Assessment is the regular calibration and checkout
       procedures designed to ensure that IQ is optimized from the sensor through the downlink
       to the last node within the relay chain. This includes component performance
       parameters; sensor maintenance; original equipment manufacturer standards; calibration
       requirements; establishing baseline standards, to include the adoption of DoD, NATO,
       and industry best practices for image data transport nodes, including encoding,
       compression, and data encryption sub systems; and IQ reporting metrics and procedures.
       1.3.3. Transport and PED Assessment is the regular calibration and checkout procedures
       designed to ensure that the highest IQ, with the least amount of image data degradation is
       transported, processed, exploited, and disseminated. This includes establishing baseline
       standards, to include the adoption of DoD, NATO, and industry best practices for image
       data transport nodes, including encoding, compression, and data encryption sub systems;
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                                                        3


     workstation setup; initial and routine calibration; PED network hardware and software
     configuration and calibration; the exploitation environment; analyst products; and
     reporting metrics and procedures.
2. DETAILED ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
  2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
  (AF/A2). AF/A2 is the ISR EIQVP Functional Manager and ensures AF-validated IQ
  requirements are pursued through policy and funding.
  2.2. Director of Intelligence,      Surveillance,    and    Reconnaissance      Capabilities
  (AF/A2C). AF/A2C, will:
     2.2.1. Provide functional and subject-matter expertise for programming, budgeting, and
     execution matters.
     2.2.2. Review and address IQ issues that have a broad systematic impact to ISR
     programs and operations.
     2.2.3. Develop and establish policy for IQ and chain performance to ensure compliance
     with DoD IQ standards across all ISR imagery collection platforms, sensors and systems.
     2.2.4. Interface with NGA, the Combatant Commands, Under Secretary of Defense for
     Intelligence [USD(I)], and the other services on all ISR EIQVP matters of policy.
     2.2.5. Interface with allies on ICA, IQ standards, evaluation and assessment for sensor to
     analyst processes.
     2.2.6. Develop and publish, in Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT), a self-
     assessment checklist (SAC) with the unit-level compliance requirements; coordinate on
     major command (MAJCOM) supplements; monitor and assess MICT data from units to
     maintain situational awareness of potential problem areas, IAW AFI 90-201, The Air
     Force Inspection System.
  2.3. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). AFMC is the lead MAJCOM for ensuring
  IQ requirements are incorporated into ISR imaging systems and select transport and
  processing systems during design, development and fielding across the life cycle, as
  assigned. The AF Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) is AFMC’s focal point for the
  analysis of weapon system performance; Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures; Concepts of
  Employment; threat environments; and existing and planned IQ technology. AFMC will:
     2.3.1. Serve as the lead MAJCOM for all ISR EIQVP life cycle management issues and
     provide support for all AF customers who need assistance within the IQ discipline.
     2.3.2. Develop and maintain ISR EIQVP governance processes and charter. The ISR
     EIQVP governance consists of an ISR EIQVP Governance Board, Executive Steering
     Committee (ESC), and standing and ad hoc working groups. Standing working groups
     will include the ICA WG, Sensor and Downlink/Relay WG, Transport and
     Processing/Exploitation WG and others, as required and established by the ESC.
     2.3.3. Ensure comprehensive analysis and documentation of IQ functional requirements
     and provisions of IQ support are evaluated and incorporated for research, development,
     modification, test, and sustainment activities under AFMC management.
4                                                                  AFI14-135 22 May 2014


    2.3.4. Maintain IQ functional requirements and shortfalls for all AF research,
    development, test, and sustainment programs and projects.
    2.3.5. Chair the ICA WG. Members of this WG are drawn from the development and
    operations communities. The ICA WG will focus on optimization of IQ throughout the
    entire ISR imaging chain. Specific responsibilities are detailed in the group’s charter.
    2.3.6. Program resources for sustaining IQ monitoring and ICA programs for the life
    cycle of sensors, carrying platforms, and accompanying platform exploitation ground
    stations.
    2.3.7. Address ICA provisions during appropriate design reviews for systems under
    development and/or undergoing modification and upgrade. This includes manual and/or
    automated systems for monitoring end-to-end IQ and conducting ICA in all new and
    existing sensor and ground-station acquisition programs.
    2.3.8. Utilize mission requirements to derive associated IQ specifications and system
    requirements along with defining IQ degradation thresholds across the entire ISR
    enterprise.
    2.3.9. Develop and establish metrics and tools for measuring IQ performance against
    established IQ specification for both acquisition and sustainment activities to include IQ
    monitoring efforts within the Sensor and Downlink/Relay and Transport and PED
    architectures.
    2.3.10. Develop and maintain image chain models to conduct IQ performance
    simulations to baseline and evaluate ISR enterprise upgrades. Utilize simulations to
    evaluate design and build performance of proposed enterprise modifications against IQ
    error budgets.
    2.3.11. Monitor IQ performance of existing and future ISR imaging systems based on
    operational requirements and standards as specified by the Sensor and Downlink/Relay
    WG and the Transport and PED Assessment WG.
    2.3.12. Incorporate special IQ requirements unique to imagery derived Measurement and
    Signals Intelligence (MASINT) processing and exploitation in system specifications.
    This includes the non-literal aspects of Hyperspectral, multi-spectral, SAR and other
    Advanced Geospatial Imagery (AGI) data.
    2.3.13. Field imagery exploitation workstations and/or software and workstation
    upgrades, as applicable. Ensure imagery exploitation workstations in compliance with
    the most recent version of NGA’s Standardization Document - Display Performance
    Standard and NGA’s Softcopy Image Processing Standard.
    2.3.14. Test to determine a system's IQ variables; create quantifiable, objective, and
    relevant IQ metrics and analysis procedures. This applies to sensor and ground-based
    exploitation systems being developed and fielded systems undergoing refurbishment,
    overhaul, modification, and repair.
    2.3.15. Perform continuous ICA using digital and film imagery samples. Submit
    quarterly reports of findings to the ISR EIQVP ESC. These reports include
    recommended corrective action(s) and an estimate of required resources. Assess and
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                                                     5


     document impact to the ISR imaging chain for prospective modifications and/or upgrades
     to fielded sensor systems and ground-station programs.
     2.3.16. Develop and document procedures and equipment settings, and provide user
     training to ensure IQ is optimized throughout the image chain.
     2.3.17. Develop problem reporting procedures for nodes within the image chain.
     2.3.18. Provide MAJCOM users with:
        2.3.19.1. Training in sensor phenomenology and exploitation as they relate to IQ and
        the satisfaction of Essential Elements of Information (EEIs).
        2.3.19.2. Program office point of contact for image quality matters.
     2.3.20. Develop and recommend strategies to operational units for tasking sensors to
     optimize IQ and maximize the rate of EEI satisfaction.
  2.4. Air Combat Command (ACC). ACC serves as the lead for Sensor and
  Downlink/Relay Assessment. ACC will:
     2.4.1. Utilize ISR EIQVP products and standards to ensure that Combat Air Forces
     (CAF) operational requirements are appropriately addressed and implemented in CAF
     initiatives and programs.
     2.4.2. Utilize ISR EIQVP standards in requirements definition processes supporting
     applicable CAF initiatives and modernization programs.
     2.4.3. Establish standards for regular calibration and checkout procedures for fielded
     sensors and nodes within the downlink/relay chain, pre-mission checklists, and other
     scheduled ICA procedures for incorporation into the appropriate technical orders and/or
     11 series MDS.
     2.4.4. Develop and implement a Service Level Agreements (SLA) with any DoD
     organization or third party involved in the sensor and downlink relay segment of the
     image chain that includes, at a minimum, performance parameters and operations and
     maintenance specifications.
     2.4.5. Ensure Air Force Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
     documents reflect potential IQ requirements.
     2.4.6. Identify IQ attributes as Key System Attributes (KSA)s in new systems Capability
     Development Documents (CDD)s and other requirements documents.                 Mission
     requirements need to drive definition of IQ requirements (i.e., Ground Sample Distance,
     Minimum Resolvable Contrast, Minimum Resolvable Temperature) and technical
     specifications that are generated at the beginning of the requirements definition and
     documentation process.
     2.4.7. Develop and maintain a Sensor and Downlink/Relay Certification and Evaluation
     Program based on established and validated industry standard IQ technical benchmark to
     be administered at the Wing level.
     2.4.8. Prepare a quarterly assessment of the status of ISR imaging sensors and the
     downlink/relay chain within the ACC controlled architecture for the ISR EIQVP
     Executive Steering Committee (ESC).
6                                                                     AFI14-135 22 May 2014


       2.4.9. Develop and maintain compliance assessment standards to evaluate performance
       to be administered at the wing level.
       2.4.10. Participate in ISR EIQVP WGs and other forums, as required.
       2.4.11. Monitor and assess MICT data from units to maintain situational awareness of
       potential problem areas, IAW AFI 90-201.
    2.5. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency (AF ISR
    Agency). AF ISR Agency will:
       2.5.1. Serve as the lead agency for ensuring ISR EIQVP efforts are properly integrated
       and tailored to fit within the Air Force ISR Enterprise (e.g. AF DCGS and NASIC) to
       ensure maximum mission effectiveness. (T-1)
       2.5.2. Serve as the lead for Transport and PED Assessment. (T-1)
       2.5.3. Chair the Transport and PED Assessment WG. This WG oversees the
       development of standards for IQ optimization of Transport and PED systems in
       conjunction with ICA standards. (T-1)
       2.5.4. Establish and conduct calibration and checkout procedures designed to ensure the
       highest IQ with the least amount of degradation in the transport chain and PED sites, to
       include pre-mission checklists, transport equipment calibration, and workstation
       checkout. This includes establishing baseline standards for workstation setup, initial and
       routine calibration; hardware and software configuration and calibration; exploitation
       environment; and reporting metrics and procedures. (T-1)
       2.5.5. Develop and implement a Service Level Agreements (SLA) with any DoD
       organization or third party involved in the transport and PED segment of the image chain
       that includes, at a minimum, performance parameters and operations and maintenance
       specifications. (T-1)
       2.5.6. Ensure Air Force Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
       documents reflect potential IQ requirements. (T-1)
       2.5.7. Identify IQ attributes as Key System Attributes (KSA)s in new systems Capability
       Development Documents (CDD)s and other requirements documents.                 Mission
       requirements need to drive definition of IQ requirements (i.e., Ground Sample Distance,
       Minimum Resolvable Contrast, Minimum Resolvable Temperature) and technical
       specifications that are generated at the beginning of the requirements definition and
       documentation process. (T-1)
       2.5.8. Develop and maintain a Transport and PED Certification and Evaluation Program,
       based on established and validated industry standard IQ technical benchmarks, to be
       administered at the Wing level. (T-1)
       2.5.9. Prepare a quarterly assessment of the status of the Transport and PED chain within
       the Air Force ISR Enterprise architecture for the ISR EIQVP ESC. (T-2)
       2.5.10. Develop and maintain compliance assessment standards to evaluate performance
       to be administered at the wing level. (T-1)
       2.5.11. Participate in ISR EIQVP WGs and other forums, as required. (T-3)
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                                                        7


     2.5.12. Monitor and assess MICT data from units to maintain situational awareness of
     potential problem areas, IAW AFI 90-201. (T-2)
  2.6. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC). AFSOC ensures that ISR EIQVP
  products and standards will allow AFSOC to meet operational requirements and that ISR
  EIQVP-approved processes for IQ and ICA are incorporated into AFSOC programs.
  AFSOC will:
     2.6.1. Participate in the Sensor and Downlink/Relay Assessment WG.
     2.6.2. Participate in the Transport and PED Assessment WG.
     2.6.3. In coordination with ACC, develop sensor calibration and checkout procedures for
     fielded sensors, and pre-mission checklists, and implement other scheduled ICA
     procedures.
     2.6.4. Provide quarterly status assessment of AFSOC ISR imaging sensors to ACC for
     incorporation into the ACC quarterly ISR imaging sensor and downlink/relay chain
     report.
     2.6.5. Develop and maintain a Sensor Certification and Evaluation Program to be
     administered at the unit level.
     2.6.6. Conduct compliance assessments to evaluate unit-level performance.
     2.6.7. Participate in ISR EIQVP WGs and other forums, as required.
     2.6.8. Monitor and assess MICT data from units to maintain situational awareness of
     potential problem areas, IAW AFI 90-201.
  2.7. Air Force Components of Combatant Commands (CCMD), MAJCOMs, Field
  Operating Agencies (FOAs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs). Commanders of these
  organizations will appoint an ISR EIQVP Point of Contact (POC). The ISR EIQVP POC
  shall be sufficiently trained, competent, highly motivated, and capable of developing a
  common understanding of the ISR EIQVP among key personnel to ensure mission success.
  Each organization will:
     2.7.1. Identify a POC to AF/A2C and AFLCMC. POCs will receive emails for alerts or
     IQ-related tasking and coordinate responses from their organization. (T-3)
      2.7.2. Actively coordinate with command operations, plans, training, logistics,
      requirements, inspection, and intelligence staffs. Coordination will ensure doctrine,
      strategy, tactics, logistics, and Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation (RDT&E)
      efforts adequately address IQ functional requirements. (T-2)
      2.7.3. Assist in identifying and fielding new procedures and techniques to facilitate AF-
      generated changes that pertain to IQ. (T-2)
      2.7.4. Ensure data/product reviews are accomplished and provide responses to all AFMC
      IQ product reviews. (T-2)
      2.7.5. Participate in IQ conferences, the ISR EIQVP Community of Interest, working
      groups, and other forums to address matters of mutual concern. (T-2)
 8                                                                    AFI14-135 22 May 2014


        2.7.6. Perform periodic and scheduled image chain equipment calibration and
        maintenance inspections. (T-2)
        2.7.7. Implement scheduled ICA procedures to identify problems associated with image
        processes. (T-2)
        2.7.8. Identify and document imagery system operational issues/deficiencies. (T-2)
        2.7.9. Assess IQ mission impact and include the assessment in post-mission report
        summaries. Provide all findings to MAJCOM-level ISR EIQVP POCs. (T-2)
        2.7.10. Provide ISR EIQVP support to ARC organizations, as required, IAW AFI 10-
        301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces. (T-2)
     2.8. Air National Guard Bureau (ANGB). As applicable, the ANG ensures that ISR
     EIQVP products and standards are consistent with the CAF and AFISRA operational
     requirements and appropriately integrated into ANG initiatives and programs. The ANG
     will:
        2.8.1. In coordination with ACC, conduct regular calibration and checkout procedures
        for fielded sensors and nodes within the downlink/relay chain, pre-mission checklists,
        and other scheduled ICA procedures.
        2.8.2. Implement the ACC-developed Sensor and Downlink/Relay Certification and
        Evaluation Program at the unit level and conduct compliance assessments to evaluate
        performance.
        2.8.3. Coordinate with ACC on ANG inputs to the quarterly assessment of the status of
        ISR imaging sensors and the downlink/relay chain within the ACC/ANG-controlled
        architecture for the ISR EIQVP Executive Steering Committee (ESC).
        2.8.4. In coordination with AFISRA, conduct calibration and checkout procedures
        designed to ensure the highest IQ with the least amount of degradation in the transport
        chain and PED sites, to include pre-mission checklists, transport equipment calibration,
        and workstation checkout. This includes establishing baseline standards for workstation
        setup, initial and routine calibration; hardware and software configuration and
        calibration; exploitation environment; and reporting metrics and procedures.
        2.8.5. Implement the AFISRA-developed transport and PED Certification and
        Evaluation Program at the unit level and conduct compliance assessments to evaluate
        performance.
        2.8.6. Coordinate with AFISRA on ANG inputs to the quarterly assessment of the status
        of the Transport and PED chain within the AFISRA/ANG controlled architecture for the
        ISR EIQVP ESC.
        2.8.7. Participate in ISR EIQVP WGs and other forums, as required.
        2.8.8. Monitor and assess MICT data from units to maintain situational awareness of
        potential problem areas, IAW AFI 90-201.
3. Mandated Compliance. Paragraphs that contain (wing or equivalent, and below, DRU,
FOA) compliance items are identified by the presence of a tier marking following the applicable
sentence or paragraph (i.e., T-2). IAW AFI 33-360, the approving waiver authority is
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                                                         9


determined by the tier level. Commanders/civilian directors of the affected units may request or
document waivers by following the process and limitations IAW AFI 33-360 and AFI 90-201.




                                            ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                            Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 10                                                                AFI14-135 22 May 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces, 16 August 2006
AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 2 August 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDD 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), July 29, 2009
DoDI 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT), December 6, 2011
NGA Standardization Document, Display Performance Standard, Version 3.1, 13 July 2010
NGA Standardization Document, Softcopy Image Processing Standard, Version 2.2S, 3 March
2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AD—Active Duty
AF—Air Force
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A2C—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF ISR Agency—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGB—Air National Guard Bureau
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                         11


ARC—Air Reserve Components
BCM2—Battle Management Command and Control
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CDD—Capability Development Documents
CCMD—Combatant Command
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Units
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIQVP—Enterprise Imagery Quality Verification Program
EO—Electro-optical
ESC—Executive Steering Committee
FMV—Full-motion video
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
ICA—Image Chain Analysis
IR—Infrared
IQ—Image Quality
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
KSA—Key System Attributes
MAJCOM—Major Command
MASINT—Measurement and Signature Intelligence
MICT—Management Internal Control Toolset
NTISR—non-traditional ISR
NGA—National Geospatial Intelligence Agency
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PED—Processing, Exploitation, and Dissemination
POC—Point of Contact
 12                                                                    AFI14-135 22 May 2014


QRC—Quick Reaction Capabilities
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
SAC—Self-Assessment Checklist
SAR—Synthetic Aperture Radar
T-1—Tier 1
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USAF—United States Air Force
USD(I)—Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
WAMI—Wide-area motion imagery
WG—Working Group

Terms
Combat Air Force (CAF)—A collection of Air Force organizations, commands and forces that
may be tasked to generate specific precise effects from the air, space and cyberspace. The eight
key organizations that form the basis of the CAF are: Air Combat Command; Air Force Space
Command; Pacific Air Forces; Air Force Special Operations Command; United States Air Forces
Europe; Air National Guard; Air Force Reserve Command; and Air Force Cyber Command.
Essential Elements of Information (EEIs)—Those items of information regarding the
adversary and other relevant aspects of the operational environment that need to be collected and
processed in order to meet the intelligence requirements of a commander. Aircrews should
review established EEIs and be prepared to observe any significant information while conducting
their mission and report the observations during debrief.
Image Chain Analysis (ICA)—Continuous and systematic assessment and evaluation of IQ
throughout the entire image chain. This includes establishing system baseline performance
parameters, continuously monitoring performance as part of the test, evaluation, and fielding
processes, and evaluation of IQ at each node in the image chain. This includes performance
parameters for components such as sensors; data links, transport networks, encoders and
decoders, display devices, routers and air- and ground-based image processing equipment.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Point of Contact (POC)—The individual designated by the OPR to meet all OPR
responsibilities. POC and OPR are often used interchangeably, but the organization of primary
responsibility retains ultimate responsibility.
Transport—The transfer of video through its distribution architecture without a loss of integrity.
Tier 1 (T—1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders or the AF strongly at risk of mission
or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. T-1
AFI14-135 22 May 2014                                                                     13


waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than
MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
