BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-601
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  7 JUNE 2004

                                                         UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                                 Supplement 1
                                                                                   15 FEBRUARY 2006
                                                                      Certified Current 6 December 2011
                                                                                     Operations Support

                                                       IMPLEMENTATION OF, AND COMPLIANCE
                                                           WITH, ARMS CONTROL AGREEMENTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AF/XONP (Mr. Michael Connors)                   Certified by: AF/XON (Maj Gen Robert L. Smolen)
Supersedes AFI 16-601, 1 March 1996                                                        Pages: 14
                                                                                     Distribution: F

                                    (USAFE)
OPR: HQ USAFE/A8PA (Mr. Mark E. Azua)                                      Certified by: HQ USAFE/A8P
                                                                                 (Mr Mark R. Engelbaum)
Supersedes AFI16-601_USAFESUP1,                                                                  Pages: 4
           18 February 2005                                                               Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 16-6, Arms Control Agreements, and Department of Defense (DoD)
Directive 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements. It gives the direc-
tive requirements for implementing and complying with arms control agreements. It applies to all organi-
zations involved in the acquisition, operation, and support of weapon systems or items that are affected by
arms control and related agreements. Additional related publications include AFMAN 16-602, The Stra-
tegic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Tracking and Reporting System (STARS) User Manual, AFPD 10-6,
Mission Needs and Operational Requirements, AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Require-
ments Guidance and Procedures and AFI 51-402, Weapons Review. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Informa-
tion Management and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

(USAFE) AFI 16-601, 7 June 2004, is supplemented as follows: This supplement gives the directive
requirements for implementing and complying with arms control agreements. It applies to all United
States Air Force (USAF) organizations, operating within the U.S. European Command (USEUCOM) area
of responsibility (AOR), involved in the acquisition, operation, and support of weapon systems or items
affected by arms control and related agreements. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
2                                                    AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://
afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision adds references to AFMAN 16-602, AFI 51-402, AFPD 37-1, and AFMAN 37-123 in the
introductory paragraph; adds SAF/USA to references to SAF/AQ due to the former’s space acquisition
function; adds a clause that AF/XONP will coordinate with applicable HQ USAF offices (paragraph
1.1.1.); expands the requirement for coordination to all of SAF/AQ, SAF/USA and the Program Execu-
tive Offices, along with AF/XPP and AF/XPX (paragraph 1.1.5.); adds the requirement to follow appro-
priate guidance from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (paragraph 1.1.6.); adds AF/XONP
representation on DoD implementation working groups (paragraph 1.1.7.); adds requirement to provide
resource information to several Under Secretary of Defense offices (paragraph 1.1.8.); adds AF/XONP
oversight of arms control reporting systems (paragraph 1.1.11..); clarifies arms control implementation
role of major commands (paragraph 1.2.3.); clarifies requirements for acquisition organizations to seek
AF/XONP guidance, when appropriate, if a program raises arms control compliance issues (paragraph
1.3.2.); transfers from AFPD 16-6, SAF/AQ responsibilities for monitoring arms control funding in its
programs and for complying with certification report requests (paragraphs 1.3.3. and 1.3.4.); adds a para-
graph on the role of SAF/GC in providing legal advice (paragraph 1.4.); adds SAF/AAZ as an office to
contact if an arms control-related issue arises, if appropriate (paragraph 1.5.1.); clarifies requirement for
Air Force organizations to seek guidance on matters that could raise compliance issues, prior to taking
action, with AF/XONP or a DoD CRG and adds that AF/XONP will coordinate compliance matters with
a DoD CRG (paragraph 1.5.2.); adds requirement to ensure Air Force organizations avoid the compro-
mise of classified information while complying with treaties and agreements (paragraph 1.5.3.); adds a
requirement that major commands produce implementation plans for future treaties, as directed (para-
graph 2.); deletes Attachment 2, Format for Certification of Compliance, and assigns Attachment 2 to
the Arms Control Agreements attachment (formerly Attachment 1); adds a URL to the note in Attach-
ment 2 for additional information on treaty summaries; adds the Moscow Treaty, the Pre- and
Post-Launch Notification System Agreement, updates the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Open
Skies Treaty, and deletes the ABM Treaty, the Bilateral Destruction Agreement, the Presidential Nuclear
Initiatives, START II, US-Russian BMD Talks, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, and the Korean Ini-
tiative. (Table A2.1.); and adds a new Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Informa-
tion. A bar ( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
(USAFE) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates several office names and symbols due to organizational changes.


1. Responsibilities:
    1.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations, National Security Policy Division (AF/
    XONP) manages all aspects of the Air Force arms control process and:
    1.1. (USAFE) The Arms Control Branch (HQ USAFE/A8PA), functions as the USAF representative
    responsible for treaty compliance; manages all aspects of USAFE’s arms control process; and:
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                                                              3


     1.1.1. Coordinates with major commands and applicable Headquarters Air Force offices to
     develop Air Force positions on US arms control proposals and negotiating positions. Provides Air
     Force input into developing joint staff negotiating positions.
     1.1.1. (USAFE) Coordinates with regional treaty compliance officers (TCO) to develop USAFE
     positions on U.S. arms control proposals and policy positions. Provides USAFE input into devel-
     oping USEUCOM and Air Force negotiating positions.
     1.1.2. Informs and advises senior Air Force leadership on arms control issues.
     1.1.2. (USAFE) Informs and advises senior USAFE leadership on arms control issues.
     1.1.3. Answers congressional requests about treaty impacts on Air Force operations.
     1.1.3. (USAFE) Provides policy and guidance for implementing Air Force arms control guidance
     as it applies to USEUCOM’s AOR.
     1.1.4. Provides guidance on interpreting arms control agreements and establishes plans and pro-
     cedures for implementing and ensuring compliance with arms control agreements.
     1.1.4. (USAFE) Represents HQ USAFE as required on appropriate HQ USAF and USEUCOM
     arms control working groups.
     1.1.5. Reviews requirements documentation and program management directives for potential
     compliance problems and coordinates changes with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
     Acquisition (SAF/AQ), the Director of Air Force Space Acquisition (SAF/USA), Air Force Pro-
     gram Executive Offices and with the Director of Operational Requirements (AF/XOR). Addition-
     ally, reviews force structure planning with the Director of Programs (AF/XPP) and the Director of
     Strategic Planning (AF/XPX) to ensure arms control compliance while maintaining flexibility in
     force structure employment.
     1.1.5. (USAFE) Advocates funding requests to HQ USAF and manages funding for USAFE
     TCOs in support of treaty compliance activities.
     1.1.6. Ensures consistency with the general procedures and guidance issued by the Under Secre-
     tary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&L)) and, as appropriate,
     with coordinated military guidance provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
     1.1.6. (USAFE) Assumes responsibility for arms control education and training of USAF units
     operating within the USEUCOM AOR.
     1.1.7. Represents the Air Force, as required, on appropriate Department of Defense Compliance
     Review Groups (CRGs) and DoD implementation working groups. Provides reports on arms con-
     trol compliance to USD(AT&L), as required.
     1.1.7. (USAFE) Coordinates and develops interservice support agreements, memorandums of
     understanding, memorandums of agreement, and other documents with appropriate service, com-
     mand, and local agencies required to support USAFE arms control implementation.
     1.1.8. Manages overall Air Force arms control funding requirements. Assists SAF/FM with arms
     control guidance for carrying out its arms control-related financial management responsibilities.
     Provides resource information on arms control implementation and compliance to USD(AT&L),
     the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, and as
     required, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Designates an overall
4                                                   AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


       Arms Control Program Element Monitor. Also provides major commands funding to support their
       directed arms control activities.
       1.1.8. (USAFE) Coordinates with other USAF Major Commands (MAJCOM) to ensure tempo-
       rary duty (TDY) unit familiarity with Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
       (COMUSAFE) arms control plans, missions, and requirements.
       1.1.9. Assists the USD(AT&L), SAF/AQ, and SAF/USA with their arms control-related acquisi-
       tion responsibilities. Supports Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Department of Energy, OSD,
       and Air Force organizations in the research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E) of new
       arms control and verification technologies. Additionally, AF/XONP represents the Air Force on
       the USD(AT&L) Treaty Managers’ Group and Forum for Arms Control Technology (FACT),
       whenever they are formed.
       1.1.9. (USAFE) Responsible for arms control data and notifications to Weapons of Mass Destruc-
       tion Division (HQ USEUCOM/ECJ5-W).
       1.1.10. Is responsible for overall education and training for arms control-related activities within
       the Air Force.
       1.1.10. (USAFE) Coordinates with USAFE Command Center (16th Air Force/Battle Watch Cell
       (16 AF/BWC)) to ensure rapid and accurate receipt and transmission of arms control notifications
       to senior staff and USAFE units.
       1.1.11. Ensures continuity and effective implementation of arms control reporting systems as well
       as respective Air Force reporting nodes at designated organizations (i.e., major command, unit,
       etc.).
    1.2. Major commands will:
    1.2. (USAFE) HQ USAFE/A8PA manages all aspects of the Air Force arms control process within
    the USEUCOM AOR. HQ USAFE will establish regional operating locations (OL) at its main operat-
    ing bases and other locations as required. Treaty Compliance Officers (TCO) at these locations will
    assist all USAF units in their AOR with arms control issues.
       1.2.1. Establish an arms control office or point of contact to deal specifically with treaties/agree-
       ments applicable to each major command.
       1.2.1. (USAFE) USAFE TCO responsibilities:
           1.2.1.1. (Added-USAFE) Serve as the USAFE points of contact for arms control compliance,
           implementation, and execution within the AOR.
           1.2.1.2. (Added-USAFE) Provide expert technical advice, guidance, and support to USAFE
           and temporarily deployed USAF organizations on arms control agreement compliance proce-
           dures.
           1.2.1.3. (Added-USAFE) Trains unit personnel in arms control procedures.
           1.2.1.4. (Added-USAFE) Build, maintain, review, and execute unit arms control plans based
           on higher headquarters plans, policy, and guidance. The plans will outline procedures for asset
           accountability and reporting, receiving on-site inspections, and for receiving or transmitting
           notifications and reports. Execute annual arms control training exercises and monitors execu-
           tion of local plans.
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                5


         1.2.1.5. (Added-USAFE) Analyze, interpret, and implement treaty documentation pertaining
         to the unit treaty compliance plans.
         1.2.1.6. (Added-USAFE) Operate and maintain -theater-specific data management notifica-
         tion systems.
         1.2.1.7. (Added-USAFE) Act as regional arms control resource advisor. Program budget
         requests for TDY, supplies, and equipment.
         1.2.1.8. (Added-USAFE) Prepare plans, briefings, position/talking papers, and other materi-
         als addressing various arms control issues.
         1.2.1.9. (Added-USAFE) Knowledgeable of assigned AOR and serves as back-up to other
         TCOs within that AOR.
     1.2.2. Ensure that the major command arms control office, in concert with AF/XONP, educates
     and trains those personnel directly involved with arms control activities and raises awareness of
     arms control throughout the command.
     1.2.3. Conduct overall arms control implementation in their command.
  1.3. SAF/AQ, SAF/USA, other acquisition organizations, and those engaged in the RDT&E process
  (including existing program modifications) will:
     1.3.1. Review their programs at appropriate milestones (or program reviews) to ensure compli-
     ance with existing agreements or designated potential agreements.
     1.3.2. Request AF/XONP guidance, as appropriate, when any arms control compliance concerns
     arise with programs under their purview.
     1.3.3. Monitor the funding for Air Force acquisition programs that is allocated through the arms
     control program element for treaty-driven requirements.
     1.3.4. Complete compliance certification reports as requested by AF/XONP.
  1.4. The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) shall be responsible, within the Department of the
  Air Force, for legal interpretation of arms control agreements and shall provide advice and assistance
  on arms control policy and compliance review matters.
  1.5. All Air Force organizations will:
     1.5.1. Refer any arms control-related questions or issues (from planned activity to on-site inspec-
     tion discrepancies) to the relevant major command arms control office, AF/XONP, or if appropri-
     ate, SAF/AAZ. This requirement is in addition to the requirement to obtain legal review from AF/
     JAO of the acquisition of new or modified weapons, in accordance with AFI 51-402, Weapons
     Review.
     1.5.2. Seek clearance or certification from either AF/XONP or the applicable DoD CRG before
     testing, deploying, or accomplishing programs or activities with the potential for raising compli-
     ance issues. When there is doubt whether clearance is necessary, it shall be sought. AF/XONP
     will facilitate, with assistance from applicable Air Force organizations, the coordination (as
     required) of compliance issues with the appropriate DoD CRG.
     1.5.3. Ensure that the implementation of, and compliance with, arms control agreements shall be
     carried out so as to avoid the compromise of classified information.
6                                                   AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


2. Implementation/Compliance Plans: Each major command will prepare and forward to AF/XONP
treaty implementation plans for those agreements listed in Attachment 2 that affect the major command,
and any future treaties, as directed by AF/XONP.
2. (USAFE) Implementation/Compliance Plans. USAFE is affected by the following treaties and
agreements: Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE), Vienna Document 1999 (VDoc99), Intermedi-
ate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF), Open Skies (OS), Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), Anti-Person-
nel Landmine Ban (Ottawa Accord), the Moscow Treaty, and CFE 1A agreement.
    2.1. Implementation plans must include:
       2.1.1. An office of primary responsibility and point of contact.
       2.1.2. A summary of organizational assets and activities that are covered by the subject agree-
       ment.
       2.1.3. A detailed listing of specific agreement provisions and the methods for carrying out the
       provisions.
       2.1.4. An explanation of how the major command carries out the agreements’ or higher headquar-
       ters’ reporting requirements.
    2.2. Field units will develop treaty compliance plans as directed by their parent major command.
    These unit plans will be included as annexes to the major command implementation plan.

3. Compliance Reporting: If USD(AT&L) directs AF/XON to submit compliance reports, AF/XON
will request applicable organizations review their activities and respond on their compliance status within
45 calendar days from the AF/XON request.



                                               RONALD E. KEYS, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                               (USAFE)

                                               MICHAEL A. SNODGRASS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Director of Plans and Programs
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                                                          7


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, January 9, 2001
AFPD 10-6, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements
AFPD 16-6, Arms Control Agreements
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures
AFI 51-402, Weapons Review
AFMAN 16-602, The Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Tracking and Reporting System (STARS)
User Manual
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ALCM—Air-Launched Cruise Missile
BMD—Ballistic Missile Defense
BW—biological weapon
BWC—Biological Weapons Convention
CFE—Conventional Armed Forces in Europe
CRG—Compliance Review Group
CW—Chemical Weapon
CWC—Chemical Weapons Convention
DoD—Department of Defense
DOE—Department of Energy
ENMOD—Environmental Modification
FACT—Forum for Arms Control Technology
FSU—Former Soviet Union
GLCM—Ground-Launched Cruise Missile
8                                               AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
INF—Intermediate Nuclear Forces
KG—kilogram
KM—kilometer
KT—kiloton
LTBT—Limited Test Ban Treaty
MT—Megaton
MTCR—Missile Technology Control Regime
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NPT—Non-Proliferation Treaty
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
PLNS—Pre- and Post-Launch Notification System
PNET—Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Treaty
RDT&E—Research, Development, Testing, and Evaluation
RSLP—Rocket System Launch Program
RV—Re-entry Vehicle
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SLV—Space Launch Vehicle
SORT—Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty
STARS—START Tracking and Reporting System
START—Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty
TTBT—Threshold Test Ban Treaty
UK—United Kingdom
UN—United Nations
URL—Uniform Resource Locator
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USD (AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
WWW—World Wide Web
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                           9


                                    Attachment 1 (USAFE)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 37-123, Management of Records
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE)
Vienna Document 1999 (VDoc99)
Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF)
Open Skies (OS)
Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC)
Anti-Personnel Landmine Ban (Ottawa Accord)
The Moscow Treaty
CFE 1A Agreement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOR—Area of Responsibility
COMUSAFE—Commander, United States Air Forces Europe
TDY—Temporary Duty
TCO—Treaty Compliance Officer
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
USEUCOM—United States European Command
10                                                   AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


                                              Attachment 2

                                  ARMS CONTROL AGREEMENTS
NOTE: This table is a summary only and does not include all treaties and agreements, nor does it reflect
the full scope of applicable restrictions and obligations. Refer to the appropriate treaty/agreement text for
more detail. Summaries of the treaties are available at the AF/XONP WWW site:
https://www.xo.hq.af.mil/xon/xonp/treaties/profile_summary/index.shtml

Table A2.1. Summary of Arms Control Agreements.
TREATY/AGREEMENT                  DESCRIPTION                       AF WEAPONS/PROGRAMS
                                                                    AFFECTED
Strategic Arms Reduction          Mandates numerical,               All ICBMs, ballistic missiles,
Talks (START) Treaty              qualitative and locational        RVs, heavy bombers, and
                                  restrictions on strategic         long-range ALCMs (greater
                                  offensive arms (launchers and     than 600 km). May also impact
                                  warheads), including deployed     RSLP. All facilities where these
                                  and non-deployed, existing and    are based, stored, maintained,
                                  new types of weapons.             tested or modified, and ballistic
                                                                    missile production facilities,
                                                                    are inspectable.
Moscow Treaty (Strategic          Mandates deployed strategic    Operationally deployed
Offensive Reductions Treaty       nuclear warheads be reduced to strategic nuclear warheads
-SORT)                            the level of 1700-2200.        (e.g., RVs physically deployed
                                                                 on ICBMs and those nuclear
                                                                 armaments stored in weapon
                                                                 storage areas located at heavy
                                                                 bomber bases).
Ballistic Missile Launch          Requires notification of          Impacts ICBM/SLV launches
Notification Agreement            launches of strategic ballistic   at both Vandenberg and Patrick
                                  missiles (by the US or Former     AFBs. Notifications specified
                                  Soviet Union (FSU)) no less       in Notification Protocol of the
                                  than 24 hours in advance.         START Treaty.
                                  Incorporated into START treaty
                                  but signed as a separate
                                  agreement.
Major Strategic Exercise          Requires notification of one      Impacts heavy bomber
Notification Agreement            major strategic exercise by the   exercises. Notifications
                                  US and FSU, provided one was      specified in Notification
                                  conducted during that calendar    Protocol of the START Treaty.
                                  year. This annual notification
                                  must be made at least 14 days
                                  in advance. Incorporated into
                                  START treaty but signed as a
                                  separate agreement.
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                                                               11


TREATY/AGREEMENT               DESCRIPTION                       AF WEAPONS/PROGRAMS
                                                                 AFFECTED
Intermediate-Range and         Requires permanent                Eliminated BGM-109G
Shorter-Range Nuclear Forces   elimination of all US and FSU     (GLCM). Requires notification
(INF) Treaty                   intermediate-range (1,000 -       of some research and
                               5,500 km) and shorter-range       development launches that
                               (500 - 1,000 km) ballistic and    meet specified criteria.
                               ground-launched cruise
                               missiles.
Pre- and Post-Launch           US/Russian agreement to           Ballistic missile launches
Notification System (PLNS)     create a system of notification   greater than 500 km and space
Agreement                      for launches of ballistic         launches require notification.
                               missiles and space launch         Voluntary notification for
                               vehicles. Planned to be opened    satellites forced from orbit and
                               to other nations.                 geophysical experiments that
                                                                 could affect operation of
                                                                 early-warning radars.
Conventional Armed Forces in Reduces conventional forces of      Numerical limits on
Europe (CFE) Treaty          30 NATO and former Warsaw           Europe-located aircraft (fighter,
                             Pact countries; limits FSU          attack fixed-wing and
                             forces to approximately             helicopters) and many armored
                             one-third of total armaments        vehicles. Air bases, units and
                             permitted for all countries in      equipment will be inspected.
                             Europe.
CFE 1A Agreement               Agreement on reductions in        Numerical limits on military
                               manpower levels in Europe.        manpower in Europe.
                               Numerical limits on military
                               manpower in Europe.
Open Skies Treaty              NATO and former Warsaw Pact       Requirement to modify two
                               countries agreed to conduct and   C-135 aircraft and equip them
                               submit to aerial observation      with treaty-specified sensors.
                               flights over their territory on   Support aircraft operations
                               the basis of annual quotas        during active mission Open
                               meant to provide for equitable    Skies overflights of foreign
                               coverage.                         states parties, and globally
                                                                 during training missions.
                                                                 Provide media processing
                                                                 capability.
12                                               AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


TREATY/AGREEMENT              DESCRIPTION                        AF WEAPONS/PROGRAMS
                                                                 AFFECTED
Chemical Weapons Convention Multilateral convention that         Facilities inspections
(CWC)                       bans the production,                 (including those for precursors,
                            development, possession,             dual purpose, and other
                            transfer and use of chemical         super-toxic lethal chemicals).
                            weapons by the signatories.
                            Parties must also destroy all
                            chemical stockpiles and CW
                            production facilities.
Biological Weapons            Multilateral convention that      Facilities, if visitation protocols
Convention (BWC)              prohibits development,            are developed and
                              stockpiling, acquisition, or      implemented.
                              retaining of: (1) microbial or
                              other biological agents or
                              toxins that have no justification
                              for prophylactic, protective or
                              other peaceful purposes and,
                              (2) weapons, equipment or
                              means to deliver such agents or
                              toxins for hostile purposes or in
                              armed conflict.
BW Trilateral Agreement       US/UK/Russian joint statement      Facility inspections of sites
                              designed to alleviate US/UK        identified in UN BWC
                              concerns on Russian                confidence building
                              noncompliance with the BWC.        declarations.
Threshold Test Ban Treaty     Prohibits US/FSU from          Inspections at Nevada Test Site
(TTBT)                        underground testing of nuclear (with DOE).
                              weapons with a yield greater
                              than 150 KT.
Limited Test Ban Treaty       Prohibits nuclear explosions in N/A
(LTBT)                        the atmosphere, outer space or
                              underwater.
AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006                                                      13


TREATY/AGREEMENT               DESCRIPTION                      AF WEAPONS/PROGRAMS
                                                                AFFECTED
Peaceful Nuclear Explosions    Prohibits any explosion by the N/A
Treaty (PNET)                  US or FSU exceeding a yield of
                               150 KT, any group explosion
                               exceeding a yield of 150 KT
                               that will not permit the
                               identification and
                               determination of the yield of
                               each individual explosion in the
                               group, or any group explosion
                               with an aggregate yield of more
                               than 1.5 MT.
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Obligates nuclear weapons        N/A
                               states parties not to transfer
                               nuclear weapons or assist any
                               non-nuclear weapon state to
                               manufacture or otherwise
                               acquire nuclear weapons. Each
                               non-nuclear weapon state
                               agrees not to receive nuclear
                               weapons or take control over
                               them from any transferor.
                               Non-nuclear weapon states also
                               agree to accept safeguards to
                               prevent the diversion of nuclear
                               energy from peaceful purposes
                               to nuclear weapons.
Missile Technology Control     Provides export policy           Sales of AF missiles and
Regime (MTCR)                  guidelines meant to limit the    unmanned delivery systems
                               spread of missiles and           captured under treaty are
                               unmanned delivery systems        restricted.
                               capable of carrying at least a
                               500 kg payload traveling at
                               least 300 kms.
Outer Space Treaty             Prohibits signatories from     N/A
                               placing nuclear or other
                               weapons of mass destruction in
                               outer space and limits use of
                               the moon and other celestial
                               bodies to peaceful purposes.
14                                           AFI16-601_USAFESUP1_I 15 FEBRUARY 2006


TREATY/AGREEMENT             DESCRIPTION                   AF WEAPONS/PROGRAMS
                                                           AFFECTED
Environmental Modification   Prohibits use of environmental N/A
                             modification techniques having
(ENMOD) Convention
                             widespread, long-lasting or
                             severe effects as the means of
                             destruction, damage, or injury
                             to any other party, for military
                             purposes.
