BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-202, VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 17 MAY 2007

                                                                  AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                                          12 JUNE 2008

                                                                                      Flying Operations

                                                                                 AIRCREW TRAINING

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A3OT                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                                                            (Brig Gen Marke F. Gibson)
Supersedes AFI11-202V1, 23 November 2005                                                     Pages: 33

                                                (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/A3TA                                  Certified by: HQ AFRC/A3 (MGen Hanferd Moen)
                                                                                       Pages: 4

This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, and AFPD 11-4, Aviation Ser-
vice. It establishes the USAF aircrew training program that supports Air Force objectives and is applica-
ble to all units assigned to or gained by major commands (MAJCOM) and HQ USAF direct reporting
units (DRU) and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and aircrews assigned or attached to all
flying activities of these MAJCOMs and DRUs. This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve
(AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG). MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOA) and DRUs may
supplement this instruction. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs will coordinate their supplement to this
instruction with HQ USAF/A3OT before publication and forward one copy to HQ USAF/A3OT after
publication. AFI 11-2 Mission Design Series (MDS)-Specific, Volume 1 instructions will contain specific
training requirements unique to individual aircraft and crew positions. Submit suggested improvements to
this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through training channels,
to HQ USAF/A3OT, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1480.
The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this instruction. The Privacy Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Avia-
tion Resource Management System (ARMS) covers required information. The authority for maintenance
of ARMS is Title 37 U.S.C. 301a (Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriations Act
for 1973), Public Laws 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974), 93-570 (Appropriations Act for
1974), and Executive Order 9397. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this
publication are 37 U.S.C. 301a, Incentive pay: Pub.L. 92-204, Appropriations Act for 1973, Section 715;
Pub.L. 93-570, Appropriations Act for 1974; Pub.L. 93-294, Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974; DoD
Instruction 7730.57, Aviation Career Incentive Act and Required Annual Report; Air Force Instruction
2                                                                                AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


11-401, Aviation Management; Air Force Instruction 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronau-
tical Ratings and Badges; Air Force Instruction 11-421, Aviation Resource Management; and E.O. 9397
(SSN).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil.

(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-202,
Volume 1, 17 May 2007. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve procedures to be used in conjunc-
tion with the basic instruction. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision incorporates Interim Changes 2005-1 and 2005-2. Clarifies MAJCOM/A3 waiver authority
(paragraph 1.2.), replaces Introductory Flight Training programs for pilots and combat systems officers
with Academy Flight Screening/Initial Flight Screening (AFS/IFS) and provides guidance for AFS/IFS
program content (paragraph 1.4.), updates Night Vision Goggle training guidance (paragraphs 1.5.2.3.4.
and subordinate paragraphs), adds information on qualifying non-USAF pilots and on qualifying helicop-
ter pilots in fixed-wing aircraft (paragraph 2.3.3.), adds requirement for squadron commander validation
of multiple qualification for aircrew members qualified in a different MDS in association with a pending
PCS move (paragraph 2.4.), expands Multiple Qualification guidance to address aircrew members
selected for reassignment to another MDS who attend training prior to PCS and adds authorization for
Flight Surgeon multiple qualification (paragraph 2.4.), modifies list of general officers authorized to fly
single-place aircraft (paragraph 2.5.3.), adds contract personnel to individuals authorized to attend senior
officer courses (paragraph 2.5.8.), deletes guidance for Flight Surgeons in section on Initial Qualification
Training, updates minimum aircrew requirements (paragraph 3.1.5.), deletes the annual Instrument
Refresher Course as a minimum requirement, expands guidance pertaining to aircrew members who fail
to accomplish minimum requirements (paragraph 3.6.2.), permits MAJCOMs to extend training require-
ments, on a case-by-case basis, for aircrew members approaching removal from active flying (paragraph
3.8.1.), revises Flight Surgeon sortie requirement guidance (Table 1.), revises guidance pertaining to
ancillary training (paragraph 6.), adds guidance on the Total Force Training and Education Review Pro-
cess (paragraph 6.3.), adds reporting instructions and Report Control Symbol for HCM/SCM report (para-
graph 8.), updates Aircrew definition (Attachment 1), deletes the former Attachment 2, Ancillary
Training Publications, adds new Attachment 2, Standard Training Event Identifiers (from AFI 11-401),
adds Attachment 3 to provide specific instructions for preparing the HCM/SCM report, reorganizes sev-
eral sections to align specific requirements under paragraphs providing general policy guidance.
      1.      General. ......................................................................................................................   4
      2.      Qualification Training. ...............................................................................................            8
      3.      Continuation Training. ...............................................................................................            13
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                            3


Table 1.   Flight Surgeon Sortie Requirements (See Notes). ....................................................                              17
Table 1.   (AFRC) Flight Surgeon Sorties/Training Requirements. .........................................                                    18
      4.   Upgrade Training. ......................................................................................................          18
      5.   Aircrew Training System (ATS). ...............................................................................                    18
      6.   Ancillary Training. .....................................................................................................         19
      7.   Standard Training Event identifiers. Attachment 2 ...................................................                             20
      8.   Hours-per-Crew-per-Month/Sorties-per-Crew-per-Month Report. ...........................                                           20
      9.   Forms. ........................................................................................................................   20

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              22

Attachment 1—(AFRC) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
           INFORMATION                                                                                                                       27

Attachment 2— STANDARD TRAINING EVENT IDENTIFIERS                                                                                            28

Attachment 3— HOURS-PER-CREW-PER-MONTH (HCM) /
           SORTIES-PER-CREW-PER-MONTH (SCM) REPORT                                                                                           32
4                                                           AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


1. General. This instruction prescribes basic policy and guidance for training United States Air Force
aircrews according to AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures (AFPD 11-2 establishes the publications
architecture). Undergraduate and Graduate aircrew production is tasked in the Programmed Flying Train-
ing (PFT) document. Undergraduate and introduction to fighter fundamentals training is conducted
according to HQ AETC syllabi. This instruction takes precedence over MDS-specific instructions.
Unique, customized, and/or specialized training programs are defined in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume
1, instructions.
    1.1. Program Goals. The Air Force Aircrew Training Program ensures all aircrew members obtain
    and maintain the qualification and proficiency needed to effectively perform their unit’s mission. Pro-
    grams should strive to minimize the amount of retraining necessary when flying personnel return to
    duties for aircraft in which they were previously qualified. The overall objective of the aircrew train-
    ing program is to develop and maintain a high state of mission readiness for immediate and effective
    employment across the range of military operations.
    1.2. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, HQ USAF/A3O is the waiver
    authority for this instruction. Request waivers to the basic guidance in this instruction through appli-
    cable training channels to MAJCOM/A3, or equivalent level. MAJCOM/A3s will forward request in
    message or memo format to HQ USAF/A3O, with a copy to HQ USAF/A3OT. Waivers to supplemen-
    tal guidance will be handled by the MAJCOM agency that generated the supplement. Unless other-
    wise specified in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, MAJCOM/A3s are the waiver authority for
    specific individual aircrew member training requirements.
    1.2. (AFRC) Waiver Authority. Send waiver requests as specified in the applicable AFI 11-2MDS,
    Volume 1. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction or AFI 11-2 MDS Specific, Volume 1, AFRC/
    A3 is waiver authority for specific aircrew training requirements.
    1.3. Use of Flying Hours. Use training hours in a manner that demonstrates good stewardship of
    appropriated funds. Justify dedicated flying hours on the basis of accomplishing peacetime missions
    and/or maintaining wartime readiness. Structure each training mission to achieve optimum training.
    Personnel, at all levels, should prevent the misuse or the perception of misuse of Air Force resources.
    1.4. Academy Flight Screening/Initial Flight Screening (AFS/IFS). Pilot and combat systems
    officer (CSO) candidates will complete AFS/IFS prior to beginning undergraduate pilot or CSO train-
    ing. Screening programs will address physical, psychological, and physiological qualifications; and
    other issues which would impact successful completion of flight training programs. Programs will be
    conducted according to HQ AETC instructions and approved syllabi. For active duty pilot and CSO
    candidates, the completion of IFS will be the top priority for these officers, and leave, TDY, and addi-
    tional duties will be secondary.
    1.5. Responsibilities:
       1.5.1. HQ USAF/A3O:
           1.5.1.1. Sets policy and guides the conduct and execution of the aircrew training program.
           1.5.1.2. Delegates office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this instruction to HQ USAF/
           A3OT.
           1.5.1.3. Monitors and reviews MAJCOM programs to ensure MAJCOM policies, guidance
           and instruction supplements are adequate.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                    5


        1.5.1.4. Through HQ USAF/A3OT, hosts biennial, or as required, training conferences to
        assist in maintaining appropriate commonality in lead command training programs.
        1.5.1.5. Through HQ USAF/A3OT, implements Flying Training Concept of Operations
        (CONOPS) IAW AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management. Annually releases Undergraduate and
        Graduate Program Guidance Letters (PGLs) capturing approved training requirements across
        the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP).
        1.5.1.6. Through HQ USAF/A3OT, hosts annual PFT conferences in coordination with lead
        training commands. Identifies Formal Training Unit (FTU) shortfalls to HQ USAF/A3/5 and
        AF corporate structure. Training commands will conduct PFT conferences. The purpose of
        PFT conferences are to capture inputs from Air Staff, AFPC, lead and user MAJCOMs, and
        other users in the allocation of training quotas. The conference goal is to publish a consoli-
        dated PFT pamphlet that fulfills maximum total force training requirements within pro-
        grammed capacity. Training MAJCOMs maintain quota allocation and management
        responsibilities.
     1.5.2. MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs will establish an aircrew training office responsible for the over-
     all management of the command’s aircrew training program. Air National Guard (ANG) is consid-
     ered a MAJCOM for purposes of this instruction.
        1.5.2.1. Theater Indoctrination Training. MAJCOMs will develop theater indoctrination
        training and ensure aircrews are trained for specific theater flight operations. As a minimum,
        this training will include a thorough review of theater unique instrument requirements and pro-
        cedures, the use of non-DoD instrument approach procedures, required instrumentation for
        specific approaches, theater weather conditions, local area procedures, and host nation agree-
        ments.
        1.5.2.2. Recall Procedures. MAJCOMs will notify training command headquarters and
        training units prior to recalling a student from a formal school course. Students will not be
        recalled to prevent initiation of any actions associated with unsatisfactory performance.
        Recalling a student may be done only for reasons other than performance, i.e., emergencies,
        unforeseen delays in training, etc. ANG units will request approval from NGB/A3T if there is
        a need to recall a student. NGB/A3T will notify training command headquarters and the unit
        prior to recall.
        1.5.2.3. Lead Command MAJCOM. AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Sys-
        tem Management, establishes a lead command MAJCOM and user commands for each MDS.
        See also AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, for Mobility
        Air Forces (MAF) command responsibilities.
            1.5.2.3.1. AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1. The lead command MAJCOM, in coordi-
            nation with user commands, will develop and manage the appropriate AFI 11-2 MDS-Spe-
            cific, Volume 1, to establish aircrew ground and flying training requirements, regardless of
            mission designation and command of assignment. MDS-Specific Volumes 1 may be more
            but not less restrictive than this instruction.
            1.5.2.3.2. MDS-Specific Training Conference. Lead commands will host a MDS-spe-
            cific training conference biennially, or more frequently if required. The training confer-
            ence reviews all training programs for currency, applicability, compliance and
            effectiveness, and addresses issues in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1. Attendees
6                                                   AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


       should include training representatives from user commands, formal schools, numbered
       Air Force (NAF) training and standardization offices (if applicable), selected unit repre-
       sentatives, and Aircrew Training System (ATS) contractors.
       1.5.2.3.3. Program Requirements Document (PRD). Lead commands, in conjunction
       with user commands and other users, will determine total force training requirements
       across the FYDP. Forward requirements annually to HQ USAF/A3OT, via the PRD, for
       validation and inclusion in the Undergraduate and Graduate PGLs.
       1.5.2.3.4. Night Vision Goggles (NVG) Training. Lead commands, in coordination with
       user commands, will develop MDS-specific NVG training programs that emphasize sound
       night operations using NVGs, address common NVG hazards, weapons specific NVG
       capabilities, and the limitations involved in night low-level NVG-aided operations and
       ensure appropriate aircrews are properly trained. The Night Operations Center of Excel-
       lence will develop and update initial and refresher courseware and provide courseware to
       MAJCOM operational training divisions for distribution to units.
          1.5.2.3.4.1. All initial NVG ground training will be conducted by AFRL/AETC/
          AATTC certified instructors or NVG qualified WIC graduates. In addition,
          AF-approved courseware will be the standard for initial aircrew ground training aca-
          demics.
          1.5.2.3.4.2. Initial ground training academics will include, but are not limited to, eye
          physiology, illumination, night vision device components, NVG adjustment and
          assessment procedures, misperceptions and illusions, environmental factors and night
          operations mission planning.
          1.5.2.3.4.3. Initial flight training events will include, but are not limited to, confidence
          and defensive maneuvers, basic/tactical formation positions, aircraft preparation, gog-
          gle/de-goggle procedures, aircraft lighting demo, active instrument crosscheck, illumi-
          nation levels, departure/arrival procedures, malfunction procedures, controlled flight
          into terrain (CFIT) avoidance, relevant crew/interflight communications, terminology,
          and roles/responsibilities.
          1.5.2.3.4.4. Once NVG qualified, all aviators will receive NVG academic refresher
          training (as prescribed by MAJCOM but not to exceed one AEF cycle) from an NVG
          qualified instructor. Instructors are encouraged to use all subject matter experts at their
          disposal, to include flight surgeons, aerospace physiologists, and aircrew life support
          technicians. Topics will include recent hot topics, NVG mishaps, MDS-specific tacti-
          cal issues, and any other relevant NVG discussion items.
          1.5.2.3.4.5. Recurring NVG training will be taught separately from the Instrument
          Refresher Course (IRC) and will not be credited toward any part of IRC training. If the
          MAJCOM elects to use the IRC forum for NVG training, additional time must be allo-
          cated to fulfill NVG requirements.
    1.5.2.4. Training Command MAJCOM. The training command is the command tasked
    with providing formal training.
       1.5.2.4.1. Formal School Courses. The training command, in coordination with lead
       commands and program managers, approves formal school courses and syllabi. These
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                   7


            courses and syllabi should be developed to support the Air Force Mission Essential Task
            List. Send proposals for amending existing course prerequisites and syllabi or deleting
            obsolete courses through the appropriate headquarters to the training command for
            approval. The training command will process the approved changes in coordination with
            the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA) OPR. Access the
            ETCA web site at https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
                1.5.2.4.1.1. Formal School - ATS Contractor. Develops, updates, and maintains
                courseware and training syllabi and performs task and media analysis associated with
                aircrew qualification training per AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development,
                Delivery, and Evaluation; AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems;
                and AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development; and consistent with the
                applicable ATS contract (see applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1).
                1.5.2.4.1.2. Formal School - Non-ATS. The training command develops, updates,
                and maintains courseware and training syllabi; performs task and media analysis asso-
                ciated with aircrew qualification training per AFI 36-2201 Volume 1, AFI 36-2251,
                and AFMAN 36-2234, and is the approving authority for these courses (coordinate
                with the lead command if different than the training command).
            1.5.2.4.2. Formal Course Review (FCR). Training commands will host FCRs bienni-
            ally, or more frequently if required. The FCR will review formal training programs and
            syllabi for currency, applicability, compliance and effectiveness. Attendees should include
            program managers from lead commands, training representatives from user commands,
            curriculum developers, formal schools, NAF training and standardization offices (if appli-
            cable), selected unit representatives, and ATS contractors.
            1.5.2.4.3. Progress Review (PR). Training commands will outline procedures for a PR to
            be accomplished when a student fails to progress according to syllabus requirements. The
            PR can recommend continuation in training or AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Ser-
            vice, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, action, e.g., a Flying Evaluation Board (FEB) or
            Aircrew Evaluation Board (AEB). If the recommendation is to continue training, then the
            PR will determine the extent of additional training.
        1.5.2.5. Aircrew Graduate Evaluation Program. M A J C O M s e n s u r e f o r m a l s c h o o l
        post-graduate evaluations are accomplished. If the aircrew member completed training
        through an AETC formal undergraduate or graduate flying training program, the primary
        instructor or gaining supervisor, whichever is appropriate, will complete the aircrew graduate
        evaluation survey found through the Aircrew Graduate Evaluation Program link on the HQ
        AETC/A3 website. The instructor or supervisor will complete the survey at the specified point
        in the training syllabus or when notified the survey is required.
     1.5.3. (Added-AFRC) Squadron Commanders. Establish a process for reviewing all flight
     documentation upon completion of each flight or mission. The review should include AFTO Form
     781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document, flight authorization, mission summary, and
     training completion forms. The review should focus on ensuring effective scheduling, flying train-
     ing, and accuracy of flight documentation, to include reserve status codes.
  1.6. Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC). For ADSCs for aircrew training, see AFI 36-2107,
  Active Duty Service Commitments. See also paragraph 4.
8                                                            AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


    1.7. Reserve Service Commitment (RSC). For RSCs for aircrew training, see AFRCI 36-2102, Air
    Force Reserve Service Commitment Date Program. See also paragraph 4.

2. Qualification Training. This section specifies minimum training requirements for initial qualifica-
tion, requalification, conversion/difference qualification, multiple qualification, senior officer qualifica-
tion, and mission qualification training.
    2.1. Initial Qualification Training. An aircrew member engaged in training needed to qualify for
    basic aircrew duties in an assigned position for a specific aircraft, without regard for the unit’s opera-
    tional mission.
       2.1.1. General Requirements. Unless specified in applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume
       1, the primary method of initial qualification is to attend and complete the appropriate formal
       training course listed in the ETCA. Completing the appropriate formal course satisfies all basic
       qualification training requirements. When attendance is not practical or quotas are not available,
       units will request waivers as specified in the applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, to
       conduct in-unit qualification training, using formal school courseware (see also paragraph 2.1.4.).
       NOTE: Before performing flying duties in USAF fixed-wing aircraft, helicopter-only qualified
       pilots must meet the eligibility criteria for and complete USAF Undergraduate Pilot Training
       (UPT) or Fixed-Wing Qualification (FWQ) training. Waiver authority is HQ AETC/A3FV.
           2.1.1.1. Aircrew members entered in an in-unit training program leading to qualification or
           requalification will be dedicated to that program; i.e., give training requirements priority over
           non-training related duties. EXCEPTION: Supervisory personnel may continue their normal
           duties as time permits.
           2.1.1.2. Training time limitations for qualification training completion are contained in appli-
           cable MDS-Specific, Volumes 1. In-unit training will begin no later than 45 days (90 days for
           the Air Reserve Component (ARC)) after reporting to a new duty station or unit, unless
           waived by the MAJCOM.
           2.1.1.3. (Added-AFRC) If extenuating circumstances preclude an individual from commenc-
           ing or completing initial qualification training within the specified time frame, forward a
           request for waiver electronically through respective NAF/A3T to arrive at HQ AFRC/A3T not
           later than 15 workdays before the expiration date. Send waiver request as specified in the
           applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Volume 1.
NOTE: This paragraph does not apply to AFRC units that are undergoing conversion and have not
attained a Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) training measured area percentage equal to
or greater than 55 percent. Upon attainment of 55 percent, paragraph 2.1.1. will apply to aircrew assigned
on or before this date and will have 3 months in which to commence training.
       2.1.2. Initial Qualification Training Prerequisites. Before entering qualification training, each
       aircrew member must comply with the appropriate formal course training prerequisites prescribed
       in the ETCA. In addition, all personnel maintaining flying status will meet the following require-
       ments before flying:
           2.1.2.1. Physical Examinations. Complete flight physical examinations according to AFI
           48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volumes 1 and 3. Aircrew members who fail to
           successfully complete a flight physical may not perform inflight duties until they successfully
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                   9


        complete the examination. For further action to be taken on personnel who fail to complete a
        required flight physical examination when due, see AFI 11-402..
        2.1.2.2. Physiological Training. Complete physiological training according to AFI 11-403,
        Aerospace Physiological Training Program.
           2.1.2.2.1. Requirements are waived for personnel assigned to inactive flying status codes
           (FSC) “J” “K” and “L” (except individuals selected for indoctrination flying, FSC “T”).
           Requirements are also waived for personnel performing unmanned aircraft system (UAS)
           ground control station aircrew duties (FSC “V” and “Z”). Requalification is completed
           according to AFI 11-403.
           2.1.2.2.2. Personnel who perform flying duty in other than their rated specialty (for exam-
           ple, airborne command post duty) must maintain currency in physiological training.
           2.1.2.2.3. Personnel who are delinquent in physiological training will not be scheduled for
           flight duty.
        2.1.2.3. Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Training. Complete training
        according to AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program. For
        action to be taken on personnel who fail to meet training standards while enrolled in a USAF
        survival school, see AFI 11-402.
     2.1.3. Ground Training Requirements. For in-unit qualification training, commanders will
     obtain and use the current formal school courseware, if available.
        2.1.3.1. Academic Training. Accomplish academic training requirements as directed in the
        applicable syllabus.
        2.1.3.2. Written Examinations. Satisfy requirements of AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew
        Standardization/Evaluation Program, and the applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 2.
        2.1.3.3. Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE), Aircrew Life Support (ALS),
        and Egress Training. Accomplish emergency parachute training, local area survival, ALS,
        egress, and ejection seat training (as applicable) before the first flight IAW AFI 11-2 MDS
        Specific, Volume 1, AFI 11-301 Volume 1, Aircrew Life Support Program, and AFI 16-1301
        (N/A for UAS aircrew). Aircrew chemical defense training, egress training with aircrew
        chemical defense equipment (ACDE); and emergency parachute training with ACDE must be
        completed prior to the first ACDE flight. Accomplish combat survival training, conduct after
        capture training, and water survival training as directed by AFI 16-1301. See also MDS-Spe-
        cific Volume 1, MDS-Specific Ready aircrew Program (RAP) tasking memorandum, and/or
        MAJCOM Supplements, as applicable. NOTE: SERE training is not required for cadet air-
        crew.
        2.1.3.4. Ground Training. Applicable ground training (i.e., simulators, aircraft systems, etc.)
        accomplished at the formal school establishes due dates for subsequent continuation training.
        If completion dates are unknown, use the date on the formal school generated AF Form 8, Cer-
        tificate of Aircrew Qualification, or AF Form 8a, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification (Multi-
        ple Aircraft).
     2.1.4. In-Unit Flying Training Requirements. Approved in-unit training must be accomplished
     according to applicable formal school courseware and the following guidance:
10                                                          AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


            2.1.4.1. Flying training lessons should be completed in order; however, if mission scheduling
            or student progress dictates otherwise, the unit commander or designated training supervisor
            may change the order.
            2.1.4.2. There should be a minimum time lapse between training missions and every effort
            should be made to complete qualification training requirements within the prescribed time
            period.
            2.1.4.3. With operations group commander (or equivalent) approval, upgrade and special
            qualification training requirements may be completed during operational missions under the
            supervision of an instructor of like specialty. Comply with restrictions in appropriate AFI 11-2
            MDS-Specific, Volume 1, MAJCOM directives, and applicable operation order (OPORD).
     2.2. Requalification Training. An aircrew member is unqualified upon expiration of his or her qual-
     ification evaluation, loss of currency exceeding 6 months (for currency items specified in applicable
     AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, according to paragraph 3.4.3.2.), or completion of a qualification
     evaluation in a different MDS (EXCEPTION: multiple qualification, see paragraph 2.4.), whichever
     occurs first. The duration of unqualified time is from the date the aircrew member became unqualified
     until the specific retraining start date. For aircrew members who are not authorized qualification in
     more than one MDS and who complete a qualification evaluation in a different MDS, members must
     complete requalification training as specified below to regain qualification in the original MDS. For
     all aircrew members, except flight surgeons, requalification requirements are as follows: (MAJCOMS
     may provide more restrictive guidance and may adjust requirements as necessary to allow for aircrew
     member experience level and similarity of aircraft types. Provide specific guidance in command sup-
     plements or MDS-Specific Volumes 1.) (Terms TX-1, TX-2 and TX-3 identify formal courses
     required, from longest to shortest course.)
        2.2.1. Unqualified up to 39 months at the end of a non-flying assignment or 48 months at the
        end of any active flying assignment. Complete training in all delinquent items (as applicable),
        additional training as directed by the squadron commander, and a flight evaluation. An ETCA for-
        mal school flying training course (TX-3) satisfies this requalification requirement, if specified in
        the applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
        2.2.2. Unqualified 39 months at the end of a non-flying assignment or 48 months at the end
        of any active flying assignment to 8 Years. Complete the appropriate ETCA formal school fly-
        ing training course (TX-2) and a flight evaluation.
        2.2.3. Unqualified in MDS Over 8 Years. Complete the appropriate ETCA formal school flying
        training (TX-1) and a flight evaluation.
        2.2.4. Instructor Requalification. As specified in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
     2.3. Conversion/Difference Qualification Training:
        2.3.1. Conversion training is normally associated with a unit conversion to another MDS. Con-
        version training requires completion of a formal school initial qualification course. For unit con-
        versions, when formal school courses are not available to handle the throughput, MAJCOMs will
        develop, and coordinate with the training command, in-unit training plans that maximize use of
        highly experienced personnel as the initial cadre.
        2.3.2. Difference training is normally conducted when an individual or a unit trains in a different
        series aircraft in the same MDS. When MAJCOMs determine the differences between series are
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                      11


     great enough, the training is considered conversion training. Difference qualification training
     requirements will be established in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volumes 1.
     2.3.3. Former non-USAF pilots may be approved to perform USAF pilot duties. See AFI 11-402
     for additional guidance. All helicopter-only pilots must complete a fixed wing qualification
     course as applicable before performing duties in fixed-wing aircraft. See ETCA course announce-
     ments at https://etca.randolph.af.mil. .
  2.4. Multiple Qualification. MAJCOMs may authorize qualification in more than one MDS aircraft
  for crewmembers only when such action is directed by command mission requirements and is eco-
  nomically justifiable. This authority cannot be delegated below the MAJCOM level, except HQ
  AFMC, which may further delegate, but not lower than wing commander. (Does not apply to aircrew
  members selected for reassignment to another MDS who attend training prior to PCS. Flying squad-
  ron commanders will review reassignment training and validate requirement for multiple qualification
  prior to aircrew member flights in original aircraft. Multiple qualification authorization under this
  exception terminates when the aircrew member signs out from the losing organization.) Unless
  required for unit mission accomplishment, commanders must not permit aircrew members qualified in
  primary mission aircraft to maintain qualification in support aircraft. Flight surgeons and non-rated
  aircrew are authorized multiple qualification.
  2.4. (AFRC) Multiple Qualification. Multiple qualification is authorized for wing commanders,
  vice-wing commanders, OGs, deputy OGs (general officers in any of these positions are subject to the
  limitations in paragraph 2.4.1. and 2.4.2.) when assigned to units possessing multiple MDS aircraft.
  Flying training requirements are according to gaining/oversight command directives or as directed by
  AFRC. Multiple qualification is not necessary to operate similar MDSs IAW paragraph 3.4.1.1.
  (Added) of the supplement.
     2.4.1. General officers will only maintain qualification in a single MDS. Difference qualification
     in variants of the same MDS is authorized, but is not permitted when qualification involves formal
     conversion training, IAW MDS-Specific AFIs. Aircraft qualification will include instrument qual-
     ification and an AF Form 8 flight evaluation.
     2.4.2. Waiver authority for general officer multiple qualification requirements is AF/CC, IAW
     AF/CV message, “General Officer Flying,” 091724Z Apr 04.
     2.4.3. (Added-AFRC) Aircrews are authorized to maintain mission qualification in only one air-
     craft. Basic qualification is authorized for all other aircraft assigned on a case-by-case basis. Aer-
     omedical Evacuation Crew Members (AECMs) are considered qualified in all aircraft capable of
     moving patients under the Universal AECM Qualification Program. Request for multiple qualifi-
     cation will not be required for AECMs. AE units or individual AECMs changing from one
     unit-assigned MDS to a new unit-assigned MDS will complete training IAW AFI 11-MDS V1.
     2.4.4. (Added-AFRC) The unit commander forwards request for multiple qualification authori-
     zation through respective NAFs to HQ AFRC/A3 for final approval. Request is made for individ-
     uals rather than for position. The request includes the name, grade, status (ART or Reservist),
     individual’s organization, and a statement identifying the total number of crewmembers possess-
     ing multiple qualifications (including those listed in the request). Authorizations will be issued by
     name and contain expiration dates not to exceed one year.
     EXCEPTION: Pararescue and combat camera, specialists are not required to submit requests for
     multiple qualifications. Individuals in these positions are authorized to fly in more than one mis-
12                                                            AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


        sion design aircraft when so designated on aeronautical orders and when receiving training or
        maintaining qualification in appropriate aircraft. A separate flight evaluation is not required for
        each aircraft unless specified in applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-specific Vol 2. The qualification writ-
        ten examination is only required for the primary MDS in which currency is maintained.
     2.5. Senior Officer Qualification and Performance Requirements. S e n i o r o ff i c e r s ( c o l o n e l
     selects and above) whose position requires operational flying will complete the appropriate formal
     training course unless already qualified. A senior officer course that does not result in an AF Form 8/
     8a flight evaluation will not permit unsupervised flying. In addition, senior officers will comply with
     paragraph 3.1.4. of this instruction. NOTE: All senior officers must complete a formal training course
     qualification program (AF Form 8/8a flight evaluation) prior to flying an aircraft with passengers on
     board. Exceptions to this policy must be approved by HQ USAF/A3/5 (colonels and colonel selects);
     exceptions for general officers must be approved by AF/CC, IAW AF/CV message, “General Officer
     Flying,” 091724Z Apr 04.
        2.5.1. General officers in commander billets may fly without an instructor in their primary
        assigned aircraft if they are current and qualified (Mission Ready (MR)/Combat Mission Ready
        (CMR) or Basic Mission Capable (BMC)) according to the applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific,
        Volume 1.
        2.5.2. All other general officers and general officer commanders maintaining Basic Aircraft Qual-
        ification (BAQ) or less, must fly with an instructor.
        2.5.3. General officers flying in single-place aircraft are limited to HQ USAF/CC, commanders,
        and MAJCOM directors of operations. If approved by AF/CC for operational flying, numbered
        Air Force vice commanders may also fly single-place aircraft. General officers maintaining BAQ
        in single-place aircraft require an instructor pilot in the flight.
        2.5.4. Except for HQ USAF/CC, HQ USAF/CV, MAJCOM commanders (or equivalents), and
        Unified Command commanders (when filled by a USAF general officer), general officers who are
        in operational flying status and who do not directly oversee Operational Support Airlift (OSA) air-
        craft operations should not fly OSA aircraft. MAJCOM commanders may develop further OSA
        guidelines as necessary.
        2.5.5. As a minimum, HQ USAF/CC and HQ USAF/CV will maintain BAQ in their assigned air-
        craft. Minimum and maximum sortie rates do not apply.
        2.5.6. Unless further restricted by AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, colonels and colonel
        selects who comply with paragraph 2.5. may fly without an instructor in their primary assigned
        aircraft.
        2.5.7. MAJCOMs establish additional guidelines and flight requirements as necessary.
        2.5.8. Test pilots of any rank assigned to AFMC, AFMC civilian employees who have previously
        graduated from a military test pilot school (or equivalent), contract personnel who work under a
        government contract administered by AFMC or DCMA who have previously graduated from a
        military test pilot school (or equivalent), and Aggressor and Thunderbird selectees (with MAJ-
        COM concurrence), may attend senior officer qualification training courses.
     2.6. Mission Qualification Training. The purpose of mission qualification training is to qualify air-
     crew members in assigned aircrew positions to perform the command or unit mission. AFI 11-2
     MDS-Specific, Volume 1 prescribes minimum training requirements to qualify individuals in unit
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        13


   missions. All crew members will complete mission qualification before entering special mission (e.g.,
   Special Operations Low Level (SOLL) II, etc.) qualification or upgrade training, unless the special
   mission training is specifically directed as pre-mission qualification training in AFI 11-2 MDS-Spe-
   cific, Volume 1, e.g., LANTIRN training.

3. Continuation Training. The continuation training program provides crew members with the volume,
frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned qualification level.
   3.1. Aircrew Status. An aircrew member may be assigned Mission Ready/Combat Mission Ready,
   Basic Mission Capable, or Basic Aircraft Qualification status.
       3.1.1. Mission Ready (MR). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission qual-
       ification training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit operational
       mission.
       3.1.2. Combat Mission Ready (CMR). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed
       mission qualification training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit
       combat mission.
       3.1.3. Basic Mission Capable (BMC). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed
       mission qualification training, is qualified in some aspect of the unit mission, but does not main-
       tain MR/CMR status. The aircrew member must be able to attain full qualification to meet opera-
       tional taskings within 30 days, or otherwise specified in the applicable MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
       3.1.4. Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ). An aircrew member who has satisfactorily com-
       pleted initial qualification training and is qualified to perform aircrew duties in the unit aircraft.
       The member must perform at the minimum frequency necessary to meet the most recent sortie and
       flight standards set for that weapon system in the applicable MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
       3.1.5. Minimum Requirements. In addition to the above, MR, CMR, BMC, and BAQ aircrew
       members must have accomplished and/or maintain the following minimum requirements (NOTE:
       an asterisk [*] indicates requirement is a grounding item):
          3.1.5.1. *Annual physical according to AFI 48-123, Volumes 1 and 3.
          3.1.5.2. *Physiological training according to AFI 11-403 (N/A for UAS aircrew) .
          3.1.5.3. Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM) training, according to AFI 11-290,
          Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, and AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Vol-
          ume 1 (Flight surgeons: CRM is a one-time requirement in the primary assigned aircraft unless
          required to perform Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) duties. Flight surgeons required to perform
          AE duties will accomplish CRM refresher training IAW AFI 11-2AE Vol 1, Aeromedical
          Evacuation Aircrew Training.)
          3.1.5.4. ALS equipment training, aircrew chemical defense training, emergency egress train-
          ing with ACDE, combat survival training, conduct after capture, water survival training, and
          emergency parachute training with ACDE according to AFI 11-301, Volume 1, and AFI
          16-1301. NOTE: SERE not required for cadet aircrew.
          3.1.5.5. Aircrew qualification (AF Form 8/8a). See AFI 11-202 Vol 2.
          3.1.5.6. Flight currency events, except special mission qualifications that do not affect the
          wartime mission.
14                                                         AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


            3.1.5.7. *Emergency egress training, ejection seat; or emergency egress training non-ejection
            seat; and emergency parachute training (N/A for UAS operators). See AFI 11-301, Volume 1,
            and AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
     3.2. Responsibilities:
        3.2.1. MAJCOM. MAJCOMs will determine unit of attachment for higher headquarters staff
        personnel assigned to flying positions.
        3.2.2. Squadron Commander. The squadron commander or designated representative will
        ensure individuals receive training to successfully complete unit missions and maintain individual
        proficiency. The squadron commander will also determine the training level of each assigned crew
        member, when not prescribed by MAJCOM.
        3.2.2. (AFRC) Squadron Commander. Training accomplished by Air Reserve Technicians
        (ART) in civilian status is creditable towards total flying training requirements.
        3.2.3. Aircrew Members. Each aircrew member is responsible for monitoring and completing all
        training requirements.
     3.3. Training Events/Profiles. Aircrew members’ continuation and additional (ground) training
     events/profiles are maintained in ARMS. Commanders have the option of monitoring AF-wide aware-
     ness training (e.g. Resource Protection) for aircrew members in ARMS.
        3.3.1. Use the following forms when documenting aircrew training in ARMS (If additional forms
        are needed, see AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for guidance):
NOTE: Reports and updates to ARMS generated from AF-approved automated systems (e.g. ARMS,
TASAMS, PEX) may be used as source documentation for continuation training provided these reports
contain the minimum required elements. Updates generated from an automated system must be validated
by a mission review process.
            3.3.1.1. Additional Training. Use AF Form 1522, ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment
            Report, to document aircrew ground training for processing into ARMS. Training events
            taught by other agencies (e.g. small arms) as well as grounding events (e.g. ground egress
            training) must be documented on the AF Form 1522. In either case, an instructor must certify
            training accomplishment. AF Form 1522 may also be used to document training accomplished
            by a single individual when no instructor is involved (e.g. computer based training). In this
            case, the form may be emailed directly from the individual's official e-mail account to a unit
            aviation resource manager’s official e-mail account. The aviation resource manager will main-
            tain a copy of the email and form as a source document. Events that do not require a formal
            course of instruction (e.g. SOF duties) may be documented on a locally developed mission
            accomplishment report for processing into ARMS. Locally developed forms must contain the
            minimum elements found on the AF Form 1522, with the exception of instructor certification.
            Refer to AFI 33-360 for additional guidance. NOTE: AF Form 1522 is not required for docu-
            mentation of physiological training. AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record,
            will be used to document Physiological Training for processing into ARMS.
            3.3.1.2. Continuation Training. MAJCOMs will establish specific criteria and forms for docu-
            menting continuation training. With MAJCOM approval, units may develop local mission
            accomplishment reports and/or training accomplishment reports to document continuation
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                   15


         training for processing into ARMS. MAJCOMs will establish minimum elements required for
         locally developed forms.
     3.3.2. (Added-AFRC) Maintain ARMS end-of-cycle products for the current and previous train-
     ing cycles.
         3.3.2.1. (Added-AFRC) Units will use gaining command training task identifiers.
  3.4. Currency. Currency requirements for aircrew members are listed in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific,
  Volume 1.
     3.4.1. MAJCOMs determine similar equipment or systems for aircrew members who fly more
     than one mission or design aircraft.
         3.4.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Aircraft within the following groupings are considered to be similar
         MDSs for the purposes of this regulation: F-16/C/D/CG/CJ; HH-60G and MH-60G; WC/
         HC-130H/N/P/J; and A/OA-10.
     3.4.2. MAJCOM/A3s may waive currency requirements for aircraft that are unique to an organi-
     zation when accomplishment is not practical. In such cases, commanders ensure that aircrew
     members are current and qualified in all normal and emergency procedures before unsupervised
     flight.
     3.4.3. Recurrency Training.
         3.4.3.1. Loss of Currency up to 6 Months. An aircrew member must demonstrate profi-
         ciency with an instructor (or designated supervisor, when specified in the applicable AFI 11-2
         MDS-Specific, Volume 1) in all delinquent items (such as landings). Designated supervisors,
         if applicable, will be clearly established in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volumes 1.
         3.4.3.2. Loss of Currency Exceeding 6 Months. AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, will
         establish which currency items result in unqualified status requiring requalification according
         to paragraph 2.2. and which currency items do not result in unqualified status allowing recur-
         rency to be regained according to paragraph 3.4.3.1.
  3.5. Proration of Training. When determining training requirements, prorate an aircrew member not
  available for flying duties (for example, PCS, nonflying TDY, duty not including flying [DNIF] status,
  or emergency leave). Proration does not apply to individuals who are available for 15 days or less,
  who will not incur training requirements. For individuals available for flying duties for 16 days or
  more, requirements prorated are in direct proportion to the number of days of nonavailability. Do not
  prorate for nonavailability of 15 days or less. For every 30 days of nonavailability beyond 15 days,
  prorate training requirements one month, but not to less than one event. Additional proration guidance
  may be established in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volumes 1.
     3.5.1. (Added-AFRC) Individuals may be considered unavailable for flying duties due to an out-
     side employment training program. The individual must not have worked in any pay status during
     the proration period (UTAs must be excused or rescheduled). Additionally, the squadron com-
     mander or designated representative will document the proration with an MFR to be maintained
     by the ARMS member. The commander will ensure members are prorated only for employment
     training programs which legitimately prevent the individual from being available for Reserve
     duties. Under no circumstance will a member be prorated based on this paragraph if proration was
     awarded for any reason in the previous training period.
16                                                          AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


     3.6. Failure to Complete Continuation Training Requirements.
        3.6.1. Declare individuals in Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) non-mission
        ready (NMR), non-combat mission ready (N-CMR), non-basic mission capable (N-BMC), or
        non-basic aircraft qualified (N-BAQ) if they fail to complete periodic ground or flying continua-
        tion training requirements defined paragraph 3.1.5. and in AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1
        instructions. Waiver authorities for this instruction are specified in paragraph 1.2. Waiver require-
        ments and waiver authorities for AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volumes 1, will be specified in those
        instructions.
        3.6.2. Individuals who fail to accomplish minimum aircrew requirements must fly in supervised
        status when currency in the item is required for the particular flight (unless otherwise directed in
        the applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1). If the minimum requirement is a grounding
        item (indicated by an asterisk in paragraph 3.1.5. and subsequent paragraphs), individuals will not
        fly as aircrew members and will not perform aircrew duties until the requirement is accomplished.
        3.6.3. Suspend aircrew members assigned to active flying positions who fail to attain and main-
        tain aircrew qualification, when such action is within the member’s control, IAW AFI 11-402.
     3.7. Requirements Before PCS or TDY by Members on Active Flying Status. T h e f o l l o w i n g
     paragraphs apply to flying personnel departing PCS from their old station or TDY from their perma-
     nent station.
        3.7.1. Aircrew members should complete a proportionate share of flying requirements by the end
        of the month preceding the date of departure for PCS or non-flying TDY.
        3.7.2. Complete physical examination and physiological training requirements before departing
        PCS or TDY, if the due date occurs within three months after departure date (CONUS assign-
        ments), or prior to DEROS (overseas assignments). For overseas assignments, physiological train-
        ing currency must cover the duration of the assignment, IAW 11-403. For flight evaluation
        requirements in conjunction with PCS/TDY moves, see AFI 11-202, Volume 2. Air University
        graduating students may delay physiological refresher training until they arrive at their new duty
        location or formal flying training base, if the assigned base is one of the locations with physiolog-
        ical training facilities.
        3.7.2. (AFRC) Provisions of this paragraph apply to all AFRC aircrew members who are trans-
        ferring to another unit. The unit aviation resource management superintendent is responsible for
        ensuring aircrew members are notified of training due.
     3.8. Requirements Before Removal from Active Flying. The following paragraphs apply to flying
     personnel being retired, separated, placed in inactive status, or reassigned to nonflying positions.
        3.8.1. Training requirements apply until the last day of the fourth month prior to an individual’s
        removal from active flying. For example, a person who retires or starts terminal leave on 1 July
        must complete requirements through 31 March; or, if a person is reassigned to a nonflying position
        on 15 November, he must complete requirements through 31 July. MAJCOMs may extend spe-
        cific training requirement applicability, based on unit mission requirements, on a case-by-case
        basis.
        3.8.2. Refresher physiological training and academic refresher courses are not required if individ-
        uals on active flying status are current, and if removal from active flying status occurs during the
        4-month period after the due date.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                       17


   3.9. Requirements While in Inactive Flying Status. Personnel placed in inactive status will not
   complete the aircrew, flying, and physiological training requirements of this instruction. Physical
   qualification must be maintained according to AFI 48-123, except for flying personnel in aviation ser-
   vice codes 6J, 7J, 8J, and 9J, GJ and HJ. When inactive members have been selected and confirmed
   for assignment to aircrew duties, these individuals must regain currency in physical and physiological
   training before performing inflight duties. Individuals will regain their physical qualification prior to
   PCS/PCA to an active flying assignment.
   3.9. (AFRC) Requirements While in Inactive Flying Status. Unit commanders ensure all inactive
   personnel in-process through the unit FMO and turn in their FRF to the HARM office. MPF provides
   written verification of all inactive personnel to the unit FMO within 5-workdays upon arrival or PCS
   of individual.
   3.10. Retraining. Personnel retraining in another type aircraft will incur an ADSC IAW AFI
   36-2107.
   3.11. Aircrews Flying in Non-US Air Force Aircraft and with Non-US Air Force Units. A i r
   Force aircrews performing appropriate duties in non-US Air Force aircraft IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation
   Management, or on duty with or attached to non-US Air Force units for flying, are only required to
   maintain a current physical and review their flight records IAW AFI 11-401. Aircrew members
   affected by this paragraph are not required to maintain currency in USAF physiological training, but
   must regain physiological qualification (when required) prior to performing aircrew duty in US Air
   Force aircraft.
   3.12. Flight Surgeon Requirements. Flight surgeon flying requirements are according to the appro-
   priate AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, but in no case are they less than those in Table 1. Provide
   assigned and attached flight surgeons every opportunity to fly in the unit’s primary mission aircraft.
   Flight surgeons must fly at least 50 percent of their annual minimum requirements in primary unit air-
   craft unless assigned or attached to operational units equipped only with single place aircraft or
   deployed away from their primary unit for more than 90 days. Waiver authority for this paragraph is
   AFMOA/SGPA (send info copy to HQ USAF/A3OT and appropriate MAJCOM/SG office).
   3.12. (AFRC) Flight Surgeon Requirements. Active duty flight surgeons assigned a RPI 5 are
   authorized to fly periodically with AFRC units on a noninterference basis with the concurrence of the
   flying unit commander.

Table 1. Flight Surgeon Sortie Requirements (See Notes).
             Sortie                      Semi-Annual Period                     Annual Sorties
              Total                           Minimum: 6                          Minimum: 12
             Night                            Minimum: 1                          Minimum: 2

NOTES:
     1. Flight surgeons may log more than one sortie per day; however, no more than one sortie per
        single calendar day will be credited towards semi-annual and annual sortie requirements in
        Table 1. (Credit hours flown IAW AFI 11-401.) EXCEPTION: Credit Air Reserve Compo-
        nent flight surgeons with a maximum of two sorties for separate flights performed in a single
18                                                        AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


           calendar day, provided the interval between flights does not exceed 60 days and a minimum of
           six missions are flown each six months.
       2. A night sortie is one on which either takeoff or landing and at least 50 percent of flight dura-
          tion or one hour, whichever is less, occurs during night time, as defined in AFI 11-401.
       3. Flight surgeons are conditional fliers and must meet DODFMR (DOD Financial Management
          Regulation) flying requirements for entitlement to ACIP. See also AFI 11-421, Aviation
          Resource Management.
       4. To maintain currency, time between flights must not be more than 60 days. Notify the com-
          mand surgeon when time between flights exceeds 60 days. MAJCOMs establish procedures
          for flight surgeons to regain flying currency.
       5. Squadron aviation resource managers will set up flight surgeon training profiles on an annual
          cycle. Reference Attachment 2 Table A2.1. for ARMS training event identifiers.
       6. Notify the command surgeon when flight surgeons fail to meet semi-annual or annual sortie
          requirements. MAJCOMs establish procedures to assess continued active flying authorization.

Table 1. (AFRC) Flight Surgeon Sorties/Training Requirements.
NOTES:
4. Routine notification of AFRC/SG for Flight Surgeons exceeding 60 days is not required.
5. Flight Surgeons complete training accomplishment sheets for each sortie flown.

       3.12.1. (Added-AFRC) If flying requirements are not met the flight surgeon must meet the fol-
       lowing requirements:
           3.12.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Be re-briefed on aircraft MDS specific requirements including
           emergency egress procedures.
           3.12.1.2. (Added-AFRC) Ensure all ARMS currency items are current—except for a sortie in
           which currency will be regained on a subsequent scheduled flight.
       3.12.2. (Added-AFRC) If there is continued difficulty in meeting currency requirements, the
       operations group commander, in consultation with the medical unit commander, should consider
       removing the flight surgeon from the API-5 position and reassigning the API-5 position to a flight
       surgeon who is able to meet the flying requirements. Notify the appropriate NAF/SG when flight
       surgeons are removed from API-5 positions due to failure to meet flying currency requirements.
       NAF/SG will in-turn notify AFRC/SG.

4. Upgrade Training. See applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1 for specific instructions for
additional requirements. Personnel attending formal training for upgrade in an aircraft will incur an
ADSC IAW AFI 36-2107.

5. Aircrew Training System (ATS). The ATS is a system wherein a civilian contractor provides aca-
demic, simulator, and other designated aircrew training. ATS courses are listed in the applicable AFI 11-2
MDS-Specific, Volume 1.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                       19


   5.1. Applicability. Guidance applies to all aircrew members attending either formal schools using
   ATS courseware or ATS refresher/phase training, or units conducting secondary method training uti-
   lizing formal courseware.
   5.2. Students. ATS students will enroll on a full-time basis to ensure their training is completed in a
   timely and uninterrupted manner. Students will be relieved of duties not directly related to training.
   EXCEPTION: Supervisory personnel may continue their normal duties as time permits when this
   training is conducted at home station.
   5.3. Course Prerequisites. Commanders will ensure ATS students complete ATS course prerequi-
   sites as outlined in the ETCA, applicable AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, or course syllabus.
   5.4. Objectives. Lesson objective descriptions, remediation procedures, specific training evaluation
   criteria, administration procedures and scheduling guidelines/procedures are found in the applicable
   AFI 11-2 MDS-Specific, Volume 1, or course syllabus.
   5.5. Unsatisfactory Student Progress :
       5.5.1. If a student's training progress is unsatisfactory, the contractor will notify the appropriate
       government representative (wing training, operations officer, etc.). Following review of the stu-
       dent's record, the government representative will determine whether to continue or terminate
       training.
       5.5.2. The contractor will provide written feedback to the unit commander or training office for
       students who display substandard performance.
   5.6. Courseware Changes. Submit formal school courseware changes through appropriate MAJ-
   COM channels to the training command. The training command will coordinate with the command
   responsible for overseeing the ATS contract, if different than the training command. Submit all other
   courseware changes to the MAJCOM responsible for overseeing the ATS contract.
   5.7. Source Document. Changes to aircrew qualifications (including training profiles) that are
   tracked in ARMS will be documented on the AF Form 4324, Aircraft Assignment/Aircrew Qualifica-
   tion Worksheet. Forms will be certified by the appropriate agency and provided to the Squadron Avia-
   tion Resource Management office.

6. Ancillary Training. The ETCA website at https://etca.randolph.af.mil lists ancillary training
courses; each course lists the applicable target group. Reference publications provide guidance for accom-
plishment of ancillary training requirements. HQ USAF/A3OT will also maintain a reference list of pub-
lications prescribing ancillary training (based on inputs provided by MAJCOM aircrew training offices).
The following guidance applies to coordination of publications prescribing ancillary training and resolv-
ing publications issues:
   6.1. HQ USAF/A3OT is the AF/A3/5 focal point for publications interface. HQ USAF/A3OT will act
   as a conduit to provide draft publications to MAJCOMs for coordination. HQ USAF/A3OT will pro-
   vide MAJCOM inputs to publications OPRs for draft and existing publications to facilitate resolving
   publications issues.
   6.2. MAJCOM aircrew training offices will coordinate publications issues (reference paragraph
   1.5.2.). Supported commands will provide inputs to lead commands. Lead commands will provide
   inputs to HQ USAF/A3OT. If issues cannot be readily resolved, waivers or exceptions to policy may
   be requested IAW paragraph 1.2. Submit requests for waivers or exceptions to policy through applica-
20                                                          AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


     ble training channels to MAJCOM/A3 or equivalent. MAJCOM/A3s forward request to HQ USAF/
     A3O, with info copy to HQ USAF/A3OT. With HQ USAF/A3O approval, HQ USAF/A3OT will
     coordinate requests with waiver authorities and publications OPRs. Comply with existing guidance in
     the source publication establishing the training requirement until the source publication is changed, a
     waiver is granted, or an exception to policy is approved. EXCEPTION: MAJCOMs may establish
     more restrictive guidance. Waivers or exceptions to policy are only required when the intent is to be
     less restrictive than the source publication. See also paragraph 1.2. for MAJCOM/A3 waiver author-
     ity.
     6.3. Total Force Training and Education Review Process. AFI 36-2201, Volume 6, Total Force
     Training and Education Review Process (TFTERP), establishes the organizational structure and pro-
     vides guidance for reviewing training and education issues. AF/A3O is included in the process as a
     designated member of the Review Board. AF/A3OT is a member of the Decision Panel and the Issues
     team. As part of this process, related issues may be directed to specific organizations for review. In
     addition to the process established in paragraph 6.2., above, TFTERP may be used to elevate training
     and education issues for consideration and resolution.

7. Standard Training Event identifiers. Attachment 2 lists the training event identifiers to use for all
Air Force personnel in the Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS).

8. Hours-per-Crew-per-Month/Sorties-per-Crew-per-Month Report. MAJCOMs will submit quar-
terly Hours-per-Crew-per-Month/Sorties-per-Crew-per-Month (HCM/SCM) report (RCS:
HAF-XO(Q)0502) to HQ USAF/A3OT by the 15th of the month following each calendar quarter. Submit
data requirements as prescribed, but submission may be delayed to allow the submission of higher prece-
dent reports. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, delayed precedence. Submit report elec-
tronically. Discontinue reporting during MINIMIZE. Reports are required from the following commands:
ACC, AFRC, AFSOC, AMC, NGB, PACAF, USAFE (may be revised as directed by HQ USAF). See
Attachment 3 for specific procedures and examples.

9. Forms.
     9.1. Forms Prescribed. AF Form 1522, ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Report, AF
     Form 4324, Aircraft Assignment/Aircrew Qualification Worksheet.
     9.2. Forms Adopted. AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, AF Form 8a, Certificate of
     Aircrew Qualification (Multiple Aircraft), AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record,
     AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                      21


  9.2. (AFRC) Form Adopted: AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document.



                                      CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                      DCS, Air, Space and Information Operations,
                                      Plans & Requirements

                                      (AFRC)

                                      JOHN A. BRADLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                      Commander
22                                                      AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management, 13 Jun 2000
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, 1 May 1998
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-2AE Volume 1, Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Training, 3 Oct 2005
AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 8 Dec 2006
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, 11 Apr 2001
AFI 11-301, Volume 1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 19 Jul 2002
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 7 Mar 2007
AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Badges, 29 Jul 2003
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management, 25 Apr 2005
AFI 11-421, Aviation Resource Management, 1 Nov 2004
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape Program, 6 Sep 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 36-2107, Active Duty Service Commitments (ADSC), 22 Apr 2005
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation, 1 Oct 2002
AFI 36-2201, Volume 6, Total Force Training and Education Review Process (TFTERP), 27 Sep 2002
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 20 Mar 2003
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volumes 1 and 3, 5 Jun 2006
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 Feb 1994
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Program (IRP), 3 Feb 2005
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 Nov 1993
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994
AFRCI 36-2102, Air Force Reserve Service Commitment Date Program, 26 Mar 2004
DOD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs), Volume 7A, 14
Mar 2005
DODI 7730.57, Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974 and Required Annual Report, 18 Jul 2003
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                23


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AATTC—Advanced Airlift Tactics Training Center
ACDE—Aircrew Chemical Defense Equipment
ACIP—Aviation Career Incentive Pay
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AEB—Aircrew Evaluation Board
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ATS—Aircrew Training System
BAQ—Basic Aircraft Qualification
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CC—Commander
CFIT—Controlled Flight into Terrain
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
DNIF—Duty Not Involving Flying
DoD—Department of Defense
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
FCR—Formal Course Review
FEB—Flying Evaluation Board
FTU—Formal Training Unit
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HQ—Headquarters
IFS—Initial Flight Screening
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
24                                                         AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


MAJCOM—Major Command (for purposes of this AFI, includes ANG)
MDS—Mission Design Series
MR—Mission Ready
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BAQ—Non-Basic Aircraft Qualification
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
NMR—Non-Mission Ready
OPORD—Operation Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PFT—Programmed Flying Training
PGL—Program Guidance Letter
PR—Progress Review
PRD—Program Requirements Document
RSC—Reserve Service Commitment
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
TDY—Temporary Duty
UAS—Unmanned Aircraft System
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
WIC—Weapons Instructor Course

Terms
Aircrew—The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, air battle managers, and flight surgeons),
career enlisted aviators (1AXXX Air Force Specialty Codes), and nonrated aircrew (K-, Q-, or X-prefixed
Air Force Specialty Code) personnel responsible for the safe ground and flight operation of the aircraft
and onboard systems, or for airborne duties essential to accomplishment of the aircraft’s mission. Includes
members in initial formal training for immediate assignment to an authorized operational flying position.
Individuals must be on aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized position according to AFI
65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, or nonrated aircrew not in an aircraft’s basic crew
complement, but required for the mission. Aircrew members perform their principal duties inflight and
their presence is required for the aircraft to accomplish its primary tasked mission. Duties must be
essential to operating the aircraft or mission systems and equipment used for completing a mission, or
other duties essential to the aircraft’s mission.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                   25


NOTES:
   1. US Air Force Academy (USAFA)/Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC)
      cadets enrolled in approved USAFA flying programs are accorded aircrew status while actively
      participating in such programs. Cadets will be placed on aeronautical orders authorizing flying
      status while participating in approved USAFA flying programs and will not be added in the oper-
      ational ARMS database. HARM office personnel will not assign an Aviation Service Code
      (ASC) and an Aviation Service Date (ASD) will not be established. Neither flying incentive pay
      nor flying duty credit are authorized.
   2. The term “navigator” includes all navigator specialties and is synonymous with the designation
      Combat Systems Officer (CSO). New UFT graduates are designated CSOs, but previously quali-
      fied individuals will continue to be identified as navigators.
Basic Aircraft Qualification—An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed training prescribed
to maintain the skills necessary to perform aircrew duties in the unit aircraft.
Basic Mission Capable—An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission qualification
training, is qualified in some aspect of the unit mission, but does not maintain MR/CMR status.
Combat Mission Ready—An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission qualification
training and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit combat mission.
Continuation Training—The continuation training program provides crew members with the volume,
frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned qualification level.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency requirements
should ensure the average aircrew member maintains a minimum level of proficiency in a given event.
Flying Training CONOPS—The process that ties validated training requirements to the Air Force
Programming, Planning, and Budgeting System.
Formal Course—Training courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course Announcement
(ETCA).
Initial Qualification—An aircrew member engaged in training needed to qualify for basic aircrew duties
in an assigned position for a specific aircraft, without regard for the unit’s operational mission.
Mission Ready—An aircrew member who has satisfactorily completed mission qualification training
and maintains qualification and proficiency in the command or unit operational mission.
Mission Qualification—An aircrew member engaged in training needed to qualify in an assigned
aircrew position to perform the command or unit mission.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having the primary
functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or problem.
Proficiency—A measure of how well a task is completed. An aircrew member is considered proficient
when they can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and safety.
Special Mission Training—Training in any special skills necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned
missions that are not required by every crew member. Specialized training is normally accomplished after
the crew member is assigned MR/CMR or BMC status, and is normally in addition to MR/CMR or BMC
requirements.
26                                                 AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


Training Command—The MAJCOM assigned responsibility for formal school training in each MDS.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                              27


                                 Attachment 1 (AFRC)

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
28                                                         AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


                                             Attachment 2

                        STANDARD TRAINING EVENT IDENTIFIERS

A2.1. Standard ARMS Training Event Identifiers. Table A2.1. shows the training event identifiers to
use for all Air Force personnel in ARMS.

Table A2.1. Standard ARMS Training Event Identifiers.
Identifier    Description
AA01          Qualification Evaluation
AA02          Qualification Evaluation, Simulator
AA11          Instrument Evaluation
AA12          Instrument Evaluation, Simulator
AA21          Combined Qualification and Instrument Evaluation
AA22          Combined Qualification and Instrument Evaluation, Simulator
CC01          On Scene Commander Training
FF00          Total Flight Surgeon Sorties
FF01          Total Day Flight Surgeon Sorties
FF02          Total Night Sorties, Flight Surgeon
FF11          Primary Aircraft Day Flight Surgeon Sortie
FF12          Primary Aircraft Night Flight Surgeon Sortie
FF21          Non-Primary Aircraft Day Flight Surgeon Sortie
FF22          Non-Primary Aircraft Night Flight Surgeon Sortie
LL01          Life Support Familiarization Training
LL02          Emergency Egress Training -Ejection Seat
LL03          Emergency Egress Training -Non Ejection Seat
LL04          Aircrew Chemical Defense Training (ACDT)
LL05          Egress Training with ACDE
LL06          Life Support Equipment Training
PP12          Centrifuge Training
SS01          Local Area Survival
SS02          Combat Survival Training (CST)
SS03          Conduct After Capture (CAC)
SS04          Non-combat Survival Training (NCST)
SS05          Water Survival Training (WST)
SS06          Emergency Procedures Training
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                              29


Identifier   Description
SS07         Contingency SERE Indoctrination (CSI)
SS20         Combat Survival Training (CST), Wartime Level C (S-V80-A)
SS21         Combat Survival Training, Wartime Level B
SS22         Combat Survival Training, Wartime Level C Top Off
SS23         Combat Survival Training, USAFA Wartime Level B
SS24         Survival Training, Governmental Detention Level C (S-V83-A)
SS25         High Risk Survival Training, Govern. Detention Level C (S-V91-A)
SS26         Governmental Detention, Level B
SS27         Hostage Survival Training, Level C (S-V93-A)
SS28         Hostage Survival Training, Level B
SS29         Survival Training (S-V82-A)
SS30         Underwater Egress Training (S-V84-A)
SS31         Water Survival Training, Parachuting (S-V86-A)
SS32         Water Survival Training, Non-Parachuting (S-V90-A)
SS33         Arctic Survival Training (S-V87-A)
SS34         Medical SERE Training (B3AZYBLMD-000)
TT00         Total Overhead Sorties
TT01         Maintenance Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT02         Weather Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT03         Air Traffic Control Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT04         Airspace Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT05         Operations Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT06         Support Attrition Overhead Sortie
TT15         Other Required Training Accomplished (Attrition)
TT16         No Other Required Training Accomplished (Attrition)
TT20         Vol 1 Support Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT21         Lookback/Currency Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT22         Individual Upgrade Training Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT23         Upgrade Support Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT24         Remedial/Corrective Training Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT30         Other Required Training Accomplished (Force Sustainment)
TT31         No Other Required Training Accomplished (Force Sustainment)
TT32         Commander Directed Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
30                                                       AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


Identifier    Description
TT33          Commander Directed Support Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT34          Regain Currency Force Sustainment Overhead Sortie
TT40          Functional Check Flight Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT41          Ferry Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT42          Non-Contingency Deploy Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT43          Air Show/Demonstration Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT44          Orientation/Incentive Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT45          Airborne Spare Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT46          Contingency Force Support Overhead Sortie
TT50          Other Required Training Accomplished (Force Support)
TT51          No Other Required Training Accomplished (Force Support)
TT99          Scheduled Mission Accomplished
VV01          Initial/Refresher Night Vision Goggle Training
NOTE: Duplicate double letters (AA through ZZ) identify Air Force specified training events. AF/
A3OTF establishes and authorizes the use of Air Force duplicate double letter codes. Other letter and/or
number combinations (such as AB) are authorized for events identified in other publications. Locally
developed training task ID’s will begin with the letter “X”. The HARM office or training profile manager
will ensure the OG/CC approves locally developed task IDs.
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                        31


A2.2. Standard ARMS Training Program Codes. Table A2.2. shows the training program code iden-
tifiers to use for all aircrew training programs in ARMS.

Table A2.2. Standard ARMS Training Program Codes.
   First       Second     Description
 Character    Character
     A         (Note)     Airlift
     B         (Note)     Bomber
     C         (Note)     C2ISR (Command and Control, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
                          Reconnaissance)
     F         (Note)     Fighter/Attack
     G           T        Ground Training
     H         (Note)     Helicopter
     I           A        Intelligence (not assigned/attached to C2ISR units)
     K         (Note)     Refueling (Tanker)
     M           D        Flight Surgeon
     N         (Note)     Space Aircraft
     P           C        Combat Camera
     P            J       Pararescue/Combat Rescue Officer
     Q         (Note)     Unmanned Aerial Systems
     S         (Note)     Special Operations (other than helicopter)
     T         (Note)     Training
     U           E        Aeromedical Evacuation

NOTE: Program code second character code determined by designated MDS lead command MAJCOM.
32                                                        AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008


                                             Attachment 3

     HOURS-PER-CREW-PER-MONTH (HCM) / SORTIES-PER-CREW-PER-MONTH (SCM)
                                 REPORT

A3.1. Units and/or MAJCOMs will capture HCM and SCM data on active duty pilots assigned to API-1,
API-6, and API-8 positions. MAJCOMs will consolidate unit-level HCM and SCM data by weapon sys-
tem and API category. All reports will be defined by Fiscal Year/Quarter and will be submitted in the fol-
lowing format:


   QTR          ACFT       POSITION       PILOTS       HOURS          HCM    SORTIES             SCM
07/2          F-15C       API-1 EXP            50         3000          20.0     1545               10.3
                          API-1 INEX           30         1620          18.0      855                9.5
                          API-6 EXP               10          300         10.0           240           8.0
                          API-6 INEX               2           48          8.0            45           7.5
                          API-8 EXP                2           40          6.7            30           5.0
                          API-8 INEX               1           15          5.0             6           2.0


              KC-135      API-1 AC                50         4000         26.7           850          5.7
                          API-1 CP                60         4400         24.4           950          5.3
                          API-6 AC                20         1000         16.7           300          5.0
                          API-6 CP                 0            0            0             0            0
                          API-8 AC                 2           80         13.3            26          4.3
                          API-8 CP                 0            0            0             0            0

     A3.1.1. Pilots: Average number of normal (N-coded) pilots assigned to the designated API during the
     quarter (broken out by Experienced and Inexperienced pilots for fighter aircraft and Aircraft Com-
     mander (AC) and Copilot (CP) (or current MAJCOM designation for non-AC pilots) for multi-place
     aircraft, IAW AFI MDS-Specific Volumes 1). Do not include other coded pilots, such as retired, sep-
     arated, PCS, TDY, inbound and new record. Only include pilots assigned and N-coded during the
     entire quarter.
     A3.1.2. Hours per Quarter: Total number of hours flown (to include Primary, Secondary, Instructor,
     Evaluator, and Other time) during the quarter for the designated API (N-coded only).
     A3.1.3. HCM: Average numbers of hours flown per pilot per month. For the F-15C example above,
     3000 hours flown divided by 50 pilots divided by the 3 months in the quarter equals 20 hours per
     crewmember per month.
     A3.1.4. Sorties per Quarter: Total number of sorties flown during the quarter for the designated API
     (N-coded only).
AFI11-202V1_AFRCSUP_I 12 JUNE 2008                                                                     33


  A3.1.5. SCM: Average number of sorties flown per pilot per month. For the KC-135 example above,
  850 sorties flown divided by 50 pilots divided by the three months in the quarter equals 5.7 sorties per
  crewmember per month.
  A3.1.6. Reports will include explanatory remarks when actual HCM differs from programmed HCM
  (by MDS and API) by 10 percent or more.
  A3.1.7. Reports are required from the following commands: ACC, AFRC, AFSOC, AMC, NGB,
  PACAF, USAFE (may be revised as directed by HQ USAF).
