BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-702
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  7 JUNE 2011

                                                                                    Operations

                                                                MILITARY INFORMATION
                                                            SUPPORT OPERATIONS (MISO)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3Z                                                              Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                    (Lt Gen Herbert J. Carlisle)
                                                                                      Pages: 12


This Instruction implements AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, DoD Directive S-3321.1,
Overt Psychological Operations Conducted by the Military Services in Peacetime and in
Contingencies Short of Declared War (U), Joint Publication 3-53, Doctrine for Joint
Psychological Operations, and the SECDEF directed name change from Psychological
Operations to Military Information Support Operations.               It delineates the roles and
responsibilities associated with Air Force Military Information Support Operations (AF MISO)
as an operational activity within the Information Operations (IO) mission area. The instruction
applies to HQ USAF, Numbered Air Forces, their subordinate elements for operational activities,
major commands (MAJCOMs) in their roles of organizing, training, and equipping, and to the
National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC). This instruction applies to the Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve when mobilized. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of terms used in this Instruction.
 2                                                                      AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011



                                             Chapter 1

                                            GENERAL

1.1. Mission
     1.1.1. In general, MISO seeks to induce, influence, or reinforce the perceptions, attitudes,
     reasoning, and behavior of individuals, foreign leaders, groups, and organizations in a
     manner advantageous to US forces and objectives. Focused on the human dimension of the
     battlespace, AF MISO plans operations that leverage Air Force core competencies.
     Additionally, AF MISO takes advantage of the United States’ ability to synchronize kinetic
     and non-kinetic capabilities in the domains of air, space, and cyberspace to affect the
     perceptions, decision cycles, and actions of foreign states and/or actors. Air Force MISO
     planners will augment the Joint Informaiton Support Task Force (Special Operations) (JISTF
     (SO)) and other Joint IO functions with MISO-trained AF personnel. While Public Affairs
     (PA) forces communicate accurate and timely information to both domestic and international
     audiences regarding US and allied/coalition military operations, Air Force MISO forces plan
     and execute operations which exclusively target foreign audiences. Air Force MISO forces
     support US objectives through a variety of planned psychological effects-based operations,
     emphasizing cognitive domain target development, selection and engagement. The
     Component Numbered Air Force (C-NAF) staff and assigned Air and Space Operations
     Center (AOC) Information Operations Team plans objectives and tasks that employ MISO
     capabilities to achieve assigned Combatant Command (COCOM) and Combined Force Air
     Component Commander (CFACC) objectives.
     1.1.2. Military Information Support Operations are normally conducted in a joint/combined
     environment. Air Force MISO forces provide direct support to the combatant commander
     with message distribution and dissemination, direct participation in the target audience
     analysis (TAA) process, and can serve as a liaison between the AOC and other MISO entities
     such as the JISTF (SO). Additionally, Air Force MISO forces provide direct support to the
     component commander through the systematic use of air, space, and information operations
     to shape, condition, and exploit the psychological content of the battlespace. Air Force
     MISO capabilities must be integrated into the joint campaign from the start for deconfliction
     and for maximum effectiveness.
1.2. Influence Operations (IFO)
     1.2.1. AFDD 2-5 discusses the operational application of Influence Operations (IFO).
     Because AF MISO is one of the operational activities of IFO, it is critical to integrate and
     deconflict with all IFO activities.
     1.2.2. As per AFDD 2-5, IFO is the integrated planning, employment, and assessment of
     military activities to achieve desired effects across the cognitive targeting domain in support
     of operational objectives. The operational activities associated with IFO are MISO, Military
     Deception (MILDEC), Public Affairs (PA) operations, Counterpropaganda (CP) operations,
     Operations Security (OPSEC), and Counterintelligence (CI) operations.                 Influence
     Operations effects should result in altered behaviors and/or changes in the adversary decision
     cycle, aligning them with the commander’s objectives while protecting the friendly decision
     cycle from adversary influence.
AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011                                                                            3


   1.2.3. Air Force MISO, as an IFO activity, is critically dependent upon intelligence support
   that identifies opportunities for influence, analyzes sources of access, and identifies friendly
   areas vulnerable to foreign influence. By analyzing foreign target audiences and adversary
   decision makers at all levels, intelligence support contributes to air, space, and information
   superiority and also provides operational feedback to assist in the assessment of MISO
   effectiveness. National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) personnel conduct
   behavioral influences analysis (BIA), a process critical to understanding foreign, friendly,
   neutral, and adversary target audiences. Within the AOC, intelligence support for MISO,
   such as BIA, is coordinated through the Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
   Division.
1.3. Objectives. Military Information Support Operations target foreign individuals, groups,
and organizations (including governments) in accordance with national political and military
objectives. A crucial part of all air, space, and Information Operations, MISO enables the
warfighter to
   1.3.1. Prepare, shape, and exploit the actual or potential battlespace cognitive domain for air,
   space, and cyberspace.
   1.3.2. Dissuade or deter foreign aggressors or other hostile actors from pursuing courses of
   action hostile to friendly forces and their objectives.
   1.3.3. Induce, influence, and/or reinforce foreign attitudes, perceptions, reasoning, and
   behavior that encourage the de-escalation and/or early cessation of armed conflict.
   1.3.4. Isolate hostile forces from their domestic or foreign base(s) of support, diminishing
   their will to wage war or continue armed resistance.
   1.3.5. Target the cognitive domain in order to exploit possible vulnerabilities and fault lines
   in a foreign population or hostile alliance, shaping the battlespace in a manner advantageous
   to US objectives.
   1.3.6. Influence the decision-making and command-and-control capabilities of a foreign
   adversary.
   1.3.7. Reduce the combat/terrorist risk to US/Allied combat forces.
   1.3.8. Influence neutral/local populace to support US objectives.
1.4. Spectrum of Conflict - Air Force MISO planning is conducted during all phases of
operations from the tactical to strategic level. It is continuously engaged in shaping the
environment in support of US and Allied strategic, operational, and tactical initiatives.
1.5. Planning and Execution
   1.5.1. Air Force MISO in support of joint operations is planned and executed in accordance
   with CJCSI 3110.05C, the CJCSM 3122 series, JP 3-53 and this document.
   1.5.2. The C-NAF operations staff (A39 or equivalent) is the focal point for deliberate IO
   operational planning; the AOC’s IOT is the focal point for adaptive and crisis-action
   planning for Influence Operations. Both staff sections will include trained AF MISO
   planners who interface with all C-NAF staff, AOC divisions, Joint MISO elements, and
   COCOM IO cells ensuring integration and deconfliction with the operational plan.
 4                                                                     AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011


     1.5.3. Air Force MISO planners will augment joint forces and teams for MISO.
1.6. Training and Education Standards
     1.6.1. In the absence of Officer and Enlisted MISO Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC), Air
     Force MISO Capability Specialists are designated by Special Experience Identifiers (SEI).
        1.6.1.1. Officer MISO Capability Specialist (SEI 9Q) designation criteria and authorized
        AFSCs are specified in the Air Force Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD),
        available via the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) web site.
        1.6.1.2. Enlisted MISO Capability Specialist (SEI 236) designation criteria and
        authorized AFSCs are specified in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
        (AFECD), available via the AFPC web site.
     1.6.2. Air Force MISO Officer and Senior Non-Commissioned Officer (SNCO)
     Certification.
        1.6.2.1. Air Force MISO Officer and SNCO career progression includes three
        certification levels based on training, education, and experience.
            1.6.2.1.1. Level 1: Completion of a basic Information Operations Course.
            1.6.2.1.2. Level 2: Graduation from the US Army’s Military Information Support
            Operations Officer Qualification Course (MISQ Course) at Ft. Bragg, NC. Level 2
            certified officers and SNCOs are fully qualified to perform any operational-level
            MISO planner role across the AF.
            1.6.2.1.3. Level 3: Completion of the following two criteria
               1.6.2.1.3.1. An advanced degree (M.A., M.S., or Ph.D.) in an academic discipline
               related to executing and planning MISO. Acceptable areas of study include, but
               are not limited to the following: anthropology, political science/international
               relations, psychology, sociology, international marketing, international
               journalism, regional history (Middle East, Africa, Asia, Balkans, Greco-Roman,
               Latin American) and theology of non-Western cultures. The AF MISO Program
               Manager will adjudicate approval for proposed degrees.
               1.6.2.1.3.2. A minimum of two assignments where the primary duties consist of
               executing or planning MISO. At least one of these assignments must be an
               operational MISO or IFO deployment of at least 120 days at the AF or Joint level
               during the tour.
AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011                                                                         5


                                          Chapter 2

                         RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY

2.1. HQ USAF/A3Z-CI (Information Operations Division) will:
   2.1.1. Fulfill the duties of the Program Manager for AF MISO.
   2.1.2. Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for the AF MISO program, including strategic
   vision, doctrine, and priorities for investment, programming, resources and technology.
   2.1.3. Provide program element monitoring and manage execution of AF MISO funds.
   These funds bring AF MISO capabilities to the Air Force and will not fund related air, space,
   and cyberspace capabilities. Air Force MISO funding is exclusive of US Special Operations
   Command’s (USSOCOM) responsibility for managing MFP-11 funding of EC-130J
   Commando Solo.
   2.1.4. In conjunction with the MAJCOMs, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
   and the Air National Guard (ANG), define the role of AF MISO in air, space, cyberspace,
   force protection, deterrence, homeland security, homeland defense, irregular warfare,
   building partnerships, and related joint/interagency activities.
   2.1.5. Liaise with other service and DoD components such as USSOCOM, US Army Civil
   Affairs and PSYOP Command (USACAPOC), the Defense Intelligence Agency’s Human
   Factors Analysis Center, the Department of Justice (DOJ), the Federal Bureau of
   Investigation (FBI) Behavioral Analysis Unit, and national research laboratories (e.g. Sandia
   National Laboratories) to address joint, inter-Service, and interagency MISO and IFO issues
   as required.
   2.1.6. Serve as functional area manager (FAM) for AF MISO IAW AFI 10-401 (with
   delegation authority to Combat Air Forces (CAF) lead for IO), including initiatives to build,
   train, and sustain a cadre of MISO professionals.
   2.1.7. Maintain approval authority for AF MISO training and education standards, such as
   SEIs and certification levels.
   2.1.8. Track MISO -trained personnel consistent with the IO/Cyber Career Force and Joint
   IO Force.
   2.1.9. Interface with Secretary of the Air Force for Public Affairs (SAF/PAR) for issues
   relevant to PA and Strategic Communication (SC).
2.2. MAJCOMs and the ANG will:
   2.2.1. Assist the AF MISO Program Manager and functional lead (ACC) in assigning MISO-
   trained personnel for expeditionary missions, joint training, and exercises.
   2.2.2. Identify and appoint in writing an individual to act as the focal point for AF MISO
   within their command.
   2.2.3. Provide theater specific AF MISO requirements to ACC for air components as part of
   the Air Force modernization planning process for IO.
6                                                                    AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011


    2.2.4. Coordinate AF MISO -related intelligence, reachback, facilities/logistics, and
    telecommunications support.
    2.2.5. Standardize utilization of AF MISO assets, provide mission qualification training up
    to the Joint standard, and maintain equipment to support assigned MISO missions.
    2.2.6. Assist ACC in assessing the current status of AF MISO forces and capabilities across
    the total force.
    2.2.7. Additionally, Air Combat Command (ACC) will:
       2.2.7.1. Fulfill the role of lead MAJCOM for IO integration and the functional lead for
       AF MISO.
       2.2.7.2. Document emerging joint and air component requirements for AF MISO.
       2.2.7.3. In conjunction with the MAJCOMs (including overseas MAJCOMs), ANG, and
       the AFRC determine AF MISO requirements, including capabilities, funds/resource
       distribution, Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) inputs, technical infrastructure, and
       intelligence support, as well as incorporate these requirements into Air Force corporate
       processes.
       2.2.7.4. Collect and validate AF MISO spending requirements. Submit prioritized AF
       MISO budget request to AF/A3Z.
    2.2.7.5. Execute and manage approved AF MISO budget.
    2.2.7.6. Incorporate AF MISO capabilities (where applicable) into joint/Air Force
    experimentation and spiral development activities.
       2.2.7.7. Manage AF MISO Unit Type Codes.
       2.2.7.8. In coordination with the MAJCOMs, ANG, and AFRC recommend AF MISO
       doctrine and policy, initiatives, programs, technology, training, and resources to HQ
       USAF/A3Z.
       2.2.7.9. Sponsor AF MISO meetings and working groups.
       2.2.7.10. Serve as Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the development of AF
       MISO automated planning capability and assessment tools.
       2.2.7.11. Assess (through demonstrations, modeling and simulation, or other means) the
       military utility of prospective AF MISO -related technology.
       2.2.7.12. Collect and validate AF MISO tactics, techniques and procedures for
       incorporation into training courses, distance learning modules, and associated Air Force
       Manuals.
       2.2.7.13. Interface with Air Force Public Affairs Agency (AFPAA) for issues relevant to
       PA and SC.
    2.2.8. Additionally, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) will:
       2.2.8.1. Ensure that AF MISO requirements for special operations forces and equipment
       are included in all phases of the Air Force IO modernization process.
       2.2.8.2. Serve as the AF MISO liaison component to USSOCOM.
AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011                                                                         7


   2.2.9. Additionally, Air Mobility Command (AMC) will:
       2.2.9.1. Ensure that AF MISO requirements for the mobility air forces are included in all
       phases of the Air Force IO modernization process, especially those pertaining to the
       Tanker Airlift Control Center.
       2.2.9.2. Serve as the Air Force operational interface with US Transportation Command
       (USTRANSCOM) for MISO issues.
2.3. Component Numbered Air Force Commanders will:
   2.3.1. Plan, integrate, coordinate and assess MISO activities to shape and frame the
   information environment (IE) favorable to US interests within their commands, recognizing
   that MISO is most effective when planned and integrated early with service and theater
   planning processes.
   2.3.2. Identify MISO tactics, techniques, and procedures using lessons learned from previous
   operations.
   2.3.3. Ensure AF MISO activities are synchronized with Defense Support to Public
   Diplomacy (DSPD) efforts and Public Affairs operations. Military Information Support
   Operations (MISO) are designed to convey selected information and indicators to foreign
   leaders and audiences with the goal of influencing their emotions, motives, reasoning, and
   behavior in a manner favorable to friendly objectives. Public Affairs operations
   communicate US resolve and commitment to domestic and international audiences in an
   accurate and timely manner without attempting to influence or sway the audience. Air Force
   MISO messages, products and information prepared for foreign public release should be
   coordinated/deconflicted to ensure that messages to the respective audiences are not
   contradictory and do not intentionally reach domestic audiences. When appropriate,
   operations/products are coordinated with US Embassy staffs through the JPOTF, Military
   Information Support Teams (MISTs), or staff Political Advisors (POLADs) prior to
   execution. Coordinated/deconflicted information efforts properly leveraging MISO, PA and
   DSPD capabilities yield strategic communication effects.
   2.3.4. Incorporate AF MISO capabilities into joint and air component exercises, deliberate
   planning, and contingency planning.
2.4. The National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) – The National Air and
Space Intelligence Center will perform all-source BIA within existing guidelines and as
determined by the NASIC Commander. Key BIA products that support AF MISO include:
NASIC       Analysis    Reports,    Topics      of     Analytical     Interest,    Biographies,
Individual/Group/Organizational Behavioral Profiles, and/or other products agreed upon.




                                            Herbert J. Carlise
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS Operations, Plans, & Requirements
 8                                                                      AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3121.01B(S), current as of 18 June 2008, Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules
for the Use of Force for US Forces (U), Enclosure F (S), defines when, and the limitations on
how, combatant commanders may employ MISO.
DoD Directive S-3321.1, Overt Psychological Operations Conducted by the Military Services in
Peacetime and in Contingencies Short of Declared War, date July 26 1984 establishes policy,
provides procedures, and assigns responsibilities for the conduct of DoD PSYOP activities in
approved operations across the range of military engagement (including war and small-scale
contingencies). The instruction also directs military commanders to employ PSYOP as an
integrated activity with other instruments of national policy. In addition, each of the Services is
tasked to support these and other PSYOP activities undertaken by US agencies.
During armed conflict, contingencies, or military operations other than war, the President or
Secretary of Defense, through the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, issues specific PSYOP policy
to the unified commands. CJCSI 3110.05C, Joint Psychological Operations Supplement to the
Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan, furnishes guidance to military commanders conducting
PSYOP in a joint environment.
Joint Publication 3-13, Joint Doctrine for Information Operations, establishes the principles of
joint IO.
Joint Publication 3-53, Doctrine for Joint Psychological Operations, describes the use of military
assets in planning and conducting PSYOP in support of joint operations across the spectrum of
military operations.
War and Mobilization Plan, Volume 1, Annex DD (S), contains Air Force-specific guidelines for
wartime and contingency PSYOP.
AFDD 2-3, Irregular Warfare, PSYOP is a key activity of Irregular Warfare (IW).
AFDD 2-5, Information Operations, explains the Air Force’s warfighting perspective on
achieving information superiority through IO.
AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, delineates the Air Force’s MAJCOM responsibilities to
organize train and equip its forces to achieve desired effects for combatant commanders and
national authorities.
AFI 10-1401, Modernization Planning Documentation, defines responsibilities for documenting
modernization planning.
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, outlines responsibilities for
functional area managers.
AFTTP 3-1.IO, Information Warfare Planning, Integration, and Employment Considerations
details the tactics, techniques, and procedures for IO Team (IOT) activities, including PSYOP
planning.
AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011                                     9


Abbreviations and Acronyms
A3Z—Director of Space and Cyber Operations
A3Z—C – Director of Cyber and Information Operations
A3Z—CI – Information Operations Division
ACC—Air Combatant Command
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOCD—Air Force Officer Classification Directory
AFPAA—Air Force Public Affairs Agency
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Operations Center
BIA—Behavioral Influences Analysis
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CFACC—Combined Force Air Component Commander
CI—Counterintelligence
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
COCOM—Combatant Command
CP—Counterpropaganda
DoD—Department of Defense
DOJ—Department of Justice
DSPD—Defense Support to Public Diplomacy
FAM—Functional Area Manager
 10                                                          AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011


FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
IAW—In accordance with
IE—Information Environment
IFO—Influence Operations
IO—Information Operations
IOT—Information Operations Team
IW—Irregular Warfare
JP—Joint Publication
JPOTF—Joint Psychological Operations Task Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILDEC—Military Deception
MISO—Military Information Support Operations (formerly Psychological Operations –
PSYOP)
MIST—Military Information Support Team
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
PA—Public Affairs
POLAD—Political Advisors
POQC—Psychological Operations Officer Qualification Course
PSYOP—Psychological Operations – (Renamed Military Information Support Operations –
MISO)
QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review
SAF/PAR—Secretary of the Air Force for Public Relations
SC—Strategic Communication
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
SNCO—Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
TAA—Target Audience Analysis
USACAPOC—United States Army Civil Affairs and Psychological Operations Command
USAF—United States Air Force
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011                                                                              11


Terms
Counterpropaganda (CP) Operations. Those psychological operations activities that identify
adversary propaganda, contribute to situational awareness, and serve to expose adversary
attempts to influence friendly populations and military forces. (JP 3—53)
Defense Support to Public Diplomacy (DSPD). Those activities and measures taken by the
Department of Defense components to support and facilitate public diplomacy efforts of the
United States Government. (JP 3—13)
Influence Operations (IFO). Employment of capabilities to affect behaviors, protect operations,
communicate commander’s intent, and project accurate information to achieve desired effects
across the cognitive domain. These effects should result in differing behavior or a change in the
adversary decision cycle, which aligns with the commander’s objectives. (AFDD 2—5)
Information Operations (IO). Actions taken to affect adversary information and information
systems while defending one's own information and information systems. (JP 3—13) [IO are the
integrated employment of the core capabilities of influence operations, electronic warfare
operations, network warfare operations, in concert with specified integrated control enablers, to
influence, disrupt, corrupt or usurp adversarial human and automated decision making while
protecting our own.] (AFDD 2-5) {Italicized definition in brackets applies only to the Air Force
and is offered for clarity.}
Irregular Warfare (IW). A violent struggle among state and non—state actors for legitimacy
and influence over the relevant populations. (AFDD 2-3)
Military Deception (MILDEC). Actions executed to deliberately mislead adversary military
decision makers as to friendly military capabilities, intentions, and operations, thereby causing
the adversary to take specific actions (or inactions) that will contribute to the accomplishment of
the friendly mission. (JP 3—13.4)
Military Information Support Operations (MISO). Planned operations to convey selected
information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective
reasoning, and ultimately the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and
individuals. The purpose of Military Information Support Operations is to induce or reinforce
foreign attitudes and behavior favorable to the originator's objectives. (JP 3—53)
Operations Security (OPSEC). A process of identifying critical information and subsequently
analyzing friendly actions attendant to military operations and other activities to: a. identify those
actions that can be observed by adversary intelligence systems; b. determine indicators that
adversary intelligence systems might obtain that could be interpreted or pieced together to derive
critical information in time to be useful to adversaries; and c. select and execute measures that
eliminate or reduce to an acceptable level the vulnerabilities of friendly actions to adversary
exploitation. (JP 3—13.3)
Public Affairs (PA). Those public information, command information, and community relations
activities directed toward both the external and internal publics with interest in the Department of
Defense. (JP 3—61)
Strategic Communication (SC). Focused United States Government efforts to understand and
engage key audiences to create, strengthen, or preserve conditions favorable for the advancement
of United States Government interests, policies, and objectives through the use of coordinated
 12                                                          AFI10-702 7 JUNE 2011


programs, plans, themes, messages, and products synchronized with the actions of all
instruments of national power. (JP 5—0)
