BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-290
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                                 COCKPIT/CREW RESOURCE
                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/A3O-AI                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                        (Maj Gen James J. Jones)
Supersedes:    AFI11-290, 11 April 2001                                                 Pages: 9


This Instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, and AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training,
Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure. It establishes the USAF
cockpit/crew resource management program and is applicable to all units assigned to or gained
by major commands (MAJCOMs) and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and
aircrews assigned or attached to all flying activities of these commands. This publication applies
to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG). This Instruction may be
supplemented. Coordinate supplements with AF/A3O-AI prior to publication. Submit suggested
improvements to this Instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through training channels, to AF/A3O-AI, afa3oai.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition                Schedule                   (RDS)               located               at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims//afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Format is
revised and procedural guidance is reduced throughout the AFI to place emphasis on
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU program oversight. Program goals are updated (paragraph 1.1), program
requirements are modified (paragraph 2), Steering Committee and Working Group information
is updated (paragraph 6 and paragraph 7), oversight responsibility is specified (paragraph 8)
and waiver guidance is added (paragraph 9). Updates reflect administrative changes and
prescribed format requirements.
 2                                                              AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012


Section A—CRM Program Description

1. General. The Air Force Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM) program provides
crewmembers with performance-enhancing knowledge and skills directly applicable to their
roles in the aerospace mission of the Air Force. CRM training is a key component of a combined
effort to identify and manage threats to safe and effective mission operations. The CRM program
begins with crewmembers' initial Air Force flying training and is continuously built upon
throughout their operational careers. Training objectives will be tailored to the knowledge and
skill level of the aircrew member. As the aircrew member becomes more proficient, CRM
training should emphasize performance skills more than academic objectives. Lead commands
define "crewmember" in terms of their own operational mission requirements.
     1.1. The CRM program goals are:
        1.1.1. Maximize operational effectiveness and combat capability.
        1.1.2. Preserve personnel and material resources.
        1.1.3. Ensure the safety of non-combatant civilians.
        1.1.4. Facilitate mishap reduction by providing skills, processes, tools and techniques to
        aircrew members to effectively identify threats and mitigate errors in aviation operations.
     1.2. CRM training will be designed and managed to accomplish the following objectives:
        1.2.1. Develop aircrew skills in recognizing and responding to the conditions and/or
        threats that lead to aircrew error.
        1.2.2. Develop aircrew proficiency in CRM skills to anticipate conditions and/or threats
        and minimize their impact in order to safely and effectively meet mission requirements.
2. Program Requirements. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs) and HQ USAF direct
reporting units (DRUs) are responsible for establishing and managing their respective programs
in accordance with this Instruction. CRM programs are mandatory for aircrew members.
     2.1. Lead Commands will publish guidance in AFI 11-2 mission design series (MDS)
     specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 AFIs (Note: guidance may also be published in a Ready Aircrew
     Program (RAP) tasking memo or similar product), regarding CRM requirements, currency,
     tracking, and evaluation, to include:
        2.1.1. Establishing training frequency, required attendees, and method for tracking
        crewmember currencies.
        2.1.2. Use of AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form, or
        MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute, to establish the skills training/evaluation
        criteria.
        2.1.3. If using a contract vehicle, provide a uniform CRM program via a contract vehicle
        that covers all applicable units to include units gained from AFRC or ANG.
     2.2. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM training program must:
        2.2.1. Provide training to develop and improve CRM knowledge and skills based on
        paragraph 3 and AF Form 4031. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute may be
        used in lieu of AF Form 4031.
AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                          3


       2.2.2. Be updated annually to incorporate: "real-world" operational experiences,
       sanitized mishap data, research data, critiques, and flight evaluation trends.
       2.2.3. Identify the process for gathering, analyzing and incorporating trend data from
       MAJCOMs into existing training and evaluation programs.
       2.2.4. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM managers will ensure continuity of course
       content with AETC’s introductory courses.
       2.2.5. Ensure that data collected and/or generated through CRM and trend gathering
       processes is not used for monitoring aircrew performance to initiate punitive or adverse
       action.
       2.2.6. Provide proportional funding as necessary to support the lead MAJCOM CRM
       program.
   2.3. CRM skills will:
       2.3.1. Be integrated into flight briefings and debriefings.
       2.3.2. Be integrated into training syllabi.
       2.3.3. Be evaluated during initial qualification and recurring evaluations.
3. CRM core curricula. Core curricula will include the following knowledge and skill sets:
   3.1. Communication. Includes knowledge of common errors, cultural influences, and
   barriers (i.e., rank, age, experience, position, etc.). Skills will encompass listening, feedback,
   precision and efficiency of communication with all members and agencies (i.e.,
   Crewmembers, Wingmen, Weather, ATC, Intelligence, etc.).
   3.2. Crew/Flight Coordination. Knowledge and skills required within (internal) and outside
   the crew/flight members (external) for mission coordination, flight/mission integrity
   contracts, team-building, leadership, command authority, responsibility, behavioral styles,
   assertiveness, persistence, conflict resolution, hazardous attitudes, legitimate
   avenues/methods of dissent, and solution driven statements.
   3.3. Mission Analysis. Includes pre-mission analysis and planning, briefing, ongoing
   mission evaluation, and post mission debrief. Analysis instruction will include specific
   Threat and Error Management tools and techniques. Debrief instruction will include aircrew
   responses and outcomes to threats and errors.
   3.4. Risk Management (RM)/Decision Making. Includes risk assessment, the risk
   management processes (Deliberate, Real Time RM)/tools, breakdowns in judgment and flight
   discipline, problem-solving, evaluation of hazards, and control measures.
   3.5. Situational Awareness. Includes knowledge and skill objectives for identifying errors,
   preventing the loss of situational awareness, recognizing the loss of situational awareness,
   and techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness.
   3.6. Task Management. Includes establishing priorities, overload, under-load, complacency,
   management of automation, available resources, checklist discipline, and standard operating
   procedures.
 4                                                                AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012


4. CRM Training Phases. Each phase of training should prepare individuals to apply the
knowledge and skills acquired in their specialty and motivate participants for the next phase of
training.
     4.1. Introductory or Awareness Training. Normally conducted in a formal training
     environment by AETC. Trainees learn standard CRM terminology and core concepts. Lesson
     plans will include a description of the building block approach to CRM training the
     individual will participate in throughout their operational career.
     4.2. Formal Training Unit (FTU)/Combat Crew Training School (CCTS) CRM Training.
     Students learn to apply knowledge and skills related to their assigned aircraft. Academic
     training is complemented during aircraft/simulator training. Emphasis should be placed on
     preflight planning, briefing, in-flight utilization, and debrief techniques for CRM. This
     should include a brief review of CRM core concepts identified in paragraph 3. Mission-
     Oriented Simulator Training (MOST) sessions or other simulated or actual operational
     scenarios may be used as an integral part of CRM training. Evaluate students for technical
     expertise, as well as the skills based on the six core concepts. If aircrew training devices are
     not available, students should participate in group problem-solving exercises.
     4.3. Mission-Specific Continuation Training. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs are responsible
     for CRM continuation training. This training will reinforce the aircrew’s CRM academic
     knowledge and refocus on skills to accomplish the mission. It also helps aircrews identify
     and respond to the conditions and/or threats that lead to error.
        4.3.1. Emphasize CRM skills in the mission qualification and continuation training
        programs so they become inseparable parts of operational practices.
        4.3.2. Frequency for recurring CRM continuation training is defined in the AFI 11-2
        MDS specific volumes 1, a RAP tasking memorandum, or a similar product. Lead
        commands are responsible for providing guidance to standardize CRM MDS specific
        training policy and requirements. All aircrew require Mission-Specific Continuation
        Training. Separating training by crew position should be avoided. However, it is not
        mandatory to conduct this training with a complete aircrew.
     4.4. Flight Instructor Training. All flight and simulator instructors will complete instructor
     specific CRM training. This training will normally be accomplished as part of instructor
     upgrade program. Courseware must build upon the previous blocks of training, both to
     reacquaint candidates with CRM fundamentals and to maintain continuity of terminology and
     techniques. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs develop courseware related to instructing and
     evaluating key skills that apply to command and aircraft-specific missions. Personnel may
     conduct this training at operational units, flying training units, or a combination, as required.
     Training will include, but is not limited to, proper use of AF Form 4031 (or approved
     substitute).
        4.4.1. CRM instructor or evaluator training will be included into instructor upgrade
        programs.
        4.4.2. CRM instructors and evaluators must be highly proficient in all CRM skills and be
        experts in the recognition, observation, and reinforcement of these skills as they are
        applied by aircrew members in a mission environment.
AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     5


   4.5. Facilitator Training. Formal CRM academic curricula must be delivered by a trained
   CRM facilitator. Facilitator training will include training in running exercises, structured
   crew observation, and effective academic feedback.
5. Supporting Information. HQ Air Force Safety Center, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU safety
staffs will screen mishap reports for human performance errors. This safety information should
be available for use at all phases of CRM training, either as part of simulator scenarios or for
CRM case studies. Sanitized “Limited Use” information will be provided to CRM program
managers in a timely manner by command/unit safety staff(s) according to AFI 91-204, Safety
and Investigation Reports.

Section B—Program Management

6. The USAF CRM Steering Committee. The Steering Committee standardizes CRM
program requirements and terminology.
   6.1. Steering Committee Membership:
       6.1.1. AF/A3O-AI, Chair.
       6.1.2. AF/A3O-AC
       6.1.3. AF/A3O-AM
       6.1.4. AF/A3O-AS
7. USAF CRM Working Group. The CRM Working Group will consist of members of the
Steering Committee, AFSEC/SE representative, plus MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A3 (or equivalent)
representatives and additional personnel as designated by the Steering Committee. The working
group reviews program execution and policy issues and will meet in conjunction with Aircrew
Management Executive Council (AMEC) meetings.
8. Oversight. Oversight of Air Force CRM programs will rest within the MAJCOM, FOA and
DRU operations directorates. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU safety and surgeon general directorates
will act as advisors and respective subject matter experts to the operations directorates for
providing input to course content and delivery.
   8.1. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU will appoint a CRM program manager within the
   operations (or equivalent) function. The program manager is responsible for:
       8.1.1. Ensuring Lead Command’s AFI 11-2 MDS specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 publications
       (or RAP tasking memo/similar product) provide CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.2. Implementing Lead Command CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.3. Ensuring each applicable CRM training phase (paragraph 4) is implemented and
       evaluated.
       8.1.4. The forwarding of AF Form 4031 (or approved substitute) trend data to CRM
       Instructors/Facilitators.
       8.1.5. Ensuring a system is in place to collect performance data (i.e. Stan/Eval trends
       (Skills criteria), sanitized mishap data, Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR), and
       Inspector General reports), and send to CRM instructors and facilitators.
 6                                                             AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012


        8.1.6. Evaluating contractor implementation of CRM program objectives. Where
        discrepancies are identified, initiate corrective actions.
        8.1.7. Ensuring Quality Assurance Representatives (QARs) and IGs have current
        evaluation guidance to evaluate CRM program objectives. Where discrepancies are
        identified, initiate corrective actions.
        8.1.8. Providing feedback to CRM Working Group regarding program status covering:
        Training Continuum, Standardization, and Research and Development needs.
        8.1.9. Interacting with MAJCOM, FOA or DRU CRM advisors (Safety, Aerospace
        Physiology, etc.) ensuring CRM training is effective and minimizes redundancies with
        other programs given by Safety, Aerospace Physiology, etc.
     8.2. Command Steering Committees. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may establish command
     steering committees to identify the most effective methods for delivering and administering
     CRM programs.
9. Waivers.
     9.1. AF/A3O is the waiver authority for provisions of this Instruction. Request waivers
     through applicable channels to MAJCOM/A3 (or equivalent). As applicable, MAJCOM/A3s
     will forward requests to AF/A3O, with an info copy to AF/A3O-AI.
     9.2. Waiver authority for supplemental guidance will be as specified in the supplement and
     approved through higher level coordination authority.
     9.3. Waiver authority for MAJCOM/DRU/FOA CRM guidance is the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
     A3 or equivalent.




                                             BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure,
19 Jan 2012
AFI 11-403, Air Force Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
Prescribed Form
AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form (MAJCOM/FOA/DRU-
approved substitute may be used in lieu of AF Form 4031.)
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMEC—Aircrew Management Executive Council
CCTS—Combat Crew Training School
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MOST—Mission-Oriented Simulator Training
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
RM—Risk Management
SA—Situational Awareness
TEM—Threat and Error Management

Terms
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM)—The effective use of all available resources--
people, weapon systems, facilities, and equipment, and environment -- by individuals or crews to
safely and efficiently accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term "CRM" will be used to
refer to the training program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. MAJCOMs may
 8                                                               AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012


implement their programs as either "cockpit" or "crew" resource management based on their
respective missions.
Communication—The act of sharing information with others to cause some kind of action: to
direct, to inform, to question, or to persuade.
Coordination—As used in this Instruction the act of working with all the members of the
crew/flight to accomplish the tasks of the mission.
Crew—As used in this Instruction, any collection of Air Force personnel who routinely work
together to accomplish an Air Force mission. For example, an air task order-designated team of
fighter pilots and airborne battle managers prosecuting an interdiction mission uses "crew" skills
to maximize its effectiveness.
Decision Making—The ability to choose a course of action using logical and sound judgment
based on available information.
Errors—Actions or inactions that lead to deviations from organizational or flight crew
intentions or expectations. Unmanaged and/or mismanaged errors can lead to undesired aircraft
states. Errors in the operational context tend to reduce the margins of safety and increase the
probability of adverse events.
Flight Discipline—The judgment and actions exercised by AF personnel to adhere to the spirit,
intent, and written word of governing guidelines in the presence of temptation to do otherwise,
while executing the Air Force flying mission. It also includes the prioritization of tasks based on
crew responsibilities to ensure safe mission accomplishment while demonstrating the highest
degree of integrity in the performance of flight duties.
Flight Integrity—Utilizing all the members of a flying package to accomplish the mission at
hand.
Mission Debrief—Reviewing and discussing mission accomplishment looking at what was
achieved, what barriers were encountered and how the mission could be accomplished better
next time.
Mission-Oriented Simulator Training (MOST)—Training presented as a part of a CRM
program in a realistic, operationally-based simulator environment in real time.
Mission Planning—Taking all of the information for a mission and developing short term, long
term, and contingency plans to coordinate, allocate, and monitor crew/flight and aircraft
resources. Effective planning leads to flight conduct that removes uncertainty, increases mission
effectiveness and enhances safety.
Risk Management—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk, making
control decisions, implementing control decisions and supervising/reviewing the activity for
effectiveness for both on- and off-duty missions/activities.
Situational Awareness (SA)—In flying, this refers to a aircrew member's continuous perception
of self and aircraft in relation to the dynamic environment of flight, threats, and mission, and the
ability to forecast, then execute, tasks based upon that perception.
Skills Criteria—Defined skills used as the basis for operational training and evaluation. The
characteristics of the skill are that they are easily identifiable and offer consistency in grading
evaluation.
AFI11-290 15 OCTOBER 2012                                                                       9


Task Management—The ability to alter a course of action based on new information, maintain
constructive behavior under pressure, and adapt to internal and external environment changes.
Threat—An event or error that occurs outside the influence of the aircrew (i.e., it was not
caused by the crew), increases the operational complexity of a flight, and requires crew attention
and management if safety margins are to be maintained.
Threat and Error Management—Crews and flight members proactively using a combination
of CRM skills and automation to address internal and external threats to avoid, trap or mitigate
their impacts on mission safety and effectiveness.
