BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2KC-135
FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE                                                  VOLUME 2

                                                            FAIRCHILD AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement

                                                                       13 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                            Flying Operations

                                              KC-135 AIRCREW EVALUATION CRITERIA

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 92 OG/OGV                                                        Certified by: 92 OG/CC
Supersedes:   AFI11-2KC-135V2_                                      (Col James A. Crutchfield)
              FAIRCHILDAFBSUP1_I,                                                     Pages: 6
              26 November 2003


AFI 11-2KC-135 Volume 2, 26 May 2010 is supplemented as follows: This supplement is not
applicable to Air National Guard (ANG) and United States (U.S.) Air Force Reserve units. This
supplement implements local evaluation criteria for the operation of 92d Air Refueling Wing (92
ARW) KC-135 aircraft in order to safely and effectively execute the wing’s world-wide mobility
missions. This supplement is used in conjunction with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-2KC-
135V2, KC-135 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria. Forward all recommended changes to this
supplement to 92d Operations Group, Standardization/Evaluation (92 OG/OGV).

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may not be
supplemented.
 2                        AFI11-2KC-135V2_FAIRCHILDAFBSUP 13 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
directs improvement recommendation (paragraph 1.7.), emergency procedure evaluations
(paragraph 1.9.6.1.), evaluation requirements (paragraph 1.9.8.), and the AF Form 3862, Aircrew
Evaluation Worksheet (paragraph 1.14.). This revision directs use of the Simulator Instructor
Guide for combined instrument/qualification (INSTM/QUAL) evaluations (paragraph 2.1.2.),
establishes scheduling requirements for pilot evaluations (paragraph 2.1.4.), adds pilot
INSTM/QUAL simulator evaluation profiles (table 2.1., table 2.2., and paragraph 2.2.1.), updates
pilot mission (MSN) evaluation profile (table 2.3. and paragraph 2.4.4.), and establishes
emergency procedures evaluation (EPE) requirements (paragraph 2.6.).
1.7. Improvement Recommendations. Send comments and suggested improvements to this local
supplement on AF Form 847 to the 92 OG/OGV through the squadron standardization and
evaluation (stan/eval) section (CCV).
1.9.6.1. Flight examiners are encouraged to include EPE topics that are of particular interest at
the time of the flight evaluation. If the flight examiner suspects the examinee lacks knowledge
in a specific area (based on mission preparation or in-flight performance), the flight examiner
should use the EPE to explore that area further. Any Headquarters (HQ) Air Mobility Command
(AMC) or 92 OG Special Interest Items/Areas not observed during flight will be discussed
during the EPE.
1.9.8. Differences between KC-135R and KC-135T series aircraft will be discussed on all
evaluations for T-model qualified aircrew. If the examinee is multi-point refueling system
(MPRS) certified and the evaluation does not include MPRS refueling, the flight examiner will
discuss MPRS-specific differences in the EPE.
1.14. Use of AF Form 3862, Aircrew Evaluation Worksheet. 92 OG/OGV will produce all AF
Form 3862 overprints and make them available through 92 OG e-Pubs on SharePoint
(https://eim.amc.af.mil/org/92og/ogv/). All overprints will include applicable HQ AMC and 92
OG Special Interest Items/Areas. Flight examiners will record trend information on the AF
Form 3862 for all evaluated areas, to include Special Interest Items/Areas, on all evaluations.
This trend information will be tracked and reported at the quarterly Stan/Eval Board (SEB).
2.1.2. Evaluators will use the Combined Instrument and Qualification Evaluation (AA22)
Simulator Instructor Guide and the Fairchild AFB profile (AA22A).
2.1.3. (Added) Attempt to realign the INSTM/QUAL and MSN evaluations to ensure both
expire in the same month. Document the INSTM/QUAL and MSN evaluations on the same AF
Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, if the expiration month is the same.
2.1.4. (Added) Evaluation Scheduling. The pilot MSN evaluation flight should be scheduled
prior to the INSTM/QUAL aircrew training simulator (ATS) evaluation. The same flight
examiner should be scheduled for both evaluations. Attempt to schedule both evaluations in the
same week and month, with at least one day between evaluations. Schedulers will allocate two
hours of ATS time per pilot for INSTM/QUAL evaluations. An ATS instructor will be
scheduled to operate the ATS. Squadron schedulers will inform the ATS instructors of
evaluations scheduling no later than (NLT) 1300L the day prior of any changes to the schedule.
Exceptions will be approved by the squadron commander.
AFI11-2KC-135V2_FAIRCHILDAFBSUP 13 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                   3


2.1.5. (Added) Mission Planning. All initial aircraft commander (MP) and initial instructor
pilot (IP) evaluations (to include re-qualification evaluations for individuals unqualified for a
period of more than two years) will require the crew to accomplish their own mission planning;
they will not use the 92d Operations Support Squadron dispatch program (92 OSS/OSOD). The
crew will notify 92 OSS/OSOD of this requirement NLT 24 hours prior to the planned takeoff to
preclude them from unnecessarily planning the mission. All recurring pilot flight evaluations
may use the dispatch program at the discretion of the examinee’s squadron commander.
2.2.1. (Added) Pilot Combined Instrument and Qualification Evaluation Profiles.

Table 2.1. (Added) FPQ, MP and IP INSTM/QUAL (Simulator) Evaluation Profiles.
 Simulator Item                                                                FPQ MP          IP
 Takeoff (initial)                                                               X      X       X
 Nonprecision Approach to a Circling Approach                                    X      X       X
                         1
 Touch-and-Go Landing w/an Engine Fire/Failure During Flight                     X      X       X
 Holding                                                                         X      X       X
 ILS 3-Engine Low Approach                                                       X      X       X
 3-Engine Full-Stop Landing1,2                                                   X      X       X
 VFR Pattern                                                                     X      X       X
 Partial Flap Landing (30 or 40 flap)1,2                                         X      X       X
                                           3
 Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE)                                           X      X       X
 * Items marked “X” are required.
 NOTE 1: Evaluate FPQ and MP on at least one instrument approach and landing in both the
 left and right seats. Swap seats to complete a dual-seat qualification if necessary. Instructor
 pilots need only accomplish landings from one seat position.
 NOTE 2: A partial flap landing is required for dual seat qualified pilots but may be
 accomplished in either seat.
 NOTE 3: Following the pattern portion of the evaluation, conduct an EPE in the simulator.
 See “Recommended Pilot EPE Topics” in paragraph 2.7.

Table 2.2. (Added) FP (SOC) QUAL/INSTM (Simulator) Evaluation Profiles.
 Simulator Item                                                                           FP
 Takeoff (initial)                                                                         X
 Precision Approach                                                                        X
 Touch-and-Go Landing                                                                      X
 Nonprecision Approach                                                                     X
 Missed Approach                                                                           X
 VFR Pattern                                                                               X
 Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE)1                                                    X
 * Items marked “X” are required.
 NOTE 1: Following the pattern portion of the evaluation, conduct an EPE in the simulator.
 See “Recommended Pilot EPE Topics” in paragraph 2.7.
2.2.1.1. (Added) Starting position is at the hold-short line with engines running.          Flight
examiners may modify if required.
 4                        AFI11-2KC-135V2_FAIRCHILDAFBSUP 13 SEPTEMBER 2011


2.2.1.2. (Added) Load the AA22A profile in the ATS and confirm the weather environment is
set as follows: Takeoff Winds 320/10, Surface Temperature +10°C, Cloud Bases 1,300 ft, Cloud
Tops 10,000 ft, Visibility/RVR 4 miles, Altimeter 29.88, and PA +2,500 ft. Airfield lighting
should be set to a minimum of 4.
2.2.1.3. (Added) ATS weather minimums will be raised in order to accomplish VFR patterns.
2.2.1.4. (Added) Motion is required to complete the evaluation.
2.2.1.5. (Added) Headsets will be worn.
2.2.1.6. (Added) The turbulence setting in the ATS will be no greater than 10%.
2.2.1.7. (Added) Crews are not responsible for bringing a flight plan, chart, or form F. For
FLIP, use the Evaluation Instrument Approach Plate Handout (AA22.HO).
2.2.1.8. (Added) Review and sign off Flight Crew Information Files (FCIF) prior to showing at
the ATS.
2.2.1.9. (Added) Pilot teams will show at the ATS crew rested and prepared to accomplish a
crew briefing with the flight evaluator 1+00 prior to the scheduled simulator start time.
2.2.1.10. (Added) The flight examiner or ATS instructor will brief an egress plan for the
simulator and simulator building, and include a discussion on the emergency stop function of the
simulator.
2.2.1.11. (Added) To the maximum extent possible, simulator profiles should be run real-time,
without the use of flight freeze.
2.2.1.12. (Added) Pilots will not set up their own engine failures or other emergencies. The
simulator operator will input all malfunctions.
2.4.4. (Added) Pilot Mission Evaluation Profiles

Table 2.3. (Added) FPQ, MP, and IP MSN (Flight) Evaluation Profiles.
 Flight Item                                                                 FPQ MP           IP
 Ground Operations/Taxi/Takeoff (PF or PNF)                                    X       X      X
 Air Refueling1 (PF)                                                           X       X      X
 Air Refueling Rendezvous (PF or PNF)                                          X       X      X
 Overrun Procedures (if observed)
 Tanker Autopilot-Off Air Refueling (PF)                                       X       X      X
                    2
 Tanker Breakaway (PF or PNF)                                                  X       X      X
 Formation (if observed)
 Tactics (if observed)
 Landing3                                                                      X       X      X
 Instructor Responsibility                                                                    X
 Publications Check                                                            X       X      X
 Knowledge/Completion of Forms (post mission paperwork)                        X       X      X
 * Items marked “X” are required.
 NOTE 1: Pilots can be evaluated in either seat and will be evaluated on air to air refueling
 (AAR) and autopilot-off AAR as the pilot flying. Receiver must maintain the contact position
 (minimum duration determined by evaluator) but an actual offload is not required.
AFI11-2KC-135V2_FAIRCHILDAFBSUP 13 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                  5


 NOTE 2: Breakaway procedures can be evaluated with the receiver not in contact, but within
 the AAR envelope.
 NOTE 3: A landing will be accomplished per pilot in conjunction with the MSN evaluation.
 If crosswinds or weather minimums restrict touch and go landings, the pilot team will full-stop
 and taxi-back to accomplish the other pilot’s landing.
2.5.2. Due to deployment scheduling, units are approved to administer a full
qualification/instrument and/or mission evaluation just prior to aircraft commander certification
to satisfy the OME requirement.
2.5.2.1. Due to lack of off-station remain overnight (RON) missions, units may conduct the
OME on local training missions after receiving verbal approval from the OG/CC.
2.6.3. (Added) IP candidates receiving an initial instructor flight evaluation must demonstrate
one of the following flight maneuvers: approach and go-around simulated engine-out, rudder
power off; or simulated jammed stabilizer demonstration; or landing attitude demonstration. The
flight examiner will determine the maneuver to be accomplished and inform the examinee prior
to the mission briefing. IPs receiving recurring or no-notice evaluations need not accomplish
one of the above listed maneuvers but must demonstrate instruction throughout the flight.
2.7. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). Following the pattern portion of the
INSTM/QUAL evaluation, conduct an EPE in the simulator. EPEs can consist of malfunctions
listed in the AA22 Instructor Guide, Boldface emergencies, Special Interest Items, squadron
commander-directed requirements, or the following: Emergency Equipment, Emergency Egress
(with passengers), Loss of Cabin Pressure, Ditching, Smoke and Fume Elimination, Hose
Jettison (MPRS certified crewmembers only), Landing With a Hose In Trail (MPRS certified
crewmembers only), Engine Starting Malfunctions, Engine Fire on the Ground, Engine
Fire/Failure During Flight, Engine Failure/Takeoff Continued, Landing Without Normal Left
and/or Right Hydraulic System Pressure. Additional EPEs that cannot be accomplished in the
simulator can be discussed one-on-one.
3.2.4. (Added) Navigator Qualification and Mission Evaluation Profiles. The suggested flight
evaluation profile for mission navigators (MN) and instructor navigators (IN) is: Mission
planning (92 OSS/OSOD) mission planning is acceptable for recurring MN evaluations), EPE,
preflight, departure, general navigation, rendezvous, air refueling, general navigation, post-flight,
debriefing and publications check.
3.4. Emergency Procedures Evaluation (EPE). EPEs can be evaluated verbally and consist of
Special Interest Items, squadron commander directed requirements, or the following:
Emergency Equipment, Emergency Egress (with passengers), Loss of Cabin Pressure, Ditching,
Smoke and Fume Elimination, Landing Gear Alternate Extension, Main Flap Manual Operation,
Alternate Boom Hoist, Hot Brakes, Hazardous Weather Avoidance.
4.2.4. (Added) Boom Operator Qualification and Mission Evaluation Profiles. The suggested
profile for recurring mission boom operator (MB) and instructor boom operator (IB) flight
evaluations is: preflight, takeoff, after takeoff/climb, cruise, air refueling (to include normal
contact, tanker manual operation contact and emergency separation), descent, post-flight and
debrief, EPE and publications check. IBs must demonstrate instruction throughout the flight.
Initial IB flight evaluations will include a student boom operator accomplishing the required
areas and sub-areas for a recurring evaluation while being instructed by the examinee. The
 6                        AFI11-2KC-135V2_FAIRCHILDAFBSUP 13 SEPTEMBER 2011


instructor candidate will perform a student briefing and critique. If no student boom operator is
available, the flight examiner may act as the “student”.
4.3.3. (Added) Boom Operator Mission (Cargo) Evaluation Profiles. The suggested profile for
initial and recurring MB and IB cargo loading evaluations is: plan or review/correct a load plan
and load/unload cargo on the aircraft while completing all applicable checklist items.
4.5. Emergency Procedures Evaluations (EPE). EPEs can consist of Special Interest Items,
squadron commander-directed requirements, or the following:          Emergency Equipment,
Emergency Egress, Ditching, Smoke and Fume Elimination, Pressure Air Refueling, Manual
Boom Latching, Hose Jettison (MPRS certified crewmembers only), Passenger Evacuation,
Hazardous Cargo Jettison, Landing Gear Alternate Extension, Main Flap Manual Operation.




                                            JAMES A. CRUTCHFIELD, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 92d Operations Group
