BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-216
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   1 APRIL 2000

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                           EVACUATING AND REPATRIATING AIR
                                                        FORCE FAMILY MEMBERS AND OTHER US
                                                                           NONCOMBATANTS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on theAFDPO WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.



OPR: HQ USAF/DPFJ (Mr Richard M. Klein)                Certified by: HQ USAF/DP (Roger M. Blanchard)
Supersedes AFI 10-216, 27 Dec 93                                              Distribution: F/Pages: 4

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness. It requires all commanders to
develop plans for evacuating people from their installations, as well as for receiving and repatriating evac-
uees. Records disposition: Commanders are required to maintain and dispose of records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposi-
tion Schedule. The Joint Plan for DoD Noncombatant Repatriation, 11 Aug 99, directs and explains the
form required for this publication. A privacy act statement is in the body of the form.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision clarifies the instruction; updates office symbols, adds guidance on CONUS evacuation, pro-
vides a POC for entitlements and identifies a Noncombatant Evacuation Operations (NEO) web page.



1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Department of the Air Force. The Air Force will support evacuation and repatriation operations,
   as well as safehaven locations. This instruction establishes the following responsibilities for Air
   Force organizations.
       1.1.1. Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF). HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff Air &
       Space Operations (HQ USAF/XO) is the Air Force office of primary responsibility (OPR) for this
       program. HQ USAF/DPFJ, Personnel Force Management, Readiness and Joint Matters Division,
       provides guidance on tracking and accounting of personnel during evacuation and repatriation. In
       support to AF/DPFJ, HQ Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)/DPW, Personnel Accountability, is
       responsible for tracking, accounting, reporting, and ensuring follow-up support is provided. Addi-
       tionally, DPW is responsible for the collection, update, and transmittal of DD Form 2585, Repatri-
       ation Processing Center Processing Sheet, data. HQ USAF/DPRC, Legislation and Compensation
       Division, provides entitlement information to/for Air Force families (military and civilian). HQ
       USAF/DPDF, Force Sustainment Division, provides guidance on assistance and support to Air
2                                                                               AFI10-216 1 APRIL 2000

       Force Family members (military and civilian). HQ AFPC/DPP, Personnel Program Management,
       is responsible, through installation family support centers, for contacting, reporting, and arranging
       for required support.
       1.1.2. Major Commands (MAJCOM). MAJCOM commanders prepare plans to support the Joint
       Plan for DoD Noncombatant Repatriation. They will ensure all subordinate commanders prepare
       evacuation, reception, and repatriation plans. MAJCOMs that have the Automated Repatriation
       Reporting System (ARRS) will utilize the ARRS to identify and track evacuees, and will provide
       that information to HQ USAF/DPFJ and HQ AFPC/PRC as requested.
       1.1.3. Installation Commanders.
           1.1.3.1. Installation commanders will develop plans that support the Joint Plan for DoD Non-
           combatant Repatriation. Evacuation plans will have procedures for various types of scenarios.
           Include procedures to account for people, maintain data in the ARRS and manage all issues
           involving creation, submission, and tracking of the DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher as well
           as to feed, house, transport, clothe, and protect them. Also, provide in your base support plans
           those procedures for receiving and repatriating evacuees, to include providing follow-on sup-
           port to repatriated individuals who have established safehaven or designated place location
           near your installation.
           1.1.3.2. CONUS or non-foreign area (i.e., Hawaii, Alaska, etc.) installation commanders will
           determine the need for an evacuation and will issue such orders considered necessary to ensure
           the safety, health and well-being of personnel and their family members. The evacuation
           order should be tailored to the specific circumstances and must have a beginning and projected
           ending date. When possible, evacuation orders will be coordinated with tenant units on the
           installation. Evacuation orders should be limited to specific areas or counties in a local area
           affected by a natural disaster, e.g., tornado, hurricane, floods, earthquakes, etc., and to specific
           civilian personnel and family members affected by such natural disasters. Note that military
           members can not draw evacuation benefits unless they are escorting others being evacuated. If
           it is necessary for military members to move out of the disaster area to continue performing
           their duties, they must be placed on TDY or PCS orders. Oral evacuation orders are effective
           when given and should be confirmed in writing as soon as practicable.
    1.2. Non-Air Force Organizations. Refer to the Joint Plan for DoD Noncombatant Repatriation for
    responsibilities of non-Air Force organizations.

2. General Plans and Policies for Evacuating, Receiving, and Repatriating Noncombatants:
    2.1. Mission of Noncombatant Evacuation Operations. NEO is characterized in Joint Publication
    3-07.5, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Noncombatant Evacuation Operations, as oper-
    ations conducted to assist the Department of State in evacuating noncombatants, nonessential military
    personnel, selected host-nation citizens, and third country nationals whose lives are in danger from
    locations in a host foreign nation to an appropriate safe haven and/or the United States (Joint Pub
    3-07.5, 30 Sep 97, p. vii). Evacuation operations may also take place entirely within the continental
    United States (CONUS), especially for natural disasters. The NEO webpage is available at http://
    www.odcsper.army.mil/default.asp?pageid=52.
    2.2. Unified Command Noncombatant Evacuation Plans. Air Force MAJCOMs and units located
    overseas will establish NEO plans based on the Unified Command Plans.
AFI10-216 1 APRIL 2000                                                                                   3

   2.3. Joint Plan for DoD Noncombatant Repatriation. The Joint Plan for DoD Noncombatant Repatri-
   ation published by the Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, is the DoD directive for repatriation
   processing. All Air Force locations will procure and maintain this plan for use in developing repatri-
   ation plans. Use DoD Form 2585 for all NEO operations. Instructions are included on the form.
   2.4. Evacuation Planning and Processing. In the CONUS, emphasize evacuations for natural disas-
   ters. In overseas areas, include evacuation situations involving political or military conflict. Be sure
   to account for people as they arrive at and depart the installation, and develop procedures to provide
   this information to higher headquarters on request.
      2.4.1. In cases where the natural disaster has already occurred, the installation commander should
      issue an evacuation order only if there remains a continuing, significant threat to the safety or
      health of a significant percentage (>66%) of those assigned to the installation or their immediate
      families, and funds are available to support evacuation entitlements (funding should not impact
      decisions to evacuate).
      2.4.2. Evacuation orders are not to be used solely to create an entitlement to disaster-related ben-
      efits. Post-disaster, commanders should consider the availability of other sources of assistance,
      e.g., Red Cross, Air Force Aid Society, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), pri-
      vate insurance and government personnel claims assistance, before ordering an evacuation. Evac-
      uation benefits should be used only to pay for evacuation-related costs not covered by other
      sources of federal funding.
      2.4.3. Ensure evacuees understand they are not entitled to receive payments from more than one
      federal source for the same disaster-related expense. For example, if an evacuee receives FEMA
      relocation assistance to pay for emergency lodging, that lodging assistance should be deducted
      from any evacuation lodging assistance provided by the Air Force. Ensure that all requests for
      payment submitted by evacuated military family members and/or civilian employees contain a
      statement that they understand they are not entitled to dual federal payments for the same disas-
      ter-related expenses; and should they receive payments from another federal agency, such pay-
      ments will be deducted from any payments made by the Air Force for the same expense.
   2.5. Reception Plans and Assistance in CONUS and in Temporary Safehaven Overseas. Command-
   ers overseas, and those at ports of entry and other CONUS locations, must be ready to respond to
   requests for help from evacuees. Coordinate with and include the Family Support Centers—OPR for
   Air Force Aid Society and other emergency family assistance, HQ Department of the Army, Office of
   the Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ DA/ODCSPER), and external civilian agencies in base
   level reception plans. Also, coordinate with other government agencies (such as the Department of
   State, Department of Health and Human Services, and applicable state offices) to develop reception
   and repatriation procedures.

3. Form Prescribed. DD Form 2585 (November 1998).



                                         DONALD L. PETERSON, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel
4                                                                        AFI10-216 1 APRIL 2000

                                            Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 65-103, Vol 1 and Vol 2, Base-Level Transaction
AFMAN 37-139, Joint Plan for DOD Noncombatant Repatriation
Joint Travel Regulations, Vol 2 (JTR)
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Vol 1 (JFTR)
Joint Publication 3-07.5, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Noncombatant Evacuation Ops

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ARRS—Automated Repatriation Reporting System
CONUS—Continental United States
DD Form—Department of Defense Form
DoD—Department of Defense
DOS—Department of State
DPDF—Force Sustainment Division
DPFJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPP—Director of Personnel Program Management
DPRC—Compensation & Legislation Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FOA—Field Operating Activities
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ DA—Headquarters Department of the Army
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
http—Hypertext Transfer Protocol
MAJCOM—Major Command
mil—Military
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operation
AFI10-216 1 APRIL 2000                                      5

Nov—November
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ODCSPER—Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POC—Point of Contact
www—World Wide Web
XO—Air & Space Operations
