                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1003
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            1 AUGUST 1996
                                                                Certified current 4 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                                                          Operations

                                                      USE OF AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS FOR
                                                    NON-GOVERNMENT BUSINESS BY CIVIL AIR
                                                      CARRIERS PARTICIPATING IN THE CIVIL
                                                       RESERVE AIR FLEET (CRAF) PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/XOOBC                                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO
     (Mrs Ruth Ann Young)                                                    (Brig Gen M.J. McCarthy)
                                                                                              Pages: 29
                                                                                         Distribution: F


This is the first publication of AFI 10-1003. This instruction further implements AFPD 10-10, Civil Air-
craft Use of United States Air Force Airfields. It provides the procedures for granting authority to CRAF
carriers to use Air Force installations for commercial activities as directed by Department of Defense
Instruction (DODI) 4500.55, Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Carrier Commercial Access to Military
Installations for Non-DOD Operations, October 25, 1995. It applies to all Air Force, Air National Guard,
and Air Force Reserve installations. Major Commands (MAJCOM) may supplement this instruction.
Comments or suggested improvements should be documented on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publications. Send copies of supplements or suggested improvements through channels to HQ
USAF/XOOBC, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480.
                                                 Chapter 1
                         BACKGROUND AND GENERAL INFORMATION

Section 1A—Background

1.1. Program Profile. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. ß9513, the Secretary of the Air Force may enter into con-
tracts with CRAF air carriers to authorize use of Air Force installations for a weather alternate, a technical
stop not involving the enplaning or deplaning of passengers or cargo, and, at installations within the
United States, for other commercial purposes as stated in DODI 4500.55. Use of Air Force installations
on foreign soil as a weather alternate or technical stop is subject to the terms of basing rights and other
agreements with host nations.

Section 1B—General Information

1.2. Program Principles. CRAF carriers that agree to provide an increase in airlift capability greater
than the carrier’s minimum required participation in the CRAF program are eligible to negotiate for use of
Air Force installations for non-government business. When mission compatible and operationally feasi-
ble, the Air Force will accommodate such use under terms and conditions necessary to promote the
national defense and protect the interest of the United States. All such use will be at no cost to the Air
Force. Except for weather alternates, air carriers may not use Air Force airfields in the United States to
support international flights. Commercial air carrier operations governed by joint use agreements and
requests for intermittent use will continue to be processed under AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Per-
mits, and AFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields.




                                                  2
                                                 Chapter 2
                      PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES

Section 2A—Notification and Proposals

2.1. Air Carrier Notification. HQ AMC/DOK, 402 Scott Drive, Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5302,
shall provide a contracting officer to be responsible for the functions of the Commercial Access to Mili-
tary Installations (CAMI) Contracting Officer set forth in DODI 4500.55. The CAMI Contracting Officer
shall publish a notice to advise current and potential CRAF carriers of the opportunity to participate in this
program, issue a solicitation if interest is sufficient, and award the contracts in accordance with estab-
lished contracting procedures and the provisions of DODI 4500.55.

2.2. Air Carrier Proposals. If, in response to the solicitation, an air carrier submits a proposal to HQ
AMC/DOK that details its increased commitment, identifies candidate installations for its commercial
operations, and specifies the type of operations, number of operations, and type of aircraft to be operated,
HQ AMC/DOK shall submit proposals for use of Air Force installations to HQ USAF/XOOB, 1480 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480, for review and coordination with the MAJCOM and instal-
lation, as appropriate. HQ AMC will prioritize the requests if multiple air carriers request access at the
same installation. After the feasibility determination by HQ USAF/XOOB, HQ AMC/DOK shall inform
the carriers to either submit proposals to available installations or to revise or withdraw proposals if com-
mercial operations cannot be accommodated at requested installations. Prior to entering into a contract
with a CRAF carrier for the use of an installation under the jurisdiction of another military department,
HQ AMC/DOK shall obtain consent from the authorized designee of the Secretary of that military depart-
ment.
   2.2.1. Unsolicited Proposals. Any unsolicited CRAF carrier proposal submitted directly to an instal-
   lation or MAJCOM shall be promptly forwarded to HQ AMC/DOK.

2.3. Air Carrier Contracts. The CAMI Contracting Officer shall include in CAMI contracts with air
carriers those content items identified in DODI 4500.55, paragraph E.2.a (3). The CRAF CAMI contract
shall provide that the real property instrument or operating agreement will control if there is any conflict
between the contract and the real property instrument and or operating agreement. A copy of the com-
pleted contract will be provided to HQ USAF/XOOB for distribution to appropriate installations and
MAJCOMs. The contract will be attached to the real property instrument or operating agreement as an
exhibit.

Section 2B—Real Property Instruments and Operating Agreements

2.4. Responsibilities. The installation and MAJCOM evaluation of the proposal shall be submitted to
HQ USAF/XOOB. Proposals determined to be operationally and mission compatible are subject to the
environmental impact analysis process (EIAP) before final approval. SAF/AFREA, 172 Luke Avenue,
Suite 104, Building 5683, Bolling AFB DC 20332-5113, shall develop the real property instruments, as
required and incorporate those provisions required by DODI 4500.55. HQ USAF/XOOB shall develop
and coordinate the appropriate operating agreements and ensure that they contain provisions required by
DODI 4500.55. Copies of completed real property instruments and operating agreements and revisions
thereto shall be provided to HQ AMC/DOK to be attached as an exhibit to the CRAF CAMI contract.

                                                  3
Operating agreements and or real property instruments will not be renewed or extended. The solicitation
and selection process will be repeated and new agreements and or real property agreements executed for
continued access to Air Force installations.
   2.4.1. Insurance. Real property instruments and or operating agreements shall specify the minimum
   level of liability insurance that must be carried by the air carrier while using or having access to Air
   Force installations.
   2.4.2. Legal Proceedings. Real property instruments and or operating agreements shall provide that
   air carriers must notify the installation commander and United States Transportation Command when
   judicial and or administrative proceedings arise from, or are associated with, its activities under the
   CRAF CAMI program.

2.5. Disapproval Subsequent to Negotiations. If an air carrier is given approval to negotiate for access
and the request is subsequently denied, HQ USAF/XOOB shall provide notification to the Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense through the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Logistics.

2.6. Withdrawal of Increased CRAF Commitment. If HQ AMC/DOK permits an air carrier to with-
draw its increased CRAF commitment after entering an agreement for use of an Air Force installation,
HQ AMC shall advise HQ USAF/XOOB and the installation so that appropriate steps can be taken to
immediately cancel real property instruments and operating agreements.




                                                4
                                               Chapter 3
                                         ENVIRONMENTAL

Section 3A—Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)

3.1. General Guidance. Prior to any final decision to allow air carrier access to an installation, all pro-
posed actions must be evaluated by the Air Force in compliance with AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact
Analysis Process. If the location of either the proposed action or any alternative is within an air quality
management district (AQMD) designated as “maintenance” or “non-attainment,” a conformity analysis
must be accomplished in compliance with Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) (42 U.S.C. ß7506)
as prescribed in AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance.

Section 3B—Environmental Compliance

3.2. Compliance Procedures. CAMI contracts, real property instruments, and operating agreements
shall not relieve air carriers from complying with all federal, state, interstate, and local environmental
laws and shall require that air carriers must promptly notify the installation commander of violations
involving environmental laws or regulations. Air carriers with on-base facilities shall be required to par-
ticipate fully in Air Force compliance and pollution prevention programs. Air carrier operations shall be
fully integrated in base-level environmental plans, such as the solid and hazardous waste management
plans.
   3.2.1. Real property instruments and operating agreements shall provide that air carriers are responsi-
   ble for:
       • Paying the cost of compliance with the EIAP.
       • Preparing and processing all applicable environmental documents, including, reports, permits,
            and studies. (EIAP compliance documentation will be handled in accordance with paragraph
            2.4, AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process.)
       • Actions by personnel employed by the air carrier with respect to violations of federal, state,
            interstate, and local environmental requirements, including fines and penalties stemming from
            violations.
       • Obtaining necessary air credits pursuant to the Clean Air Act and permits or licenses required
            to operate contractor owned or leased facilities and mobile emission sources.
       • Environmental record keeping and reporting requirements imposed by federal, state, inter-
            state, or local laws, and Air Force regulations.
       • Emergency response and clean-up due to carrier spills or releases of hazardous substances,
            pollutants, contaminants, or chemicals.
       • Management and disposal of all hazardous waste generated by their activities.
       • Environmental remediation after expiration or cancellation of real property instruments, oper-
            ating agreements, and CRAF CAMI contracts.
   3.2.2. Inspection and Review. Real property instruments and operating agreements shall provide that
   the Air Force may inspect on-base facilities occupied or used by an air carrier to review compliance


                                                5
   with all applicable environmental rules and regulations. All environmentally related documents must
   be reviewed by the Air Force.

Section 3C—Air Installation Incompatible Use Zone (AICUZ)

3.3. AICUZ Study. The AICUZ program analyzes airfield noise and accident potential in relation to
incompatible land uses as prescribed by DODI 4165.57, November 8, 1977, and AFI 32-6063, Air Instal-
lation Compatible Use Zone Program. If an AICUZ study must be updated to reflect new flying opera-
tions and construction initiated under the provisions of this AFI, real property instruments and operating
agreements shall provide that the cost will be paid by the air carrier.




                                                6
                                                 Chapter 4
                                          INFRASTRUCTURE

Section 4A—General

4.1. Use of Air Force Real Property. Air carriers shall be required to pay fair market value to use or
acquire Air Force property. SAF/MII, 1660 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1660, must
approve air carrier use of Air Force real property that exceeds five years.

Section 4B—Airfield

4.2. Conditions for Use of Airfield. Changes to the airfield may be required to meet air carrier and or
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards. This may include, but is not limited to, changes in the
airfield layout, obstruction markings, lighting, airfield signs, etc. Costs associated with FAA or other
agency aeronautical survey to determine airfield adequacy will be at no expense to the Air Force. Real
property instruments and operating agreements shall provide that all modifications will be at no expense
to the Air Force, that the air carrier will be responsible for any damages to the airfield or airfield systems
caused by air carrier operations, and that any such equipment permanently installed to support air carrier
operations, such as airfield lighting, signs, etc., will become the property of the Air Force upon expiration
or cancellation of the real property instrument and or air carrier operating agreement.

Section 4C—Pavement

4.3. Conditions for Use of Pavement. Pavement areas include, but are not limited to, runway, on-load
and or off-load ramp, layover parking ramp, remote parking ramp, maintenance and engine run-up ramp,
and space for support equipment, cargo, and vehicles. If additional pavement is required for air carrier
operations, and the land is available, the air carrier shall be required to bear all costs associated with
design, construction, and maintenance, including airfield modifications.

Section 4D—Facilities

4.4. Facility Construction or Improvements. Construction of new facilities and modifications or
upgrades to existing facilities may be authorized when not in conflict with Air Force directives and must
be approved by the installation commander. The air carrier will fund, for the duration of the real property
instrument and operating agreement, any improvements at the installation required for air carrier opera-
tions. The installation commander is authorized to restrict air carrier access to designated areas of the air-
field as specified in AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property. Supplementary
commercial construction will not encroach on existing areas for hazardous cargo, explosive storage, or
arm and de arm activities. Quantity distance waivers will not be granted to facilitate commercial opera-
tions. Upon termination of the air carrier’s contract or agreement, the air carrier shall be required to
restore Air Force real property to the condition that existed when it was leased/acquired or to a condition
stated in the lease/agreement.




                                                  7
4.5. Facility Maintenance. The air carrier shall be required to bear all costs for maintenance of facilities
under its control. Facilities and property will be maintained to the same standards as the remainder of the
installation.

Section 4E—Utilities

4.6. Utility Services. The Air Force may provide utilities to contractor owned/operated facilities on a
metered, reimbursable basis. AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to USAF Installations, specifies that
installation of meters, utilities, and upgrades to utility plants for non-Air Force activities are subject to
reimbursement.




                                                 8
                                                 Chapter 5
                                              OPERATIONS

Section 5A—General

5.1. Mission Impacts. There are some Air Force missions that will preclude granting air carrier access to
an installation such as a Priority A flying mission, nuclear storage areas or other nuclear missions, and a
single integrated operation plan (SIOP) mission. Such missions will be identified by the MAJCOM and
forwarded with rationale to HQ USAF/XOOB during the feasibility determination.
   5.1.1. Except for use of the runways and taxiways during landing and takeoff, air carrier operations
   must remain separate from Air Force operations to ensure minimum impacts on the security of mili-
   tary aircraft and other Air Force resources.

5.2. Interference with Air Force Operations. Air carrier operations at Air Force installations shall be
authorized on a non-interference basis. The real property instrument or air carrier operating agreement
will establish limits on CRAF carrier use as determined necessary to meet military requirements. Traffic
priority may only be assigned for bona fide inflight emergencies. Emergencies and ground mishaps
involving air carrier aircraft or vehicles that cause runway closure will be expeditiously resolved. Com-
manders will notify the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) but may take necessary actions to
clear an operationally required runway, even at the risk of damaging or destroying physical evidence,
when in the vital interests of the national defense.

5.3. Suspension of Air Carrier Operations. Installation commanders shall coordinate with the carrier
at the earliest opportunity when any situation (real or simulated) arises that requires suspension of civil
aircraft operations. Contracts, real property instruments, and operating agreements shall provide that the
Air Force will not be liable for any costs associated with the temporary suspension of civil aircraft opera-
tions.

5.4. Filing Flight Plans and Flight Following. Air carriers shall be held responsible for filing flight
plans and flight following functions required for operations.

Section 5B—Weather Information

5.5. Meteorological Services. Forecasting services shall not be provided to air carriers located at Air
Force installations, except to advise of severe weather watches or warnings. Operating agreements shall
provide that air carriers may use and pay for delivery of observation service via telewriter or closed circuit
television at the discretion of the installation commander. The Air Force shall be held harmless from any
damage to air carrier resources resulting from unforecast weather phenomena or conditions. It is recom-
mended that air carrier operations be prohibited during any period when assigned military aircraft have
been evacuated due to weather.




                                                  9
                                                Chapter 6
                                         AIRFIELD SYSTEMS

Section 6A—Operating Hours

6.1. Airfield Hours. Extending airfield operating hours for air carrier operations will be at no expense to
the Air Force and will be governed by Air Force authority and capability to provide increased manning.
Airfield operating hours will not be extended to support air carrier operations if existing agreements with
the community establish military quiet hours.

Section 6B—Airfield Systems

6.2. Air Traffic Control and Landing System (ATCALS). Operating agreements shall provide that
installation and or modification and maintenance of ATCALS equipment required to support air carrier
operations will be at no expense to the Air Force, and that additional or modified ATCALS equipment
shall be removed by the carrier or become the property of the Air Force at the Air Force’s discretion upon
expiration or cancellation of the real property instrument and or air carrier operating agreement.

6.3. Priority of Air Traffic Services. Certain military operations may require priority handling. Air car-
rier aircraft may be required to hold on the ground or in the air, except in case of a declared emergency.
Operating agreements shall provide that any increase in air carrier operational or other costs incurred as a
result of such holding will be the carrier’s responsibility and not the Air Force’s responsibility.

6.4. Aircraft Arresting Systems (AAS). The installation commander may approve temporary removal
and replacement of above ground systems that affect air carrier operations at air carrier expense. If above
ground AAS cables remain permanently connected due to military requirements, the operating agree-
ments shall provide that all damages to the AAS caused by the air carrier or damage to air carrier aircraft
caused by the AAS will be at no expense to the Air Force, and that runway slap pad replacement costs will
be on a prorated basis.




                                                10
                                                Chapter 7
                            SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH

Section 7A—Air Force Rights and Responsibilities

7.1. Air Force Rights. Operating agreements shall provide that:
   7.1.1. Air Force safety personnel will have unimpeded access to all air carrier facilities on the instal-
   lation, regardless of occupancy, in the performance of their duties.
   7.1.2. Air Force ground safety managers and the bioenvironmental engineer may periodically review
   air carrier operations, as specified in the operating agreement, to ensure occupational safety and health
   compliance and ensure air carrier operations pose no risk to personnel or material.
   7.1.3. Air Force flight safety officers may periodically monitor air carrier movements, both on the
   ground and within the airport traffic area, to ensure there is no conflict with Air Force operations and
   may accompany principal operations inspectors (POI) assigned to an air carrier by the FAA during
   visits to their tenant air carriers, on a non-interference basis.

7.2. Publish Information on Air Carrier Operations. Air carrier operations shall be described in all
base mid-air collision avoidance (MACA) publications and presentations.

7.3. Air Traffic Control Board Representation. The Air Force will include air carrier representatives
at all Air Traffic Control Board meetings.

Section 7B—Air Carrier Responsibilities

7.4. Air Carrier Obligations. Operating agreements shall provide that:
   7.4.1. Air carriers with fixed base type operations on Air Force installations will, at a minimum, meet
   the standards and practices specified in Air Force directives and instructions on occupational safety
   and health and will ensure that Air Force personnel are not exposed to hazardous situations or condi-
   tions caused by or arising upon the carrier’s facility.
   7.4.2. Air carrier equipment, facilities, and personnel will be separated from Air Force munitions
   storage areas and explosives operations/locations to the greatest extent possible, but no less than the
   mandatory distances in DODSTD 6055.9, DOD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, Octo-
   ber 1992, or Air Force directives, whichever is the most restrictive, and that Air Force munitions stor-
   age structures will not be used for storage of commercial explosive or hazardous material or other
   commodities.
   7.4.3. Air carrier industrial operations shall, as a minimum, comply with Department of Labor stan-
   dards (29 CFR 1910); facilities will meet and be maintained to current National Fire Protection Asso-
   ciation codes; air carriers will report all on-the-job injuries and illnesses to the Occupational Safety
   and Health Administration (OSHA) in accordance with OSHA regulations; and air carrier employee
   injuries and illnesses will not be accountable to the host installation.
   7.4.4. The air carrier will ensure that Air Force response agencies are fully knowledgeable of its oper-
   ations, to include response procedures for air carrier aircraft emergencies, hazardous material or cargo

                                                11
   handling, and other conditions or situations that, if unknown, could jeopardize the safety of the
   response forces.

Section 7C—Hazardous Cargo

7.5. Movement of Hazardous Cargo. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will report all
movements of Department of Transportation (DOT) Class 1.1 and 1.2 explosive material prior to arrival
on the installation. If the designated hazardous cargo area will be in use for military operations during the
planned movement period, the operating agreement will provide that the air carrier will delay the ship-
ment until a safe transient parking area can be identified, or until the designated hazardous cargo area is
clear. Handling procedures for hazardous cargo will be developed between the installation and the air
carrier.

Section 7D—Accidents/Incidents

7.6. Investigations.
   7.6.1. Air Force installation commanders will provide emergency services and notify NTSB and FAA
   when there is an air carrier mishap on Air Force property. The operating agreement will provide that
   the cost of such emergency services will be reimbursed by the air carrier. “Emergency services” are
   understood to include rendering immediate care to the injured (see paragraph 10.6), control of access
   to the accident scene, and preservation of perishable evidence (where possible). The Safety member
   of the Disaster Response Force will ensure the scene is documented photographically to the maximum
   extent possible, but is not authorized to impound equipment or records associated with civil aircraft.
   7.6.2. Investigation and reporting of air carrier accidents, incidents, injuries, and illnesses will be the
   sole responsibility of the NTSB, FAA, and air carrier when damage, injury, or illness is restricted to
   personnel or materiel associated with air carrier operations. Air Force personnel who are witnesses or
   participants in air carrier accidents, incidents, injuries, or illnesses (air traffic controllers, transient
   alert personnel, marshallers, etc.) must be made available to duly appointed Federal investigators
   (e.g., NTSB, FAA, OSHA), but are not obliged to give statements to air carrier, insurance, or other
   non-government investigators, except as provided for by law.
   7.6.3. If government personnel or materiel are injured, damaged, or destroyed as a result of an air car-
   rier operation, accident, or incident, air carrier personnel will cooperate fully with all military investi-
   gations. There are three types of investigations:
       • A safety investigation, conducted strictly to prevent recurrence of similar accidents in the
           future.
       • A legal investigation, conducted to provide a factual, publicly releasable report of the circum-
           stances surrounding a loss to the Air Force.
       • A criminal investigation, conducted when circumstances indicate intentional harm to govern-
           ment personnel or intentional damage or theft of government property.
   7.6.4. If government personnel or materiel are injured, damaged, or destroyed as a result of an air car-
   rier operation, accident, or incident, the Air Force will:
       • Participate as a party to any NTSB or FAA investigation.


                                                 12
•   Conduct an administrative investigation in accordance with AFJI 91-206, Participation in a
    Military or Civil Aircraft Accident Safety Investigation (formerly AFR 127-11).
•   Conduct a safety investigation as prescribed by AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
    Reports, and a legal investigation as prescribed by AFI 51-503, Aircraft, Missile, Nuclear, and
    Space Accident Investigations, as required.
•   Conduct a criminal investigation in accordance with AFI 71-101, Criminal Investigations,
    Counterintelligence and Protective Service Matters.




                                        13
                                                 Chapter 8
                                                SECURITY

Section 8A—General

8.1. Security Requirements. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must comply with
all FAA security regulations and guidance, as well as Air Force and local installation security require-
ments. Agreements with air carriers will address the following:
    • Installation access procedures for air carrier customers and employees for normal operations,
       increased threat conditions, and exercises.
    • Flightline access procedures for vehicle operations and personnel identification.
    • Procedures for passenger and cargo screening to comply with Federal Aviation Regulation
       (FAR), Parts 107 and 108, hazardous cargo handling, customs, immigration, and agriculture.
    • Resource protection procedures in responding to facility alarms and conducting inspections; vehi-
       cle registration and search procedures; and antiterrorism considerations (e.g., public parking, air
       carrier employee background investigations).

Section 8B—Installation Access

8.2. Barred Individuals. Operating agreements shall provide that the installation commander may exer-
cise his or her authority under the provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 by restricting or prohib-
iting air carrier employee or passenger access to the installation. Nothing in the agreements with the air
carrier shall affect this authority. Any claims of liability resulting from the exercise of such authority
shall rest with the air carrier and not the Air Force.

8.3. Procedures for Air Carrier Employees. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier
will provide the Air Force pass and identification office with a list of employees that require access to the
installation for work-related duties, and that air carrier employee access will be limited to hours of
employment and to air carrier facilities only, except as approved by the installation commander.
   8.3.1. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier employees must meet the same require-
   ments as base employees to obtain vehicle passes and to drive on the installation. All drivers must
   meet State registration licensing requirements, to include minimum liability insurance. Additionally,
   the air carrier will provide the security police copies of air carrier identification badges for purposes of
   familiarization. The Installation Security Council (ISC) will determine the type of identification
   required for entry to the installation and whether temporary or permanent vehicle passes will be
   issued.
   8.3.2. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will advise all employees that they and
   their vehicles are subject to random vehicle inspections. Random vehicle inspections are also applica-
   ble to air carrier customers and other visitors to the installation.

8.4. Procedures for Passengers. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will maintain
positive control of its customers and visitors while on the installation. Passengers must be identified prior



                                                 14
to entry to the installation and will be escorted by the air carrier while on the installation. Procedures to
expedite escorted passengers must be approved by the ISC.

Section 8C—Flightline Access

8.5. Procedures for Air Carrier Employees. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier
employees must have a valid need to be on the Air Force flightline. Access will be limited to established
duty hours and designated air carrier operating areas, unless air carrier officials specifically request and
receive approval from the installation commander through the airfield manager. The air carrier will com-
ply with localized flightline identification processes. If a localized air carrier badge is used for flightline
access, the use of these badges and procedures for issue must be approved by the ISC. If the AF Form
1199, Air Force Entry Control Card, is used, it must vary in color from the AF Form 1199 currently in use
for identifying people that are authorized access to restricted areas.
   8.5.1. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier employees must be certified by the Air
   Force to drive on the flightline and are responsible for following flightline driving rules. Flightline
   drivers must be cognizant of aircraft movement and towing equipment used to support air operations.
   Privately owned vehicles to be operated on the flightline must be approved by the installation com-
   mander. Company or agency vehicles must be properly identified for flightline access and registered
   with the airfield manager.

Section 8D—Access During Exercises

8.6. Procedures for Access During Exercises. The installation commander or a designated representa-
tive will coordinate with air carrier supervisors during exercises to ensure employee access to work areas
and terminal does not interfere with military commitments and operations. Generally, air carrier employ-
ees will be allowed to proceed with their work. When exercise or contingency planning may result in an
impact to air carrier operations, the installation commander or a designated representative will provide
reasonable notification to the air carrier.

Section 8E—Resource Protection Procedures

8.7. Resource Protection Procedures. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will comply
with AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program, and the local Resource Protection Plan. These
documents address alarm response, anti-robbery procedures, alarm system standards, and inspection
requirements. If the carrier requires an alarmed facility, the facility will be constructed in accordance
with applicable standards; and the alarm system, installed at no cost to the Air Force, must be compatible
with existing alarm systems on the installation.
   8.7.1. Air carriers shall be informed in writing of sensitive areas and buildings on the installation that
   are off-limits to their employees. The Air Force shall ensure that air carrier personnel are included in
   the installation security awareness program. The air carrier shall ensure that training is provided for
   internal security and for identifying, reporting, and challenging suspicious persons, objects, or pack-
   ages. Security police must be notified immediately upon identification of a suspicious package.
   8.7.2. Operating agreements shall provide that the Air Force is authorized to inspect air carrier facili-
   ties on Air Force property. Various methods are used to conduct inspections, including the use of mil-
   itary working dogs (MWD). Air carrier employees must be notified that MWDs may be used to check

                                                  15
facilities and parking lots. Additionally, the air carrier should ensure employees are informed of the
appropriate behavior when an MWD is in their area.
8.7.3. Air carrier employees shall be included in the Air Force Random Antiterrorism Measures Pro-
gram. Air carrier personnel should be briefed and trained on procedures for handling suspicious pack-
ages, bomb threats, and other antiterrorism measures.
8.7.4. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier will conduct annual security awareness
training for all employees, that the air carrier will also appoint a security manager to conduct training
and attend wing security manager meetings, and that Air Force training for air carrier employees will
be provided on a reimbursable basis.




                                             16
                                                 Chapter 9
                                               FINANCIAL

9.1. General Guidance. To the maximum extent possible, and within the provisions of the law, funds
generated by this program will be available to the contracted installation for obligation for the same
period as the appropriation to which credited.
   9.1.1. Computing and displaying DOD costs will be as prescribed in AFR 177-8 and DODI 7230.7,
   User Charges, January 29, 1985, with changes 1 and 2; DOD 7000.14R, vol 11B, Reimbursable
   Operations, Policy and Procedures--Defense Business Operations Fund, December 1994; and
   DODM 7220.9, chapter 26, Accounting Manual, October 1983.
   9.1.2. Operating agreements and or real property instruments shall provide that air carriers will pay
   scheduled or specified fees and charges associated with access to, use of, or abandonment of military
   installations for commercial purposes, weather alternate use, or technical stops in advance and that
   payment of all associated taxes is an air carrier responsibility.

9.2. Identifying Costs. The CAMI contract shall address specific costs to be collected from the air car-
rier for utilities and services (such as ice and/or snow control, crash, and/or fire response, and air traffic
control); access to Service B equipment for the filing of flight plans; weather support; personnel support;
landing fees; fuel; security; equipment rental; environmental analysis; air permit application; airfield
maintenance and/or upgrade; runway rubber removal; runway painting; runway repair; or other charges
authorized under the contract.

9.3. Procedures for Recovery of Charges. Procedures for recovery of charges and specific amounts to
be collected shall be included in the real property instrument and or operating agreement. An air carrier
that has signed a CAMI contract, must pay the estimated annual cost of using the installation based on the
type of operations, number of operations and type of aircraft to be operated. Payment will be made on 1
October each year, or at least 30 days before the commencement of operations, whichever comes first.
The reimbursement for services will be based on total cost or fair market value, whichever is higher, in
accordance with DODI 7230.7, User Charges. The supporting Defense Accounting Office (DAO) or
Operating Location (OPLOC) will render a bill to the carrier for advance payment based on the projected
charges. Accounting procedures for recording unearned revenue are in AFR 177-101, chapter 32, Gen-
eral Accounting & Finance System at Base Level. Amounts reimbursed under a fair market value price,
although in excess of the cost to the government, may be retained pursuant to 10 U.S.C. ß9513. To esti-
mate annual cost, if each operation is to be identical, a standard package of services can be used to com-
pute costs for a typical operation, multiplied by the number of operations.
   9.3.1. Charges for aviation fuel must be based on the actual quantities issued. Aviation fuel and ser-
   vices provided in excess of the standard package must be identified to the responsible billing office to
   permit timely supplemental billing to the carrier. Reimbursements for aviation fuel will be credited to
   the Air Force fuels account. Applicable surcharges for non-DOD customers will be assessed as
   required by present regulations. Surcharges are not available for retention at the installation. Charges
   for aviation fuels are handled as prescribed in AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual, vol 1, part 3, section
   E, Bulk Petroleum Fuels Management Category 1 Fuels Division, and section I, Aviation Fuel Issues
   to Contract, Civil, and Charter Aircraft. Fuel will be purchased with cash (US currency or company
   checks) or on established credit. Cash sales are processed locally and credit purchases are billed from

                                                 17
   Kelly AFB TX. Accounts receivable for aviation fuel issued to all non-DOD aircraft are transferred
   to DFAS-DE Kelly/FSRF, 1014 Billy Mitchell Blvd, Suite 1, Kelly AFB TX 78241-5603, for prepa-
   ration of a consolidated monthly billing to each carrier. Prepayments for aviation fuel are also submit-
   ted to DFAS-DE Kelly/FSRF.
   9.3.2. Reimbursements for military personnel services will be credited to the Air Force Military Per-
   sonnel Appropriation. Billing for military personnel services are accelerated as prescribed by AFR
   177-101, chapter 30. The supporting accounting office will process the reimbursements against the
   advance payment made by the air carrier. Reimbursements for airfield operations and maintenance
   expenses will also be processed against the advance payment made by the air carrier. Amounts col-
   lected in excess of the costs to the installation for airfield operations and maintenance may be retained
   and obligated for the same period as the appropriation credited using procedures in AFR 177-101,
   chapter 23.
   9.3.3. Reimbursement procedures for bases that have airfield operations and maintenance functions
   contracted out will be the same as those bases that perform the functions in-house. The air carrier
   must reimburse the Air Force directly for services provided either by in-house or contract resources.

9.4. Reimbursement of Overpaid Fees. At the end of the fiscal year, the Air Force will carry forward to
the next fiscal year any over payments by the air carrier. If the real property instrument expires and will
not be renewed, the Air Force will refund any over payments to the carrier.




                                                18
                                                 Chapter 10
                                       EMERGENCY RESPONSE

Section 10A—Fire Fighting

10.1. Level of Protection. Air Force fire protection services cannot be increased solely to accommodate
FAA or air carrier requirements.

10.2. Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Capability.
   10.2.1. The Air Force will determine the Major Accident Response Force for responding to, and
   recovering from, major accidents involving air carrier aircraft.
   10.2.2. The adequacy of ARFF capability must be determined using FAR, Part 139, AS-102, and
   DODI 6055.6, DOD Fire Emergency Services Program, December 15, 1994. Aircraft fire protection
   requirements shall not exceed the authorized ARFF vehicle specified in Allowance Sources (AS)
   O-12.

10.3. Structural Fire Fighting Capability. The level of structural fire fighting capability available must
be determined and specified in the agreement.

10.4. Air Carrier Responsibilities.
   10.4.1. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must:
       • Provide the installation fire department with aircraft pre-fire plans.
       • Schedule and coordinate fire fighter egress, aircraft shut down, and aircraft familiarization
           training at no cost to the Air Force.
       • Comply with all DOD and Air Force fire and safety regulations for facilities on Air Force
           property. Facilities are governed by Military Handbook (MILHDBK) 1008B, Fire Protection
           for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction, and the National Fire Protection Asso-
           ciation Standard 101 (Life Safety Code).
       • Comply with 49 CFR 173 when transporting explosive or hazardous cargo on an Air Force
           installation.

Section 10B—Hazardous Material

10.5. Hazardous Materials Response. Air Force hazardous materials incident planning and response
organizations must be aware of air carrier operations, to include emergency response procedures, hazard-
ous material or cargo handling, and other conditions or situations that could result in a hazardous materi-
als release or emergency. Procedures and responsibilities for hazardous material release and explosive
cargo incidents from air carrier operations must be included in real property or operation agreements, as
appropriate. AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response, and AF Manual
32-4004, Emergency Response Operations, provide guidance for planning and responding to incidents
involving hazardous materials. If carriers desire to transport hazardous materials requiring specialized
equipment for personal protection or clean-up, it is the carriers’ responsibility to ensure their host base has


                                                  19
such equipment immediately available. If base emergency preparedness personnel do not possess
required equipment, the air carrier must provide it at no cost to the Air Force.

Section 10C—Medical

10.6. Medical Response. Non-DOD beneficiary air carrier personnel who require emergency medical
care will be stabilized and transferred to appropriate civilian facilities. Routine medical care is not avail-
able to non-DOD beneficiaries. Medical personnel may participate in emergency responses according to
the emergency procedures prescribed by individual base disaster planning.

Section 10D—Search and Rescue

10.7. Search and Rescue Assistance. Emergency search and recovery can be provided if determined
appropriate by the installation commander.




                                                 20
                                             Chapter 11
                                      GROUND HANDLING

Section 11A—Fuel

11.1. Purchasing Air Force Fuel. If an air carrier has negotiated for authority to obtain Air
Force-owned fuel, it must provide the Base Fuels Management Flight with its fuel requirements. Submis-
sion of the annual fuel requirement will reflect Air Force and air carrier needs.
   11.1.1. Reimbursement procedures are addressed in paragraph 9.3.1 of this instruction. Applications
   for credit must be submitted to SA-ALC/SFR, 1014 Billy Mitchell Blvd, Suite 1, Kelly AFB TX
   78241-5603, as prescribed in AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual, vol 1, part 3, chapter 1, section I, Avi-
   ation Fuel Issues to Contract, Civil, and Charter Aircraft.
   11.1.2. Only aircraft with safety engineering analysis (SSEA) certification will be approved for con-
   current servicing by the Air Force as prescribed in Technical Order 00-25-172.

Section 11B—Aerial Port Equipment

11.2. Use of Air Force Aerial Port Equipment. The air carrier shall be required to provide its own
aerial port equipment. If Air Force aerial port equipment is used in an emergency, reimbursement must
be obtained.




                                              21
                                              Chapter 12
                                   AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE

12.1. Servicing and Maintenance. The Air Force will not service or maintain air carrier aircraft.
   12.1.1. Operating agreements shall provide that the air carrier must have an aircraft maintenance rep-
   resentative available at all times when its aircraft are on an Air Force installation.

12.2. Maintenance and Inspections. Operating agreements shall provide that air carrier aircraft mainte-
nance on Air Force installations is limited to performing the minimum maintenance and/or inspections
required for continued safe flight, and that extensive scheduled maintenance or inspections will not be
accomplished at Air Force installations.




                                               22
                                              Chapter 13
                                            MANPOWER

13.1. Manning. Air Force manpower authorizations will not be increased in support of air carrier opera-
tions. Operating agreements shall provide that air carriers will provide reimbursement for all assistance
provided by Air Force personnel.




                                               23
                                              Chapter 14
                                              SERVICES

Section 14A—General

14.1. Entitlement to Services. Air carrier employees and passengers with valid DOD identification
cards are authorized support consistent with their entitlements and privileges. Basic human services pro-
vided to non-military personnel will be extremely limited.

Section 14B—Food Services

14.2. Availability of Food Services.
   14.2.1. Food service and transportation of passengers to dining facilities (including flight dining ser-
   vice) for employees and passengers is the sole responsibility of the air carrier.
   14.2.2. Personnel associated with air carrier operations may be authorized to eat in category C, non-
   appropriated, or commercial base facilities (e.g., Burger King). Installation commanders should
   ensure the use of such facilities does not impact service provided to military personnel and their fam-
   ilies.
   14.2.3. Appropriated enlisted dining facilities are not available to personnel associated with air car-
   rier operations.

Section 14C—Lodging

14.3. Availability of Lodging.
   14.3.1. Operating agreements shall provide that lodging and transportation of air carrier employees
   and passengers to lodging is the sole responsibility of the air carrier.
   14.3.2. The installation commander may authorize the use of on-base lodging, if needed, as pre-
   scribed in AFI 34-601, Air Force Lodging Management. Lodging will not be provided on a routine
   basis.

Section 14D— Mortuary Services

14.4. Availability of Mortuary Services.
   14.4.1. Mortuary services are normally only provided to military personnel.
   14.4.2. Mortuary services may be provided under local civilian jurisdiction in accordance with state
   and federal regulations.




                                               24
                                                Chapter 15
                                       DISPUTE RESOLUTION

15.1. Standard. All disputes involving the administration of CAMI contracts, real property instruments,
and operating agreements should be resolved at the earliest stage feasible, by the fastest and least expen-
sive method possible, and at the lowest possible organizational level.

15.2. Procedures. At a minimum, real property instruments and operating agreements shall include dis-
pute resolution provisions that provide that any dispute arising under or related to the instrument or agree-
ment that cannot be resolved through negotiations shall be decided in writing by the installation
commander. Instruments and agreements shall also provide for an appeal procedure and alternative dis-
pute resolution procedures for certain matters in dispute.




                                          RALPH E. EBERHART, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Plans and Operations




                                                 25
                                              Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
10. U.S.C. ß9513, Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994
Internal Security Act of 1950
42. U.S.C. ßß4321-4347, National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
42. U.S.C. ß7506, Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
AFJI 91-206, Participation in a Military or Civil Aircraft Accident Safety Investigation
AFJI 134-211, Army And Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) General Policies
Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of the
National Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR Parts 1500-1508
DOD 7000.14R, Volume 11B, Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures--Defense Business
Operations Fund
DODI 4165.57, Air Installation Compatible Use Zones
DODI 6055.6, DOD Fire Emergency Services Program
DODI 7230.7, User Charges with Changes 1 and 2
DODM 7220.9, Chapter 26, Accounting Manual
DODSTD 6055.9, DOD Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards
Federal Aviation Regulation, Part 139, Certification and Operations: Land Airports Serving Certain Air
Carriers
Federal Aviation Regulation, Parts 107 and 108, Airport Security
Military Handbook 1008B, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction
National Fire Protection Association Standard 101, Life Safety Code
AFH 32-1084, Standard Facility Requirements Handbook
AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits
AFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields
AFI 31-101, Air Force Physical Security Program
AFI 31-201, Security Police Standards and Procedures
AFI 31-209, Air Force Resource Protection Program
AFI 31-210, Air Force Antiterrorism Program
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to USAF Installations
AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response
AFI 32-6063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program

                                               26
AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process
AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property
AFI 34-101, Services Programs And Use Eligibility
AFI 34-115, Air Force Open Mess Program
AFI 34-401, Food Service Management Program
AFI 34-501, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 34-601, Air Force Lodging Management
AFI 51-503, Aircraft, Missile, Nuclear, and Space Accident Investigations
AFI 71-101, Criminal Investigations, Counterintelligence and Protective Service Matters
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFM 32-4002, Emergency Response Operations
AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual
AFR 177-101, General Accounting & Finance at Base Level
Technical Order (TO) 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAS—Aircraft arresting systems
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFM—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Regulation
AICUZ—Air Installation Compatible Use Zone
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AQMD—Air Quality Management District
ARFF—Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting
AS—Allowance Sources
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
CAA—Clean Air Act
CAMI—Commercial Access to Military Installations
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations

                                                27
CRAF—Civil Reserve Air Fleet
DAO—Defense Accounting Office
DFAS—Defense Finance & Accounting Service
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DODM—Department of Defense Manual
DODSTD—Department of Defense Standard
DOT—Department of Transportation
DPSC—Defense Personnel Support Center
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAR—Federal Aviation Regulation
HQ AMC/DOK—Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Contract Airlift Division, Directorate of
Operations
HQ USAF/XOOB—Headquarters United States Air Force, Bases & Units Division, Directorate of
Operations
HQ USAF/XOOBC—Headquarters United States Air Force, Civil Aviation, Bases & Units Division,
Directorate of Operations
ISC—Installation Security Council
MACA—Mid-Air Collision avoidance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILHDBK—Military Handbook
MWD—Military Working Dog
NTSB—National Transportation Safety Board
OPLOC—Operating Location
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
POI—Principal Operations Inspector
SA-ALC/SFR—San Antonio Air Logistics Center, Directorate of Aerospace Fuels Management
SAF/AFREA—Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Real Estate Agency
SAF/MII—Secretary of the Air Force, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Installations)
SIOP—Single Integrated Operation Plan
SSEA—System Safety Engineering Analysis
TO—Technical Order


                                             28
USC—United States Code

Terms
Air Mobility Command CRAF Commercial Access to Military Installations Contract—A contract
authorizing air carrier participation in the CRAF Commercial Access to Military Installations program in
return for increased commitment of aircraft in excess of the air carrier’s minimum CRAF commitment.
CRAF Carrier—A FAR, Part 121 certificated, DOD surveyed and approved air carrier under contract to
the Air Force to commit aircraft and crews for emergencies, contingencies, and war.
Hold Harmless Clause—An agreement by which the air carrier indemnifies and holds harmless the
United States, its agents, employees, and instrumentalities from any action, suit, or claim of any sort
resulting from, relating to, or arising out of any activities conducted, or services or supplies furnished, in
connection with the contract.
Installation Air Carrier Operating Agreement—An operating agreement, outlining the day-to-day
working relationships, responsibilities, services, supplies, costs, fees, and reimbursements, as negotiated
between the Air Force and the air carrier.
Other Commercial Purposes—Air carrier activities associated with the transport of cargo or passengers
for hire, or any air carrier controlled facilities or operations.
Real Property Instrument—Normally a lease or license signed by the appropriate Air Force or Army
Corps of Engineers representative and the air carrier that provides authority for air carrier use of Air Force
land or buildings.
Reservation of Right to Exclude Air Carrier Clause—A contractual clause stating that the Secretary
of the Air Force may, without providing prior notice and without liability to the US Government, deny
access to an installation when necessary to meet defense mission requirements.
Technical Stop—Use of a military airfield for purposes other than enplaning or deplaning cargo or
passengers, such as crew change, refueling, or minor maintenance.
United States—The 50 states and the District of Columbia. For the purposes of this instruction, U.S.
territories and possessions are not included.
Weather Alternate—An Air Force airfield to which a flight may proceed if landing at the airfield to
which the flight was dispatched becomes inadvisable due to weather.




                                                 29
