BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-244
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                          6 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Operations

                                                     REPORTING STATUS OF AEROSPACE
                                                             EXPEDITIONARY FORCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing Web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A3XO                                                 Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3X
                                                                           (Mr. Kurt S. Grabey)
                                                                                      Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AFI10-244_AFMCSUP,
              28 February 2002


AFI 10-244, 15 Jun 2012, is supplemented as follows. This document implements and extends
the guidance of AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces by defining the
roles, responsibilities and processes for Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) in the
management and use of the AEF UTC Reporting Tool (ART). This supplement is applicable to
all AFMC units/personnel and will remain in effect until modified or superseded, whichever
comes first. This supplement does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their
units. It does apply to AFMC gained Air National Guard (ANG) units only upon mobilization.
Users must read this supplement in conjunction with AFI 10-244. HQ AFMC/A3X is the sole
waiver authority for this supplement. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFMC/A3X, Building 266, Room
A023, 4225 Logistics Avenue, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5750. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in at Air Force (AF) Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                            AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
supplement formalizes AFMC’s ART reporting procedures and battle rhythm, expands upon
Functional Area Manager (FAM) and Wing level ART OPR duties. It also defines specific
Command ART Manager responsibilities. Authority, training requirements, how medical
deficiencies will be reported and establishment of wing level continuity binders are addressed
also.
2.3.1. HQ AFMC/A3X and AFMC Functional Area Managers (FAMs) have direct liaison
authorized (DIRLAUTH) with their Directorate of AEF Operations (AFPC/DPW) functional
schedulers and HQ USAF counterparts. All subordinate unit personnel will address all ART
specific issues through their respective FAM or the Command ART Manager for resolution.
2.4.1. HQ AFMC/A3 will appoint a primary and alternate Command ART Manager to manage
and perform ART Administrator duties. See paragraph 2.4.2.1 of this supplement for Command
ART Manager specific duties and responsibilities.
2.4.1.1. (Added) Center/FOA Commanders will ensure that designated ART POCs have
required resources and capability to access secure systems (SIPR/GCCS and ART) to perform
readiness reporting duties.
2.4.1.2. (Added) At HQ AFMC, the overall management of ART resides within the
Directorate of Air, Space and Information Operations, Operational Plans Division (HQ
AFMC/A3X). As the process owner for AFMC, HQ AFMC/A3X, through HQ AFMC/A3, will
establish policy, recommend guidance, implement Air Staff policies and execute the daily
management of the ART database.
2.4.2. (Added) Authority. The Director of Air, Space and Information Operations    (HQ
AFMC/A3) is the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) designated authority for all MAJCOM
ART matters and responsibilities. HQ AFMC/A3 will oversee and coordinate ART issues
between AFMC/CC/CV/CA/CS, HQ AFMC Directorates, AF Life Cycle Management Center
(AFLCMC), AF Sustainment Center (AFSC), AF Test Center (AFTC), AF Research Laboratory
(AFRL), AF Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC), specialized units, wings, units, FAMs,
Directorate of AEF Operations (AFPC/DPW) and Air Staff OPR, as applicable.
2.4.2.1. (Added) Readiness Monitoring and Reporting. HQ AFMC/A3X is responsible for
identifying all AEF readiness reporting requirements for operational force units. The Command
ART Manager (HQ AFMC/A3XO) will:
2.4.2.1.1. (Added) Maintain a central library of appointment letters for all Wing level ART
OPRs. Approval of an ART Role of Subordinate Administrator is contingent upon receipt of a
signed appointment letter.
2.4.2.1.2. (Added) Exercise ART oversight responsibility by maintaining close coordination
with subordinate organizations and HQ Directorate/Functional/A-Staff FAMs ensuring timely
and accurate data reporting.
2.4.2.1.3. (Added) Notify Wing level ART OPRs and FAMs by electronic mail when UTCs
within their portion of the ART database are not being reported in accordance with established
guidelines contained within AFI 10-244 and this supplement. Follow-up to ensure corrective
action has been taken.
AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                             3


2.4.2.1.4. (Added) If requested by Installation or budget allows, conduct ART Staff Assistance
and/or Training Visits to subordinate organizations (main operating bases) to assist ART
monitors ensuring compliance with USAF and AFMC directives. Educate and train primary
Wing level ART OPRs either in person or by alternative means [video teleconference (VTC) or
Defense Connect Online (DCO)]. Make training materials available electronically if funding
availability restricts travel (see paragraph 2.6.1.7.1.). Coordinate any planned visits with the
AFMC ‘Gatekeeper’ and/or HQ AFMC/IGIR/A4R.
2.4.2.1.5. (Added) Considering fiscal climate referenced in 2.4.2.1.4., schedule with each
AFMC Wing level ART OPR a site visit approximately every 48 months. Emphasis to visit each
unit 4-8 months prior to their respective Compliance Inspection should be a planning
consideration. Discussions and training (if presented formally) will address as a minimum:
      System Overview
      AEF Construct/Schedule
      UTC and UTA Data
      ART Reporting Requirements
      Security
      Performing Assessments
      Producing Reports
      Extracting, Analyzing and Presenting data


2.4.2.1.6. (Added) At the direction of the Chief, Operational Plans Division (HQ
AFMC/A3X); extract, analyze, compile, report and formally present a comprehensive readiness
briefing to the AFMC/CC and senior staff. The briefing will represent the readiness status of the
total force (including ART specific metrics). Development of and maintaining trend analysis
data should be a priority to aid in resource allocation decisions. Maintain at least 12 months of
historical data for continuity purposes. Note: HQ AFMC/A3X is OPR for Operational Force
(OF) metrics and HQ AFMC/A1R is OPR for Institutional Force (IF)/MILPERS specific
metrics.
2.4.2.1.7. (Added) Establish and maintain a close working relationship with the AFMC FAM
corps. Provide individualized education and training on effective ART Management oversight
techniques upon request.
2.4.2.1.8. (Added) The Command ART Manager will publish the ART Management Battle
Rhythm calendar annually (NLT 31 Dec of each calendar year) and distribute to all AFMC
FAMs, Wing level ART OPRs and IDOs. Center, Complex and Wing POCs will disseminate to
subordinate organizations responsible for ART reporting.
2.5.2. HQ AFMC/A3X is appointed the AFMC OFAMO and is responsible for resolving UTC
posturing disputes IAW AFI 10-401 and AFMC Supplement.
2.6.1.1. HQ AFMC/A3X will post training materials to an Enterprise Information Management
(EIM)                           site,                    currently                      @
https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/A3X/aefsupport/A3X%20Published%20Docu
ments/Forms/AllItems.aspx Newly appointed Wing level ART OPRs will review all posted
training materials and acknowledge compliance and understanding to Command ART Manager
via email message within 30 days of appointment. Wing level ART OPRs are encouraged to use
 4                                               AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012


the training materials as a baseline to develop their own installation ART training program. See
paragraphs 2.4.2.1.4. and 2.4.2.1.5. of this supplement for additional training criteria.
2.6.1.7. (Added) ART is an assessment tool for MISCAP supportability only. UTC posturing
will be analyzed using database extracts from UTA. Additionally, HQ AFMC is responsible for
the following:
2.6.1.7.1. (Added) HQ AFMC FAMs will serve as their respective Directorate/Functional/A-
staff ART POC. FAMs are responsible for:
2.6.1.7.1.1. (Added) Assisting HQ AFMC/A3X with reviewing and assessing adequacy and
validity of remarks; contacting units to correct any identified discrepancies.
2.6.1.7.1.2. (Added) Ensuring their respective UTCs within the ART database are updated by
their units’ on-time and accurately IAW AFI 10-244 and this supplement.
2.6.1.7.1.3. (Added) Providing HQ AFMC/A3X with any UTC re-posturing actions (additions,
deletions and modifications) IAW UTC posturing guidance published in AFI 10-401, Air Force
Operations Planning and Execution, the AFMC Supplement to 10-401 and this Supplement to
maintain currency of UTA. Standard UTCs in UTA populate the ART database. If re-posturing
actions are required changes may only be made IAW the AFMC ART Management Battle
Rhythm calendar to ensure unit reporting is not impacted. Any UTCs assessed as Incorrectly
Postured (IP) will be resolved prior to the next months reporting cycle. FAMs are responsible
for validating any IP UTCs for their functional area and providing direction to HQ AFMC/A3X
as to what action is required to rectify.
2.6.1.7.1.4. (Added) Acknowledging and/or responding to all unit requests for UTC
corrections (such as Incorrectly Postured, P-code change, etc.) within 5 business days of receipt
of electronic mail. Provide HQ AFMC/A3X of a UTA change and inform affected unit when
UTA will be updated and changes will be reflected in ART.
2.6.1.7.1.5. (Added) Reviewing current UTC readiness and tasking assessments in ART for
supportability prior to accomplishing MAJCOM verifications IAW AFI 10-401 and AFMC
supplement timelines for operational forces that have been sourced for deployment tasking.
2.6.1.7.1.6. (Added) Ensuring their directors are periodically briefed on the ART status of
forces under their purview. As required, pre-brief or prepare their directors as to the content of
(and any functional area unique issues with) the data contained within the briefing(s) that will be
presented to the AFMC Commander.
2.6.1.7.1.7. (Added) HQ AFMC/A3X will monitor and provide feedback/guidance to FAMs if
required on all functional area unique CC remarks within ART, e.g. gender, security clearance,
SEI to ensure remarks are concise and readiness related. Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) information will not be entered in ART. The ART database cannot
be used as a personnel information data repository.
2.6.3.1. Wings, Wing Equivalents and/or specialized units with Operational Force units (e.g. 635
SCOG, 735 SCOG, etc.) will appoint primary and alternate Wing level ART OPRs; the
appointment letter will be signed by the CC/CV or Director equivalent (Col/GS-15). Signed
memorandums will be submitted to the Command ART Manager via email (scanned
attachment), fax, or mail. Letter will include name, rank/grade, security clearance, organization,
UIC, commercial phone #, DSN, classified (SIPR/GCCS) and unclassified (NIPR) e-mail
AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                            5


addresses. Wing level ART OPRs will be granted ART Subordinate Administrator role and will
be the primary focal point and person(s) responsible for ART Management of AFMC assets for
their installation to include subordinate and/or geographically separated units (GSUs). Use
Attachment 5 of this supplement for appointment letter format.
2.6.3.6. (Added) Wing level ART OPRs will monitor ART for late or not-reported (NR) UTCs
and direct the applicable unit level monitor/approver to complete readiness and tasking
assessments within established timelines. Follow up to ensure compliance.
2.6.3.7. (Added) Wing level ART OPRs will check ART for pending Role requests.
Subordinate administrators will grant roles for subordinate unit level UICs of requesting unit
monitors/approvers.
2.6.3.8. (Added) The AFMC Wing level ART OPR will ensure all AFMC installation unit
ART monitors/approvers/UDMs are properly trained in the use of ART. They will also
document when the training was received and maintain a training record of such for all current
unit monitors/approvers. As a minimum, training will address: System Overview, ART
Reporting Requirements, Security, Performing Assessments, Producing Reports and Extracting,
Analyzing and Presenting data (at the Unit Commander level). Newly assigned unit
monitors/approvers will receive training within 30 days of appointment. Recommended method
of training presentation is through a combination of interactive lecture and hands-on training
within the ART application. Training materials will be made available to non-AFMC tenant unit
personnel.
2.6.3.9. (Added) Wing level ART OPR will retain monthly ART reports for a minimum of 12
months either electronically or hard copy. Historical assessment data/reports will be made
available upon request.
2.6.3.10. (Added) The AFMC host base Wing level ART OPR will maintain a continuity
binder. It should address as a minimum: local requirements to identify wing agencies
responsible for assisting units with ART training and reporting; primary and alternate locations
to perform ART reporting, senior leader readiness briefing expectations to include ART metrics,
scope, frequency and intended audience; and identify any necessary steps to maintain continuity
during personnel turnovers (see 2.6.3.10.1. for minimum continuity binder requirements). Wing
commanders will establish local procedures to review individual or summary reports/briefings
for all units under their command subject to deployment. Continuity binders should be initially
established within 180 days of the publish date of this document.
2.6.3.10.1. (Added) The following outline will be used as a baseline for preparing the wing
ART continuity binder:
2.6.3.10.1.1. (Added) Written Guidance: Specify regulatory guidance that must be available at
each ART reporting unit.
2.6.3.10.1.2. (Added) Responsibilities: Clearly specify responsibilities for individuals (wing
commander, unit commander, section chiefs, etc.) involved in preparing and ensuring the
accuracy and currency of unit ART reports.
2.6.3.10.1.3. (Added) Distribution, Continuity and Reporting Requirements: Describe all
locally devised forms that must be used, if any, by local reporting units for gathering data.
Identify file plan retention policies, i.e. location and term for maintaining unit ART reports.
 6                                             AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012


Briefing new or incoming commanders on the unit’s historical readiness data highlighting any
deficiencies is recommended.
2.6.3.10.1.4. (Added) Training: Specify training requirements for ART POCs identifying
mandatory criteria and time schedules.
2.6.3.10.1.5. (Added) Data Reporting Procedures:             Include step-by-step procedures
accomplished in compiling and submitting ART reports. Address who, when and where.
Identify a backup reporting location in the event secure infrastructure (SIPR/GCCS) is
temporarily unavailable. Recommend the responsibility to perform ART reporting be delegated
to the lowest level (i.e. the unit ART POC/monitor/approver). Suggest wings make every effort
possible to provide SIPRNET/GCCS access to unit ART POCs so that units can perform their
own assessments directly into the ART application at their primary duty location. Unit level
ART monitors and approvers must establish and maintain AEF Online account (including
appointed ART role) and physically perform ART assessments within the application. Only in
emergency situations will Logistics Plans personnel and/or Wing level ART OPRs perform
readiness and tasking assessments or approve UTCs on behalf of subordinate organizations. For
AFMC geographically separated units (GSU) or AFMC tenants on non-AFMC installations that
have no access to secure infrastructure; ART reporting will be accomplished via chain of
command, i.e. the next organization above the unit will perform ART reporting on their behalf.
AFMC GSUs/tenant units will make every effort to perform ART reporting for their own
respective commanders, they should contact their non-AFMC host installation Logistics Plans
office or Command Post for access to secure infrastructure.
2.6.3.10.1.6. (Added) Periodic Status Updates: Wing commanders will establish procedures to
review individual or summary of reports for all units. Wing level ART OPRs will collect and
compile unit reports into a suitable format for Wing Commander and senior staff
review/presentation.
2.6.3.10.1.7. (Added) Key Personnel Rosters: Wing level ART OPRs will maintain a listing of
all wing and unit level ART POCs. Unit ART accounts will not be approved by the Subordinate
Administrator until a unit ART appointment letter has been submitted. In addition, maintain a
consolidated listing of unit ART monitors/approvers and approved unit ART accounts and copies
of current appointment letters, with unit commander signature, for all unit ART
monitors/approvers. At a minimum, wing ART POC listings are required to be reviewed
quarterly for accuracy/currency. Unit ART Monitors that no longer require write access to the
ART application will be deleted from the system by the Subordinate Administrator.
2.6.3.11. (Added) Wing level ART OPRs will disseminate correspondence of interest (i.e.,
ART policy messages, program/system status updates, upcoming/ongoing activities, items of
interest) to unit commanders and unit ART POCs, as appropriate, in a timely manner to ensure
prompt response to HHQ requirements/requests.
2.6.3.12. (Added) Wing level ART OPRs will establish an ART Staff Assistance Visit (SAV)
program for all AFMC subordinate operational force units as follows:
2.6.3.12.1. (Added) Develop and distribute a SAV schedule. Unit level ART staff assistance
visits (SAV) will be conducted at least once every two years for all assigned subordinate units.
For AFMC subordinate GSUs, conduct SAV via electronic file interaction, e.g. type written
question and answer (Q&A) session or by telephone, video teleconference (VTC) or Defense
AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                         7


Connect Online (DCO). Considering responsible fiscal stewardship, incurring travel costs to
conduct SAVs on GSUs should only be accomplished as an alternative option to those mentioned
previously. In conjunction with SAV, provide an overview of unit commander, assigned unit
ART monitor/approver responsibilities and ART program status.
2.6.3.12.2. (Added) Staff the SAV results (observations, findings, and recommendations) by
memorandum to the unit commander and the Unit ART monitor with information copies to
respective Group commander.
2.6.3.12.3. (Added) Ensure unit monitors staff replies to SAV results through the unit
commander to the Wing level ART OPR’s office. Ensure observations and findings are suspense
and tracked until closed.
2.6.3.12.4. (Added) As a minimum, maintain the most current completed SAV results.
2.6.3.13. (Added) See paragraph 2.4.2.1.5. for minimum training expectations.
2.6.4.2.1. (Added) Unit Commanders will designate in writing a primary and alternate unit
ART POC (monitor/approver). Submit a copy of the commander signed letter to the Wing level
ART OPR. Letter must include name, grade, security clearance, office symbol, UICs responsible
for, DSN/commercial phone, secure (GCCS/SIPR) and non secure e-mail addresses.
2.6.4.7.1. (Added) Contact your Wing level ART               OPR    or   HQ     AFMC/A3XO
(afmc.aef.support@wpafb.af.mil) for a current FAM roster.
2.6.4.8. (Added) Unit ART offices (Sq monitors/approvers) will be responsive to the Wing
level ART OPR, who will act as liaison between unit level OPRs and HQ AFMC/A3X. Unit
ART monitors do not have direct liaison authorized (DIRLAUTH) with the Directorate of AEF
Operations (AFPC/DPW) or HQ USAF/A3O. Direct all inquiries through the Wing level ART
OPR, your respective FAM or the Command ART Manager for resolution. See paragraph
2.3.1.1 for additional information.
3.4.7.5. (Added) Reporting Medical deficiencies. All AFMC ART reporting units will use the
following Assignment Availability Codes/Assignment Limitation Codes listed in Table 3.1.
(Added AFMC) when reporting medical issues (see notes below). The profile designation must
be provided by the medical treatment facility. Do not include the Code Definition within ART.
 8                                             AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012



Table 3.1 (Added) Assignment Availability Codes (AACs)/Assignment Limitation Codes
(ALCs) and Definitions

          AAC/ALC               Code Definition
                                Medical Condition Expected to Resolve within 12 months -
               31
                                medical evaluation board is not expected
               81               Pregnancy
                                Medical Evaluation Board pending. Member is undergoing
                                MEB to determine medical fitness for duty and retention. No
               37
                                PCS, deployment or Mobility assignment until disposition is
                                determined.
                                Member has been found fit and was returned to duty with the
                                following restrictions: Member may be assigned or deployed
  C1 (ALC-C1, MPF Code X)
                                only to DoD installations with fixed medical facilities.
                                Member may be assigned to a mobility position.
                                Member has been found fit and was returned to duty with the
                                following restrictions: Member may be assigned or deployed
                                to CONUS, Hawaii or Alaska installations with fixed medical
  C2 (ALC-C2, MPF Code Y)
                                facilities and treatment or referral capability. Member should
                                not occupy mobility position but may be deployed with
                                approval of gaining MAJCOM Chief Clinical Services
  C3 (ALC-C3, MPF Code C) Not worldwide qualified
 Note 1: The AAC codes are available from at least two separate sources at your installations;
 the Preventative Health Assessment and Individual Medical Readiness (PIMR) program
 administrator or the FSS/IPR/MPF.
 Note 2: Additional information is identified in AFI 10-203, DUTY LIMITING CONDITIONS
 or AFI 48-123 MEDICAL EXAMAINATIONS AND STANDARDS


3.4.7.5.1. (Added) Identifying Individual Deploy-to-Dwell deficiencies (DAV 81). Do not
use a DAV 81 as the sole reason to degrade a UTC's readiness assessment to Red. For readiness
assessment reporting purposes, it is assumed that a member's DAV 81 will expire prior to their
next scheduled rotation. Based solely upon a DAV 81, a UTC may be assessed as Yellow, but
never as Red. If a DAV 81 is used for a UTC degraded assessment the GWD needs to be
verified with the days of actual deployed days in the AOR. A commander's option remains to
degrade a UTC readiness assessment based upon other contributing deficiencies/factors.
3.8. All AFMC units will perform ART reporting (completing both readiness and tasking
assessments) during the first 10 calendar days of each month, and not to exceed 31 calendar days
since the last assessment.
AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                             9



3.8.4. (Added) Compliance: On the first duty day following the 10th calendar day of each
month, HQ AFMC/A3X will extract the command’s contents of the ART database using the
application’s report function. A unit will be considered non-compliant if their UTCs do not have
current readiness assessment (LAST UPDT Readiness) date time stamps of 1 – 10 of the current
reporting month and will be identified as such to the AFMC/CC during the Status of AEF Forces
briefing.



                                            WILLIAM J. THORNTON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Director, Air, Space, and Information Operations
 10                                       AFI10-244_AFMCSUP 6 SEPTEMBER 2012


                              Attachment 5 (Added)
                       APPOINTMENT LETTER EXAMPLE

Figure A5.1. Appointment Letter Example
