BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-418
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        15 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                 SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                          1 NOVEMBER 2012
                                                             Certified Current on 6 March 2013
                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                               OPERATIONS SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A3TV                                                          Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                     (Col James W. Crowhurst)
                                                                                      Pages: 38
Supersedes:AFI11-418, 21 October 2005
                              (SPANGDAHLEMAB)
OPR: 52 OG/OGV                                                          Certified by: 52 OG/CC
                                                                          (Col David B. Lyons)
                                                                                         Pages:9
Supersedes: AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP,
            27 August 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service. It establishes the responsibilities,
requirements, procedures and training for the supervision of flying operations. This instruction
applies to all flying units, including those operating Unmanned Air Systems (UAS), of Air
Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Air Education Training
Command (AETC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), Combat Air Forces (CAF) units within United
States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), and CAF units within Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC). This instruction applies to all Air National Guard (ANG) units with ACC, PACAF, and
AETC oversight. With the exception of Chapter 7 and Attachment 4, Conference Hotel
Procedures, this instruction does not apply to Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), Air
Force Material Command (AFMC), Mobility Air Forces (MAF) units within AFRC, MAF units
within USAFE, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), and the United States Air
Force (USAF) Aerial Demonstration Team (Thunderbirds). These units will follow Conference
Hotel Procedures when judged necessary for safety of flight. This instruction does not apply to
 2                                       AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


Air Mobility Command (AMC). Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is not required to comply with this
instruction.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Recommendations for improvements
to this volume will be submitted on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to the parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval. Parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval will forward
approved recommendations to lead command OPR (ACC Standardization Branch:
ACCDOTVSRTB@langley.af.mil). This instruction requires units to issue supplements. The
requirement is discussed throughout the instruction and in detail at Chapter 8.

AF/A3/5 is the approval authority for interim changes to this instruction.

(SPANGDAHLEMAB) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-418, Operations Supervision, 15
September 2011, is supplemented as follows: This supplement sets out policies and procedures
relating to the Operations Supervision (Ops Sup) program at Spangdahlem Air Base (AB) and
applies to all units assigned to the 52d Fighter Wing (52 FW). Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with (IAW) the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule                                 located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is updated to reflect changes in guidance, administration, and procedures
dealing with Operations Supervision. The major changes include OG/CC will determine
Supervisor of Flying (SOF) requirements for C2ISR units, types of operations were reduced and
revised, minimum flying unit supervision requirements table and notes were reduced and revised,
updated Squadron Duty Officer (SDO) requirements for USAFE units, incorporated additional
information for AFGSC helicopter units, SOF maximum duty day, and CONFERENCE HOTEL
information heavily revised in attachment 4.Major changes include administrative changes and
updated CONFERENCE HOTEL information in attachment 4.

(SPANGDAHLEMAB) Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring applicable
personnel are familiar with and comply with the provisions of this publication. The 52d
Operations Group Commander (52 OG/CC) is the waiver authority for all items in this
instruction.


       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       2.      Functions: ...............................................................................................................    3
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                                                 3


      3.        Operations. .............................................................................................................     4
Table 1.        Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements. ................................................                                5
      4.        Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................       6
      5.        Handling of In-Flight Emergencies: ......................................................................                    10
      6.        SOF Guidance. .......................................................................................................        11
      7.        CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. ...................................................................                             18
      8.        Unit Supplement. ...................................................................................................         19
      9.        Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. ............                                           19
      10.       Waivers. .................................................................................................................   20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               21

Attachment 1—(SPANGDAHLEMAB) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND
             SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                                          24

Attachment 2—SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST                                                                                              25

Attachment 3—SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE                                                                                            27

Attachment 4—CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES                                                                                                     28


1. General.
   1.1. The basic supervision structure for flying operations consists of the Operations Group
   Commander (OG/CC), the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) and the squadron supervisors, i.e.,
   Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup, also referred to as Top 3).
   1.2. The chain of supervision begins with the OG/CC, through the SOF, down to the
   individual squadron supervisors. The requirements for each position are specified in para 3.
   Specific duties and responsibilities are defined throughout this instruction.
   1.3. For the purpose of this instruction ―
                                            experienced‖ is used in accordance with (IAW) the
   definition provided in the Mission Design Series (MDS) specific AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1.
      1.3.1. For the purposes of this instruction only, aircrews are also considered
      ―experienced‖ when previously rated ―   experienced‖ in another MDS or previously rated
      ―experienced‖ in a different crew position in the same MDS. These individuals must then
      be selected by the Squadron CC and approved by the OG/CC for operations supervision
      responsibilities.
      1.3.2. Where no definition is provided, ―
                                              experienced‖ will be determined by the unit
      squadron commander and approved by OG/CC.
2. Functions:
   2.1. SOF. When on duty, the SOF is a group-level position and is the direct representative of
   the OG/CC. The SOF is the focal point for command and control of flight operations. OG/CC
   decision authority is delegated to this position to accomplish the mission.
 4                              AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


        2.1.1. SOF is not required for rescue/weather/electronic attack/airlift/air refueling/special
        operations/deployed U-2 Ops. (For C2ISR, the OG/CC will determine if a SOF program
        is required. If a program is established this Instruction applies. At a minimum, C2ISR
        units will establish an Ops Sup/Top 3 program.)
        2.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The Supervisor of Flying (SOF) upgrade
        program will be outlined on the 52 OG Standardization and Evaluation (52 OG/OGV)
        USAFE Information Collaborative Environment (ICE) page.
            2.1.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Certification will be annotated on the
            Squadron Aircrew Certification Letter of Xs (LOX) as a SOF, and the completed
            upgrade form will be placed in the individual’s gradebook.
     2.2. Ops Sup/Top 3. The squadron Ops Sup/Top 3 will only be filled by the following
     individuals: the squadron commander, the squadron operations officer, assistant operations
     officer(s), flight commanders, or other individuals deemed qualified by the squadron
     commander and approved by the OG/CC. ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or Air Operations Officer
     (AOO) will determine requirements for Ops Sup and will determine the appropriate
     personnel to fill the Ops Sup position. ANG/AFRC may combine SOF and Ops Sup duties.
        2.2.1. Squadron commander and operations officer decision authority may be delegated
        to this position to make operations-related decisions and recommendations.
        2.2.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Ops Sup upgrade program will be outlined on
        the 52 OG/OGV United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) ICE page. Minimum
        upgrade entry requirements are at least 60 days on station and a current mission AF Form
        8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification.
            2.2.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Certification will be annotated on the LOX
            as an Ops Sup, and the completed upgrade form will be placed in the individual’s
            gradebook.
        2.2.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) For deployment, contingency, or split
        operations, units may use current and qualified attached pilots as Ops Sups at the
        deployed location upon nomination by the squadron or detachment commander and
        approval by the 52 OG/CC.
        2.2.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The 52 FW will not carry individuals as Stand-
        by Duty Officers (SDO). In instances where an SDO is the highest level of Ops Sup
        required IAW AFI 11-418, Table 1, any qualified Ops Sup will fill the position.
3. Operations. This section identifies the minimum flying unit supervisory requirements
depending on types of operations involved. (Additional requirements can be defined in the unit
supplement).
     3.1. Types of Operations. The definitions for types of operations that are used in Table 1
     are:
        3.1.1. Daily Flying Operations. Normal or surge operations at the unit's home station
        (this does not include other types of operations defined below).
        3.1.2. On-Going Off Station Sorties. Missions/sorties that do not takeoff or land at
        home station.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 5


       3.1.3. Deployed Operations. Flight operations away from home station that are part of
       a deployment, exercise or contingency.
       3.1.4. Scrambles. Aircraft launched on a scramble order from an alert posture.
   3.2. Minimum Supervision Requirements. These are outlined in Table 1 for each type of
   operation.
       3.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) A SOF will be scheduled for all flying
       operations. IAW Table 1, for reduced flying operations by only one fighter Mission
       Design Series (MDS) and under conditions not requiring a weather alternate, only an Ops
       Sup is required. The Ops Sup need not be SOF qualified, but will notify the OG in the
       event of an aircraft emergency or other significant event. SOFs will receive OG approval
       prior to release from supervisory duties.
       3.2.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Local Functional Check Flights require a SOF in
       the primary duty location (unless the primary location is unable to be utilized in which
       case the SOF will use the next available alternate location).
   3.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Procedures for deployed units to integrate into the 52
   OG Ops Sup structure.
       3.3.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) When deployed units (that require a SOF or Ops
       Sup (or equivalent) to maintain operational supervisory oversight of their daily
       operations) are conducting the only flying at Spangdahlem AB, the appropriate level of
       supervision from those units will assume both the SOF and Ops Sup duties.
       3.3.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) When deployed units are flying during 52 OG
       operations, the 52 FW will provide the SOF; however, the deployed unit will establish an
       Ops Sup or equivalent.
       3.3.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Deployed units conducting operations from
       Spangdahlem AB will ensure the unit Ops Sup has a set of applicable publications readily
       available (to include any unique regulations/instructions and Technical Orders (TO) (or
       equivalent)).

Table 1. Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements.

      Type of Operation                 SOF Location                    Ops Sup Location
                                                                Squadron 1
                                                                (Active Duty/AFRC)
Daily Flying Operations:        Duty Location 1                             3
                                                                Available
                                                                (ANG)
                                                                            3
On-Going Off-Station Sorties    N/R                             Available
Deployed Operations 2           As Required                     As Required
                                                                N/R
                                                                (Active Duty/AFRC)
Scrambles                       N/R
                                                                Available 3
                                                                (ANG)
 6                                AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


Notes:
1. The SOF and Ops Sup may leave the unit operations complex (as defined by the unit supplement to
   this instruction) after aircraft depart the local area, workload permitting and will be immediately
   available by telephone, pager, radio or intercom. The SOF and Ops Sup will be at their duty locations
   45 minutes prior to the estimated time of arrival of unit aircraft. For reduced flying operations
   (defined as 4 or less fighter aircraft or 2 or less of the same type of non-fighter aircraft), the OG/CC
   may determine if a SOF is required.

2. For deployed operations, the detachment commander will coordinate with host base Operations
   Group for supervision requirements. This may involve integrating into the host base SOF and/or Ops
   Sup program.

3. Must be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio, or intercom. (USAFE: Ops Sup for on-
   going off station sorties can be filled by an experienced aircrew member (SDO) as defined in the unit
   supplement.)

4. Responsibilities: Note: For the purposes of this instruction, the terms ―  operations group
commander‖ (OG/CC), ―      squadron commander‖ (SQ/CC), and ― director of operations‖ (SQ/DO)
also refer to their designated representatives.
     4.1. OG/CC (ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or AOO) will:
        4.1.1. Be responsible for the implementation, direction and execution of the Operations
        Supervision program.
        4.1.2. Be immediately available to the SOF or Ops Sup/Top 3 (if no SOF is either
        available or required based on the type of operation) for consultation during daily flying
        operations.
        4.1.3. Ensure tenant flying units use host/tenant memorandum of agreement
        (MOA)/letter of agreement (LOA) to avoid duplication of effort.
        4.1.4. Be the final approval authority for unit supplement to this instruction.
     4.2. SQ/CC (or equivalent) and/or SQ/DO will:
        4.2.1. Ensure a SOF/Ops Sup is on duty when required by Table 1
        4.2.2. Be available to the Ops Sup/Top 3 for consultation during flying operations.
     4.3. SOF will:
        4.3.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the OG/CC.
            4.3.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The opening SOF checklist will be
            maintained on the 52 OG/OGV ICE page.
            4.3.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) To start the SOF opening checklist, report
            to Airfield Management Operations (AM Ops) a minimum of 1 hour and 30 minutes
            prior to the first scheduled takeoff time. The time will be increased to 1 hour and 45
            minutes if an alternate or extreme weather such as ice or snow is present or
            forecasted.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 7


       4.3.1.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Receive an airfield status briefing and SOF
       truck keys from AM Ops. Also, confirm that the airfield inspection has been
       completed prior to aircraft taxiing.
       4.3.1.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Receive a face-to-face weather briefing
       from 52 Operations Support Squadron Weather Flight (52 OSS/OSW).
       4.3.1.5. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Start and inspect the SOF vehicle. Obtain a
       radio check with tower or base operations from within the vehicle. Inspect airfield to
       determine the status of the parking trees, hardstands, taxiways, runway, and check for
       foreign objects.
       4.3.1.6. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Be in position no later than 1 hour and 20
       minutes prior to the first scheduled takeoff time.
       4.3.1.7. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Signing the SOF Tour                         Report    is
       acknowledgment that the SOF has read and complied with all read files.
           4.3.1.7.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Reference the most current 52 FW
           Flight Crew Information File in Patriot Excalibur (PEX) and SOF Read File on
           the 52 OG/OGV ICE page.
    4.3.2. Be responsible to the OG/CC for monitoring and supervising all phases of unit
    flying operations and will provide guidance, advice, assistance and recommendations to
    aircrews, unit supervisors (i.e. Ops Sup/Top 3), C2 personnel, and/or other supporting
    agencies (as required) regarding the safe and efficient conduct of flight operations.
       4.3.2.1. Ensure that in-flight emergency (IFE) recovery plans and weather related
       mission changes reflect sound airmanship, follow AFI and technical order (TO)
       guidance, and adhere to sound ORM principles (i.e. does it make sense?).
    4.3.3. Direct appropriate actions, on behalf of the OG/CC, to correct/prevent unsafe
    situations. This includes the use of any and all resources to include radios, FM nets,
    telephone hot lines and all wing-flying operations on the ground or in the air.
       4.3.3.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) During flying operations SOFs will
       monitor the SABER NET and be available via the standard phone line and hot line
       phone to the 52 OG/CC (or designated representative) and the 52 FW Command Post
       (52 FW/CP).
    4.3.4. Prior to the first launch, ensure the airfield/heliport status is suitable for safe
    operations IAW Air Force, major command (MAJCOM) and local directives.
    4.3.5. During an emergency or an abnormal situation, provide aircrews with guidance,
    timely advice and assistance to determine a correct course of action.
    4.3.6. Be in a position to visually monitor the final approach and landing of IFE aircraft.
    If unable, the SOF will direct another highly qualified aircrew member to be in position
    to monitor the landing and provide needed assistance or guidance. (ANG/AFRC: Not
    required.)
       4.3.6.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The SOF will check all arrival aircraft with
       binoculars for proper gear and flap configurations to the maximum extent practical.
8                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


    4.3.7. Monitor the status of primary and emergency airfields/heliport and inform
    aircrews of changes that may affect flight operations.
       4.3.7.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Anytime the airfield status changes to a
       worse condition (i.e. patterns close or if the field requires an alternate), the SOF is
       responsible to ensure 100 percent contact with 52 FW airborne aircraft and the 52
       OG/CC.
    4.3.8. When deteriorating weather conditions affect flying operations, coordinate with
    wing agencies and utilize all available resources (i.e., weather, radar, tower personnel,
    pilot reports, etc.) to determine the best course of action for wing aircraft. The SOF will
    determine suitable weather alternates and inform the OG/CC accordingly.
       4.3.8.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Time and situation permitting, the SOF
       will inform the 52 OG/CC of intentions prior to divert/recall aircraft or potential
       runway closure. If conditions due not permit prior 52 OG/CC notification, the SOF
       will inform the 52 OG/CC as soon as possible after implementing the divert/recall
       procedures or runway closure procedures. The SOF will also inform the squadron
       Ops Sups and the 52 FW/CP.
    4.3.9. Coordinate with the air traffic control (ATC) watch supervisor or senior controller
    for runway changes as needed.
    4.3.10. Prepare a daily log to aid in tracking operations and major events. For units that
    do not use a SOF, this log will be filled out by the Ops Sup/Top 3 IAW paragraph 4.4.8.
    Log format and content will be defined by unit supplement.
       4.3.10.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Discrepancies should be documented in
       the appropriate section of the SOF Tour Report and communicated to 52 OG/OGV.
           4.3.10.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) All communication equipment
           discrepancies will be reported to the Tower Watch Supervisor. Record all job
           control/work order numbers in the SOF daily report. Supply shortages should be
           coordinated with the oncoming SOF or 52 OG/OGV.
       4.3.10.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) If any omissions or errors are found in the
       SOF checklist, contact the SOF program manager at 452-6181.
    4.3.11. The SOF will debrief the OG/CC of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
    IFE, weather divert or other mission change requiring SOF action or intervention. Ensure
    that the applicable Ops Sup/Top 3 has the necessary information to inform squadron
    leadership.
       4.3.11.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Advise the 52 OG/CC as soon as practical
       of the following:
           4.3.11.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) In-flight emergencies.
           4.3.11.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Significant weather changes.
           4.3.11.1.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Airfield status changes.
           4.3.11.1.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Any unusual events.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                   9


     4.3.12. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Prior to SOF changeover, contact the current
     SOF for pertinent information.
  4.4. Ops Sup/Top 3 will:
     4.4.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO.
     4.4.2. Be immediately available to assist the SOF and aircrew.
        4.4.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Be available to 52 FW command and
        control via phone line and/or phone hot line (if available at the Ops Sup duty
        location). Communication via FM brick is acceptable.
     4.4.3. When the SOF is not qualified in the distressed aircraft or the unit does not require
     a SOF, be the primary source of technical assistance.
     4.4.4. For situations where both the SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 are not qualified to provide
     technical assistance to the type of aircraft airborne, schedule an instructor or experienced
     crewmember to be immediately available for aircraft technical assistance.
     4.4.5. Be responsible for the execution of the daily flying schedule and coordinate any
     mission changes as required (e.g. aircraft tail number changes, crew swaps, flight-plan
     and airspace changes). Note: Mission commanders/flight leads are required to coordinate
     with the Ops Sup/Top 3 prior to the flight brief when intended sortie type, profile,
     airspace, and/or aircraft configuration do not match the approved schedule.
        4.4.5.1. Ensure the SOF is advised of any changes or deviations to the squadron's
        flying schedule.
            4.4.5.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) To the maximum extent possible,
            notification will be prior to stepping any pilots.
        4.4.5.2. Ensure electronic scheduling and tracking systems are updated to include
        changes to and deviations from the daily flying schedule.
        4.4.5.3. Be the primary liaison between Ops and Maintenance during the execution
        of the flying schedule.
     4.4.6. Be assisted by SARM personnel or a Duty Desk Officer (DDO) as required.
     4.4.7. Ensure crews are briefed on the following:
        4.4.7.1. Aircraft/heliport and airfield status and configuration
        4.4.7.2. Scheduled and available airspace
        4.4.7.3. Applicable weather for locations that aircrew are flying
        4.4.7.4. Significant local hazards
        4.4.7.5. Additional items as defined in the unit supplement to this instruction
     4.4.8. Prepare, at squadron commander’s discretion, a daily log to aid in tracking
     operations and major events. Log format and content will be defined by the unit
     supplement.
     4.4.9. Debrief the SQ/CC and/or DO of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
     IFE, weather divert or other significant mission change.
 10                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


      4.4.10. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) To the maximum extent possible, conduct a
      phone briefing with the SOF prior to the first pilot step and no later than the engine start
      of the shift period.
      4.4.11. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Ops Sups will work directly with the 52d
      Communication Squadron Maintenance Job Control Section to correct any radio issues
      within the squadrons.
   4.5. Other Key Wing Personnel:
      4.5.1. Wing (or equivalent) commanders ensure other group commanders support the
      OG/CC when and where needed in order to execute an effective program.
      4.5.2. Mission Support group commanders are responsible for the maintenance, upgrade
      and repair of the applicable SOF facilities and equipment.
      4.5.3. Mission Support group/Logistic Readiness group commanders are responsible for
      maintenance, upgrade and repair of the SOF vehicle.
5. Handling of In-Flight Emergencies:
   5.1. The primary objective during an abnormal/emergency situation is the safe recovery of
   the aircrew and aircraft. When establishing procedures, units will consider:
      5.1.1. Providing a single, discrete frequency for recovering an emergency aircraft. ATC
      and the emergency aircrew should determine when to use a single frequency approach
      (SFA). The SOF will have access to the SFA. The SFA should be available to
      crash/fire/rescue personnel to monitor the recovery.
      5.1.2. Using the command post, or other capable agency, to notify all appropriate
      agencies and key personnel of an IFE and provide situation updates.
      5.1.3. Prioritizing actions during concurrent emergencies/abnormal situations.
      5.1.4. Authorizing direct communications (over discrete SOF or squadron common
      frequency) from the Ops Sup/Top 3 to an IFE aircrew. NOTE: Only ATC personnel may
      authorize direct communication over ATC frequencies, including the SFA frequency.
      However, this does not preclude the SOF and/or Ops Sup/Top 3 from using whatever
      communication necessary, to include GUARD and SFA, to prevent an unsafe situation
      that could immediately jeopardize safe recovery.
      5.1.5. That only the ground on-scene commander, normally the fire chief, can terminate
      an emergency.
      5.1.6. That the final decision during any IFE/abnormal situation rests with the aircraft
      commander. However, SOFs may declare an IFE for any aircraft based on their
      knowledge of the aircraft and the flight and airfield environment.
      5.1.7. Obtaining a chase ship for single ship emergency aircraft if time permits.
      5.1.8. If the SOF is not qualified in or technically knowledgeable of the aircraft with an
      IFE, then directing the Ops Sup/Top 3 or other highly experienced individual to report to
      the SOF's duty location during an abnormal situation/recovery if time permits.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 11


   5.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) During abnormal or emergency situations, the SOF
   will:
      5.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Obtain call sign, aircraft type, tail number,
      nature of emergency, aircraft configuration (live ordnance, chaff/flares, etc.), location,
      intentions (cable engagement, etc.), and estimated time of arrival.
          5.2.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) If unable to communicate with aircrew
          directly, coordinate with Air Traffic Control (ATC) for the relay of messages to
          aircrew to ensure time critical information is passed.
      5.2.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Assist the aircraft commander in any way
      possible.
          5.2.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Utilize the appropriate MDS Ops Sup for
          assistance in recovery of aircraft if an emergency occurs in a different MDS than the
          SOF is qualified. The SOF must remain informed of all decisions and is responsible
          for coordinating all recovery operations. As needed, the SOF may coordinate for the
          appropriate Ops Sup to transmit to the emergency aircraft on the SOF or emergency
          Single Frequency Approach (SFA).
      5.2.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Notify Tower Watch Supervisor as soon as
      possible. As time permits, notify the 52 OG/CC (or designated representative) and
      affected squadron Ops Sup of any emergency situations, accidents, or incidents that are
      reported by an aircraft or agency.
      5.2.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Work closely with the command post to ensure
      all relevant information is passed in a timely manner.
          5.2.4.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Notification should be primarily via
          telephone hotline. The back-up notification method will be via FM radio.
6. SOF Guidance. Unless noted otherwise, this guidance applies to the Ops Sup/Top 3 when a
SOF is either unavailable or not used.
   6.1. SOF/ATC Relationship:
      6.1.1. The separation and sequencing of traffic are the responsibilities of ATC. Unless
      safety is an issue, the SOF will work directly with the watch supervisor. To promote
      effective and efficient flight operations, the SOF may suggest, based on knowledge of the
      flying schedule and unique circumstances of individual missions, actions that affect ATC
      concerns or desires.
      6.1.2. Except in an emergency, the SOF will not transmit over ATC frequencies without
      prior coordination with ATC (this does not apply to dedicated SOF frequencies). All
      radio transmissions to a distressed aircrew, from other than the SOF or ATC, will be
      coordinated through the SOF (this does not apply to the Ops Sup/Top3 if communicating
      to the aircrew via a squadron common frequency).
   6.2. Duty Hours:
      6.2.1. Prior to beginning supervisory duties, the SOF will meet crew rest requirements as
      directed by AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, as supplemented.
12                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


     6.2.2. Maximum duty day for SOF is 16 hours with a limit of 12 hours performing SOF
     duties. The OG/CC is waiver authority and may extend a SOF duty day up to 16 hours
     on a case-by-case basis. (AFGSC Missile Wings: For alert and scramble operations, the
     SOF maximum duty day is 24 hrs as long as alert/sleeping facilities are readily available).
        6.2.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Maximum duty day for SOF is 12 hours
        with a limit of 9 hours performing SOF duties.
        6.2.2.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) SOF tour starts when the SOF reports to
        AM Ops and ends when the last 52 FW aircraft is shutdown.
     6.2.3. The SOF will be at the prescribed duty location IAW Table 1 NLT 30 minutes
     prior to first takeoff in order to complete required duties in paragraph 4.3
        6.2.3.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The opening 52 FW SOF will accomplish
        the items and follow the timeline listed in paragraph 4.3.1.
        6.2.3.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) If a SOF is required but not yet in position,
        local aircraft will not start engine(s) unless approved by the 52 OG/CC (or a
        designated representative).
     6.2.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Ops Sup Duty Day and Crew Rest.
        6.2.4.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Prior to beginning supervisory duties, the
        Ops Sup will meet crew rest requirements as directed by AFI 11-202 Volume 3,
        General Flight Rules, as supplemented.
        6.2.4.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Maximum duty day for Ops Sup is 12
        hours with a limit of 12 hours performing Ops Sup duties.
        6.2.4.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Ops Sup duty day starts when the Ops Sup
        arrives at work and ends when their last assigned aircraft is shutdown.
  6.3. Duty Location:
     6.3.1. Primary Duty Location. The primary duty location for active duty units will be
     in the control tower. (AFGSC Missile Wings: the primary duty location will be
     designated by the OG/CC).
        6.3.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The Ops Sup primary duty location will be
        the Ops desk in the squadron building.
     6.3.2. Alternate Duty Location. The OG/CC will designate alternate duty locations in
     the unit supplement to this instruction. As a minimum, the location must have adequate
     communication equipment and the capability to monitor weather conditions. It is
     desirable to have a SOF duty position from which ground operations, takeoffs, landings
     and local traffic patterns can be observed. The following is a list of recommended
     alternate locations:
     6.3.2. (SPANGDAHLEMAB) The alternate SOF duty positions in order of priority are
     the SOF vehicle (must be in a position to monitor takeoffs and landings and be equipped
     IAW AFI 11-418, paragraph 6.4.3.), the alternate control tower (must coordinate with the
     Tower Watch Supervisor prior to use), and the 52 FW/CP.
        6.3.2.1. The SOF vehicle on the airfield.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 13


        6.3.2.2. The runway monitoring unit (RMU)/runway supervisory unit (RSU).
        6.3.2.3. The unit dispatch desk.
        6.3.2.4. The command post.
     6.3.3. At both the primary and alternate duty locations the SOF will have timely access
     to a SOF vehicle and the airfield environment when required. AFRC: units are not
     required to have a dedicated vehicle for the SOF, but must be provided access to a
     vehicle to perform required duties in a timely manner.
     6.3.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) During exercise operations, the SOF will not
     participate in control tower evacuations or use of chemical warfare gear. Additionally, the
     SOF will remain in the primary or alternate duty location (as applicable).
  6.4. Equipment:
     6.4.1. The following communication equipment must be functional and immediately
     available to the SOF:
        6.4.1.1. A dedicated multi-frequency radio (UHF, VHF and/or HF, as appropriate
        based on supported aircraft capabilities).
            6.4.1.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The SOF will continually monitor the
            designated SOF ultra high frequency and very high frequency radios in the tower,
            as well as SFA. The SFA is an ATC frequency designated as a conduit for local
            ATC and distressed aircrew during emergency recoveries. SOFs will coordinate
            SFA use prior to transmission unless safety of flight is in question.
            6.4.1.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The SOF will use a headset to the
            maximum extent possible.
        6.4.1.2. A telephone (land-line or cellular telephone) or FM radio to contact the
        OG/CC (or designated representative), command post, Ops Sups, weather facility and
        ATC watch supervisors. Dedicated phone lines (hot-lines) are preferred.
     6.4.2. Access to approved weather resources will be available (net-centric data
     dissemination system, etc).
     6.4.3. Units are required to have a dedicated SOF vehicle immediately available to the
     SOF and positioned to respond to emergencies, perform airfield inspections, or other
     official functions. This vehicle must have a flight line clearance and be equipped with a
     multi-channel radio capable of contacting unit aircraft and ATC. Waiver authority for this
     requirement is the Wing Commander or equivalent.
     6.4.4. Locally developed checklists will be available to outline procedures for normal
     and emergency situations that included, as a minimum, the items listed in Attachment 2.
        6.4.4.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Master copies of the checklists will be
        maintained on the 52 OG/OGV ICE page. Operational copies of the checklists will be
        kept in a binder in the primary SOF duty location.
     6.4.5. Dedicated binoculars will be immediately available for SOF use when either in the
     primary or alternate duty location for a clear view of the runway.
14                              AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


        6.4.6. A SOF library will be available (either hard copy or electronic as outlined in the
        unit supplement to this instruction) that includes applicable directives and instructions (to
        include AF, HHQ, and local guidance), aircraft TOs, checklists, in-flight guides, and SOF
        read/information file.
            6.4.6.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Primary SOF publications will be
            referenced from the 52 OG Master FCIF Library (electronic). The secondary
            reference for SOF publications will be the Airfield Automated System (AFAS)
            terminal located at the primary SOF duty location. The following publications will be
            kept in the SOF library as well as in a ― and run‖ kit to be carried to an alternate
                                                    hit
            duty location if needed:
                6.4.6.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) T.O. 1A-10C-1
                6.4.6.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) T.O. 1A-10C-1CL-1
                6.4.6.1.3. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) T.O. 1F-16CM-1
                6.4.6.1.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) T.O. 1F-16CM-1CL-1
                6.4.6.1.5. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) 52 FW In-Flight Guide
                6.4.6.1.6. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) 52 OG/OGV SOF Checklist
                6.4.6.1.7. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Other publications may be added
                with 52 OG/OGV approval.
        6.4.7. If the SOF must reposition to an alternate location, the minimum essential
        equipment outlined in this section will be available at this new location (pre-positioned or
        transported).
     6.5. Certification:
        6.5.1. SOF nominees will be experienced (IAW paragraph 1.3.), rated officers with
        proven maturity, judgment and supervisory ability and must be combat mission ready
        (CMR) or basic mission capable (BMC) in a unit aircraft
            6.5.1.1. Non-CMR (N-CMR)/non-BMC (N-BMC) aircrew members may perform
            SOF duties at the discretion of the OG/CC on the condition that the status must be
            temporary in nature and all SOF currencies must be maintained IAW paragraph 6.7.
        6.5.2. To gain initial certification, all SOFs will complete the SOF upgrade program
        IAW paragraph 6.6.
        6.5.3. SOFs that are currently under a Duties Not Involving Flying (DNIF) status may
        perform SOF duties when specifically cleared by a flight surgeon on an AF Form 1042.
        6.5.4. Loss of SOF certification will occur for any of the following reasons:
            6.5.4.1. PCS or 179/365 day TDYs (unless the individual is performing SOF duties
            and able to retain currency while TDY).
            6.5.4.2. Direct action by the OG/CC through a written statement in the individuals
            training folder and removal from the unit ―
                                                      Letter of Xs‖ or equivalent document. Any
            supervisor may recommend action to the OG/CC for the removal of an individual’s
            SOF certification.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                               15


     6.5.5. The source documents for certifying SOF certifications are the OG/CC-signed
     approval document in the individual’s training folder and the unit ―Letter of Xs‖ or
     equivalent document.
     6.5.6. Units will define who is certified to upgrade other aircrew members to SOF in the
     unit supplement to this instruction.
  6.6. Certification Program:
     6.6.1. Documentation of the unit upgrade program will be described in the unit
     supplement to this instruction, but will, at a minimum, include a signed document by the
     OG/CC kept in the individuals training folder that approves him/her for SOF duties.
     Additionally, upon completion of the upgrade flow, the unit ― Letter of Xs‖ or equivalent
     document will be updated to reflect the SOF certification.
        6.6.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The SOF upgrade worksheet contains
        training requirements and is located on the 52 OG/OGV ICE page. Completed
        documentation will be placed in the grade book.
     6.6.2. Squadron commanders will screen and review (IAW para. 6.5.) all SOF candidates
     before nominating them for entry into the upgrade program.
        6.6.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) All SOF nominees must have at least 60
        days time on station and be qualified as a flight lead in their MDS.
     6.6.3. All SOF candidates will receive an interview and briefing from the OG/CC on
     responsibilities, personal philosophy and expectations. OG/CCs will emphasize the SOFs
     position as a group level supervisor and that decision authority is delegated to the SOF
     position to ensure the safe accomplishment of the mission.
     6.6.4. The SOF upgrade will consist of two supervised tours of two hours each
     (minimum of 4 hours of training time) with a current and experienced SOF, as defined in
     the unit supplement. The tours will be conducted on two different days in order to
     maximize the chances of the upgradee to observe differing wind and weather conditions.
     Upgradees will act as primary SOF on their second upgrade tour. The upgrade tours must
     include the following:
        6.6.4.1. Familiarization with airfield/heliport procedures, primary and alternate duty
        locations, and local support agencies with emphasis on both unit and aircraft-specific
        operating procedures (AF, HHQ, and local), specifically capabilities and limitations.
        6.6.4.2. Operation of all SOF equipment and radios.
        6.6.4.3. Contact procedures for aircraft and support agencies.
        6.6.4.4. A review of publications and directives available to the SOF.
        6.6.4.5. Operation of SOF vehicle (requires a flight line permit/license).
        6.6.4.6. Successful handling of an IFE/PL (actual or simulated).
        6.6.4.7. Procuring/observing weather (to include forecaster duties and priorities)
        information.
        6.6.4.8. Approach/Departure control information.
16                          AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


        6.6.4.9. Tower operations.
        6.6.4.10. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Upgrading SOFs will accomplish one
        opening tour and one closing tour.
            6.6.4.10.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) During the closing tour, a practice
            CONFERENCE HOTEL will be accomplished by calling the hotline number.
     6.6.5. Additionally, prior to being certified as a SOF, upgrades will accomplish the
     following additional training/familiarization items:
        6.6.5.1. Crash/fire/rescue operations.
        6.6.5.2. Explosive ordnance disposal operations.
        6.6.5.3. Airfield Management operations.
        6.6.5.4. Command post operations.
        6.6.5.5. Airfield Drivers License. ANG/AFRC: N/A if a SOF vehicle is either not
        provided or there is not a need to drive on the actual airfield environment.
        6.6.5.6. Performance aspects and general characteristics of all base assigned aircraft.
        6.6.5.7. Accomplish a written examination containing a minimum of 25 questions on
        SOF duties, procedures and responsibilities. Minimum passing grade is 85 percent
        with all missed questions reviewed immediately following grading of the exam.
            6.6.5.7.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) To the maximum extent possible the
            SOF test will be administered by 52 OG/OGV. SOF test questions will be
            derived from 52 OG SOF Master Question File.
     6.6.6. The OG/CC will review upgradee training records and approve each upgradee in
     writing prior to the individual performing SOF duties.
        6.6.6.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Experienced SOFs will be defined as any
        pilot who has been qualified as a 52 FW SOF, completed 10 SOF tours, and certified
        by the 52 OG/CC. Experienced SOFs will be annotated with an ― on the LOX.
                                                                    E‖
     6.6.7. For previously certified SOFs, the OG/CC may waive the upgrade requirements of
     these paragraphs, but at a minimum, the upgradee will perform at least one supervised
     SOF tour with an experienced SOF with emphasis on local procedures. EXCEPTION:
     SOFs who have lost certification due to N-CMR/N-BMC status IAW para. 6.5.1.2, but
     still have currency IAW para. 6.7. In this case, the SQ/CC must ensure that the unit
     ―Letter of Xs‖ or equivalent document is updated appropriately before the individual
     performs SOF duties.
     6.6.7. (SPANGDAHLEMAB) 1 (Added) For previously certified SOFs, only an
     opening tour need be performed with a SOF from a different MDS.
 6.7. Currency/Recurrency.
  6.7. (SPANGDAHLEMAB) Deployed SOF training will be accomplished IAW deployed
  unit’s local guidance and retained by deployed unit training monitor.
     6.7.1. SOF currency is 90 days. ANG/AFRC: 180 days (AETC ANG/Reserve
     Associate Instructor Pilots: 90 days).
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 17


     6.7.1. (SPANGDAHLEMAB) If a 52 FW unit intends to enter a pilot who is not a
     current Spangdahlem AB SOF into an off-station SOF checkout program, in addition to
     the deployed location’s requirements, the following must be accomplished:
        6.7.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Obtain 52 OG/CC approval prior to
        program entry.
        6.7.1.2. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Upon return to Spangdahlem                          AB,
        subsequent SOF upgrade training will be based on previous SOF qualification.
     6.7.2. Individual squadrons will track SOF currencies (Aviation Resource Management
     System [ARMS] preferred).
        6.7.2.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) The SOF currency will be tracked in PEX.
     6.7.3. To regain currency, as a minimum, accomplish a 1-hour supervised tour with a
     current and certified SOF.
  6.8. Continuation Training (CT):
     6.8.1. At a minimum SOF CT will involve semi-annual SOF meetings attended by all
     certified SOFs (highly encouraged for Ops Sups/Top 3s). OG/CCs will be involved in
     developing meeting agendas. If unable to attend, SOFs will review meeting minutes that
     will be posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
        6.8.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Additionally, Squadron Ops Sups, 52 FW
        Flight Safety, and AM Ops Flight Commander are required to attend the meeting (if
        unable to attend, they will review meeting minutes):
     6.8.2. Annually, all SOFs are required to review applicable SOF guidance and directives
     as published in this instruction, unit supplement, and the SOF readfile. Additionally all
     SOFs will receive a briefing from the OG/CC on responsibilities, expectations and
     commander perspective (this briefing may be held as part of a semi-annual meeting). If
     unable to attend the OG/CC briefing, SOFs will review briefing minutes that will be
     posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
  6.9. Program Administration:
     6.9.1. The OG/CC will designate an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the
     administration of the program.
        6.9.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) 52 OG/OGV is the 52 FW OPR for the
        Ops Sup and SOF programs.
     6.9.2. The OPR will:
        6.9.2.1. Develop and administer the SOF initial training program.
        6.9.2.2. Develop and administer the SOF certification test. This is a controlled test of
        at least 25 questions that will be updated and reviewed annually.
        6.9.2.3. If not retained by the squadron in individual training folders, the OPR will
        retain all original initial certification and continuation training records until the
        individual PCSs to their next assignment.
 18                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


          6.9.2.4. Establish standardized procedures throughout the unit for monitoring SOF
          currencies and continuation training requirements (ARMS preferred).
          6.9.2.5. Schedule and give semi-annual SOF meetings.
          6.9.2.6. Post SOF meeting minutes in the SOF readfile within one week of the
          meeting.
          6.9.2.7. Develop normal and emergency SOF checklists and review/update annually
          (reference Attachment 2).
          6.9.2.8. Update the SOF library publications as required (reference para. 6.4.6.).
          6.9.2.9. Develop the unit supplement to this instruction.
          6.9.2.10. Work with all necessary base agencies to ensure SOF equipment is
          maintained in operating condition and is adequate for mission accomplishment.
          6.9.2.11. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Procedures for use, review,                          and
          maintenance of SOF read files are outlined on the 52 OG/OGV ICE page.
          6.9.2.12. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Accomplish supplementary evaluations of
          the Ops Sup program IAW AFI 11-20V2_ USAFE Supplement, Aircrew
          Standardization/Evaluation.
7. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. These procedures make aircraft specialists
accessible to the SOF or Ops Sup and aircrew when in-flight situations pose systems-related
questions that cannot be answered at the local level. See Attachment 4 for MDS-specific
procedures.
   7.1. Lead MAJCOMs are responsible for keeping CONFERENCE HOTEL information
   updated. As a minimum, information will be checked annually and updated as required.
   When notified that CONFERENCE HOTEL information has changed, Lead MAJCOM must
   submit the change to ACC/A3TV within 48 hours.
   7.2. Units that experience problems with CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures will report
   problems through stan/eval channels to their MAJCOM stan/eval function. The MAJCOM
   stan/eval function will ensure the Lead MAJCOM is informed so that CONFERENCE
   HOTEL information can be updated.
   7.3. If units discover updated CONFERENCE HOTEL contact information different from
   the information in this guidance, they will immediately verify the corrected information and
   forward it via email through NAF/MAJCOM stan/eval channels to ACC/A3TV (no AF Form
   847 required).
   7.4. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) If a CONFERENCE HOTEL call is required, use the
   452-6233 line if able (for SOF), or an appropriate squadron telephone line (Ops Sup).
      7.4.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Further CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures
      will be maintained in the SOF library (to include any ― and run‖ kits for alternate duty
                                                            hit
      locations) as well as at the squadron’s primary Ops Sup duty location. Master copies of
      all information will be kept on the 52 OG/OGV ICE page and practiced periodically with
      upgrading SOFs in the SOF upgrade program.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                      19


8. Unit Supplement. Each unit will provide a supplement to this instruction that, at a
minimum, includes the following items:
   8.1. Unit organization with a designated OPR of the Operations Supervision program (para.
   6.9.1.).
   8.2. Alternate SOF locations and specific equipment requirements as well as the extent of
   the unit operations complex for determining Ops Sup duty location. (para. 6.3. and Table 1,
   Note 1 & 3).
   8.3. Supervision requirements and duty locations when an FCF is airborne (para 3.2., Note
   1).
   8.4. Building and maintenance of a SOF Read File.
   8.5. Local procedures and checklists for SOFs (reference Attachment 2) to include format
   and content of the daily log (para. 4.3.10.) as well as medium (i.e. electronic, hardcopy, or
   combination) for the SOF library (para. 6.4.6.).
   8.6. Procedures for how deployed units will integrate into host unit operations supervision
   structure.
   8.7. Procedures (pager, phone, radio, etc.) for base C2 personnel to contact unit supervision
   during flying operations.
   8.8. Local CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures.
   8.9. Procedures for documenting and correcting Operations Supervision program and
   equipment deficiencies.
   8.10. Ops Sup/Top 3 qualifications, currencies, upgrade programs, crew rest and maximum
   duty period (if any).
      8.10.1. At a minimum, Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade will consist of at least one supervised
      tour with an experience Ops Sup/Top 3 with a review of applicable AF, HHQ, and local
      published guidance relating to the daily operations and supervision of squadron aircraft.
      8.10.2. Documentation for the Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade is at the discretion of the unit, but
      will include, as a minimum, proof of training completion that is stored in the individual’s
      training folder (as applicable).
   8.11. ANG/AFRC: Determination of who (other than the WG/CC or OG/CC), can cancel
   flying.
   8.12. ANG/AFRC: Designate both the primary and alternate SOF duty locations (para.
   6.3.2.).
   8.13. ANG/AFRC: Establish procedures for other highly qualified individuals to assist with
   SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 duties and responsibilities if required during times when one
   supervisor is covering both SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 positions.
9. Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. g. GSUs).
   9.1. If a unit operates from a location with another organization (i.e., tenant unit), integration
   into host unit supervisory program should be attempted if operations are compatible. These
   procedures will be implemented through LOAs/MOAs.
 20                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


   9.2. At the discretion of the OG/CC (or equivalent), more than one supervisory position may
   be covered by a single supervisor. The responsibilities of the SOF position take priority over
   all other duties and a single Ops Sup will be SOF certified.
   9.3. AFGSC helicopter units and missile wings are considered smaller than wing-sized units.
10. Waivers.
   10.1. Unless otherwise stated, the OG/CC is the waiver authority for this instruction.
   10.2. Waivers may be issued for a maximum of 1 year or until this instruction is superseded
   or a change is posted that affects the paragraph(s) being waived, whichever occurs first. If
   annual waivers are issued they must be reviewed semi-annually (in connection with the semi-
   annual SOF CT meeting preparation) to ensure their individual validity.
   10.3. Forward a copy of any waivers through local stan/eval channels to the MAJCOM Stan
   Eval function who will then forward a copy to the OPR for this instruction. ANG/AFRC:
   forward a copy to the Numbered Air Force /A3 with oversight responsibility. ACC-gained
   ANG units will forward a copy to ACC/A3G.




                                            HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                            (SPANGDAHLEMAB)

                                            DAVID B. LYONS, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 52d Operations Group
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                              21


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 Sep 2004
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1March 2008
AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1, MDS-specific Aircrew Training
AF RDS on the AF Portal at the AFRIMS link, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/C—Aircraft
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOO—Air operations officer
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ATC—Air traffic control
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation training
C2—Command and Control
 22                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


DNIF—Duty not involving flying
DSN—Defense switching network
FCF—Functional check flight
FM—Frequency modulation
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HF—High frequency
IAW—In accordance with
IFE—In-flight emergency
LM—Lockheed Martin
LOA—Letter of agreement
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—-Major command
MDS—-Mission design series
MOA—Memorandum of agreement
N/A—Not applicable
N/R—Not required
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
OO-ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OG/CC—Operations group commander
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
Ops Sup—Operations supervisor
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PL—Precautionary Landing
POC—Point of contact
RAMC—Reliability and Maintainability Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMU—Runway monitoring unit
RSU—Runway supervisory unit
SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012   23


SFA—Single frequency approach
SOF—Supervisor of flying
SQ/CC—-Squadron Commander
TACC—-Tanker Airlift Control Center
TO—Technical Order
Top 3—Another term for Operations Supervisor
UAS—Unmanned Air System
UHF—Ultra high frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
VHF—Very high frequency
WG—Wing
WG/CC—Wing commander
WR-ALC—Warner Robins Air Logistics Center
 24                          AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


                          Attachment 1 (SPANGDAHLEMAB)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-202 Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, and USAFESUP, 11 July
2011
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AM Ops—Airfield Management Operations
CC—Commander
CP—Command Post
CS—Communication Squadron
FW—Fighter Wing
ICE—Information Collaborative Environment
LOX—Squadron Aircrew Certification Letter of Xs
OG—Operations Group
OGV—Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
SDO—Squadron Duty Officer
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                             25


                                       Attachment 2
                   SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST

A2.1. Procedural Checklist. The SOF will have available a procedural checklist that includes
detailed instructions for the following (if applicable):
   A2.1.1. (Added-SPANGDAHLEMAB) Local procedure checklists are published on the
   52 OG/OGV ICE page.

Table A2.1. SOF Procedural/Emergency Checklist.

   Item                                           Item
  Number

     1      Opening

     2      SOF changeover

     3      Closing

     4      OG/CC notification

     5      Aircraft emergency

     6      Barrier engagement

     7      Emergency divert

     8      Weather recall

     9      Change of runway

     10     Runway closure

     11     Anti-hijack

     12     Communications search

     13     Aircraft dispersal
26                         AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012



     14   Controlled bailout

     15   Hung ordnance

     16   Bird condition

     17   Controlled jettison

     18   Hydrazine spill/exposure

     19   Hot brakes

     20   Suspected Lasing Incident

     21   Aircraft crash

     22   Alert force exercise/scramble (if applicable)

     23   Contractor/depot emergency telephone numbers

     24   Telephone numbers for applicable regional SOFs

     25   Telephone numbers for local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flight service
          (if OCONUS, numbers for the associated Host Nation ATC facility), local terminal
          radar facility, and other local control towers and/or radar facilities that could
          potentially be used as alternate airfields
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                    27


                                          Attachment 3
                    SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE

A3.1. Normal Procedures. Note: This checklist is an example of a normal checklist. Actual
local checklist contents are at the discretion of the OG/CC.
   A3.1.1. Report to duty location 30 minutes prior to first scheduled takeoff.
   A3.1.2. Review and sign off Flight Crew Information File/SOF read file.
   A3.1.3. Review daily flying schedule.
   A3.1.4. Ensure all ramps, taxiways, runways and appropriate areas are inspected before the
   first flight of the day (visual inspection by the SOF is not required if airfield management has
   performed the inspection).
   A3.1.5. Inspect SOF kit and equipment for currency/operation.
   A3.1.6. Obtain current information on:
      A3.1.6.1. Weather:
          A3.1.6.1.1. Local
          A3.1.6.1.2. Divert bases
          A3.1.6.1.3. Operating areas and ranges
          A3.1.6.1.4. Low-level routes
      A3.1.6.2. Airfield Status (Local and Divert Bases):
          A3.1.6.2.1. Active runway
          A3.1.6.2.2. Barriers
          A3.1.6.2.3. Runway condition reading
          A3.1.6.2.4. Notices to Airman
          A3.1.6.2.5. Navigational aids
          A3.1.6.2.6. Airfield lighting
          A3.1.6.2.7. Bird activity
          A3.1.6.2.8. Emergency response vehicle status
   A3.1.7. Brief the OG/CC or his designated representative on the airfield status, weather
   conditions, divert bases, unusual events and the daily flying schedule.
 28                             AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


                                           Attachment 4
                            CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES

A4.1. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures have been
established so expert technical advice is available to an aircrew, SOF or other supervisor to assist
in the recovery of a serious in-flight emergency. These procedures can put the OG/CC, SOF or
Ops Sup/Top 3 directly in contact with a representative from the Air Logistics Center (ALC), the
Wright Patterson Program Office, or the contractor.
A4.2. Emergency Assistance Numbers. The following contractor, Program Office or ALC
numbers provide a link to the most knowledgeable maintenance and engineering personnel for
each weapons system. Once the terms "placing a CONFERENCE HOTEL call" are expressed,
the person receiving the call will put the flying supervisor in contact with the appropriate experts.
A4.3. Call Initiation. To initiate CONFERENCE HOTEL, contact the appropriate facility IAW
A4.1 and provide the following information:
   A4.3.1. Indicate you are initiating a (simulated or actual) CONFERENCE HOTEL call for
   an in-flight emergency.
   A4.3.2. Caller's name and telephone number/base.
   A4.3.3. Type aircraft.
   A4.3.4. Nature of problem. In all cases, stress to the person(s) contacted that the problem
   involves an AIRBORNE EMERGENCY and technical assistance is required.
A4.4. Air Logistics Centers and Their Locations:
   A4.4.1. OC-ALC --Oklahoma City, OK (Tinker AFB)
   A4.4.2. OO-ALC --Ogden, UT (Hill AFB)
   A4.4.3. WR-ALC --Warner Robins, GA (Robins AFB)
A4.5. Specific Aircraft Paragraphs. See Table A4.1 for MDS-specific CONFERENCE
HOTEL reference paragraphs.

Table A4.1. MDS-Specific CONFERENCE HOTEL Reference Paragraphs.

 MDS                    Para        MDS                     Para          MDS            Para

 A/OA-10                A4.2.       C-20/C-37               A4.12.        MQ-1/          A4.22.
                                                                          MQ-9

 B-1                    A4.3.       CV-22                   A4.13.        R/O/W/T/       A4.23.
                                                                          C-135

 B-2                    A4.4.       E-3 / E-4 / E-8         A4.14.        RQ-4           A4.24.

 B-52                   A4.5.       F/QF-4 (all variants) A4.15.          RQ-170         A4.25.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                       29


C-5                    A4.6.       F-15 (all variants)      A4.16.         T-1          A4.26.

C-9                    A4.7.       F-16 (all variants)      A4.17.         T-6          A4.27.

C-12                   A4.8.       F-22A                    A4.18.         T/ AT-38     A4.28.

C-17                   A4.9.       Helicopters              A4.19.         U-2          A4.29.

C-21                   A4.10.      KC-10                    A4.20.         RC-26        A4.30.

C-130 (all variants)   A4.11.      KC-135                   A4.21.

Table A4.2. A/OA-10:

TIME         PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY         Call OO-ALC                                 DSN: 777-6056             Brett Hamblin
HOURS:
             State: ―
                    THIS IS A CONFERENCE                 DSN: 586-3265             Guy Thatcher
             HOTEL CALL FOR THE A-10
                                                         DSN: 586-3352             Bob Anderson
             AIRCRAFT.‖

NON-         Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for a       DSN: 777-3007
DUTY         phone patch to A-10 CONFERENCE
                                                         Comm:
HOURS:       HOTEL POCs. Hill Command Post will
             maintain a current listing of home           (801) 777-3007
             telephone numbers for below POCs.

Table A4.3. B-1:

TIME        PROCEDURE                                    CONTACT                   POCs:

24 HOURS: Call Boeing Reliability and Maintainability    (800) 596-2951            Wilson Scott
          Center (RAMC)

NON-        Call Tinker RAMC                             Comm: (405) 610-3428
DUTY
HOURS:
 30                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


Table A4.4. B-2:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                   POCs:

24 HOURS: Call B-2 Support Center                    DSN: 272-7300             Jim Koharik
                                                     Comm:
                                                     Pri (661) 272-7300
                                                     Alt (661) 272-7999
                                                     Alt (661) 272-7693


Table A4.5. B-52:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                   POCs:

24 HOURS: Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT EMERGENCY            1-800-721-0422 or         Bob Snellenberg
                                                     Comm: (206) 655-9200 or
                                                     DSN: 743-5687


           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call   Comm: (316) 977-0183


Table A4.6. C-5:

TIME        PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                   POCs:

24          Call Lockheed Martin                     DSN: 625-9001 or          David Ables
HOURS:
                                                     Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                     Comm: (770) 494-3244

            Call WR-ALC                              DSN: 472-1207 or          Russ Alford
                                                     Comm (478) 222-1207
                                                     (478) 318-6303

NON-        Contact WR-ALC Command Post and ask      DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15.
DUTY        for home phone number for above
                                                     Comm: (478) 327-2612
HOURS:      personnel. WR-ALC Command Post will
                                                     13/14/15
            maintain a current listing of home
            telephone numbers for POCs.
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     31


Table A4.7. C-9:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                        POCs:

DUTY       Call Boeing                                 DSN: 576-6282 or               Dave Williams
HOURS:
                                                       Comm: (618) 256-6282
                                                       Comm: (618) 420-2205 (cell –
                                                       after hours)

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/LKRE                            DSN: 336-5384 or               Tony Sitler
HOURS:                                                                                (Lead C-9
                                                       Comm: (405) 736-5384
                                                                                      Engineer)


NON-       Call TINKER Command Post, and ask for       DSN: 339-2171 or
DUTY       home phone numbers for above personnel.
HOURS      Tinker Command Post will maintain a         Comm: (405) 739-2171
           current listing of home telephone numbers
           for POCs.


Table A4.8. C-12:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                        POCs:

DUTY       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS          Comm: (601) 607-6231 or        Ron Paschal
HOURS:
                                                       (601) 607-6345                 Mark
                                                                                      Billings

NON-       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS and      Comm: (601) 856-2274           Office
DUTY       ask for a phone patch to the POC’s home.
                                                       Comm:                          Ron Paschal
HOURS
                                                       (601) 672-1171 (cell) or       Mark
                                                                                      Billings
                                                       (601) 672-1169(cell)

Table A4.9. C-17:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                        POCs:

24         Call Boeing                                 Comm: 562-384-3800             Mike
HOURS:                                                                                Maidland

24         Call Robins Command Post and ask for        DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
HOURS:     home phone numbers for above personnel.
                                                       Comm: (478) 327-2612
           Robins Command Post will maintain a
 32                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


            current listing of home telephone numbers   /13/14/15
            for POCs.

Table A4.10. C-21:

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                     POCs:

 DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKSS                            DSN: 336-3322 or            Bob
 HOURS:                                                                             Douglas (C-
                                                        Comm: (405) 736-3322
                                                                                    21 Lead
                                                                                    Engineer)

 NON-       Call Tinker Command Post, and ask for DSN: 339-2171 or
 DUTY       the C-21 Program Manager. Tinker
 HOURS      Command Post will maintain a current
            listing of home telephone numbers for Comm: (405) 739-2171
            POCs

Table A4.11. C-130 Variants (All variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                                    CONTACT                     POCs:

24         Call Lockheed Martin Technical               DSN: 625-9001 or            Steve
HOURS:     Representative:                                                          Horbath
                                                        Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                                                    Mark Neas
                                                                                    Wayne
                                                                                    Roberts

NON-       Call Robins Command Post and ask for         DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
DUTY       home phone numbers for above                 Comm: (478) 327-2612
HOURS:     personnel. Robins Command Post will
           maintain a current listing of home           /13/14/15
           telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.12. C-20/C-37:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                     POCs:

 24          Call Gulfstream Aerospace                  1-800-810-4853
 HOURS:      Corporation                                Press 0 for emergency
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                          33


Table A4.13. CV-22.

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

DUTY       Contact POCs at Patuxent River Naval   Comm: (850) 881-3105/4474 Mark Whittle
HOURS:     Air Station MD                                                   (lead FST)

                                                                              Bruce
           CONTACT POCs (V-22 Fleet Support
                                                                              Ammons
           Team (FST) at NADEP Cherry Point NC
                                                                              (deputy FST)
                                                                              Eric
                                                                              Braganca

NON-                                              Comm: (252)-349-2107/2112 Mark Whittle
DUTY                                              (Cell)                    (lead FST)
HOURS
                                                                              Bruce
                                                                              Ammons
                                                                              (deputy FST)

Table A4.14. E-3 / E-4 / E-8:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                     POCs:

 24          Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                206-544-7555
 HOURS:      EMERGENCY




Table A4.15. F/QF-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

DUTY       Call OO-ALC                            DSN:             777-6056
HOURS:                                            DSN:             586-3265
           State: ―T IS IS A CONFERENCE
                   H
                                                  DSN: 586-3352
           HOTEL CALL FOR THE F/QF-4
           AIRCRAFT.‖
 34                           AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


NON-       Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for a DSN: 777-3007 or                   Grant Herring
DUTY       phone patch to F/QF-4 Conference Hotel Comm: (801) 777-3007              Brett
HOURS:     POCs. Hill Command Post will maintain                                    Hamblin
           a current listing of home telephone
           numbers for listed POCs.

Table A4.16. F-15 (all Variants):

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                       POCs:

 24         Primary:                                  (866) 543-5444 toll free or
 HOURS:     Call Boeing in St Louis directly on the   Comm: (314) 232-9999
            dedicated CONFERENCE HOTEL
            numbers. Once connected with the
            Boeing operator, state: ―
                                    THIS IS A
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE F-15‖

Table A4.17. F-16 (All Variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                       POCs:

DUTY       (Actual emergencies only):                 DSN: 940-1284 or              Ken Worell
HOURS:     Call Lockheed Martin Aeronautics
                                                      Comm: (817) 935-5011
           Company                                                                  Davey Thorn

NON-       Ask Lockheed Martin Aeronautics            DSN: 9401284 or               Steve Jennings
DUTY       Company to patch through to POC home       Comm: (817) 935-5011 and
HOURS:     telephone numbers. Lockheed Fort
           Worth Company will maintain a current      Ask to be patched through to David
           listing of home telephone numbers for      the F-16 POC.                Vandercook
           below POCs.

Table A4.18. F-22A:

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                       POCs:

 24         Primary:                                  DSN: 625-9001 or              Tony Keith
 HOURS:     Call Lockheed Martin (LM) Aero            Comm: (770) 494-1705          Don Massett
            Marietta Company Security:                (M-F, 0600-1945 US            Bret Luedke
            State: ―T IS IS A CONFERENCE
                     H                                Central Time)
            HOTEL CALL.‖                                                            Al Norman
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                    35


Table A4.19. Helicopters:

 TIME      PROCEDURE                          CONTACT                  POCs:

 DUTY      Call WR-ALC GRUB.                  DSN: 468-2372            5Rotary Wing
 HOURS:                                                                Branch

                                              DSN: 468-7500            Joseph Jones
                                                                       (Engineering)




Table A4.20. KC-10:

TIME       PROCEDURE                          CONTACT                  POCs:

24         Call Boeing Operations Center      Comm: (206) 544-7500
HOURS

           Call 544th ACSS                    Comm:
                                              (405) 414-7726
                                              (405) 736-4978
                                              (405) 736-4980
                                              (405) 520-3735

NON-       Call Tinker Command Post           DSN: 339-2171
DUTY       (ask for KC-10 Program manager)
HOURS:                                        Comm: (405) 739-2171

Table A4.21. KC-135:

TIME        PROCEDURE                         CONTACT                  POCs:

24          Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT            DSN: 743-5687             Bob
HOURS:      EMERGENCY and request connection Comm: (206) 655-9200 or   Snellenberg
            with above numbers.
                                             1-800-721-0422
 36                         AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


                                                                           Bob Nelson
           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call Comm: (405) 200-3826
           24/7 Message Center

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKC                       DSN: 336-7755 or
HOURS                                            Comm: (405) 736-7755



NON-       Call 24/7 Message Center              Comm: (405) 200-3826      Bob Nelson
DUTY
HOURS

Table A4.22. MQ-1 / MQ-9.

TIME      PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

          Call ASC/WII Det 3, San Diego,         Comm:                     Primary: Maj
24
          CA. Ask for a POC                                                Bill Harvey
HOURS                                            858-705-2254
                                                                           Alternate:
                                                 858-774-5980              Mr. Thomas
                                                                           Kirkman
                                                                           Lt Col Power

Table A4.23. R/O/W/T/C-135:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                 1-800-721-0422            Bob
HOURS:     EMERGENCY                                                       Snellenberg
                                                 Comm: (206) 655-9200 or
                                                 DSN 743-5687



           Routine, non-emergency assistance,    Comm: (316) 977-0183
           call

Table A4.24. RQ-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Northrop Grumman React Center    Comm: (858) 618-4444
HOURS:
AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012                                          37


Table A4.25. RQ-170:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY       Call Lockheed Martin                  Comm: (661) 572-3410       Eddie Cabrera
HOURS                                            Comm: (661) 572-7329
                                                                            Jim Stolting
                                                                            Larry Pellett

NON-       Call Lockheed Martin                  Comm: (661) 245-1984       Eddie Cabrera
DUTY                                             Comm: 661-400-2021/5213 Jim Stolting
HOURS
                                                 Pager: 800-206-0525        Larry Pellett
                                                 Pager: 888 449-5478
                                                 Pager: 888-689-1044



Table A4.26. T-1:

TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                    POCs:

24          Call Hawker Beechcraft               Comm: (316) 243-8694 or
HOURS                                            (316) 712-8106

            Call 545 ACSS and state: ―
                                     THIS IS A   Comm: (405) 590-4541
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE T-1 AIRCRAFT.‖

Table A4.27. T-6:

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY        State: ―T IS IS A CONFERENCE
                    H                             Comm: (937) 904-4275 or   Brian Hicks
HOURS       HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-6
                                                  Comm: (937) 231-2071 or
            AIRCRAFT.‖
                                                  Comm: (937) 255-2896

NON-        State ―
                  THIS IS A CONFERENCE            Comm: (937) 231-2071
DUTY        HOTEL CALL.‖
HOURS
 38                         AFI11-418_SPANGDAHLEMABSUP_I 1 NOVEMBER 2012


Table A4.28. T/AT-38:

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY        Call OO-ALC                            DSN: 777-6056
HOURS:      State: ―T IS IS A CONFERENCE
                    H                              DSN: 586-3265
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-38                DSN: 586-3352
            AIRCRAFT.‖

NON-        Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for    DSN: 777-3007 or           Grant
DUTY        a phone patch to T-38 Conference                                  Herring
                                                   Comm: (801) 777-3007
HOURS:      Hotel POCs. Hill Command Post will
            maintain a current listing of home                                Eric Flygare
            telephone numbers for below POCs.

                                                                              Brett
                                                                              Hamblin

Table A4.29. U-2:

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY        Call Lockheed Technical                DSN: 368-9186 or           Kurt Conklin
HOURS:      Representative                         Comm (530) 788-0281

            Call General Electric Technical        DSN: 368-3913 or           Neil Kessler
            Representative                         Comm: (530) 634-3913

NON-        Primary: Call the Maintenance          DSN: 364-5750 or
DUTY        Operations Center and ask for one of   Comm: (530) 634-5750 or
HOURS:      the POCs listed.                       Comm: (530) 788-0281

Table A4.30. RC-26:

TIME       PROCEDURE                               CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY       Call M-7 Aerospace                      Comm: (210) 820-8663 or
HOURS:                                             Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
                                                   7663

NON-       Call M-7 Aerospace                      Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
DUTY                                               7294
HOURS:
