BY ORDER OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2MQ-1&9,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 2

                                                                                  3 APRIL 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                       MQ-1 & MQ-9 UNIT INTELLIGENCE
                                                                EVALUATION CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 19


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202 Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for evaluating and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in MQ-1&9
units. This publication applies to Regular Air Force, Reserve and Air National Guard
intelligence personnel supporting MQ-1&9 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be
considered functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication.
This publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur,
covers required information. The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this publication
are Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records
System, and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To
Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order
9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). This publication may be supplemented, but all supplements
must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate MAJCOM functional
chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
 2                                                       AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items.
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                                  3



                                          Chapter 1

                                     INTRODUCTION

1.1. General. This volume provides guidance for the MQ-1&9 intelligence standardization and
evaluation program. With the cited references, it establishes the procedures and criteria for
evaluating intelligence personnel during the knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. Exception: The provisions contained in this AFI do not apply to intelligence
personnel performing instructor and support duties at the MQ-1&9 Formal Training Unit. These
procedures are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-level written guidance. Unit-
level guidance will not be less restrictive.
1.2. References. The primary references for MQ-1&9 intelligence standardization and
evaluations are AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1, MQ-1 and 9 Unit Intelligence Training; AFI 14-
2MQ-1&9, Volume 3, MQ-1 and 9 Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques,
and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual;
AFTTP 3-1.MQ-1, Tactical Employment—MQ-1; AFTTP 3-1.MQ-9, Tactical Employment—
MQ-9.
1.3. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.4. Procedures.
   1.4.1. Conduct and document evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Prior to any formal
   evaluation conducted by a qualified Intelligence Evaluator (IE), the examinee must have
   successfully completed all duty position required Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or
   Specialized Training (ST) requirements outlined in AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1. (T-2)
   1.4.2. Evaluations will be accomplished in a realistic training environment and in
   conjunction with local events to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to
   conduct evaluations in a realistic environment, use an alternate method (e.g., simulated,
   staged, or verbal). Document the reasons for and type of alternate method used in the
   comments section of the AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-2)
   1.4.3. Intelligence evaluators will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for
   conducting intelligence evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will
   be thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.4.4. The IE will brief the examinee on the conduct, purpose, requirements and applicable
   criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will accomplish required planning IAW the task
   being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.4.5. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area accomplished during the
   evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and assign an appropriate
   evaluation grade for the area. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
   the IEs will determine the overall qualification level. (T-3)
   1.4.6. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to assist in grading
   individual areas during the evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF
 4                                                         AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


     Form 4381, not the one completed by the trainer during MQT/ST. Gradesheet elements
     specific to MQ-1&9 intelligence tasks are found in attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2MQ-
     1&9, Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.4.7. In addition to the guidance provided by this publication, IEs will be expected to use
     their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment of examinee performance. (T-3)
     1.4.8. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation with the examinee. This
     debrief will include the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, grades assigned (if
     other than qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.5. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training at their
discretion. Document any additional training IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-3)
1.6. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (“Q-3”)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a “Q-3” on an evaluation,
they will not perform duties related to the evaluated task unsupervised until remedial actions are
accomplished. (T-2)
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                                     5


                                             Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include areas listed in this chapter as they relate
to the examinee’s duty position as depicted in Table 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                                INIT MSN            MSN
                                       MSA TDA           MSA TDA         MIC     IOS        IE
 Knowledge Evaluations
 MQ-1&9 Weapons Systems                ---      ---      R               ---     ---      ---
                                                                R
 Academics
 Threat Knowledge                      ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons          ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Systems
 Key Missions                          ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Mission Partners                      ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Mission Planning Resources            ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 MQ-1&9 Communications                 ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Infrastructure
 Intelligence Reporting                ---      ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 TDA Roles and Responsibilities        ---      ---      ---    R        ---     ---      ---
 Collateral Damage Estimation          ---      ---      ---             ---     ---      ---
                                                                R
 (CDE)
 Performance Task Evaluations
 Workstation Setup                     R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Mission Resource Utilization          R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Situation Displays                    R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Ad Hoc Tasking Procedures             R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Special Payload Procedures            R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Find/Fix/Track                        R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Sensor Intelligence, Surveillance              ---             ---      ---     ---      ---
 and Reconnaissance (ISR)              R                 R
 Integration/Cross-Cue
 Time-Sensitive Reporting              R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Intelligence Reports                  R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Intelligence Briefing                 R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 Pre-mission Support                   R        ---      R      ---      ---     ---      ---
 TDA Workstation Utilization           ---      R        ---    R        ---     ---      ---
 Payload and Weaponeering              ---      R        ---    R        ---     ---      ---
 Targeting Products                    ---      R        ---    R        ---     ---      ---
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Distributed Mission Crew              ---      ---      ---    ---              ---      ---
                                                                         R
 Communication
 6                                                          AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


 Handover Procedures                 ---      ---     ---     ---     R        ---        ---
 Target/Engage/Assess                ---      ---     ---     ---     R        ---        ---
 Video Downlink Procedures           ---      ---     ---     ---     R        ---        ---
 Mission Preparation                 ---      ---     ---     ---     ---      R          ---
 Product Quality Control             ---      ---     ---     ---     ---      R          ---
 Mission Management                  ---      ---     ---     ---     ---      R          ---
 Weapons Employment                  ---      ---     ---     ---     ---      R          ---
 Evaluator Ability                   ---      ---     ---     ---     ---                 R
      Notes:
      Gradesheet templates for each area are included in AFI14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1.
      Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

        R = Required area of evaluation
        INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
        IOS = Intelligence Operations Supervisor
        MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
        MSA = Mission Support Analyst
        TDA = Target Development Analyst
        MIC= Mission Intelligence Coordinator Qualification Evaluation
        IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluations. Conduct knowledge evaluations as part of the periodic
     mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee’s knowledge of MQ-1&9 systems and
     capabilities, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, key missions, mission
     partners, mission planning resources, MQ-1&9 communications infrastructure, intelligence
     reporting, TDA roles and responsibilities, and CDE. Examinees will complete a test from the
     unit‘s master question file (MQF) for knowledge evaluation areas. Research, analysis and
     dissemination and intelligence preparation of the operational environment (IPOE) involve
     knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the evaluation
     and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Evaluations. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed materials based
     on current intelligence, unit tasking, and area of responsibility (AOR) scenarios. Units must
     apply operational risk management to evaluations conducted during exercises or
     deployments. The following guidelines assist the IE in conducting performance evaluations.
     (T-2)
        2.2.2.1. Workstation Setup. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to prepare for an MQ-1&9
        mission using real-world workstations, systems and applications IAW local procedures.
        The IE will ensure functional workstations are available and access to current checklists.
        (T-3)
        2.2.2.2. Mission Resource Utilization. Evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in accessing
        and extracting applicable data from mission resource documents applicable to the unit’s
        mission. The IE will use scenario or actual contingency/exercise mission resources (e.g.,
        Air Tasking Order (ATO), Airspace Control Order (ACO), Joint Tactical Air Request
        (JTAR), Special Instructions (SPINS), Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                                  7


     Acquisition (RSTA) Annex, Airspace Control Plan (ACP), ISR target deck and ISR 8-
     Line). If using a scenario or simulated materials, provide enough information that the
     examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked. (T-3)
     2.2.2.3. Situation Displays. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to use intelligence systems
     to construct, post, update, and maintain quality situation displays based on unit mission
     and Operations Plan /Concept Plan tasking. Include a large variety of items to challenge
     the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the relevance of the data to
     the situation. The number of items to plot will be of sufficient volume to be challenging,
     yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is beyond that necessary to determine
     proficiency. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert between coordinate systems.
     Scenarios may include erroneous information to mirror the fog of war by including
     intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats for the particular AOR, thereby
     allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to identify errors and question the
     validity of information. Provide the examinee with a variety of order of battle (OB)
     sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and save
     overlay files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control of the
     displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a particular AOR. (T-3)
     2.2.2.4. Ad Hoc Tasking Procedures.          Evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in
     coordinating ad hoc taskings such as dynamic or non-interference basis requests, with
     appropriate collection managers, close air support and/or ISR controlling authorities as
     required by unit mission. The IE will ensure the scenario depicts notional ad hoc requests
     routed both properly and improperly to present the opportunity for the examinee to
     discern between the two. The scenario will include clues as to why/when the supported
     unit initiated an ad hoc request. (T-3)
     2.2.2.5. Special Payload Procedures. Evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in optimizing
     MQ-1&9 employment. Scenarios will test the examinee’s ability to describe the
     capabilities of special payloads employed by the unit’s MQ-1&9 aircraft. The examinee
     must be able to recommend utilization of MQ-1&9 aircraft in order to optimize onboard
     sensors and coordinate with mission and mission partners during payload utilization. (T-
     3)
     2.2.2.6. Find/Fix/Track. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to maintain situational
     awareness on tasked targets as required by unit mission. Scenario or actual
     contingency/exercise materials (including inject cards or provided intelligence reports,
     message traffic, imagery or full-motion video (FMV)) may be used. Materials and
     systems provided will be sufficient for the IE to determine the examinee’s ability to
     locate a target within a search area, use available technology to conduct IPOE on the
     target and surrounding area and provide situational awareness to the MQ-1&9 crew
     members. The number of planned and ad hoc targets in this exercise will be of sufficient
     volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is beyond that
     necessary to determine proficiency. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to identify, process,
     analyze and update the MQ-1&9 pilot/sensor operator (SO) on target locations,
     characteristics, status, and to analyze key events, situations or information that could
     potentially impact the MQ-1&9 flight path, sensor selection, sensor redirection or re-
     attack. (T-3)
8                                                      AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


    2.2.2.7. Sensor ISR Integration/Cross-cue. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to identify
    and execute sensor integration and cross-cueing opportunities with other assets and
    organizations as required by unit mission. Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
    materials may be used. The examinee will use actual or notional national, theater, and
    tactical assets to demonstrate the use of proper communication channels for retasking
    opportunities and provide feedback to all applicable mission crew members. (T-3)
    2.2.2.8. Time-Sensitive Reporting. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to use procedures for
    reporting actionable information and threat warning to crewmembers and mission
    partners. The IE may use scenario inject cards or provide intelligence reports, message
    traffic, imagery or FMV to fulfill this requirement. Information provided will facilitate
    time-sensitive reporting that challenges the examinee to identify and locate emergent
    threats. The IE will determine the examinee’s ability to accurately assess the threat
    capabilities against the MQ-1&9 aircraft or ground elements and suggest countertactics.
    Information must be disseminated to the pilot/SO while it is still actionable. (T-3)
    2.2.2.9. Intelligence Reports. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and transmit
    accurate reports as required by unit mission, including production of weapon system
    video (WSV) and/or imagery for attachment to intelligence reports. The IE will have the
    examinee prepare a variety of FMV clips or WSV products to illustrate local coordination
    procedures for systems typically used by the unit. IEs can incorporate one or more FMV
    clips or videos into the evaluation, as time and requirements permit. The IE will
    determine which intelligence report(s) are representative of the examinee’s ability to
    construct and disseminate reports as required locally. Reports will be developed using
    information collected (scenario or actual contingency/exercise). Reports must be
    accurate and complete IAW standards. (T-3)
    2.2.2.10. Intelligence Briefing. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to prepare and present
    briefings. Briefings will be assembled from information provided by the evaluator,
    message traffic, intelligence reports, and other intelligence materials. Evaluate the
    research and analysis skills related to briefing preparation. Sources used to evaluate
    other mission areas may also be used. Evaluate the various briefings conducted in
    support of unit operations. (T-3)
    2.2.2.11. Pre-mission Support. Evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in mission planning
    to support MQ-1&9 crews. Scenario or actual contingency/exercise materials (friendly
    and adversary OB) may be used. Materials and systems provided will be sufficient for
    the IE to determine the examinee’s ability to provide pertinent threat and target
    intelligence to mission crews pertaining to the current situation. Examinee must tailor
    products to tasked missions. (T-3)
    2.2.2.12. TDA Workstation Utilization. Evaluate the examinee’s knowledge of targeting
    and mission planning resources. The IE will ensure functional workstations are available
    and access to current checklists. The examinee must identify imagery databases and
    portals, mensuration software, weaponeering solutions software, CDE software, and
    FMV to meet the targeting and mission planning requirements of the unit. (T-3)
    2.2.2.13. Payload & Weaponeering. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to optimize MQ-
    1&9 employment when equipped with payloads. Scenarios will test the examinee’s
    ability to describe the capabilities of weapons employed by the unit’s MQ-1&9 aircraft.
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                                   9


       The examinee must be able to recommend utilization of MQ-1&9 aircraft in order to
       optimize employment of weapons. (T-3)
       2.2.2.14. Targeting Products. Objective: Evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in
       verifying products to meet the targeting and mission planning requirements of the unit.
       Scenarios will test the examinee’s ability to verify professional, accurate, and timely
       mensurated graphics, models that determine the best weaponeering solution, graphics that
       portray potential collateral concerns, and apply battle damage assessment
       (BDA)methodology as required. (T-3)
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
   2.3.1. Mission Intelligence Coordinator Evaluations. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to
   apply MIC concepts and execute MIC duties IAW minimum standards to fulfill MIC
   requirements. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation materials based off
   current intelligence, unit tasking, and AOR scenarios. Units must apply operational risk
   management principles to evaluations conducted during exercises or deployments. Base
   MIC evaluations on the MIC training profiles in AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1. The IE will
   determine the examinee’s knowledge and ability as a MIC in each applicable profile. (T-2)
   2.3.2. Intelligence Operations Supervisor (IOS) Evaluations. Evaluate the examinee’s
   ability to apply IOS concepts and execute IOS duties IAW minimum standards to fulfill IOS
   requirements. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation materials based off
   current intelligence, unit tasking, and AOR scenarios. Units must apply operational risk
   management principles to evaluations conducted during exercises or deployments. Base IOS
   evaluations on the IOS training profiles in AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1. The IE will
   determine the examinee’s knowledge and ability as a IOS in each applicable profile. (T-2)
   2.3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to perform
   intelligence evaluations. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation materials. The
   IE will determine the examinee’s ability to describe evaluation criteria, grading procedures,
   and evaluation form preparation for an evaluation based on the IE training profiles in AFI 14-
   2MQ-1&9, Volume 1. Provide scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and
   techniques for conducting evaluations. IE evaluations will be conducted, when possible, by a
   qualified MQ-1&9 IE from outside the squadron. (T-2)
 10                                                      AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


                                          Chapter 3

                                EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: MQT and ST evaluation criteria. Use all sections of criteria applicable to the events
performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain mission
qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q           Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on MQF.
 Q-          Not applicable for knowledge evaluations.
 U           Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 WORKSTATION SETUP
 Q           Correctly configured intelligence workstation for mission execution.
             Effectively used software applications to plot targets and set up appropriate
             communication nodes. Effectively coordinated with crewmembers and
             mission partners (e.g. tasking sources, supported unit and processing
             exploitation and dissemination (PED) nodes). Applied IPOE; selected and
             retrieved relevant planning materials and resources based on the tasking and
             essential elements of information (EEI).
 Q-          Committed minor errors, omissions or deviations, which detracted from
             effective workstation use but did not jeopardize mission accomplishment.
             Able to recover with minor prompting.
 U           Failed to initialize and configure intelligence workstation for mission
             execution. Committed errors, omissions or deviations that jeopardized
             mission accomplishment. Failed to communicate with PED nodes. Selected
             extraneous or irrelevant planning materials and resources.
 MISSION RESOURCE UTILIZATION
 Q           Accessed/retrieved all correct/applicable products (e.g. ATO/ACO/SPINS,
             RSTA Annex, JTAR, ACP, ISR target deck and ISR 8-Line) and any
             changes. Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures and
             other information relevant to unit or tasking and communicated to other
             crewmembers and to mission partners as appropriate. Accurately plotted data
             required to prepare the mission crew for immediate tasking. Used correct
             classification and security markings.
 Q-          Committed some errors or delays in extracting information that did not
             jeopardize or impact mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but
             needed some assistance.
 U           Committed errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that
             jeopardized mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without
             significant intervention. Used incorrect classification and security markings.
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                              11


SITUATION DISPLAYS
Q             Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies, and relevance to
              the situation. Accurately posted target locations, reference points, and
              maintained OB. All threats/items posted within 0.5nm of center point of
              coordinates. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit
              requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed
              data. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats. Produced
              accurate situational awareness overlay. Accurately maintained situation
              display to unit specifications, including classification and currency. Correct
              classification and security markings on all products.
Q-            Did not fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant
              items to be included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of
              coordinates, the remaining 5% within 1nm. Needed little assistance with
              coordinate conversions.
U             Errors significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors or
              inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant
              supervision or intervention. Incorrect classification.
AD HOC TASKING PROCEDURES
Q            Received/processed ad hoc tasking. Appropriately coordinated with
             applicable mission partners and other crewmembers; assess feasibility of
             tasking. Extracted and tailored associated EEIs. Demonstrated ability to
             follow appropriate ad hoc tasking procedures. Followed through with
             requesting agency to ensure ad hoc tasking was fulfilled.
Q-           Omitted some procedures. Made minor terminology mistakes. Needed to
             search between 2-3 reasonably likely documents for the primary source on ad
             hoc tasking procedures but delays had no negative mission impact.
U            Omitted major items, committed major deviations in procedures or failed to
             find the primary source for ad hoc tasking procedures. Delays and mistakes
             negatively affected the mission. Neglected to follow through with requesting
             agency.
SPECIAL PAYLOAD PROCEDURES
Q            Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of the capabilities of special payloads
             carried on the MQ-1&9. Made recommendations that optimized the use of
             onboard sensors. Followed local procedures.
Q-           Had a limited knowledge of payloads available; did not jeopardize mission
             success.
U            Demonstrated poor/inadequate knowledge of available payload(s) and/or
             capabilities. Mistakes and lack of coordination/knowledge led to delays or
             impacted mission. Failed to follow procedures.
FIND/FIX/TRACK
Q            Accurately determine target location via metadata and workstation software.
             Located a target within a search area and employ “target talk-on” techniques
             with other crewmembers. Provided IPOE products of the target area to the
             pilot/SO. Identified recognizable target characteristics with tasking unit(s)
             and/or PED nodes. Adhered to unit standards. Correct classification and
             security markings on all products.
12                                                      AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


Q-           Made minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact mission. Slow
             to determine target location. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal
             assistance.
U            Failed to analyze operating environment; errors, omissions or deviations
             jeopardized mission accomplishment. Did not understand responsibilities
             with respect to taskings. Poor understanding and/or application of IPOE
             process. Unable to clearly describe target and surrounding area.
             Recommended unsafe orbit locations. Did not adhere to unit standards.
             Incorrect classification and security markings on all products.
SENSOR ISR INTEGRATION/CROSS-CUE
Q            Correctly executed cross-cueing opportunities with other ISR assets and
             organizations. Demonstrated proper use of communication channels for
             retasking opportunities and provided feedback to all applicable mission crew
             members. Coordinated appropriately with mission partners (e.g.
             sensor/platform collection authority, appropriate theater ISR control authority
             and supported unit(s)). Cross-cued own collection with other
             sensors/platforms to refine operating environment intelligence support.
             Enhanced other crewmembers’ situational awareness of tasked operating
             environment.
Q-           As above, but committed errors, omissions or deviations which detracted
             from effective mission execution but did not jeopardize mission
             accomplishment. Recovered when prompted.
U            Failed to identify/execute cross-cueing opportunities with other ISR assets
             and organizations. Did not use proper communication channels or coordinate
             appropriately. Errors, omissions or deviations prevented ISR cross-cue and
             jeopardized mission accomplishment. Failed to enhance crewmembers’
             situational awareness of operating environment.
TIME-SENSITIVE REPORTING
Q            Accurately identified actionable time-sensitive intelligence and/or threats to
             the MQ-1&9 aircraft and friendly forces as applicable to the mission area.
             Correctly analyzed impact on the aircraft, mission, other players and mission
             partners. Reporting was clear and concise and effectively applied local
             procedures. Reported to all appropriate players and via appropriate methods.
Q-           Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact MQ-1&9 operations.
             Able to recover with minimal prompting.
U            Unable to identify or communicate time-sensitive information and/or threats
             without significant intervention. Unsatisfactory threat knowledge and/or
             inability to assess threat’s capability against MQ-1&9. Alerts were late or
             not executed. Incorrect security classification.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q            Clearly written and disseminated IAW intelligence reporting directives,
             guidance and policies. Used checklists. Used available software and
             systems to capture, prepare and disseminate WSV clips and/or images.
             Clearly understood and complied with local standards and requirements from
             tasking authority. Used required software and properly formatted. Tailored
             to target audience. Content correctly summarized all pertinent information
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                             13


             available, addressed key events and answered EEIs. Quality checked.
             Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-           Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
             extenuating circumstances. Minor errors describing and complying with
             customer WSV/imagery requirements; recovered when prompted. Minor
             problems with clarity, organization or formatting, but pertinent information
             was included.
U            Failed to comply with applicable intelligence reporting directives, guidance
             and policies. Report was incomplete or inaccurate. Did not use checklists.
             Writing skills confused meaning of information or omitted critical
             information. Incorrect format and/or dissemination (e.g. not sent to the
             correct users through appropriate channels). Unable to produce imagery.
             Did not comply with customer WSV/imagery requirements. Incorrect
             classification.
INTELLIGENCE BRIEFING
Q            Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge and performance of required briefings.
             Briefings were professionally delivered, organized, clear and IAW applicable
             directives. Effective use of checklists/local procedures. Tailored content and
             classification to audience. Effective use of visual aids. Identified gaps in
             intelligence with potential impact on the mission. Correctly applied research
             methods and sources to resolve gaps in intelligence; applied knowledge of
             MQ-1&9 capabilities and limitations to analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
             Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-           Committed minor errors or omissions. Recovered when prompted, no
             significant impact on mission. Needs improvement in organization or
             delivery.
U            Unsatisfactory knowledge and performance of required briefings. Failed to
             use checklist. Poorly organized, confusing. Did not tailor briefing to
             mission/audience. Omitted significant information. Significant lack of
             analysis and ability to conduct basic research. Lacked credibility with poor
             understanding of MQ-1&9 capabilities or limitations. Fabricated
             information. Incorrect classification.
PRE-MISSION SUPPORT
Q           Gathered all required mission materials; provided target graphics as
            applicable and available. Applied IPOE to mission target areas. Products
            were tailored, clear, concise, timely and relevant to mission. Information
            presented was tailored to mission tasking and MQ-1&9 operations. Correct
            classification and security markings on all products.
Q-          Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact MQ-1&9 operations.
            Able to recover with minimal prompting.
U           Inability to effectively provide relevant pre-mission and mission support to
            crew. Information/graphics provided was inadequate, irrelevant or not timely
            to mission. Information not tailored to tasking or MQ-1&9 capabilities.
            Incorrect classification.
TDA WORKSTATION UTILIZATION
Q            Correctly described imagery databases and portals, mensuration software,
 14                                                     AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


             weaponeering solutions software, CDE software, and FMV to meet the
             targeting and mission planning requirements of the unit. Followed unit
             procedures. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-          Able to identify databases and software with minimal assistance. Followed
             unit procedures.
 U           Unable to correctly identify databases or software. Failed to use unit
             procedures. Incorrect classifications.
 PAYLOAD AND WEAPONEERING
 Q           Demonstrated satisfactory knowledge of the capabilities of weapons carried
             on the MQ-1&9. Made recommendations that optimized the use of weapons.
             Followed local procedures.
 Q-          Had a limited knowledge of payloads available; did not jeopardize mission
             success.
 U           Demonstrated poor/inadequate knowledge of available weapons and/or
             capabilities. Mistakes and lack of coordination/knowledge led to delays or
             impacted mission. Failed to follow procedures.
 TARGETING PRODUCTS
 Q           Verified professional, accurate and timely mensurated graphics, models that
             determine the best weaponeering solution, graphics that portrayed potential
             collateral concerns and accurate BDA. Met the targeting and mission
             planning requirements of the unit. Applied accurate BDA methodology as
             required. Followed local procedures. Correct classification and security
             markings on all products.
 Q-          Verified products with minor errors or omissions. Did not jeopardize or
             impact mission. Corrected errors with minimal assistance. Followed local
             procedures.
 U           Product verification was inaccurate. Required excessive time to verify
             products, which affected the mission. Did not follow procedures. Incorrect
             classification and security markings on products.
3.3. Specialized Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to tasks
associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. Mission Intelligence Coordinator Evaluation Criteria.
 DISTRIBUTED MISSION CREW COMMUNICATION
 Q           Verified all crewmembers understand mission tasking. Ensured situational
             awareness was maintained; recognized when loss occurred and acted to
             correct it. Demonstrated respect for other crewmembers and encourage
             coordination among crew. Communicated in a clear, concise and efficient
             manner. Listened to communications from others and give constructive
             feedback. Prioritized tasks, created timelines. Accurately identified and
             assessed problems.
 Q-          Ensured situational awareness was maintained; but did not immediately
             recognize when loss occurred or act to correct it. Communication with the
             crew was sometimes unclear. Slow to prioritize tasks, timelines slightly off.
             Able to correct with minimal assistance.
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                              15


 U          All crewmembers did not understand mission tasking. Situational awareness
            was lost and no corrective action taken. Did not respect other crewmembers.
            Did not communicate effectively. Unable to prioritize tasks and create
            timelines.
 HANDOVER PROCEDURES
 Q          Executed handover according to local standards and checklists. Performed or
            explained all required procedures, equipment configurations and coordination
            prior to handover of the mission aircraft according to local checklists and
            applicable directives. Reported relevant information to other crewmembers
            and mission partners IAW local procedures and directives and via proper
            channels.
 Q-         Made minor deviations from the checklists and applicable directives
            regarding procedures, equipment configurations and coordination prior to
            handover of the mission aircraft. Omitted some or did not obtain all assigned
            mission documents. Did not negatively impact mission.
 U          Omitted major items and committed major deviations in procedures.
            Delayed mission aircraft getting on target. Negatively affected mission
            success. Did not use checklists.
 TARGET/ENGAGE/ASSESS
 Q          Demonstrate knowledge of the tasking. Supported mission crewmembers by
            ensuring rules of engagement (ROE) or SPINS requirements were met.
            Identified and communicate factors that might affect weapons employment or
            re-attack. Effectively coordinated with external units.
 Q-         Required minimal assistance to accomplish tasks. Made minor errors or
            omissions that did not impact mission success. Able to recover when
            prompted.
 U          Unable to identify and describe unit tasking. No clear understanding of ROE.
            Did not inform other crewmembers of factors having significant impact on
            mission success. Did not coordinate effectively with external units.
 VIDEO DOWNLINK PROCEDURES
 Q          Effectively coordinated FMV feed in support of operational tasking.
            Followed local procedures. Ensured FMV feed received. Coordinated
            frequencies as appropriate. Fixed problems as they emerged.
 Q-         Displayed a lack of knowledge and familiarity with FMV system(s) and
            procedures. Showed some hesitation in coordination but did not jeopardize
            successful mission execution.
 U          Unable to provide FMV feed coordination. Major errors or deviations
            jeopardized mission success.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Operations Supervisor Evaluation Criteria.
 MISSION PREPARATION
 Q            Ensured intelligence personnel were in position, current and qualified, and
              executed appropriate mission preparation checklists. Ensured all mission
              players have all items of intelligence value required for maximum situational
              awareness prior to conducting mission. Ensured all systems are operational
 16                                                      AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


             and, if systems are not operational, coordinated appropriate fixes in a timely
             manner. Provided crewmembers with required intelligence items. Assisted
             in mission planning if appropriate.
 Q-          Made minor errors but recovered without jeopardizing mission success.
 U           Made errors that jeopardized mission success, created unsafe situations, or
             jeopardized security.
 PRODUCT QUALITY CONTROL
 Q           Identified and corrected content and grammatical inaccuracies in MISREPs,
             crew briefings, intelligence summaries, and other intelligence products as
             required. Ensured the reports satisfied EEIs and were of intelligence value.
             Provided feedback as necessary to the report writer before and after
             presenting/disseminating reports and presentations.
 Q-          Made minor errors that did not affect overall report accuracy
 U           Made errors that resulted or would have resulted in dissemination of
             inaccurate intelligence
 MISSION MANAGEMENT
 Q           Maintained situational awareness of all missions. Communicated with the
             operations supervisor and crewmembers on intelligence issues. Identified
             tasking and supported units, working areas, and operational impacts of
             several simultaneous missions. Responded to scenarios such as mission
             changes, air asset conflicts, strike events, broken equipment, weather, or
             communication lapses. Ensured ISR tasking and collection requirements
             were satisfied.
 Q-          Made minor errors that did not jeopardize mission success.
 U           Made errors that jeopardized mission success, created unsafe situations, or
             jeopardized security.
 WEAPONS EMPLOYMENT
 Q           Ensured compliance with theater ROE and SPINS as they apply to weapons
             employment scenarios. Coordinated with the operations supervisor, mission
             partners and command and control elements as appropriate.
 Q-          Made minor errors that did not violate ROE or SPINS.
 U           Made errors that jeopardized mission success, created unsafe situations, or
             jeopardized security.

Table 3.4. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
 Q          Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently
            and made timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough
            knowledge of evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation
            documentation preparation. Completed appropriate evaluation records
            accurately. Adequately assessed and recorded performance. Comments were
            clear and pertinent. Correct classification and security markings on all
            products.
 Q-         Deficiencies in depth of knowledge regarding unit procedures, evaluation
            requirements or documentation. Minor problems in communicating or
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                           17


            organization of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor
            errors or omissions in evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or
            slightly unclear.
U           Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee.
            Did not plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely
            affected the evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading
            procedures and evaluation documentation requirements. Lack of knowledge in
            certain areas seriously detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not
            complete required forms or records. Comments were invalid, unclear, or did
            not accurately document performance. Incorrect classification.




                                       ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                       Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 18                                                       AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2MQ-1, Volume 2, MQ-1 Crew Evaluation Criteria, 28 November 2008
AFI 11-2MQ-9, Volume 2, MQ-1 Crew Evaluation Criteria, 15 April 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 1, MQ-1 and 9 Unit Intelligence Training, 3 April 2014
AFI 14-2MQ-1&9, Volume 3, MQ-1 and 9 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 3 April 2014
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3.1.MQ-1, Tactical Employment—MQ-1, 30 September 2011 (S)
AFTTP 3.1.MQ-9, Tactical Employment—MQ-9, 14 December 2012 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ACP—Airspace Control Plan
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AFI14-2MQ-1&9V2 3 APRIL 2014                                                              19


ATO—Air Tasking Order
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
FMV—Full Motion Video
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JTAR—Joint Tactical Air Request
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIC—Mission Intelligence Coordinator
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PED—Processing Exploitation and Dissemination
ROE—Rules of Engagement
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance, and Target Acquisition
SO—Sensor Operator
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
TDA—Target Development Analyst
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
