BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1211
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  17 JULY 2006

                                                                                                Operations

                                                                       SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering. If you lack access,
               contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A3SS                                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/A3S
                                                                                    (Maj Gen Roger Burg)
Supersedes AFI10-1211, 31 October 2001                                                         Pages: 15

This instruction implements AFPD 10-12, Space. This instruction establishes Air Force Space Command
(AFSPC) roles and responsibilities relating to space launch and range operations and maintenance,
including the launch readiness review process. It applies to all military, government service and applica-
ble contractor personnel whose duties directly relate to the management, operations, maintenance, prepa-
ration and conduct of activities required to support the Air Force spacelift mission. Maintain and dispose
of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFRIMS located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction incorporates changes to roles, responsibilities, authorities and procedures associated with
launch transformation. It summarizes the roles, responsibilities and authorities for Air Force space launch
operations and provides instructions to AFSPC to ensure space launch operations meet DoD and National
requirements for providing assured access to space. Recommendation Change of Publication through
channels to AF/A3SS, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480.


1. Space Launch Operations.
   1.1. Background: United States Government space policies identify “assured access to space” as the
   need to guarantee the availability of critical space capabilities for executing space missions. This key
   concept supports and implements National Security Strategy, United States Space Transportation Pol-
   icy, National Military Strategy and Air Force doctrine. Space launch is a key enabler to establish and
   support a broad range of space capabilities. Space launch includes two complimentary strategies: cur-
   rent routine launch operations and future responsive launch operations. This instruction will apply to
2                                                                            AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


    routine launches used to populate satellite constellations, deploy research and development satellites
    or other test missions on a scheduled basis.
    1.2. Roles: The AF, as the DoD Executive Agent for Space, executes launch and range operations
    through AFSPC. AFSPC’s spacelift mission is to ensure successful delivery of space systems to sup-
    port national objectives and provide a decisive advantage to U.S. forces worldwide. HQ AFSPC will
    provide the necessary policy and guidance to support the spacelift mission. Space and Missile Sys-
    tems Center (SMC) is the AFSPC organization responsible for acquisition and sustainment of the
    Expendable Launch Vehicle flight systems and ground systems. SMC performs acquisition manage-
    ment and mission assurance for these systems. The SMC Commander (SMC/CC) is responsible for
    mission certification through on-orbit satellite checkout of USAF missions and launch vehicle certifi-
    cation for all DoD and National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) missions. For NRO missions, the
    Director of the NRO (DNRO) is responsible for the mission. The 14 AF/CC is responsible for provid-
    ing support and tracking during launch and on-orbit checkout.
    1.3. Assets: Launch and Test Range Systems (LTRS) are DoD national security assets operated by
    the Air Force to support deployment of space missions and are key enablers for all AF, DoD, NRO and
    National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) capabilities that employ or depend on
    space-based or ballistic missile systems. LTRS also support commercial launch on an as available
    basis when there is excess capacity. LTRS provide the tracking, telemetry, control, communications,
    flight analysis and other capabilities necessary to safely conduct national security, civil and commer-
    cial space launch operations, intercontinental and sea-launched ballistic missile evaluations, and aero-
    nautical and guided weapons tests. Although today space launch is the primary range mission, the
    infrastructure to support test programs is key to a variety of other ballistic missile and aeronautical
    flight testing. The Eastern Range and Western Range are part of the DoD’s test community, the Major
    Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB).
    1.4. Scheduling: Launch schedule execution will be based on national priorities. AFSPC, through
    the 14 AF, will establish a launch execution queue based on DoD, Civil and commercial mission pri-
    orities.

2. Responsibilities and Authorities.
    2.1. General.
       2.1.1. Mission. The Air Force must maintain a successful, robust, secure and modern spacelift
       capability to meet warfighter and other national security mission needs. Additionally, all organiza-
       tions involved with the spacelift mission must strive to meet this basic requirement at an afford-
       able cost. All launch and range operations employ contracted non-DoD agencies. To ensure proper
       mission conduct and contractor compliance, AF personnel should understand government rights
       and responsibilities embodied in contracts and their provisions. A general understanding of the
       contract between the AF and the contractor is of particular importance for commanders and mis-
       sion personnel. Individuals seeking guidance on contracts should contact the cognizant govern-
       ment contracting office.
       2.1.2. Safety. Safety is paramount in all aspects of launch and range operations and involves fol-
       lowing regulatory guidance as well as meeting safety requirements detailed in launch operations
       directives, instructions, manuals, plans and procedures. All personnel must comply with applica-
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                               3


     ble technical, procedural, safety, security and resource protection requirements, instructions and
     directives.
     2.1.3. Training. Mission success requires experience, effective training and evaluation programs,
     crew force management, proper maintenance practices, technical excellence, and adherence to
     Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) standards. Organizations and person-
     nel will comply with all applicable training, evaluation, crew force management, civilian person-
     nel and maintenance instructions, directives, requirements, and supplements.
  2.2. Organizational (See Attachment 2 for Organizational Structure).
     2.2.1. HQ AFSPC.
         2.2.1.1. Implement DoD, Air Staff and USSTRATCOM launch and range policy and guid-
         ance.
         2.2.1.2. Establish and oversee the MAJCOM Launch and Orbital Safety Program.
         2.2.1.3. Ensure subordinate operational units are organized in accordance with AFI 38-101,
         Air Force Organization.
         2.2.1.4. Advocate for the necessary resources (equipment, manpower, etc.) to meet, sustain
         and evolve launch capabilities, and to provide support to other external launch customers as
         required by directive, regulation and Public Law.
         2.2.1.5. Provide support to Air Staff on launch and range operations issues.
         2.2.1.6. Coordinate activities with other space operations stakeholders, to include DoD agen-
         cies, MRTFB ranges, NRO, MAJCOMs, NASA, Department of Transportation, Missile
         Defense Agency (MDA), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and FAA-licensed users
         (commercial launch agents).
         2.2.1.7. Support HQ AF Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment process, as required.
         2.2.1.8. Support all Combatant Command (COCOM) and NRO launch mishap investigations
         IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, AFMAN 91-222, Space Safety Investi-
         gations and Reports, and HQ AF direction.
            2.2.1.8.1. Fund and support investigation for NRO launch vehicle mishaps, with NRO
            providing support to the Safety Investigation Board (SIB), as required, if funding is statu-
            torily available.
            2.2.1.8.2. Support NRO-led investigation for payload pre-launch and payload
            launch-related mishaps not involving the launch vehicle.
         2.2.1.9. Operate and maintain the Launch Services Office (LSO). LSO provides a focal point
         for launch scheduling and forecasting for all current and potential National Security Space
         users of AF launch systems, commercial launch systems and NASA launch users services. The
         LSO provides a focal point for mission modeling and manifest development, review and
         approval and for launch history tracking, including performance (reliability) and schedule
         tracking (launch slips).
     2.2.2. Space and Missile Systems Center.
4                                                                       AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


       2.2.2.1. Responsible for the acquisition, readiness, sustainment, modernization and deploy-
       ment of space launch and satellite systems and services.
       2.2.2.2. For USAF launches, the SMC/CC is accountable for launch mission success and cer-
       tifies launch vehicle (LV) and AF satellite readiness. This includes mission direction and mis-
       sion authority responsibilities through satellite separation, including any post-separation
       mission requirement performed by the upper stage.
          2.2.2.2.1. SMC/CC delegates Day-of-Launch (DoL) operations to the Mission Director
          and Spacelift Commander (SLCC).
          2.2.2.2.2. At the launch site, SMC/CC’s accountability for the satellite vehicle (SV)/LV
          stack is through the Mission Director for COCOM missions. The SLCC directs operations
          on behalf of SMC/CC.
       2.2.2.3. SMC/CC will appoint, train and certify a Mission Director (MD) for every DoD
       launch of SMC-acquired launch systems/services. The NRO appoints an MD for NRO mis-
       sions.
       2.2.2.4. Ensure LV and applicable SV meets OSS&E requirements IAW AFI 63-1201.
       2.2.2.5. Ensure LV and SV meet all system requirements and capabilities documentation
       according to System Performance Requirements Document, Operational Requirements Docu-
       ment, Initial Capabilities Document, Capabilities Development Document, Capabilities Pro-
       duction Document, System Interface Specification, and other applicable requirements and
       specification documents.
       2.2.2.6. Define Space Flight Worthiness criteria for compliance from SV and LV System Pro-
       gram Directors (SPDs).
       2.2.2.7. Provide Space Wing/Launch Group (SW/LCG) with appropriate information to
       accomplish reporting IAW AFI 10-206.
       2.2.2.8. Provide appropriate delegation and direction from the SPDs to the Launch Group
       organizations allowing on-site support and surveillance for flight worthiness certification.
       2.2.2.9. Determine appropriate responses to launch vehicle or USAF-acquired satellite prob-
       lems, off-nominal indications or anomalies when flight worthiness of the integrated stack or
       associated aerospace ground equipment is in question. If required, lead an anomaly resolution
       team for the launch vehicle and USAF-acquired satellite, and prepare corrective actions in
       concert with other AFSPC organizations.
    2.2.3. Fourteenth Air Force
       2.2.3.1. Responsible to HQ AFSPC for command and control and employment of AF space
       forces to support operational plans and missions for US combatant commanders and air com-
       ponent commanders.
       2.2.3.2. Develop Operational Considerations to support Commander, USSTRATCOM
       requests.
       2.2.3.3. Develop Operations Orders and Operations Plans annexes and checklists.
       2.2.3.4. Review, implement and supplement launch and range operational and contingency
       policies and requirements established by DoD, AF and AFSPC directives and instructions.
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                              5


        2.2.3.5. Validate operational requirements, conceptual documents and situation report status.
        2.2.3.6. Monitor subordinate units’ range activities and provide assistance on compliance
        issues when resolution is beyond their scope and/or resources.
        2.2.3.7. Serves as the executive agent for the Current Launch Schedule Review Board process
        (Current Launch Schedule constitutes an execute order) and Constellation Sustainment
        Assessment Team.
        2.2.3.8. Review Operational Review Board minutes for issues occurring during spacelift gen-
        eration or recovery.
        2.2.3.9. Provide resources and participate in SIBs and Accident Investigation Boards (AIBs),
        as required by the SIB/AIB President.
        2.2.3.10. Ensure compliance with launch safety risk and casualty criteria and reporting
        requirements.
     2.2.4. Space Wing.
        2.2.4.1. Implement and supplement policies and requirements established by DoD, AF and
        AFSPC directives and instructions and ensure effective management and quality control of all
        applicable policies and requirements.
        2.2.4.2. Supervise subordinate operational activities, ensuring operational effectiveness. Pro-
        vide assistance on compliance issues to subordinate units when resolution is beyond their
        scope and/or resources.
        2.2.4.3. The SW/CC, as SLCC, is accountable for public safety, launch area safety and
        resource protection for all personnel, systems, government facilities, and equipment through-
        out all phases of LV processing and launch and range operations (with the exception of
        Kennedy Space Center as specified with 45 SW/NASA memorandum of agreements).
        2.2.4.4. Accountable to the SMC/CC for conduct of SMC-managed mission activities at the
        launch base, and accountable to 14 AF/CC for maintaining qualified/ready personnel, proce-
        dures, and government infrastructure for both SMC-managed launches and other launch range
        customers.
        2.2.4.5. Accountable to SMC/CC to ensure the LCG properly executes all SPD-delegated
        flight worthiness and mission processing responsibilities.
        2.2.4.6. Operate the range as part of the DoD MRTFB by providing government facilities and
        range services to all authorized users.
        2.2.4.7. As the SLCC, conduct a Launch Readiness Review (LRR) prior to each launch oper-
        ation.
        2.2.4.8. Appoint an interim SIB president IAW AFI 91-204.
        2.2.4.9. Ensure range readiness for launch operations and verifying the operations are safe to
        proceed.
        2.2.4.10. Ensure all necessary operational support is provided to authorized programs as
        defined by the Universal Documentation System (UDS).
6                                                                           AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


           2.2.4.11. Responsible to SMC/CC for assessing, through the LCG, all phases of DoD space
           launch processing and launch execution and participating in critical phases to mitigate risk for
           mission success.
           2.2.4.12. Provide Program Analysts to prepare and coordinate cost estimates, manage the cus-
           tomer Job Order Numbers (JON), and serve as primary customer point of contact for cost and
           funding information and the resolution of any questioned charges.
           2.2.4.13. Approve mission flight rules.
    2.3. Positions (See Attachment 3 for Day of Launch Execution Chart).
       2.3.1. Spacelift Commander (SLCC): The SW/CC serves as the SLCC, exercising launch deci-
       sion authority for DoL activities or delegates the SLCC function to a trained and certified SLCC.
       For all operations, the SLCC ensures the safety of the public and protection of resources. Addi-
       tionally, the SLCC: issues the final “clear to launch” and exercises waiver authority for mandatory
       launch safety requirements.
       2.3.2. Mission Director (MD):
           2.3.2.1. Accountable to SMC/CC for mission “Go/No-Go” decision and passes that notifica-
           tion to the SLCC.
           2.3.2.2. Monitors SV and LV processing and ensure SV and LV System Program Offices meet
           space flight worthiness criteria.
           2.3.2.3. Participate in the Flight Readiness Review, presenting it to the SMC/CC.
           2.3.2.4. Participate in LRR process and support launch countdown operations.
           2.3.2.5. Ensure all LV and SV anomalies affecting flight worthiness are successfully miti-
           gated/resolved. Lead DoL LV and SV teams through countdown, launch and satellite separa-
           tion.
           2.3.2.6. Ensure a thorough Post-Flight Review is conducted for every mission after launch to
           assess the performance of the launch vehicle, satellite and ground systems.
           2.3.2.7. For DoD missions, the MD will successfully complete the SMC MD training program
           and be certified by the SMC/CC as Mission Support IAW AFSPCI 10-1202 and SMC guid-
           ance.
       2.3.3. Operations Director (OD):
           2.3.3.1. The OG/CC or his/her designated representative who is trained and certified in the
           OD position, serves as OD in DoL activities.
           2.3.3.2. Report range readiness to the SLCC and ensure all range resources are capable and
           ready to support range operations.
           2.3.3.3. Oversee countdown and advise SLCC on range operational issues.
       2.3.4. Air Force Launch Director (AFLD):
           2.3.4.1. The appropriate SLS/CC normally serves as AFLD for program DoL activities or del-
           egates the AFLD function to a trained and certified AFLD.
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                               7


          2.3.4.2. Lead the squadron launch team and advise the MD and SLCC during the launch
          countdown.
          2.3.4.3. Provide senior-level guidance to the Air Force launch team.
          2.3.4.4. Coordinate status and actions with Range Operations Commander (ROC).
          2.3.4.5. (Delta II) Collect “Go/No-Go” responses from the Air Force Launch Crew Com-
          mander and both the SV and LV site managers before passing “Go/No-Go” recommendation
          to the MD.
          2.3.4.6. (Delta II) Exercise launch vehicle and satellite system waiver authority on behalf of
          the launch agency as delegated by the MD.

3. Interfacing Publications. This instruction interfaces with AFPD 10-12, Space; AFPD 63-12/AFI
63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E); AFPD 63-15, USAF
Space Flight Worthiness Certification; and AFI 12-108, Maintenance Management of Space Systems.



                                         CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS, Space & Information Operations, Plans & Requirements
8                                                                       AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 February 1996
AFPD 63-12, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E), 1 February 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A3—Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLD—Air Force Launch Director
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AIB—Accident Investigation Board
CC—Commander
COCOM—Combatant Command
DoL—Day of Launch
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
IAW—In Accordance With
LRR—Launch Readiness Review
LSO—Launch Services Office
LTRS—Launch and Test Range Systems
LV—Launch Vehicle
MD—Mission Director
MRTFB—Major Range and Test Facility Base
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
OD—Operations Director
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
ROC—Range Operations Commander
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
SLCC—Spacelift Commander
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                                  9


SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SPD—System Program Director
SV—Satellite Vehicle
SW—Space Wing
USAF—United States Air Force
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command

Terms
Acceptance—Government acceptance of the results of a contractor-executed test procedure or task and
acceptance of close-out/disposition of all anomalies or out-of-family/out-of-spec data associated with that
procedure or task. Acceptance will be performed by one, or a combination of the following agencies:
SPO, SLS, and RMS (depending on the subject). The Aerospace Corporation will provide a technical
recommendation on acceptance or rejection to the Air Force. Acceptance takes on two forms: One is an
acceptance of items/processes/procedures as required by the contract; the other is technical acceptance
that the contractor’s actions have adequately resolved any anomalies/non-conformances and satisfies
Flight/Task Certification Matrix requirements.
Air Force Spacelift Operations—The USAF insight/oversight/assessment of contractor personnel
performing launch and range operations.
Annual—When used as a requirement, the term “annual” refers to a 12-month interval.
Anomaly—An unexpected or unplanned condition that does not meet provided system performance
parameters and which cannot be corrected by organizational maintenance resources in accordance with
validated procedures. After analysis, an “out-of-family” condition could be declared an anomaly.
Anomaly Resolution—The process to resolve an anomaly. An anomaly resolution team will be formed
to resolve/disposition all system anomalies. This team may consist of AFSPC, contractors, and any other
personnel needed to resolve the anomaly.
Approval—Approval signifies AFSPC approval/acceptance/coordination IAW AFSPC instructions and
Memorandum of Agreements.
Combatant Command (COCOM)—Nontransferable authority established by Title 10, United States
Code, Section 164, exercised only by commanders of unified or specified combatant commands.
COCOM (command authority) is the authority of a Combatant Commander to perform those functions of
command over assigned forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning
tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations,
joint training, and logistics necessary to accomplish the missions assigned to the command.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—HQ AFSPC/XO- designated personnel who have completed Enlisted
or Officer Space Prerequisite Training, Space or Missile Initial Qualification Training (if available), and
Unit Qualification Training, and have been successfully evaluated and certified by a certifying official.
CMR personnel are responsible for completing a unit’s real-time operational mission and should not be
confused with those providing mission critical support functions. Examples of CMR crew positions are
those with individuals who command satellites, accept custody of missile sorties, control space launch
countdown processing, and physically control warning and surveillance systems.
10                                                                           AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


Contract Administration/Surveillance—Active surveillance of contractor performance to ensure
compliance with various contract or statement of work requirements. Examples include safety, quality
assurance, security, property management, and base support. Surveillance tasks may be performed by the
contracting office or delegated to another government office, which has resident expertise and/or is
co-located with contractor operations.
Contract Management—Active management of the contract and/or contractor by the contracting officer
for the purpose of ensuring satisfactory delivery of end items meeting USAF requirements. This includes
such activities as contract negotiation and business clearance, as delegated by SMC.
Current Launch Schedule Review Board (CLSRB)—Provides a semi-annual review of all launch
activity at the 30th and 45th Space Wings. It approves the Space Launch Manifest (3 year), and the
Current Launch Schedule (18 months).
Data Review—Government review of all data, resulting from completion of a contractor-executed test
procedure or task, required for government acceptance of that test procedure or task. Data from
contractor-run tests and procedures will be reviewed by SPO, SLS, Aerospace, and/or AFQA according to
the Flight Certification Matrix. This data review is to ensure the test/procedure produced the desired
results, to identify any anomaly/non-conformances, and to develop trend data.
Flight Readiness—SW-led responsibility to orchestrate and conduct pre-launch countdown activities
IAW approved procedures to prepare the integrated launch vehicle and satellite for flight. These activities
include such processes as conducting final satellite power-up and testing, launch vehicle propellant
loading and final propulsion, electrical and hydraulic system checks and tests, and verification that
necessary range assets and facilities are mission capable.
Flight Readiness Review—Provides SMC/CC with hardware and software mission status for the launch
vehicle, the satellite, and/or critical ground systems, as well as associated interfaces. Required for all
missions where the SMC/CC is responsible for the certification of the mission, launch vehicle, satellite or
critical ground system, and FRR is presented to the SMC/CC or a designated representative. The briefing
takes place following SV and LV integration.
Flight/Section Supervision—Flight Supervision is composed of a flight commander and/or a flight
superintendent/OIC and NCOICs with sufficient background and knowledge required to manage sections
under their authority in support of the mission.
Flight Worthiness—SMC-led process to ensure the design meets the requirements, the hardware is built
in accordance with that design, and the processes and procedures used in the factory and at the launch
base meet the requirements. Additionally, launch base processing is completed in accordance with the
approved procedures, and that any anomalous conditions are resolved.
Independent Readiness Reviews—A review to assess the readiness status of any or all aspects of
mission or launch readiness elements directed by the Commander, AFSPC.
Independent Validation and Verification (IV&V)—An independent technical review performed by an
organization that is technically, managerially, and financially independent of the development
organization.
Insight—The government gaining an understanding of the contractor’s progress to meet their contract’s
requirements through watchful observation.
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                                  11


Job Order Number (JON)—A unique number assigned to an account that a contractor and the
government uses to charge program-related expenses (including labor and materials).
Launch Failure—Satellite did not achieve orbit.
Launch Mishap—Any AF launch-related incident which results in damage to government or
non-government property, illness or injury to or the death of government or non-government personnel, or
failure of a USAF-managed launch system to deliver a satellite to its intended orbit. This includes but is
not limited to catastrophic destruction of the launch vehicle, failures involving the upper stage delivery
system, or an anomaly or degradation of a component or components resulting in mission failure.
Launch Processing—Launch base performance of engineering, operations, and maintenance tasks
associated with flight hardware/software and support equipment (SE) (i.e., AGE, RP, and RPIE) to
employ the integrated spacelift vehicle consisting of the launch vehicle, upper stage, and satellite.
Launch Processing Management—Functions performed by the Space Wing and associated SMC
representative to manage contractor launch processing actions in accordance with the contract and
appropriate delegations.
Launch Readiness Review (LRR)—The LRR is a structured review organized by the AFSPC launch
wing and presented to the launch wing commander. The LRR provides a final pre-launch readiness
assessment.
Launch Response Team (LRT)—Team chaired by AFSPC/CV and formed prior to launch for all
COCOM and NRO launches. LRT will not be formed for FAA-licensed launches. Team informs HQ
AFSPC directorates of upcoming COCOM and NRO launches and responds in case of a launch mishap.
Majority of team activities reside around press releases and accident board personnel/resource
requirements.
Launch Service—A capability provided by a contractor to place a space system into orbit. Launch
services include the launch vehicle hardware and the processing necessary to launch the satellite into
orbit.
Launch/Test Operations—The execution of operations focused on efficient and coordinated
employment of all launch assets/processes to enable the safe and timely launch of payloads and test
vehicles.
Launch Verification Matrix—The EELV SPO tool that describes for each mission a prioritized set of
tasks, processes, and resources required to meet SMC flight worthiness criteria.
Mission Assurance—Accomplished through the contractor’s demonstration of their production,
operation, maintenance, and problem resolution processes with government personnel performing
surveillance to ensure these processes result in an acceptable level of mission risk to the government.
Mission Failure—For any reason the satellite does not achieve the specified final orbit in the mission
specific Interface Control Document (ICD) or is not able to reach an operational status.
Maintenance Functions—Launch base transport, assembly, checkout, preparation, corrective
maintenance, and preventative maintenance inspections of spacelift vehicles, payloads, space launch
complexes, support equipment (SE); and real property (RP) that support launch activities. Includes MEPs
and REs performing surveillance of contractor launch processing activities to assess risk and suitability of
contractor-performed actions.
12                                                                             AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB)—A national asset that is manned, operated, and
maintained primarily for DoD test and evaluation support missions. The ER and WR primary MRTFB
mission is spacelift.
Operation Plans (OPLAN)/Operation Order (OPORD)—A plan or a series of connected operations
to be carried out simultaneously. It is usually based upon stated assumptions and is in the form of
directives employed by higher authority to permit subordinate commanders to prepare supporting plans
and orders. The designation “plan” is usually used instead of “order” preparing for operations well in
advance. An operation plan may be put into effect at a prescribed time, or on a signal, and then becomes
an operation order.
Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E)—Process for establishing and preserving
the safety, suitability, and effectiveness of Air Force systems and end-items over the entire operational life
by preserving technical integrity via prudent use of disciplined engineering practices, assurance of proper
operations and maintenance, effective supply systems, and field utilization and maintenance trends
feedback to systems program offices.
Oversight—Maintaining watchful care or supervision over projects, processes, information, systems,
and/or services.
Public Safety—Safety involving risks to the general public of the United States or foreign countries and/
or their property.
Range Operations—Any procedure that requires the use of Range resources. The execution of
operations focused on efficient and coordinated employment of all range assets and processes to enable
the safe and timely launch of payloads and test vehicles.
Range Users Coordination Board (RUCB)—An operational committee sponsored by HQ AFSPC to
provide a continuing working forum between AFSPC, SMC, spacelift range users, and industry to
exchange information on business, technical and operational practices related to the Eastern and Western
Ranges at Patrick and Vandenberg AFBs. The RUCB supports the Commercial Space Industry Leaders
(CSIL) conference established by AFSPC/CC. The RUCB is established to share ideas, plans and
concerns for the Eastern and Western Ranges. It will serve as a clearing house for key industry, civil and
military leaders to discuss business, technical and operational practices related to the Eastern and Western
Ranges, and forward participant's issues, comments, and concerns to the CSIL conference for presentation
or responses in other more appropriate forums.
Real Property (RP)—Land, buildings, structures, utilities, improvements and appurtenances thereto.
Includes equipment attached to, and made part of, buildings and structures but not movable equipment.
Primarily consisting of facilities and other non-equipment support system infrastructure.
Space Launch Operations—Actions conducted by USAF and/or contractor personnel at the launch base
to command and control spacelift systems (i.e., launch countdown, integrated system test, etc.).
Spacelift—The ability to project power by transporting people and materiel to and/or through space, to
include test launches and sub-orbital missions. This includes the deployment, sustainment, and
augmentation of satellite constellations by delivering space systems to the required orbit.
Spacelift Operations—Actions conducted by contractor personnel at the launch base to control and
execute spacelift systems (i.e. launch countdown, countdown simulations, integrated systems
verifications, dress rehearsals, etc.).
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                                                                              13


Universal Documentation System (UDS)—The UDS provides a common language and format for
stating program, mission, and test requirements and supporting documentation.
Verify—To review, inspect, test, check, measure, audit or otherwise confirm that products, processes, or
documents conform to specified requirements. Verification may be performed after work completion, e.g.,
safety wiring.
14                                                      AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006


                                         Attachment 2

                             ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

Figure A2.1. Organizational Structure.
AFI10-1211 17 JULY 2006                 15


Figure A2.2. Day of Launch Execution.
