BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-202 VOLUME 2
MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                           MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                         28 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                            AIRCREW STANDARDIZATION/EVALUATION
                                                                      PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 22 OG/OGV                                                          Certified by: 22 OG/CC
                                                                         (Col Thomas J. Riney)
                                                                                        Pages: 8
Supersedes:   AFI11-202V2_AMCSUP_
              MCCONNELLAFBSUP,
              16 October 2008


AFI11-202, Volume 2, 13 September 2010, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program and
AFI 11-202, Volume 2_AMCSUP, 2 Mar 2011, are supplemented as follows. This supplement
implements local guidance for governing the 22d Operations Group Aircrew
Standardization/Evaluation Program. It is used in conjunction with the AMC supplement to AFI
11-202V2. This instruction is applicable to all 22 ARW aircrews and unless noted in the text; it
does not apply to the 931 ARG, Associate Reserve Unit (AFRC). Forward all recommended
changes to this supplement to 22 OG/OGV. The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this instruction.
The Privacy act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resources Management System
(ARMS) covers required information. The authority for maintenance of ARMS is Title 37 U.S.C.
301a (Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriation Act for 1973). Public
Law 93-570 (Appropriations Act For 1974), 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974),
and Executive Order 9397. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
 2                            AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012


Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The following
is a synopsis of changes set forth in this revision: describes procedures for review and quality
control of AF Forms 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification (para 3.2.2.2.1.); defines flight
evaluation folder (FEF) review and maintenance (para 3.2.2.3.); defines unit trends program
(para 3.2.2.5.); explains unit supplementary evaluation program (para 3.2.2.6); defines unit
manuals control process (para 3.2.2.9.4.); removes DOV stan/eval pyramid evaluations;
describes squadron review and certification (R&C) board requirements (para 3.3.2.12.3.3.);
describes flight examiner certification/decertification program (para 4.2.5.); defines unit no-
notice program (para 5.2.6.3.3.); defines additional training follow-up (para 5.3.2.2.2.5.);
removes letter of X’s designated certifying officials; removes classified examinations; describes
electronic examinations (para 6.3.2.); describes Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) system
(para 9.1.1.).
3.2.2.2.1. (Added) Procedures for Review and Quality Control of AF Forms 8, Certificate of
Aircrew Qualification. DOVs will use the “Evaluation Activity Checklist” for proper review and
quality control procedures of AF Forms 8.
3.2.2.2.1.2. (Added) Less than Q-1 Activity Documentation Procedures. All AF Forms 8 with
qualification levels of 2, 3, or 3/1 will be reviewed for technical accuracy by OGV prior to DOV
reviewing officer signature or final approving officer signature for commander-directed
downgrades. Sq DOVs are responsible for routing all less than Q-1 evaluations through OGV
for review and stamp after examinee signature is completed.
3.2.2.3. FEF Review and Maintenance. SQ/DOVs will store and maintain FEFs for each of their
assigned and attached crew members. Conduct initial, posting and annual reviews using the most
current version of the “AMC Standards Guide FEF Review Worksheet.” Annotate minor
discrepancies in a minor discrepancy log.
3.2.2.5. Trends Program. The goal of the trends program is to recognize positive and negative
trends and recommend/initiate required changes to training programs to reverse negative trends.
All examiners will complete an evaluation worksheet (AF Form 3862, Aircrew Evaluation
Worksheet) following flight evaluations to record trend information. Trends are validated at the
group level and reported/tracked during subsequent SEB action until closed. DOVs will
administer their respective squadron’s trends program utilizing the OGV trends process guide.
The OGV trends program POC will work directly with the OGV SEB POC to incorporate trend
information into the quarterly SEB.
3.2.2.5.3. Navigator Basic Qualification (NBQ) Trends. NBQ trends for both assigned
instructors and students are gathered, analyzed and reported separately during SEB.
3.2.2.6. Supplementary Evaluation Program. The purpose of this program is to provide feedback
on identified areas of aircrew performance, training, or support. Program administration is
maintained by OGV. Supplemental evaluation results will be reported to the unit commander and
operations officer and subsequently presented at the quarterly SEB. All 22 OG flight instructors
and evaluators may perform ground and flight supplemental evaluations. Instructors and flight
AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                                  3


examiners performing in-flight supplementary evaluations may act as primary crew members
and perform instructor/flight examiner duties while conducting supplementary evaluations.
3.2.2.7.2.1.1. (Added) SEB Data Gathering Process. DOVs and NBQ will submit required data
to the OGV POC by the first business day of the month of the following quarter (i.e. 1 Jan, 1
Apr, 1 Jul or 1 Oct).
3.2.2.7.3. SEB Composition. The SEB is chaired by the OG/CC and conducted by OGV. The
following are invited and will normally attend: OG/CC, OG/CD, OGV, all SQ/CCs, squadron
DOV, OST, HARM, NBQ, ATS contractor and 22 ARW/SE.
3.2.2.9.1. (Added) Administration. The 22 OG/OGV Technical Order Distribution Office
(TODO) is administered IAW T.O. 00-5-1. Each flying unit within the 22 OG, the 931 ARG, the
NBQ, and the ATS contractors have a Technical Order Distribution Account (TODA) within the
22 OG/OGV TODO.
3.2.2.9.2. (Added) Control and Distribution. OGV maintains the TODO using the Enhanced
Technical Information Management System (ETIMS). The OGV TODO will track and update
TODA requirements using ETIMS software and return updated distribution lists to TODAs, as
required.
3.2.2.9.2.1. (Added) Each TODA is responsible for establishing and maintaining unit manuals
control and distribution processes. As a minimum, TODAs will establish manuals control
processes for the following: individual crew member publications in/out processing, establishing
T.O. sub account management, FCIF library maintenance and unit publications kit maintenance.
3.2.2.9.2.2. (Added) Each squadron will be issued technical order quantities based on
established TODA requirements. These requirements will include attached and on-loan crew
members. Interim operational and safety supplements and other digital products not delivered in
printed format will be posted on the OGV website for unit download and TODA reproduction as
required. Local printing or Defense Automated Print Service (DAPS) work order is authorized.
3.2.2.9.2.3. (Added) E-Pubs Program Management of Digital Media. The Boeing ECS Server
will be used as the source for electronic technical order information or as directed by approved
EFB MDM processes. The AF E-Publications website is the primary source of regulatory
guidance.
3.2.2.9.3. (Added) OGV personnel will release flight manuals and changes via FCIF after
formal release from AMC/A3V. OGV will notify aircrew of all technical order changes via
FCIF. Upon receipt of the FCIF item, TODAs will pick-up their allocated number of copies from
OGV as soon as possible. Personnel picking up allocation will inventory and sign for the
products they receive. OGV will update the Volume 1 Part A FCIF library Table of Contents
(TOC) and the publications kit inventory upon release. Unit DOVs are responsible for routine
maintenance and upkeep of publications kit contents. Aircraft commanders are responsible for
verifying the currency of issued unit flight publications kits prior to flight.
3.2.2.9.4. (Added) Publications Required by Crew Position. Publications are issued to
individuals as required by AFI 11-2KC-135V3, C/KC-135 Operations Procedures. Individually-
issued publications are tracked in each unit via a publications issue log. Crew members will be
held accountable for the currency of all individually-issued publications.
 4                             AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012


3.2.2.9.5. (Added) Annual Publications Review. TODAs will ensure an annual review is
conducted and documented for each unit-assigned flight manual IAW T.O. 00-5-1.
3.2.2.10. AF Form 847 Program. All 22d Operations Group-generated AF Forms 847 must be
coordinated with OGV. Crew members will submit AF Forms 847 to their respective DOV, who
will screen content, properly format AF Forms 847, and then forward to OGV. Crew members
will not normally submit AF Forms 847 directly to OGV. OGV monitors the progress of
submitted AF Forms 847 via AMC A3V website until implementation or non-concurrence by
HHQ. The status of outstanding AF Forms 847 is discussed during the SEB.
3.2.2.18.6.1. (Added) Navigator Basic Qualification (NBQ) Course Pyramid Evaluation
System. OGV will evaluate the chief navigator assigned to the NBQ.
3.2.3.1. 22 OG/OGV Manning. Operations Group Stan/Eval chief flight examiner will be a pilot
or navigator.
3.2.3.3. Air refueling receiver pilot flight examiner expertise will be maintained by OGV. OGV
is authorized to maintain an additional air refueling receiver-qualified flight examiner pilot. If a
receiver pilot flight examiner is not assigned to OGV then the Chief receiver pilot flight
examiner position may be assigned to a squadron or attached receiver pilot flight examiner
designated by OGV.
3.2.3.4. OGV may also include as a minimum one administrative support staff or
standardization/evaluation liaison officer (SELO) as required.
3.3.2.12.3.1. R&C Board Requirements for Attached Crew Members. When attached crew
members require an R&C Board, their attached squadron will convene the board, and it will be
chaired by the flying squadron certifying official. 22 OG/OGV provides oversight of the 22 OG
R&C Board program to ensure squadron DOVs are convening R&C boards when required,
accomplishing required actions and correctly documenting board proceedings.
3.3.2.12.3.3. Squadron Review and Certification (R&C) Board Requirements. DOVs will
ensure all applicable paperwork (utilizing the 22 OG/OGV R&C Board Checklist located on the
22 OGV SharePoint) is prepared before the R&C Board and presented to the certifying official
or examinee for signature during the board. DOVs will also sign the Stan/Eval Representative
block on the AF Form 4324, normally prepared by the squadron’s training section.
3.3.3.4. NBQ Flight Examiner Manning. When the NBQ schoolhouse requires assigned
instructors to be flight examiners to meet student flight evaluation demands, they will be
appointed by their attached-for-flying squadron commander and documented on their attached-
for-flying unit’s flight examiner roster.
4.2.5. (Added) Flight Examiner Certification/Decertification Program.
4.2.5.1. (Added) Certification Procedures. Crew members who have never been a flight
examiner will accomplish all steps; preferably in this sequence (SQ/CCs are exempt from this
checkout program. SQ/DOs must complete this program):
4.2.5.1.1. (Added) Review AFI 11-202V2 and AFI 11-2KC-135V2 and supplements.
4.2.5.1.2. (Added) Complete all flight examiner related Computer-Based Training (CBTs).
4.2.5.1.3. (Added) Review the Evaluator Training Process Guide and Attachments to include
the Evaluator Workbook located on the 22 OG/OGV SharePoint.
AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                                    5


4.2.5.1.4. (Added) Accomplish an “over-the-shoulder” flight evaluation with an examiner of
like specialty. The flight examiner will administer the evaluation and sign the AF Form 8, not
the trainee. The goal of the over-the-shoulder sortie is for the trainee to observe performance of
examiner duties to include: the mission briefing, the examiner briefing, the EPE, the evaluation
debrief, and completion of AF Forms 3862 and AF Forms 8.
4.2.5.1.5. (Added) Meet with assigned/attached unit DOV chief.
4.2.5.1.6. (Added) Meet with a like-specialty OGV crew member if not previously
accomplished during the over-the-shoulder flight evaluation. This meeting does not replace the
examiner’s Review & Certification board or the interview with the examiner’s DOV chief.
4.2.5.1.7. (Added) Patriot Excalibur (PEX) familiarization with unit DOV to include
completion of AF Forms 8 and 942 and evaluation worksheet (i.e. AF Form 3862).
4.2.5.1.8. (Added) Accomplish Review & Certification process IAW AFI 11-202V2, AMC
supplement, and this supplement.
4.2.5.2. (Added) Previously-Certified Flight Examiners. Previously-certified flight examiners
need only accomplish items in paragraphs 4.2.5.1.5. and 4.2.5.1.8.; however, all steps are
encouraged to ensure the examiner has a thorough understanding of all governing instructions
and electronic data management tools.
4.2.5.3. (Added) Flight Examiner Decertification. Individuals no longer required to perform
unit evaluation duties will be removed from their attached unit’s assigned flight examiner letter
and changes will be forwarded to OGV.
4.2.5.5. (Added) Flight Examiner Certification. Update DOV Flight Examiner Listing to
reflect changes and forward to OGV.
5.2.6.3.3. (Added) No-Notice Evaluation Program/Goals.
5.2.6.3.3.1. (Added) The no-notice program encompasses flight evaluations and boom operator
cargo loading evaluations.
5.2.6.3.3.2. (Added) Boom operator N/N cargo evaluations (non-verbal) may account for a
maximum of 50% of a unit’s boom operator annual N/N goals.
5.2.6.3.3.3. (Added) Adjustments for unit deployment rates are at the discretion of the 22
OG/CC.
5.3.1.3. (Added) Procedures for Less-Than-Q-1 (Examination, Ground or Flight Activity).
Examiners observing any less than Q-1 activity will immediately notify SQ/CC, or SQ/DO, and
the DOV chief and discuss all pertinent factors to ensure the examiner recommends appropriate
additional training. If observed activity results in unqualified or supervised status, implement
Go/No-Go safeguards with unit DO, SARM and training.
5.3.2.2.2.5. (Added) Additional Training Follow-up. DOV Monitoring. Consider using R&C
process for determining corrective course of action and progress reviews. DOV will be
responsible for scheduling a recheck as required.
5.5.3.1. Completion and Documentation of Flight Evaluation Requisites. Crew members are
responsible for completing periodic evaluation requisites prior to flight. DOVs will use the
“Evaluation Activity Checklist” to ensure all requisites are completed prior to conducting
 6                             AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012


periodic evaluations and appropriate agencies are informed of all evaluation activity. This
checklist can be found in the 22 OG/OGV Flight Evaluation Folders Process Guide. The
evaluatee’s DOV is responsible for scheduling, controlling and tracking evaluation activity.
5.6.1.3. Additional Training and Requalification Evaluations. Examiners and instructors
involved in the corrective training of the individual being re-evaluated will not administer the
recheck without SQ/CC consent and OG/CC approval.
6.3.1.1. (Added) Aircrew Examination Program Administration. OGV will be the centralized
examination facility for the 22 OG. OGV will maintain a suitable examination area, to include
access to all materials necessary to complete all requisite examinations. Examinations will be
administered by OGV personnel. DOV personnel may proctor examinations in OGV with prior
OGV coordination and approval. Crew members will not remove examination materials from the
examination area. The examination proctor will ensure the exam is required and ensure the
examinee understands the test instructions prior to beginning the exam. Requisite completion
will be tracked by DOVs in PEX. DOVs and individual crew members are responsible to ensure
completion of requisite examination requirements at home station within the eligibility period.
6.3.2. Electronic Examinations. All unclassified examinations will be computer generated from
secure question banks (SQB) or master question files (MQF) embedded in PEX. OGV will create
templates for all unclassified requisite examinations by crew position and qualification. Test
structure is detailed in the OGV examination program process guide. Open book tests will be
derived from the SQB. Closed book tests will be derived from the MQF.
6.4.4. Examination Question Review. OGV will maintain a test validation log to track possible
bad questions. The POC will use the validation log when updating SQBs.
6.8.2. Grading Examinations. Examination proctors of like-specialty have the authority to
determine the validity of, and answer questions pertaining to, exam questions. If it is necessary to
“throw out” a question, annotate the question in the test validation log and notify the OGV
examination POC. After grading an exam, the proctor will ensure the examination score is
reflected in PEX or equivalent testing module is updated.
6.10. Unit Periodic Examination Program. 22 OG does not participate in the optional periodic
examination program.
7.3.8.6. Immediately after evaluation completion, flight examiners will submit the completed
evaluation worksheet (i.e. AF Form 3862) to the SARM office for input into ARMS and provide
a copy to the examinee’s DOV. DOVs are normally responsible for producing the AF Form 8
for review and signature and posting either the draft AF Form 8 or the evaluation worksheet as
the temporary record of the flight evaluation in the examinee’s FEF until final AF Form 8 is
complete. The evaluator that administers the checkride is responsible for ensuring the AF Form
8 is accurate and is completed through his or her signature. DOVs are responsible for ensuring
the AF Form 8 is completed and filed in the FEF in the prescribed time limit.
7.8.6.2.1.1. Flight Evaluation Folder (FEF) Minor Discrepancy Disposition. Each unit DOV will
maintain a consolidated record of minor FEF discrepancies organized by crew position and filed
alphabetically. Records can be removed from the discrepancy log once crew members are no
longer attached to the unit for flying. DOVs may transfer minor discrepancy information with
FEF to gaining DOVs for crew members transferring between flying units while stationed at
McConnell.
AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                                   7


8.2.1. Flight Surgeon Examinations. Online open book examination is located at
https//:AFIADL.mont.disa.mil. Flight surgeons may test at a location of their choice. DOVs
will track expiration through PEX or equivalent electronic testing module and submit an AF
Form 1522 to SARM after receipt of certificate of successful completion.
9.1.1. Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) Program. Flight Crew Information File (FCIF). OGV
is the OPR for the 22 OG FCIF Program. DOVs may maintain a Squadron Read File(s) which is
used to disseminate policy applicable only to the respective squadron. Squadron Read files are
not related to the FCIF Program nor administered by OGV. If DOVs elect to maintain a
Squadron Read File, unit commander’s will define applicability and accountability of review for
attached fliers in squadron operating instructions.
9.1.1.1. (Added) Off-Station FCIF Procedures.
9.1.1.1.1. (Added) Austere Location Deployed FCIF Procedures. The lead squadron staff’s
DOV will build a “Deployed FCIF Binder,” containing all contents of the current Vol I Part B
and C, for use at the deployed location. This information will supplement the local/theater
current read file. The deployed location FCIF POC will send a message to OGV via e-mail to
ensure connectivity for future FCIFs. OGV will notify deployed POC of updates FCIFs via email
until connectivity is established through PEX or 22 OGV website. Crew members at deployed
locations must use an AMC Form 396 at the deployed location unless the deployed location can
establish PEX, or equivalent electronic FCIF module use for crew members.
9.1.1.1.2. (Added) Established Location Deployed FCIF Procedures. Established deployed
units will be responsible for maintaining their own FCIF procedures and library. Current 22
ARW Vol I Part B and C are available to deployed units for their use as required.
9.1.1.1.3. (Added) Enroute FCIF Support. Crew members in the enroute system will exercise
due diligence in accessing McConnell FCIF information system by any means available (Ex:
PEX, 22 OG website, Sharepoint, Phone call).
9.1.2. Electronic FCIF System. Volume I and electronic products available as parts of Volumes
II through IV are posted on the OGV website and maintained by OGV.
9.1.4. PEX FCIF Review. OGV will issue all current read file items for Vol 1 Part B and C. The
931 ARG is also governed by Part B, unless the FCIF read file item specifically exempts AFRC
aircrews. Locally-generated read files directly affecting 931 ARG operations will be pre-
coordinated with 931 OG/OGV prior to release. The OGV FCIF POC will maintain primary
responsibility of issuing, maintaining, and rescinding FCIF read file items via PEX and the OGV
website.
9.3.3. (Added) Go/No-Go Positive Control Procedures. Ensure the following items have been
reviewed:
All members of the crew are current and qualified, or supervised.
All required briefing items have been accomplished.
All crew members are medically cleared to fly.
All crew members have all required equipment and clothing.
All crew members have signed off all applicable FCIF Part B current read file items.
All crew members are physically capable of safely performing the mission and have sufficient
 8                             AFI11-202V2_MCCONNELLAFBSUP 28 NOVEMBER 2012


crew rest.
All crew members are mission ready (deployments).
All crew members have completed deployment checklists (deployments).
All crew members have received an intelligence update (off station, if applicable).



9.3.3.1. (Added) Home Station Go/No-Go Procedures. Go/No-Go verification will be initially
conducted by a qualified SARM specialist, subsequently approved by the flight authorization
approving official and reviewed by the aircraft commander. Aircraft commanders will document
review by initialing the Flight Authorization (FA). Additional crew members will not be added
after the FA is authenticated without explicit permission from a FA approving official assigned
to the squadron responsible for the mission. Once approved, the aircraft commander will
complete Go/No-Go verification and sign the appropriate block on the FA.
9.3.3.2. (Added) Off-Station Go/No-Go Procedures. Aircraft Commanders will exercise due
diligence to determine proper Go/No-Go review is accomplished and that a competent command
authority has authorized the addition of new crew members to the mission.




                                             RICKY N. RUPP, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 22 Air Refueling Wing
