BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          25 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                   Intelligence

                                                  INTELLIGENCE CONTINGENCY FUNDS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2RN                                                              Certified by: AF/A2R
                                                                          (Mr. Kenneth Dumm)
                                                                                      Pages: 23
Supersedes:   AFI 14-101, 30 April 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Air Force Intelligence,
Surveillance and Reconnaissance Planning, Resources, and Operations. It provides guidance
and procedures for executing the Air Force Intelligence Contingency Funds (ICF) program. This
publication applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard
(ANG), and Department of the Air Force (AF) Civilians. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. This publication may
be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. ICF managers must publish a
command supplement for expense or procedures not covered in this publication. IAW AFI 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management, compliance waiver requests must be submitted
through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority. The publication
certifying official is the waiver authority for non-compliance items; these requests must be
submitted through the chain-of-command to the publication OPR.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The organization formerly designated as Headquarters Air Force Resource Manager is now
Secretary of the Air Force, Resource Directorate (SAF/AAR). The guidance for managing ICF
 2                                                                                     AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


gift inventories, end-of-year reporting requirements and formats are enhanced to better support
SAF/AAR congressional reporting requirements. Risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks
assigned to unit (wing or equivalent, and below, direct reporting unit (DRU), or field operating
agency [FOA]) level were added to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance.


        1.     OVERVIEW. .........................................................................................................    2
        2.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                       2
        3.     ICF REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION. ...............................................................                            4
Figure 3.1.    ICF Incentive Gift Inventory List. .........................................................................           7
Figure 3.2.    ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List. ..........................................................................           9
        4.     QUARTERLY REPORTS. ....................................................................................               12
Figure 4.1.    Part I – ICF Congressional Report. ........................................................................           14
Figure 4.2.    Part II – Execution Report-Field Activity. .............................................................              16
Figure 4.3.    ICF Inventory Value Report. .................................................................................         18
        5.     AUDITING, REVIEWING AND INSPECTING ACCOUNTS. ..........................                                               19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       20


1. OVERVIEW. Authority for Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses (E&EE) is found in
Title 10, United States Code (USC), Section 127 (10 USC 127), Emergency and Extraordinary
Expenses. Section 127(a) states, "Subject to the limitations of subsection (c), and within the
limitation of appropriations made for the purpose, the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector
General of the Department of Defense (DoD), and the Secretary of a military department within
his department, may provide for any emergency and extraordinary expenses which cannot be
anticipated or classified." ICF expenditures are generally considered extraordinary due to the
confidential military purposes; therefore, they cannot be processed through normal accounting
and finance channels. Section 127(a) further states, "When it is so provided in such an
appropriation, the funds may be spent on approval or authority of the Secretary concerned or the
Inspector General for any purpose he determines to be proper, and such a determination is final
and conclusive upon the accounting officers of the United States. The Secretary concerned or
the Inspector General may certify the amount of any such expenditure authorized by him that he
considers advisable not to specify, and his certificate is sufficient voucher for the expenditure of
that amount."
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) IAW Headquarter
     Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-6, The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of
     the Air Force, establishes the annual expenditure limitation for the ICF program and is
     responsible for overall management of the expenditure of contingency funds for E&EE.
     SAF/AA will:
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     3


     2.1.1. Provide funding allocation, to include administrative and fiscal limitations to
     AF/A2 from within Air Force Operation and Maintenance Appropriations, IAW 10 USC
     127 and the National Defense Authorization Act.
     2.1.2. The office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Resource Directorate (SAF/AAR)
     reviews quarterly ICF Execution Reports, certifies ICF expenditures are within the annual
     limitation authority, and submits the summary ICF data from Part I in the DD
     COMP(Q)1390 E&EE quarterly report IAW DoD Manual 8910.1-M, Department of
     Defense Procedures for Management of Information Requirements.
  2.2. Deputy Chief of         Staff,   Intelligence,   Surveillance,    and   Reconnaissance
  (AF/A2). AF/A2 will:
     2.2.1. Establish procedures to expend, manage, and account for ICF funds, and exercise
     final approval authority on all ICF issues contained in this instruction.
     2.2.2. Approve Major Command (MAJCOM)/FOA annual ICF operating budgets.
     2.2.3. Review quarterly ICF Execution Reports.
     2.2.4. Review ICF audit reports and take corrective actions, if appropriate.
     2.2.5. Perform periodic reviews of MAJCOM/FOA ICF programs to ensure users follow
     ICF controls.
  2.3. Director of ISR Resources (AF/A2R). AF/A2R will:
     2.3.1. Perform AF/A2 point-of-contact responsibilities for the ICF program.
     2.3.2. Program and manage annual budgets and limitations for ICF resources.
  2.4. National Intelligence Program Resources Division (AF/A2RN). AF/A2RN will:
     2.4.1. Administer the AF ICF program for AF/A2.
     2.4.2. Consolidate ICF managers’ quarterly ICF Execution Report-Field Activity
     submissions and submit the consolidated report to AF/A2R and SAF/AAR.
     2.4.3. Provide staff assistance to all ICF managers, as required.
     2.4.4. Provide program oversight and feedback to MAJCOM/FOAs on omissions and
     errors in their quarterly reports.
  2.5. ICF managers. ICF managers include the AF/A2; Deputy Under Secretary of the Air
  Force, International Affairs; and the Senior Intelligence Officers for the following: Air Force
  Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency; Pacific Air Forces; United States Air
  Forces in Europe; Air Combat Command; and any other person designated by AF/A2. ICF
  managers will:
     2.5.1. Maintain pecuniary accountability for all expenditures. (T-3)
     2.5.2. Ensure adequate internal controls are in place to fully account for expenditures,
     inventory of gifts and distribution of gifts. (T-3)
     2.5.3. Appoint primary and alternate administrators and may appoint approving officials,
     if required. All appointments will be in writing and clearly state the duties delegated. (T-
     3)
4                                                             AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


       2.5.4. Develop and administer an ICF training program to include the development and
       maintenance of a comprehensive continuity book and self-inspection checklist. (T-3)
       2.5.5. Ensure unit personnel have a working knowledge of all applicable instructions.
       (T-2)
       2.5.6. Prepare and forward ICF quarterly reports to AF/A2RN. (T-3)
       2.5.7. Manage and submit annual budget programs for ICF resources, unless otherwise
       specified in a separate publication. (T-2)
       2.5.8. Forward delegation of authority memorandums to AF/A2RN. (T-3)
       2.5.9. Appoint a property custodian if incentive supplies are maintained. Property
       custodians must be appointed in writing, and trained on inventory management
       procedures. ICF Property Custodians may not be the certifying or approving official. (T-
       3)
    2.6. ICF property custodians. ICF property custodians will:
       2.6.1. Develop and maintain a system for managing incentive supplies. ICF gift
       inventory items must be stored in a secure location. Non-ICF inventory items may not be
       commingled with ICF gift inventory items. (T-2)
       2.6.2. Prepare and maintain a document of authorization memorandum and a document
       of payment memorandum for each incentive supply purchase (to include purchase
       receipts). (T-2)
       2.6.3. Establish an AF Form 277, Commodity Log for each item over $75.00 maintained
       in the inventory. (T-2)
       2.6.4. Record on AF Form 277, by item, the name and title of the final recipient of each
       gift and a brief justification for the presentation. (T-2)
       2.6.5. IAW AFRIMS, maintain the completed AF Form 277, Commodity Log, for audit
       purposes. (T-3)
    2.7. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA). AFAA performs audits of the AF ICF program
    when requested by SAF/AA.
3. ICF REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION.
    3.1. General Provisions. ICF managers may expend available funds for requirements that
    enhance the intelligence mission. Sound judgment and discretion shall be used by all
    personnel involved in planning, approving, and conducting ICF functions. When ICF funds
    are used, a written statement outlining the reason must be created, to include benefits to be
    expected from the use of ICF. Record all ICF expenditures in the accounting and finance
    system in Program Element (PE) 31321F. All organizations will have a dedicated
    Responsibility Cost Center (RC/CC), exclusively for ICF. Each ICF category (Attaché,
    Human Intelligence [HUMINT], Scientific & Technical Intelligence [S&TI] and other) must
    be recorded in separate RC/CCs. All RC/CCs will be identified to AF/A2RN for the
    upcoming fiscal year (FY) no later than 1st of September in a memorandum for record. A
    dedicated Government Purchase Card (GPC) may be used for ICF purposes. In the event that
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     5


  electronic copies of GPC-related documents are created, the following guidelines must be
  followed:
     3.1.1. Hard-copy documents used in the creation of electronic documents are to be
     destroyed immediately following soft-copy document creation. (T-3)
     3.1.2. Electronic copies must be destroyed on the expiration of the retention period
     previously approved for the hard-copy documents. (T-3)
     3.1.3. Electronic records must be destroyed when the responsible organization
     determines that the electronic records are superseded, obsolete, or no longer needed for
     administrative, legal, audit, or other operational purposes. (T-3)
  3.2. Document of Authorization and Payment Memorandums. ICF managers must
  complete and maintain on file a document of authorization memorandum and a document of
  payment memorandum for each ICF expenditure. The document of authorization
  memorandum authorizes the expenditure of ICF funds for the actual event and must be
  prepared and approved prior to the expenditure of ICF funds. After-the-fact approvals will
  not be granted, unless extenuating circumstances are present. In such an event, a rationale
  statement must be prepared explaining the circumstances that necessitated each after-the-fact
  approval. The document of payment memorandum authorizes the payment of ICF expenses.
  These two memorandums, along with supporting documentation (rationale statements,
  waiver approvals, etc.), serve as the cornerstone for ICF audits. ICF GPC cardholders must
  use care when recording transactions to avoid the compromise of classified details. Refer to
  AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities; AFMAN 33-363; and
  AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, for guidance on creating, maintaining, retiring
  and disposing of electronic and hard-copy records. (T-3)
  3.3. Rationale Statements. The ICF manager must prepare and maintain a rationale
  statement for any deviation from standard guidelines. The ICF manager must sign this
  statement and forward it to AF/A2RN for review as part of Part II-ICF Execution Report-
  Field Activity (Figure 4.2.). (T-3)
  3.4. Incentive Supplies and Gifts. Items such as plaques, mementos, etc., may be kept in
  quantity for presentations as gifts or incentive awards to a person that will enhance Air Force
  intelligence activities. Under no circumstances may such supplies be given or sold to United
  States (US) Government personnel. Items with a value of less than $75.00 do not need to be
  controlled on AF Form 277. However, each ICF manager must ensure this authority is not
  abused. The quantity on hand should not exceed what is expected to be given out during the
  current FY. The aggregate cost of mementos and gifts presented to a single person in one
  year may not exceed the minimal value as established under Title 41, CFR, Section 102-42,
  Change in Consumer Price Index Minimal Value, Federal Management Regulation and as
  applicable, Title 22, U.S. Code, Section 2694, Limitation on purchase of gifts for foreign
  individuals, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, Department of State. The current limit is
  $350.00. This amount is subject to change. Consult Title 41, CFR, Section 102-42 for the
  most recent authorized amount. (T-3)
     3.4.1. Individual Purchases of Incentive Supplies or Gifts. The ICF manager may
     authorize the purchase of incentive items individually. When this occurs, the settlement
     voucher must show the item purchased, cost, recipient, date of purchase, and purpose.
6                                                        AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


    Items not presented within five days must be returned to the ICF property custodian or a
    rationale for holding the items must be submitted to the custodian. The purchase of each
    item must be documented in the following two spreadsheets:
       3.4.1.1. ICF Incentive Gift Inventory List. This list must be created in a Microsoft®
       Excel spreadsheet in the format depicted in Figure 3.1. As items are purchased, a
       description of each item is entered into the center column, and the corresponding cost
       of the item is entered in the right-hand column. In the event that a purchase is made
       of an item that is already in the inventory, and the price of the newly purchased item
       differs from the cost already listed in the inventory, a new entry must be created to
       document new item’s cost. (T-3)
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                       7


Figure 3.1. ICF Incentive Gift Inventory List.
8   AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    9


          3.4.1.2. ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List. This list must be created in a Microsoft®
          Excel spreadsheet in the format depicted in Figure 3.2. This list tracks the status of
          each item in the inventory. (T-3)

Figure 3.2. ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List.




      3.4.2. Inspection and Inventory. Once each fiscal year, the ICF Manager or ICF
      Administrator will appoint two disinterested individuals to conduct a physical inspection
      and count of the inventory and prepare formal reports due to AF/A2RN. The inspection
      will be performed no earlier than 30 Sep of the current fiscal year, and no later than 15
      days after the end of the fiscal year (i.e., performed between 30 September and 15
      October). Ideally, the inventory should be performed in one day. If the ICF Manager
      maintains inventory at different geographic locations, then the ICF Manager or ICF
      Administrator will consolidate reports from all locations into a final report and forward
      the report to AF/A2RN. The ICF Administrator or Embassy attaché at each of the
      geographically separated units will appoint two disinterested individuals to conduct an
      inspection of the inventory and prepare the reports. This end-of-year inventory report is
      due 30 days after the end of the fiscal year. The fourth quarter current inventory value
      report (Part III - ICF Inventory Value Report) is due 25 days after the end of the fiscal
      year. If the two reports differ due to an ICF event between 1 October and 15 October,
      then the variation must be explained in the end-of-year inventory report due 30 days after
      the end of the fiscal year. (T-3)
10                                                         AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


         3.4.2.1. Physical counts of incentive items must match the information contained in
         the ICF Inventory Gift Tracking List (Figure 3.2.). (T-3)
         3.4.2.2. Proper posting and accounting are accomplished by cross-referencing the
         document of payment memorandum with the AF Form 277 or ICF Inventory Gift
         Tracking List. (T-3)
         3.4.2.3. Names of the individuals performing the inventory are included on a
         memorandum for record along with the current value of the inventory and number of
         items in inventory. The inventory must include a list of the items in inventory. (T-3)
         3.4.2.4. A first-in first-out inventory management system is used if more than one of
         the same item is in the inventory and the items have different costs. (T-3)
     3.4.3. When disposing of property, ICF managers must:
         3.4.3.1. Never give or sell ICF property to US Government personnel. (T-2)
         3.4.3.2. Document the transfer of ICF property to another AF, DoD or Federal
         Intelligence organization by adjusting ICF records to show transfers of ICF
         equipment based on copies of shipping documents or receiving reports signed by the
         supply custodian of the gaining organization. Gaining organization customarily pays
         transportation costs for property it acquires. (T-2)
         3.4.3.3. Dispose of outdated and surplus ICF property IAW AFMAN 23-110,
         Volume 6, Excess and Surplus Personal Property or, if guidance in AFMAN 23-110
         does not apply or is not feasible, destroy the property and dispose of it as refuse by
         authorizing the action in writing. When destroying as refuse, ensure the property is
         destroyed beyond the original intended purpose. The ICF manager must appoint a
         disinterested person to witness the destruction and prepare a written statement
         verifying the materiel was completely destroyed. The authorization for destruction
         and a written statement signed by the witness shall serve as the authority to adjust
         records. (T-2)
         3.4.3.4. Ensure that the disposal of ICF property due to damage or extenuating
         circumstances is conducted according to local supply procedures to ensure proper
         turn-in to the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) or that otherwise
         authorized disposal methods are used. (T-2)
     3.4.4. Accounting for Lost, Damaged, or Destroyed Property. Property that is lost,
     damaged, or destroyed will generally be dropped from accountable records. This action
     is accomplished by following the reports of survey procedures contained in AFMAN 23-
     220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property. ICF managers must include in this report
     all property losses in excess of $75.00 with the Part II-ICF Execution Report-Field
     Activity as a memorandum with a copy of the reports of survey. (T-2)
  3.5. Liaison Activities. ICF managers may authorize ICF to fund liaison functions for
  persons not employed by the US Government if the presence of these persons can assist AF
  organizations in the performance of intelligence-related activities. ICF managers may
  authorize ICF to cover the cost for entertainment, beverages, meals, gifts, and other liaison
  expenses.
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 11


     3.5.1. The liaison function must be conducted on a modest basis that complies with
     socially acceptable behavior. Invite only the number of guests necessary to extend proper
     courtesy to the guest(s) of honor. Ratios of DoD personnel (including spouses or escorts)
     to non-DoD guests must be shown in the request for approval to fund a liaison activity
     IAW AFI 65-603. When honoring guests, the following procedures will apply:
        3.5.1.1. Functions that involve fewer than 30 persons should not consist of more than
        80 percent DoD personnel. Functions of 30 or more persons should not be more than
        50 percent DoD personnel. In determining the ratio, do not consider individuals who
        will pay for their own expenses. Any deviation of more than five percent requires a
        rationale statement to justify the activity. (T-3)
        3.5.1.2. ICF-funded attendance by spouses of US Government personnel may be
        approved only if their presence will enhance the intelligence activities. For example,
        this condition may be met when other non-US Government spouses attend. If
        spouses of US Government personnel are approved to attend functions at ICF
        expense, official documents stating how their attendance is expected to enhance the
        intelligence mission must be created and maintained on file for audit purposes. (T-3)
        3.5.1.3. ICF-funded attendance by US government contractors may only be approved
        if their presence will enhance the intelligence activities. If US Government
        contractors are approved to attend ICF-funded activities, official documents stating
        how attendance by the US Government contractor is expected to enhance the
        intelligence activities must be created and maintained. These documents must be
        maintained by ICF managers for audit purposes. (T-3)
     3.5.2. Approval Levels. The ICF manager must approve all functions projected to cost
     between $1,500.00 and $3,000.00 for Attaché, S&TI and other. For HUMINT, the ICF
     manager must approve all functions projected to cost $10,000 or less. This authority may
     not be delegated without prior approval from AF/A2R. Documentation requesting
     approval of functions projected to cost more than $10,000.00 for HUMINT and
     $3,000.00 for Attaché, S&TI and other must be forwarded to AF/A2RN for review and
     comments. After reviewing the request, AF/A2RN must attach any comments it deems
     appropriate, along with a recommendation for approval or disapproval, and forward the
     documentation to AF/A2R. AF/A2R must then make the final decision to approve or
     disapprove the action. (T-3)
     3.5.3. The liaison activities document of authorization memorandum must contain:
        3.5.3.1. The date, location, and purpose of the function.
        3.5.3.2. The intelligence-connected justification and description of the expected
        benefit for the projected expenditure.
        3.5.3.3. The names and titles of US Government personnel and their spouses
        projected to attend at ICF expense.
        3.5.3.4. The names of non-US Government personnel and their spouses projected to
        attend at ICF expense.
12                                                         AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


         3.5.3.5. A calculation that depicts the ratio of DoD personnel (including spouses or
         escorts) to non-DoD guests. This calculation includes only personnel who will
         receive the benefit of ICF funds.
         3.5.3.6. A statement of how attendance by spouses projected to attend at ICF expense
         is expected to enhance the intelligence mission.
         3.5.3.7. An itemized list of projected costs (invitations, refreshments, decorations,
         food, gifts, etc.).
         3.5.3.8. A statement that attendees in official travel status have been instructed to
         claim the meal on their travel vouchers, if appropriate.
         3.5.3.9. Signatures of the requester, administrator, and approving official or ICF
         manager.
     3.5.4. The liaison activities document of payment memorandum must contain:
         3.5.4.1. The names and titles of US Government personnel and their spouses (if
         applicable) who actually attended at ICF expense.
         3.5.4.2. The names and titles of non-US Government personnel and their spouses (if
         applicable) who actually attended at ICF expense.
         3.5.4.3. Actual receipts or claimant’s signed statement as to why receipts are not
         available if the amount is under $75.00 or a Memo For Record signed by a ICF
         administrator or ICF approving official.
         3.5.4.4. The signatures of the claimant, administrator, and approving official or ICF
         manager.
         3.5.4.5. The liaison activities document of authorization memorandum.
         3.5.4.6. An explanation of any expenses not included in the authorization document.
  3.6. Payment Vouchers. Prepare payment vouchers according to local policy provided by
  the servicing Disbursing Office. DoD Financial Management Regulation guidelines are
  referenced in Volume 10, Chapter 12, Paragraph 120322, “Representation and Contingencies
  Fund        Use.”      These        instructions        are      available        online at
  http://comptroller.defense.gov/fmr/current/10/Volume_10.pdf. The administrator and
  approving official must sign the request for payment memorandum. A copy of vouchers paid
  using ICF funds must be on file and must state, “The expenditures shown on this voucher
  were for Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses. The authorization for the expenditure and
  the supporting documentation are maintained in (identify location where documents are
  maintained).” If any voucher is not available, a justification must be on file. (T-3)
  3.7. Maintaining Records. Follow guidance contained in AFMAN 33-363 to ensure proper
  creation and maintenance of ICF records. ICF documents must be retained on file with
  associated accounting and finance reports. (T-3)
4. QUARTERLY REPORTS.
  4.1. Quarterly Reconciliation Goal. The goal of a quarterly reconciliation is to ensure all
  transactions can be explained after comparing the Database Transfer (DBT) balances from
  the previous quarter Commanders’ Resource Integration System (CRIS) to the current end-
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      13


  of-month quarter. The reconciliation also provides SAF/AA with the data and analysis
  necessary to complete reports for Congress. The Inventory value report informs ICF
  managers about the current value of assets and the need for purchasing any gifts. ICF
  managers must maintain complete copies of the quarterly reports (parts I-III) with a copy of
  the DBT for audits and historical purposes. (T-3)
  4.2. ICF Execution Report. The ICF Program requires a three-part quarterly ICF
  Execution Report. Submit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as soon as
  possible after submission of priority reports. The three report parts are: ICF Congressional
  report; ICF Execution Report-Field Activity; and ICF Inventory Value Report. These reports
  are completed in two phases. In the first phase, Part I is completed and forwarded to
  SAF/AAR. In the second phase, Part II and Part III are combined and forwarded to
  AF/A2RN, with the ICF manager’s signature on Part II of the report.
     4.2.1. Part I-ICF Congressional Report. Prepare the Part I report and transmit via
     memorandum (electronically scanned or hardcopy) to SAF/AAR and send an information
     copy to AF/A2RN. The memorandum is authenticated by the ICF manager or person
     identified in the designation of authority memorandum. Part I must be provided to
     SAF/AAR, even if no ICF funds were spent by the unit during the quarter. Submit Part I
     not later than 18 calendar days after the end of the fiscal quarter. Prepare the report in the
     format depicted in Figure 4.1. The report includes:
         4.2.1.1. Categories of obligations (Attaché, HUMINT, S&TI and other).
         4.2.1.2. The organization’s current FY legal limitation (by category), and calculate
         percent executed (by category). (T-3)
     4.2.1.3. Quarterly transactions for obligations by FY and category. The report must
     include current FY and prior FY for the quarter. (T-3)
     4.2.1.4. A calculation of the net change (Current FY – Prior FY) and percentage change
     (Net Change/Prior FY) (T-3)
     4.2.1.5. An explanation of changes from the prior year to the current year in the block
     labeled Explanation of Changes by category. (T-3)
     4.2.2. Congressional reports may be reported electronically or by hard copy. Electronic
     submissions may be accomplished by scanning the document and transmitting it to
     SAF/AAR. In either case, an information copy must be sent to AF/A2RN. (T-3)
 14                                                         AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


Figure 4.1. Part I – ICF Congressional Report.




   4.3. Part II-ICF Execution Report-Field Activity. AF/A2RN and SAF/AA use the
   Execution Report-Field Activity report to monitor the use of current FY ICF throughout the
   AF. This report is depicted in Figure 4.2. ICF managers must submit this report to
   AF/A2RN not later than 25 calendar days after the end of the fiscal quarter. AF/A2RN will
   review and provide comments on each report. AF/A2RN will then forward the consolidated
   report to SAF/AA not later than 45 calendar days after the end of the fiscal quarter. Use AF
   Form 134, Report of Contingency Expenditures to complete this requirement. (T-2)
      4.3.1. Completion instructions for AF Form 134:
          4.3.1.1. Header information. Enter the current reporting period and FY using the
          date format YYYYMMDD.
      4.3.1.2. Fill in the accounting data under reporting period by stages of accounting for
      obligations. Enter data in the Current Quarter, Prior Quarter and Changes (Current
      Quarter minus Prior Quarter). After completing the detail and summary data, enter the
      page number and total number of report pages.
          4.3.1.3. Detail Data. Record all transaction detail lines, grouped by stage of
          accounting (undelivered orders outstanding [UOO], Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
          [AEU], and Accrued Expenditures Paid [AEP]) by category for the current FY. Each
          data field under columns A – G must be completed and fully explained. Additionally,
          enter sub-total amounts, by category, for each accounting stage in bold face font.
          Separate each stage of accounting group with a blank line.
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               15


        4.3.1.4. Summary Data. Enter the administrator name, office symbol, phone number,
        date of report, command, and printed name of the commander or deputy commander.
        Line 1,Total Accrued Expenditures Paid (Disbursements) THIS REPORTING
        PERIOD, contains a summary of AEP detail values from selected lines contained in
        column G of AF Form 134. Line 2 equals the Gross Obligations for the prior quarter.
        Line 3, TOTAL NET QUARTERLY CHANGES in GROSS OBLIGATIONS
        contains the net sum of all changes in AEP, AEU and UOO values recorded for the
        current quarter for the current FY. Line 4, TOTAL GROSS OBLIGATIONS, equals
        Line 2 plus Line 3. This amount must agree with the cumulative obligations reflected
        on the final CRIS DBT report for the same month that AF Form 134 shows as the
        ending month of the reporting period.
 16                                                      AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


Figure 4.2. Part II – Execution Report-Field Activity.
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014   17
 18                                                            AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


   4.4. Part III-ICF Inventory Value Report. This report is due 25 days after the end of the
   quarter. It contains a summary of the inventory status and shows the value of the inventory
   at the beginning of the FY, the cumulative value of items purchased during the reporting
   period, the cumulative value of items available for presentation, the cumulative value of
   items that were presented during the reporting period and reflects the total value of the
   current ICF inventory. The format of the ICF Inventory Value Report is depicted in Figure
   4.3. (T-1)

Figure 4.3. ICF Inventory Value Report.




   4.5. Accounting for ICF Inventory. The ICF manager will report the current inventory
   value of gifts for each quarter. For the fourth quarter, a memorandum for record is required
   that certifies that an end-of-year inventory gift count was conducted and signed by the two
   disinterested individuals that conducted the inspection. The fourth quarter current inventory
   value report is due 25 days after the end of the FY. If the two reports do not equal due to an
   ICF event between 1 October and 15 October then the variation must be explained in the end-
   of-year inventory report due 30 days after the end of the FY. ICF managers will:
      4.5.1. Fill in Command and end-of-quarter date, ICF Property Custodian and category.
      (T-3)
   4.5.2. Provide a separate report for each category. (T-3)
      4.5.3. Fill in the beginning balance using the amount that was current as of 1 Oct for the
      current FY. This amount should not change throughout the FY. (T-3)
      4.5.4. Fill in the cumulative sum of the purchased items for the FY. Any items
      purchased in the current quarter should be identified in the ICF Execution Report-Field
      Activity. (T-3)
      4.5.5. Fill in the amount of items available. This figure should equal the sum of
      beginning inventory and purchased items. (T-3)
      4.5.6. Fill in the cumulative value of items issued for the FY. (T-3)
      4.5.7. Ensure that the last line is the current value of the inventory and is equal to the
      available items minus issued items. (T-3)
      4.5.8. Ensure that all the reports are retained on file. ICF managers that have multiple
      geographical inventories must report a consolidated inventory value report. (T-3)
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    19


     4.5.9. Ensure that a memorandum for record accompanies the Gift Inventory Value
     report for the fourth quarter, stating that a final inventory count was performed on 15
     October and signed by the ICF manager. The final ICF Inventory Value report must be
     included as an attachment. The ICF manager must keep the signed inventory count
     reports on file. (T-3)
5. AUDITING, REVIEWING AND INSPECTING ACCOUNTS.
  5.1. General Provisions. All ICF accounts will be audited, reviewed, and inspected
  periodically to ensure the program is administered according to the procedures and guidelines
  contained in this instruction. Audits, reviews, and inspections are limited to those described
  in this chapter, unless otherwise approved by AF/A2RN. (T-3)
  5.2. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA) Audits. In the event that SAF/AA requests that
  representatives from the AFAA perform an ICF audit, the ICF manager must provide all
  requested documents to properly cleared AFAA representatives for the audit. AFAA must
  provide the identities and clearances data of auditors to the ICF manager, in writing, prior to
  the audit. (T-2)
  5.3. MAJCOM/FOA Inspections. MAJCOMs/FOAs perform an annual ICF property
  inspection on incentive supplies and other properties no later than 15 Oct, as referenced in
  section 3.4.2. At a minimum, the property inspections must include review of records
  associated with the disposal of outdated and surplus ICF property, accounting for lost,
  damaged or destroyed property and end-of-year inventory reports. Inventories must also be
  performed whenever ICF property custodians change. (T-2)




                                           ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                           Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 20                                                         AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
HAFMD 1-6, The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force, 22 December 2008
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 16-116, Air Force Support to Visits by Students or Staff Members of Foreign National or
International Defense Colleges, 27 January 2010
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March
2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds, 24 August 2011
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 6, Excess and Surplus Personal Property, 1 April 2012
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Title 10 United States Code, Section 127, Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses, January 3,
2007
DoD 8910.1-M, Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information
Requirements, June 1998
Adopted Forms
AF Form 134, Report of Contingency Expenditures
AF Form 277, Commodity Log
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AEP—Accrued Expenditures Paid
AEU—Accrued Expenditures Unpaid
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AF/A2R—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Resources
AF/A2RN—National Intelligence Program Resources Division
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                          21


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CRIS—Commanders’ Resource Integration System
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DBT—Database Transfer
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
E&EE—Emergency and Extraordinary Expenses
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FY—Fiscal Year
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HUMINT—Human Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
ICF—Intelligence Contingency Funds
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PE—Program Element
S&TI—Scientific and Technical Intelligence
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AAR—Secretary of the Air Force, Resource Directorate
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
UOO—Undelivered Orders Outstanding
US—United States
 22                                                          AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014


USC—United States Code

Terms
Approving Official—An individual appointed in writing by the ICF manager to authorize and
approve ICF expenditures.
Attaché—Category of ICF funds that provide incentive gifts for attachés.
Disinterested Person—A person assigned to the organization who can be relied upon to make a
fair and unbiased evaluation.
First-In First-Out Inventory Management—This system of inventory management seeks to
insure that the purchased items are expended in the order that they were purchased. The primary
goal is to avoid the accumulation of “stale” inventory.
Human Intelligence (HUMINT)—A category of intelligence derived from information
collected and provided by human sources.
ICF Administrator—Individual appointed in writing by the ICF approving official/manager to
administer MAJCOM/FOA ICF program according to this instruction (and MAJCOM/FOA
supplement, if applicable). Serves as primary point of contact for the Air Staff; develops and
maintains ICF continuity book and program checklist; validates ICF claims for funds availability
and correctness of authorization and payment documentation. The administrator must be a
commissioned officer, Non-Commissioned Officer or a General Schedule employee (GS-09 and
above).
ICF Manager—A person responsible directly to the AF/A2 for managing and executing ICF
accounts.
ICF Property—Supplies and equipment purchased with ICF money.
ICF Property Custodian—A person appointed by an ICF manager to account for property
purchased with ICF money. This individual can’t be an Approving or Certifying Official.
Incentive Supplies—Items purchased or stocked for presentation to non-US Government guests
or visitors as gifts.
Liaison Function—An official gathering with persons not employed by the US Government
who can assist USAF organizations to perform intelligence missions. Individuals are senior
military foreign intelligence counterparts.
Scientific and Technical (S&TI) Intelligence—The product resulting from the collection,
evaluation, analysis, and interpretation of foreign scientific and technical information that
covers: a. foreign developments in basic and applied research and in applied engineering
techniques; and b. scientific and technical characteristics, capabilities, and limitations of all
foreign military systems, weapons, weapon systems, and materiel; the search and development
related thereto; and the production methods employed for their manufacture.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
AFI14-101 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                23


Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
