BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-221
AIR FORCE                                                                            1 NOVEMBER 1995

                                                                                        Flying Operations

                                                                    AIR REFUELING MANAGEMENT
                                                                               (KC-10 AND KC-135)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AMC/DOO                                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/XOF
       (Maj Bob Stowe)                                                         ( Col Norton A. Schwartz)
Supersedes AFI 11-221, 22 July 1994.                                                            Pages: 13
                                                                                           Distribution: F

AFI 11-221 implements AFPD 11-2, Flight Rules and Procedures. This instruction provides procedures
for prioritizing and obtaining KC-10 and KC-135 air refueling support for peacetime training, exercises,
operational readiness inspections (ORI), rotations, contingency operations, and HQ Air Combat Com-
mand, Air Operations Squadron, Aircraft Delivery Flight (ACC AOS/AOD) aircraft movements. This
instruction applies to all major commands (MAJCOM), numbered air forces (NAF), and field operating
agencies (FOA) conducting air refueling operations with KC-10 and KC-135 aircraft. It applies to the Air
National Guard (ANG) when published in the NGR (AF) 0-2 and to the US Air Force Reserve (USAFR)
when published in AFRESR 0-2, Vol 2. It applies to the Department of the Navy and Marine Corps as
outlined in the current Memorandum of Understanding and Interservice Support Agreements. MAJCOMs
and FOAs may supplement this instruction, but must obtain prior approval from HQ AMC/DOO, 402
Scott Drive Unit 3A1, Scott AFB IL 62225-5302. All receiver and tanker units will comply with the pro-
cedures in this AFI to enable efficient and equal support for Department of Defense (DoD) receivers.
NOTE: References in this AFI to HQ AMC apply to Headquarters Air Mobility Command, Operations
Management Division (HQ AMC/DOO), DSN 576-2089. Direct any policy issues about the air refueling
scheduling process to HQ AMC. References in this AFI to the TACC apply to Headquarters Air Mobility
Command, Tanker Airlift Control Center, Tanker Operations (HQ AMC TACC/XOOT), DSN 576-1940.
Direct any procedural questions about the air refueling scheduling process to the TACC. The TACC is
responsible for managing the air refueling scheduling process as directed by the procedures in this instruc-
tion.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates functional addresses; expands receiver unit forecasting requirements to include the
next fiscal year (FY) plus the following 5 FYs; changes priorities 2A3, 2B3, 2C2, and 3A; and deletes Pri-
ority 1A4.
2                                                                      AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


Section A—Objectives

1. Single Manager. HQ Air Mobility Command (AMC) is the single manager for all KC-10 and
KC-135 air refueling operations. The Office of the Secretary of Defense established the single manage-
ment approach to centralize air refueling support for DoD and other agencies. HQ AMC and HQ USAF/
XOF use procedures in this instruction to determine projected receiver air refueling requirements and task
tanker units to fill those requirements.

Section B—Forecasting Requirements

2. Air Refueling Historical Data, RCS: HAF-XOF (Q) 8101 and Air Refueling Forecast Require-
ment RCS: HAF-XOF (A&AR) 8102. These reports carry emergency status code of C-2. Continue
reporting during emergency conditions, normal precedence. Submit data requirements in this category as
prescribed, or as soon as possible after submission of priority reports. Continue reporting during MINI-
MIZE.
    2.1. Air Refueling Historical Data, RCS: HAF-XOF (Q) 8101. This report will be maintained by all
    receiver units. It establishes and maintains a data base used for managing and forecasting air refueling
    requirements. The data is useful in developing receiver-to-tanker ratios and attrition rates for future
    forecasts.
    2.2. Air Refueling Forecast Requirement, RCS: HAF-XOF (A&AR) 8102. This report will be pro-
    vided by all receiver units. It provides a means of reviewing, validating, and consolidating air refuel-
    ing requirements. It is used to allocate tanker sorties to users.

3. Responsibilities. Receiver agencies, MAJCOMs, NAFs, FOAs, and wings must designate an air refu-
eling manager (central agency or office) for coordinating air refueling support. In addition, the following
responsibilities and authorities apply:
    3.1. Receiver unit scheduling offices have primary responsibility for detailed scheduling. Unit sched-
    uling will:
       •   Maintain a record of scheduled receivers, canceled receivers, reasons for cancellation, and
           whether your unit was charged for the tanker sortie.
       •   Forecast air refueling requirements for the next FY plus the following 5 FYs, as described in
           paragraph 4. Break down the first 2 years by priority and quarter. Break down the remaining
           years by priority only. Review forecasted requirements quarterly and submit to intermediate
           headquarters and MAJCOM for review and coordination. Include tanker staging sorties in
           forecasts for deployments, dual roles (air refueling and airlift), etc. Associate and
           unit-equipped ANG and USAFR units make next FY forecasts directly to the gaining MAJ-
           COM.
       •   Submit the above information within 10 calendar days after the end of each quarter in a mes-
           sage to intermediate headquarters and MAJCOM for review and inclusion into their data base.
    3.2. Intermediate headquarters will:
       •   Establish and maintain an air refueling historical data base.
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                                 3


       •   Validate unit requirements based on the historical data base and significant changes that may
           affect the unit.
       •   Review each unit's forecasted air refueling requirements, consolidate them, and submit to
           MAJCOM headquarters.
   3.3. MAJCOMs and FOAs will:
       •   Establish and maintain an air refueling historical data base.
       •   Review, validate, and consolidate all forecasted air refueling requirements into a MAJCOM or
           FOA air refueling requirement. This forecast will include projected additions or reductions in
           requirements based on future force structure. For example, if a command projects phase-in of
           an aircraft that requires air refueling support, the MAJCOM forecast will show gradual train-
           ing requirement increases.
       •   Forward the consolidated air refueling sortie requirement to the TACC and HQ USAF/XOFM
           by 30 June. This request must include requirements for the next FY, plus the following 5 FYs.
           Break down the first 2 years by priority and quarter. Break down the remaining years by pri-
           ority only.
       •   Review requirements quarterly and, if necessary, provide an updated forecast by message to
           the TACC at least 90 calendar days before the desired quarter (see paragraph 9.3.).
   3.4. The TACC will:
       •   Identify to HQ USAF/XOF the total flying hour requirement placed on the air refueling tanker
           force for each FY. Include all user-stated requirements and send the information to arrive at
           HQ USAF/XOFM no later than 30 October.
       •   Review air refueling requests for compatibility with the proper 51-series training, formal
           course training, and programmed exercise requirements. If HQ AMC/DO questions the accu-
           racy of MAJCOM projections and the issue cannot be resolved, the dispute will be addressed
           to HQ USAF/XOF.
   3.5. HQ USAF/XOF will resolve disputes over MAJCOM projections by:
       •   Verifying MAJCOM forecasts for air refueling in excess of training requirements.
       •   Determining if MAJCOMs have accurately adjusted the Priority 4 request (see paragraph 5.).
       •   Evaluating the appropriateness of receiver-to-tanker ratios used in the forecasting process.
       •   Adjusting the forecast based on this review, if necessary, and providing recommendations to
           HQ USAF/XOFM.
       •   Advising HQ AMC of any changes from the stated requirement.
       •   Preparing and submiting an adjusted KC-10 and KC-135 flying hour program for inclusion in
           the Air Force program.

4. Unit Forecasts. Each unit forecasts its air refueling requirements based on an analysis of two factors:
   •   The number of air refueling events each pilot or air crew needs to satisfy training requirements in
       MAJCOM training publications.
4                                                                        AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


    •   The number of pilots or air crews requiring receiver air refueling proficiency training. Units
        should make allowances for attrition, maximum receiver-to-tanker ratio that a specific unit and
        location can employ, and the number of staging sorties required.
    4.1. Attrition considerations will include receiver aborts, weather delays, air traffic control delays,
    failure to meet air refueling training requirements, and air refueling system failure (receiver or tanker).
    Do not include cancellations before tanker launch in attrition factor calculations, and do not charge
    them to the unit.
    4.2. Plan the maximum receiver-to-tanker ratio consistent with receiver unit requirements, opera-
    tional capabilities, and tanker offload capabilities. Each receiver unit must be able to verify that the
    receiver-to-tanker ratio used in its forecast is consistent with training requirements and operational
    capability.
    4.3. Base unit sorties in excess of training requirements on a valid need. If included in the forecast,
    identify these sorties as Priority 4A1 sorties (see Attachment 1) and identify them on the request.

5. Air Refueling Support Priorities. Identify air refueling requirements by priority (see Attachment 1).
The following rules apply when determining air refueling priorities:
    •   To preclude duplication, adjust Priority 4 requirements by the number of Priority 2 and 3 sorties
        that will satisfy Priority 4 requirements. Each MAJCOM will base the reduction factor on air
        refueling forecasts and historical data. The adjustment also applies to air refuelings required by
        the MAJCOM before deployment and will be shown in the air refueling request to HQ AMC
        TACC and HQ USAF/XOF.
    •   In the event of a regional tanker asset shortfall, MAJCOM validated Priority 2 and 3 sorties take
        priority over
Priority 4 sorties for scheduling.
    •   Priority 4 sortie requests must show the number of tanker sorties needed to support training
        requirements.
    •   In order to qualify as a Priority 1, 2, or 3, air refueling must be necessary to complete the mission
        or deployment. Otherwise assign priority based on aircrew training requirements.
    •   MAJCOM and FOA users must identify Priority 2 and 3 mission requirements by exercise desig-
        nation, mission nickname, or activity. MAJCOMs must ensure that all units are aware of expected
        Priority 2 and 3 mission participation in time for inclusion in quarterly scheduling inputs (see
        paragraph 9.).
NOTE: KC-10 and KC-135 airlift missions will use the priority system described in Joint Publication
4-01.

Section C—Allocating Tankers

6. HQ AMC, HQ USAFE, HQ PACAF, HQ AFRES, NGB, HQ AETC, HQ ACC Forces Support,
RCS: HAF-XOF (A) 8103. This report carries emergency status code C-2. Continue reporting during
emergency conditions, normal precedence. Submit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as
soon as possible after submission of priority reports. Continue reporting during MINIMIZE.
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                                 5


   6.1. The 8103 report identifies the amount of air refueling support AMC, USAFE, PACAF, AFRES,
   NGB, and ACC will provide to receiver aircraft.
   6.2. USAFE, PACAF, AFRES, NGB, AETC, and ACC will provide AMC a forecast of KC-10 and
   KC-135 hours available for air refueling support by 30 June. These hours will be based on capability
   and historical data. They will be provided for each fiscal quarter of the current, budget, and program
   years. Annually, the TACC will compare these hours with the total receiver air refueling requirements
   submitted in the 8102 reports and provide the results to HQ USAF/XOF.

7. Shortfall and Adjudication Procedures. If a tanker shortfall exists, the TACC will attempt to evenly
distribute tanker assets within the confines of tanker availability. If this approach is unacceptable to any
MAJCOM or FOA, they may request a meeting of the Senior Tanker Committee (STC) for adjudication.
   7.1. The United States Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) J-3 will head the STC composed
   of the Director for Operations of each air refueling user, MAJCOM, FOA, or their designated repre-
   sentative. The committee will adjudicate program shortfalls in tanker support for the next FY and
   subsequent budget year. The MAJCOM requesting the STC be convened will host the meeting and
   prepare the agenda.
   7.2. The STC will decide how to allocate available air refueling support. After the STC reaches a
   decision, all MAJCOM air refueling managers will determine the decision's impact on receiver train-
   ing and mission capability. MAJCOMs will then prepare a mission impact statement and submit it to
   HQ USAF/XOF. HQ USAF/XOF will provide guidance according to Air Force priorities and has
   final adjudication authority for air refueling support allocations.

8. Final Allocation. MAJCOMS will comply with the final approved level of tanker support, or adjudi-
cated as necessary, allocated by the TACC. Receiver aircraft may not use another MAJCOM or FOA's
allocations unless transfer is coordinated between receiver MAJCOMs and submitted to the TACC.

Section D—Scheduling and Coordination

9. Scheduling of KC-10 and KC-135 Support, RCS: HAF-XOF (Q) 8104. This report is designated
emergency status code C-2. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, normal precedence. Sub-
mit data requirements in this category as prescribed, or as soon as possible after submission of priority
reports. Continue reporting during MINIMIZE.
   9.1. The 8104 report is used to schedule air refueling missions. It consolidates air refueling support
   requirements by month, unit, air refueling track, exercise or other mission, and receiver details.
   9.2. The TACC will schedule air refueling support based on KC-10 and KC-135 aircraft available and
   validated user requirements.
       9.2.1. Specific air refueling scheduling procedures used in the worldwide quarterly scheduling
       process for receivers and tankers are described in "Instructions for Formatting and Transmitting
       Quarterly Air Refueling Data," distributed by the TACC. These instructions specify the accept-
       able format for computer data. They also outline procedures for scheduling precoordinated tank-
       ers, Business Effort tankers, ACC anchor tankers, tanker support for cross-country deployments,
       and use of KC-10s for Dual Role (air refueling and airlift) support. Reference paragraph 3.3.
6                                                                       AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


    9.3. No later than 90 calendar days before the beginning of each fiscal quarter, all receiver agencies
    (units, intermediate headquarters, MAJCOMs, and FOAs) must consolidate specific air refueling sup-
    port requirements for the next fiscal quarter, as follows:
       •   Priority 1. N/A. User agencies do not forecast these missions (see Attachment 1).
       •   Priority 2 and 3. List known and anticipated requirements by mission name, dates, receiver
           departure base, staging base, recovery, and types and numbers of receivers including air
           spares (see Attachment 1 for specific mission types).
       •   Priority 4. List the required training sorties by month, unit, and the refueling area or track to
           be used. Also list any additional sorties required for training that are above the minimum
           MAJCOM training requirements.
    Designate requirements that differ from the previously submitted 8102 report. Identify trade-offs to
    offset any increases. Coordinate subsequent additions and changes to user requirements through the
    TACC.
    9.4. The TACC will provide the approximate number of tanker support allocations to MAJCOMS,
    FOAs, lateral services, and other pertinent agencies at least 80 calendar days before each quarter. The
    TACC will provide final approved tanker support allocations at least 70 calendar days before each
    quarter.
    9.5. Track managers will open air refueling tracks no later than 70 calendar days before each quarter.
    9.6. KC-10 and KC-135 units will provide specific tanker availability for air refueling to arrive at the
    TACC no later than 60 calendar days before each quarter. Units must also send these requirements by
    separate message to their intermediate headquarters, MAJCOM, or FOA.
    9.7. Receiver units will send details of approved air refueling requirements, in accordance with MAJ-
    COM procedures, to arrive at the TACC at least 60 calendar days before each quarter. PACAF
    receiver units will submit requests to HQ PACAF AOS/AOK and USAFE receiver units will submit
    requests to USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC. PACAF AOS/AOK and USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC will con-
    solidate these tanker requirements and forward them to the TACC. Include the following information:
       •   Unit and home station of receiver aircraft.
       •   Dates and ARCTs (in ZULU).
       •   Air refueling tracks or anchors required, desired track time, and status of track such as altitude
           reservation or location pending.
       •   Numbers and types of receivers.
       •   Drogue refueling, if required.
       •   Exercise name (if applicable).
       •   Off load requested. The amount of fuel the tanker carries is a direct result of the receiver off
           load request; therefore, receivers must request only the amount of fuel needed for training or
           mission completion. MAJCOMs must establish the minimum amount of fuel required to be
           onloaded by the receiver pilot to receive training credit. Consistent with training and mission
           requirements, MAJCOMs should use dry hookups to the maximum extent possible.
       •   Air refueling altitude.
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                                   7


       •   Air refueling support priority.
   9.8. No later than 30 days prior to the quarter, the TACC will publish the quarterly air refueling sched-
   ule. All units must carefully compare the final quarterly air refueling schedule to scheduling data sub-
   mitted (as directed in paragraph 9.7.) to the TACC.

10. Coordination of Changes. The TACC annotates all approved support on the receiver's request.
Changes occurring after the quarterly conference will be supported from within the total tanker flying
hours allocated to the user, DoD agency, MAJCOM, or FOA. The receiver unit and its intermediate head-
quarters must coordinate these changes with the proper tanker unit and the TACC or OCONUS schedul-
ing agency (USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC or HQ PACAF AOS/AOK). The tanker units may buy, sell, or
trade missions with other units via the electronic tanker quarterly scheduling document which resides on
the AMC DEPLOYMENT ANALYSIS SYSTEM (ADANS) up to 14 days prior to the mission. The
TACC will manage the ADANS quarterly tanker scheduling document. Either USAFE AOS AOOR/
TRC, HQ PACAF AOS/AOK, or the TACC must coordinate with the transfer of allocated tanker sorties
from one tanker scheduling agency to another. Tanker units may not cancel allocated tanker sorties with-
out the TACC coordination.

11. Weekly Coordination Requirements. Tanker and receiver units must finalize coordination of the
following week's air refueling schedule by Tuesday, 1200 local time. The receiver unit initiates this coor-
dination. In addition to confirming information on the quarterly detailed request, coordination will
include the following:
   •   Model designation and series.
   •   Home station, command, and squadron of receiver aircraft.
   •   Call signs.
   •   Off load (per aircraft and total).
   •   Communications plan, including frequencies.
   •   Receiver pilots scheduled to receive qualification or requalification training with "time-on-boom"
       requirements.
   11.1. Any subsequent changes to this information must be coordinated as soon as possible. Both the
   receiver and tanker units will consider the air refueling scheduled once the weekly coordination is
   complete. Receiver units failing to coordinate the above requirements are no longer scheduled for air
   refueling support.
   11.2. Changes to the published quarterly air refueling schedule which cannot be resolved to mutual
   satisfaction at the receiver or tanker unit must be rescheduled through the short-notice system, with
   appropriate MAJCOM validation and the TACC approval. Unit schedulers will make every effort to
   resolve these changes before entering the short-notice system (see paragraph 14.).

12. Rescheduling Procedures. Receiver units must return unused allocated air refueling sorties to their
intermediate headquarters or central scheduling agency in time for command reallocation. The MAJ-
COM may use these sorties to satisfy formal short-notice requests or additional unit-to-unit coordinated
air refuelings. Unit-to-unit coordinated air refuelings (termed soft air refuelings) are not assigned a prior-
ity. If the receiver command does not need returned allocations, make them available to the TACC for
8                                                                       AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


reallocation or for use in satisfying short-notice requests ( paragraph 14.). All receivers should satisfy
their air refueling requirements through the quarterly scheduling process. There is no guarantee of tanker
support through the short-notice system. Few, if any, uncommitted tanker flying hours are available after
finalizing the quarterly air refueling schedule.

13. Air Refueling Delays and Cancellations. All receiver and tanker units scheduled for air refueling
must coordinate delays or cancellations as soon as possible. If the tanker launches but is not used (e.g.,
due to receiver no-show), the receiver unit will be charged for the air refueling event (see AFI 11-222).
    13.1. If the receiver experiences a delay before tanker launch, the tanker should make every effort to
    accommodate the receiver. However, the tanker does not have to delay more than 4 hours to accom-
    modate CCTS or RTU training and 3 hours for all other training.
    13.2. Tanker aircraft do not have to delay for receivers at the air refueling control point (ARCP)
    longer than 30 minutes after the scheduled ARCT. In all cases, tanker aircraft must leave the ARCP
    in time to meet the minimum refueling track sterile time, as prescribed in the Federal Aviation Admin-
    istration Handbook 7610.4, Special Military Operations. When operating under an altitude reserva-
    tion, the tanker aircraft must leave the air refueling track before the void time.
    13.3. If either the tanker or receiver cancels before tanker launch, schedulers may attempt to resched-
    ule that sortie using the same sortie sequence number.

14. Short-Notice Air Refueling Scheduling. Short-notice air refueling requirements are those the
receiver cannot forecast far enough in advance to include in the quarterly air refueling schedule. Because
these requirements can often be met only at the expense of carefully forecasted and planned long-range
scheduling requirements, schedulers must minimize the use of the short-notice system. Tanker schedulers
will fill short-notice requests at a level consistent with availability of tanker assets (aircraft, crews, and
flying hours) and impact on non-air refueling tanker training and operations. Requests received without
sufficient lead time (see paragraph 14.4.) cause significant impacts to tanker and receiver units.
    14.1. The TACC, USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC for USAFE receivers, or HQ PACAF AOS/AOK for
    PACAF receivers are the approval authorities for all short-notice requests and will prioritize and
    schedule requests (see paragraph 14.4.). Filling short-notice user requests requires balancing and
    resolving competing user demands, priorities, and objectives to achieve optimum tanker utilization for
    all users. Detailed and carefully validated user inputs are imperative to make the system work.
    14.2. When short-notice requests require cancelling previously scheduled missions, the TACC will
    use the priority system in Attachment 1 to identify potential cancellations from lower or equal prior-
    ity missions previously scheduled by the requesting command. The TACC will make every effort to
    protect the integrity of other MAJCOMs' planned air refueling support when meeting a specific user's
    short-notice request. Other MAJCOMs' scheduled refuelings are usually not canceled to support
    short-notice priority 2B, 2C, 3A, 3B, and 4 requests. Coordinate cancellation of Air Reserve Compo-
    nent missions with either NGB/XOOO or HQ AFRES/DOT, as appropriate.
    14.3. MAJCOMs and services may use individual systems for processing and validating short-notice
    requests from subordinate levels; however, the TACC will only process detailed requests received via
    message and validated by the MAJCOM or service-designated air refueling validator. The earlier the
    validated request is received by the TACC the more likely tanker support can be sourced.
    14.4. Criteria for scheduling short-notice tanker support:
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                                9


     14.4.1. Priority 1 and 2A requirements will receive tanker support upon receipt of MAJCOM val-
     idated requests.
     14.4.2. Priority 2B and 2C requirements. For missions requiring deployment of two or more
     tanker aircraft or temporary duty personnel, the TACC must receive the MAJCOM validated
     request at least 30 calendar days prior to mission date or longer depending on area clearance
     requirements. For missions not requiring deployment of two or more tanker aircraft or temporary
     duty personnel, the TACC must receive the MAJCOM validated request at least 14 calender days
     prior to mission date. Short-notice air refuelings usually require cancelling lower priority air refu-
     elings; therefore, MAJCOMs must make every effort to plan these missions in the quarterly sched-
     ule.
     14.4.3. Priority 3 and 4 requirements. Normally, the TACC will not support short-notice priority
     3 and 4 requirements.
  14.5. No-notice ORI scheduling procedures. The Inspector General (IG) trusted agent must provide
  the TACC trusted agent with the information required for tanker air refueling support at least 60 days
  prior to the fiscal quarter. The information must include the date of the mission, mission nickname,
  number of receivers, type of refueling (drogue or boom), air refueling track and ARCTs, number of
  cells, interval, and offload required. The IG and TACC trusted agents negotiate special requirements
  on a case-by-case basis. If the ORI exceeds the quarterly flying hour allocation, then MAJCOMs
  must make adjustments to stay within their annual air refueling flying hour allocation.
     14.5.1. CONUS procedures:
         •   The MAJCOM IG notifies the TACC trusted agent of the air refueling requirement.
         •   The TACC trusted agent will allocate the air refueling commitment to specific tanker units
             and notify the MAJCOM IG trusted agents of the tasked tanker unit and unit trusted agent.
         •   Upon receipt of the tasked unit, the MAJCOM IG must provide copies of ORI data sheets
             and profiles to the unit and the TACC trusted agents. The MAJCOM IG will send this
             information to the supporting tanker unit no later than 10 calendar days before the mis-
             sion.
         •   The receiver unit must coordinate with the supporting tanker unit immediately after
             receipt of an execution order referring to the mission nickname. The receiver unit will
             complete all air refueling coordination within 4 hours after receipt of the execution order
             but no later than 15 hours before the first ARCT.
         •   The tasked tanker unit should schedule refueling support for each ORI to provide for a
             24-hour weather delay. MAJCOMs may reschedule ORIs if a delay of more than 24 hours
             is necessary. MAJCOMS may not reschedule sooner than 30 calendar days after the
             24-hour delay without coordinating with the TACC.
     14.5.2. PACAF and USAFE procedures:
         •   The MAJCOM IG will notify the appropriate MAJCOM scheduling agency trusted agent
             (HQ PACAF AOS/AOK or USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC).
         •   The MAJCOM scheduling agency will task the supporting tanker unit within 5 working
             days after receipt of the data from the MAJCOM IG. The scheduling agency trusted agent
10                                                                      AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


                will send support requirements to the supporting unit trusted agent without designating the
                unit to be supported.
            •   The MAJCOM scheduling agency will notify the MAJCOM IG of the tasked tanker unit
                and the unit trusted agent. Forward all changes to ORI mission data through the MAJ-
                COM scheduling agency trusted agent.
            •   The supporting tanker unit will schedule refueling support for each ORI in 24-hour incre-
                ments to provide for weather delays of up to 3 calendar days. If the ORI encounters more
                than three consecutive 24-hour weather delays, the MAJCOM IG must reschedule the
                requirements through the MAJCOM scheduling agency.
            •   The receiver unit must coordinate with the supporting tanker unit immediately after
                receipt of an execution order referring to the mission nickname. The receiver unit will
                complete all air refueling coordination within 4 hours after receipt of the execution order
                but no later than 15 hours before the first ARCT.

15. Scheduling Tanker Support for Overwater Fighter Movements. The TACC shares scheduling
responsibility with ACC AOS/AOD for the overwater and aircraft delivery mission. After MAJCOM air
refueling validation, units requiring air refueling support or escort service for overwater missions will
process requests through ACC AOS/AOD. ACC AOS/AOD is the single manager for the aircraft deliv-
ery mission. NGB/XOOO will coordinate with the TACC and ACC AOS/AOD when ANG tankers are
scheduled to support ANG fighter deployments. HQ AFRES/DOT will coordinate with the TACC and
ACC AOS/AOD when AFRES tankers are programmed to support AFRES fighter deployments.
     15.1. For scheduled fighter movements, ACC AOS/AOD will provide the TACC with a 90-day fore-
     cast of all overwater fighter movements via electronic transmission or hard copy message (the TACC
     connects via computer modem with ACC AOS/AOD Aircraft Delivery Data System software). ACC
     AOS/AOD also informs the appropriate overseas scheduling agency (USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC or
     HQ PACAF AOS/AOK) on all known and anticipated aircraft movements. Include proposed routes,
     profiles, and preferred dates of movement. The TACC will task the supporting tanker units and the
     appropriate overseas scheduling agency no later than 21 workdays before the lead time required for
     submitting altitude reservations and diplomatic clearance requests. In no case will tasking be later
     than 15 calendar days prior to tanker launch date.
     15.2. For short-notice nonscheduled fighter movements, ACC AOS/AOD will inform the TACC ver-
     bally as soon as requirements are known. The ACC AOS/AOD must specify the preferred date of the
     launch, the number and types of receivers, the nickname, and identifying number for the move. The
     ACC AOS/AOD will follow the verbal request with a detailed message to the TACC and the applica-
     ble overseas scheduling agency (USAFE AOS AOOR/TRC or HQ PACAF AOS/AOK). The TACC
     will task the supporting tanker unit and the appropriate overseas scheduling agency no later than 3
     workdays before the lead time required for submitting altitude reservations and diplomatic clearance
     requests. In no case will tasking be later than 15 calendar days prior to tanker launch date.
     15.3. One 24-hour delay is authorized for missions that do not launch on the scheduled day, provided
     tanker assets are available at the supporting base and all receivers prepare in time for the new launch.
     A second delay requires rescheduling the mission to a mutually agreeable date. Tanker units are
     released from ACC AOS/AOD fighter movement responsibilities upon expiration of the 24-hour
     delay time and coordination with the TACC.
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                            11


   15.4. Tasked tanker units will coordinate with ACC AOS/AOD, provide tanker flight planning based
   on the profile provided by ACC AOS/AOD, and ensure an appropriate level of ground and flight
   supervision is provided for the mission. The TACC will designate a lead planning agency when more
   than one tanker unit is involved in the movement. The lead planning agency is responsible for coordi-
   nating the entire mission with ACC AOS/AOD and other tanker planning agencies. The lead planning
   agency will designate the mission commander, who will normally be the lead aircraft commander for
   the entire mission.

16. Scheduling ANG and AFRES Tanker Support. If other than combat or contingency support oper-
ations require ANG or AFRES tankers:
   •   The TACC will send requests for ANG tanker support to NGB/XOOO with a copy to NGB/XOO/
       XOXE for coordination.
   •   The TACC will send requests for AFRES tanker support to 4 AF/DO and 22 AF/DO with a copy
       to HQ AFRES/DO for coordination.
   •   ANGRC/DOX will coordinate with the TACC when providing validated tanker support to theater
       commanders.
   •   HQ AFRES/DO will coordinate with the TACC when providing validated tanker support to the-
       ater commanders.



                                             RALPH E. EBERHART, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS/Plans and Operations
12                                                                      AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995


                                               Attachment 1

                              AIR REFUELING SUPPORT PRIORITIES

A1.1. Priority 1A.
     •   Priority 1A1--Presidential-directed missions and operational National Emergency Airborne Com-
         mand Post (NEACP) support.
     •   Priority 1A2--Wartime or contingency combat support designated by the Joint Chiefs of Staff
         (JCS).
     •   Priority 1A3--Special operations support and other programs approved by the President for top
         national priority.

A1.2. Priority 1B.
     •   Priority 1B1--Deployments to conduct contingency operations and special missions directed by
         the Secretary of Defense or the JCS.
     •   Priority 1B2--Missions in support of counterdrug operations and operational reconnaissance.
NOTE: Although you may credit activity accomplished on Priority 1 missions toward training require-
ments, you cannot program these missions within the forecasting process. Therefore, units and MAJ-
COMs should identify tradeoff sorties when possible. These missions are eligible for tanker spare aircraft
or 24-hour slip capability, when available.

A1.3. Priority 2A.
     •   Priority 2A1--Nonscheduled JCS-directed operational deployments. (Does not include scheduled
         aircraft swap-outs.)
     •   Priority 2A2--JCS-directed exercise missions which require air refueling to meet JCS objectives.
     •   Priority 2A3--Extended over water deployments (aircraft range will not allow a fuel stop en route)
         or deployments of aircraft tasked for Priority 1 missions for which an en route fuel stop is not
         practical.

A1.4. Priority 2B.
     •   Priority 2B1--Foreign Military Sales (FMS) case support. (Unless mission qualifies for a higher
         priority).
Priority 2B2--Aircraft test operations.
     •   Priority 2B3--Extended over water redeployments (aircraft range will not allow a fuel stop en
         route). Redeployments of aircraft tasked for Priority 1 missions for which an en route fuel stop is
         not practical. Deployments of scheduled aircraft swap outs (aircraft range will allow en route fuel
         stops).

A1.5. Priority 2C.
AFI11-221 1 NOVEMBER 1995                                                                            13


   •   Priority 2C1--JCS exercise missions which require air refueling to meet MAJCOM, NAF, or wing
       objectives.
   •   Priority 2C2--Employment missions in support of MAJCOM-directed exercises or operations or
       MAJCOM-, NAF-, or wing-directed over water deployments.
NOTE: MAJCOM equivalent for the Navy is CINCPACFLT or CINCLANTFLT. MAJCOM equivalent
for the Marines is FMFPAC or FMFLANT.
   •   Priority 2C3-Predeployment qualification training.

A1.6. Priority 3A.
   •   Priority 3A1--MAJCOM-, NAF-, or wing-directed redeployments or NAF-directed exercises and
       ORIs.
NOTE: NAF equivalent for the Navy is AIRPAC or AIRLANT. NAF equivalent for the Marines is
Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF).
   •   Priority 3A2--Intratheater deployments and redeployments.

A1.7. Priority 3B.
   •   Priority 3B1--Combat Crew Training School (CCTS), Replacement Training Unit (RTU), and
       requalification training and upgrade training, when air refueling training is accomplished during
       the mission.
   •   Priority 3B2--Wing-directed exercises and evaluations.
NOTE: Wing equivalent for the Navy is Carrier Air Wing. Wing equivalent for the Marines is Marine
Expeditionary Brigade (MEB).

A1.8. Priority 4A.
   •   Priority 4A1--Missions launched to satisfy US Air Force, Navy, and other DoD agency training
       requirements.
NOTE: Priority 4 sortie requests must show the number of tanker sorties needed to support training
requirements specified by the appropriate training publication.

A1.9. Priority 5A1.
   •   Priority 5A1-- Unit to unit scheduled non-allocated air refueling (soft air refueling).
