BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-201
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                               Supplement
                                                                             7 OCTOBER 2013

                                               Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                                  AIRSPACE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: ACC/A3AA                                                            Certified by: ACC/A3A
                                                                           (Col Daniel Czupka)
                                                                                        Pages: 19
Supersedes:   AFI 13-201_ACCSUP,
              14 May 2007


This publication supplements AFI 13-201, Airspace Management. This supplement does not
apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or members.
This Supplement describes MAJCOM specific guidance and procedures for developing and
processing Special Use Airspace and Airspace for Special Use. It provides guidance for
requesting Certificate of Authorization (COA) for Remote Piloted Aircraft (RPA) and ACC
specific airspace management inspection checklist items. Supplements will not lessen the
requirements nor change the basic content or intent of this instruction. Reports generated from
this publication are subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
requirements and may contain copyrighted information. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication in writing to ACC Airspace, Ranges, and Airfield Operations
Branch (ACC/A3A), 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Joint Base Langley-Eustis VA 23665-2789
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: updates to the ACC added Chapter 7: Training, Administration, and MTR Criteria; Unit
 2                                                    AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


Airspace Manager Inspection Checklist added; RPA Certificate of Authorization (COA)
Checklist added.
1.1.1. (Added) Airspace Use Philosophy. HQ ACC is committed to the development and
maintenance of required airspace necessary to safely accomplish 100 percent of present and
future readiness training. ACC supports the effective and efficient use of all navigable airspace
in the United States, including special use airspace (SUA) and airspace for special use (ASU).
1.4.1. (Added) HQ ACC promotes real-time access to ACC-managed airspace by
nonparticipating aircraft whenever it is not required for essential flight operations and training.
1.4.2. (Added) Exclusive Use. ACC units require "exclusive use" in ACC-managed airspace.
ACC units using SUA/ASU scheduled by other DoD agencies may operate on a
mutual/concurrent use basis consistent with the host unit's policy. (See Attachment 1).
1.4.3. (Added) Flight Operations/Training. Conduct flight operations/training only in
appropriate SUA/ASU unless authorized by HQ ACC/A3. Agencies planning to use SUA/ASU
must be familiar with special procedures/requirements detailed in Letter of Agreements/Letter of
Procedures (LOAs/LOPs).
1.4.4. (Added) ACC SUA/ASU is established to support ACC requirements, however,
whenever practical ACC scheduling agencies should support the requirements of other DoD
airspace users.
1.5.1. (Added) Waivers. Due to unique local situations, units may request waivers to this
supplement. The unit OG/CC will forward requests and proposed alleviation plan to HQ
ACC/A3A. Describe the specific factors, which resulted in the request for waiver. ACC/A3A
will determine if the request warrants granting a waiver or exemption. The unit OPR must
coordinate with the base publications manager to include the waiver in the applicable base
publication.
1.6.1. (Added) Airspace Management Administration. Subordinate units may supplement this
publication. Forward proposed supplements to HQ ACC/A3AA, for approval prior to
publication. Units must forward a copy of supplements to A3AA once published.
2.10.2.1. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA is the Air Combat Command focal point for the
establishment, maintenance, modification and return of airspace to the National Airspace
System. HQ ACC/A3AA will develop policies, and procedures for managing ACC Special
Activity Airspace (SAA) supporting Combat Air Forces (CAF) operations and training in the
CONUS.
2.10.2.2. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA will provide COMACC with subject matter expertise and
advice on airspace initiatives.
2.10.2.3. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA will provide guidance to assigned units on DoD, FAA, and
USAF airspace policies.
2.10.2.4. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A will address military airspace matters with FAA, HQ USAF,
other MAJCOMs, component command, and other services.
2.10.18.1. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA is the point of contact for the coordination and
investigation of alleged FAR violations involving ACC assets.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                               3


2.10.24. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A will coordinate responses to Congressional/SECAF
inquiries/noise complaints.
2.10.25. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA will participate in Site Activation Task Force (SATAF)
projects which involve airspace management actions.
2.10.26. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA will represent ACC in Regional/National Airspace/Range
Council meetings.
2.10.27. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA will inspect the unit airspace management function in
conjunction with the Airfield Operations Compliance Inspection (AOCI) and provide Staff
Assistance Visits, on request.
2.10.28. (Added) Unit Responsibilities for Airspace Management. Each unit that utilizes
military airspace will:
2.10.28.1. (Added) The Operations Group Commander (OG/CC) or designated representative
will appoint in writing an airspace manager to serve as the OG/CC point of contact for airspace
issues. The OG/CC or designated representative will certify completion of required training per
Attachment 7.
2.10.28.1.1. (Added) Ensure adequate personnel are assigned to support the airspace
management program. Military members will be awarded the Special Experience Identifier (SEI)
OUL/350 in accordance with para 7.2.3
2.10.28.2. (Added) Ensure airspace is used IAW official publications or written agreements.
2.10.28.2.1. (Added) Evaluate effectiveness of existing airspace and, if inadequate, initiate
appropriate corrective actions.
2.10.28.3. (Added) Ensure military airspace utilization data is documented, reported, and
maintained IAW Chapter 5.
2.10.28.4. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager is a member of the Base Environment, Safety,
and Occupational Health (ESOH) Leadership Council, Base Airfield Operations Board (AOB),
and the Installation Encroachment Management Team (IEMT); N/A 552 ACW.
2.10.28.5. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager supports the unit’s safety office with the
following AFI 91-202 requirements:
2.10.28.5.1. (Added) By participating in the unit’s Mid-Air Collision Avoidance (MACA)
program.
2.10.28.5.2. (Added) By participating with the unit’s Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
(BASH) program.
2.10.28.5.3. (Added) By assisting with Hazardous Air Traffic Reporting (HATR) and High
Accident Potential (HAP) investigations as required.
2.10.28.6. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager is the focal point for compiling airspace,
range, scoring site data (contact information) to update FLIP AP1/B.
2.10.29. (Added) Unit Airspace Manager shall:
2.10.29.1. (Added)    Ensure actions required in paragraph 2.10.28 are completed and
documented.
 4                                                   AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


2.10.29.2. (Added) Be responsible for initiating, processing, monitoring, and implementing
airspace actions/proposals and managing their programs.
2.10.29.3. (Added) Organize and provide oversight for airspace management activities within
their unit’s area of operationals/responsibility.
2.10.29.4. (Added) Shall be knowledgeable of the DoD speed exemption to FAR 91.116
(Appendix 18, FAAO 7610.4).
2.10.29.5. (Added) Be familiar with all command policies and standards concerning airspace
dimensions and ensure airspace they manage complies.
2.10.29.5.1. (Added) ACC managed Special Activity Airspace (SAA) should have sufficient
volume to contain the flight paths of all training missions for which it is intended. However,
there are certain limitations that are to be followed:
2.10.29.5.2. (Added) Except for restricted airspace that complies with paragraph 23-1-4a of
FAAO JO 7400.2, the minimum altitude that is to be designated as the floor of SAA will be no
lower than an altitude equivalent to 100 feet AGL; not applicable for helicopter operations.
2.10.29.5.3. (Added)    MTRs corridors are to have a maximum width of 20 NM.
2.10.29.6. (Added)     Be familiar with command and AF policies regarding the
preparation/processing of a Test/Training Space Needs Statement (T/TSNS) according to
Chapter 3.
2.10.29.7. (Added) Provide HQ ACC/A3AA and the AFREP with details of any proposed
change in SAA managed by their organization.
2.10.29.8. (Added) Ensure unit schedulers and leadership are aware of the ACC policy
requiring "exclusive use" in ACC-managed airspace (see Attachment 1).
2.10.29.9. (Added) Retain utilization information on Restricted Areas, MOAs, and Air Traffic
Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA) for 2 years IAW USAF Records Disposition Schedule
Table 13-4 rule 4 Exception: Retain data that reflects an adverse trend for 5 years.
2.10.29.10. (Added) Retain utilization information on Military Training Routes for 10 years
IAW JO 7610.4, Special Operations.
2.10.29.11. (Added) Ensure airspace utilization data collection efforts include all tenant unit
operations and off base users.
2.10.29.12. (Added) Accomplish SUA utilization reports according to FAAO 7400.2,
Procedures for Handling Airspace Matters (does not apply in areas outside FAA jurisdiction)
and submit to HQ ACC/A3AA IAW applicable suspense and procedures.
2.10.29.13. (Added) Be familiar with all directives referenced by this instruction.
2.10.29.14. (Added) Ensure airspace proposals are validated and coordinated with local
agencies (includes controlling ATC agency), properly formatted per FAAO 7400.2, and
submitted to HQ ACC/A3AA for processing.
2.10.29.15. (Added) Ensure LOAs are accomplished IAW guidance provided in paragraph 3.3
and paragraph 7.3
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                5


2.10.29.16. (Added) Ensure procedures established for the development of airspace
proposals/assignments in areas outside FAA jurisdiction are accomplished and coordinated under
international procedures and practices IAW ICAO region or host nation.
2.10.29.17. (Added) Ensure unit leadership is notified and knowledgeable of airspace issues
that may affect the unit’s operations.
2.10.29.18. (Added) Ensure procedures are in place so appropriate LOA/LOP/airspace
briefings are conducted during the scheduling process for users not assigned to the local flying
unit.
2.10.29.19. (Added) Develop programs, presentations, materials, etc., that ensure assigned
aircrews are knowledgeable of airspace requirements specified in airspace LOAs/LOPs.
2.10.29.20. (Added) Ensure alleged violations to Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs),
airspace spill-outs, airspace intrusions, gross navigational errors, Congressional inquiries, and
noise complaints are investigated and documented.
2.10.29.21. (Added) Keep Low Altitude Tactical Navigation Area documentation on file at the
unit level IAW USAF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), Table 13-4 rule 4. Each file will
include the environmental documentation IAW Title 32, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), part
989, The Environmental Impact analysis Process.
2.10.29.22. (Added) Send Slow Speed Low Altitude Training Route proposals to HQ
ACC/A3AA using FAA Form 7110-4. FAA coordination is not required. Keep route
documentation on file at the unit level in accordance with USAF RDS Table 13-4 rule 4. Each
file will include environmental documentation IAW Title 32, CFR, part 989.
2.10.29.23. (Added) Establish procedures governing the temporary closure of MTRs to meet
contingency actions such as forest fires, overdue survey, law enforcement avoidance area.
Address procedures to notify appropriate aircrews and agencies as required (e.g., air traffic
control, command post, base operations, weather, etc.) to close and open routes in a timely
manner.
2.10.29.24. (Added) Review all applicable environmental decision documents each year and
ensure that training operations are in compliance with paragraph 7.14 environmental analyses
requirement i.e., chaff, flares, weapons, and supersonic operations.
2.12.2.1. Wing Commanders electing not to participate in the councils must notify HQ
ACC/A3A.
2.12.2.1.1. (Added) Units planning to present a concept for new or modified test/training
airspace at a regional council meeting must coordinate their presentation with HQ ACC/A3AA
NLT one week prior to the meeting date.
2.12.2.2.1. (Added) Airspace managers attending their respective regional management
session may be asked to present a short briefing (approximately five minutes) on their typical
flight operations, training requirements, areas commonly overflown, and issues being worked to
include current airspace. Units will coordinate this briefing with HQ ACC/A3AA NLT one week
prior to the meeting.
2.12.2.2.2. (Added) Unit airspace managers that are unable to attend their respective regional
management session will provide, if requested, HQ ACC/A3AA with a short power-point
 6                                                    AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


presentation (approximately five minutes) on their typical flight operations, training
requirements, areas commonly overflown, and issues being worked to include current airspace.
The HQ ACC/A3AA representative attending the meeting will make the presentation.
2.12.6. (Added) The ACC Airspace and Range Conference (ACC/ARC) may be used as a
vehicle to develop and/or articulate ACC’s position on various airspace matters. OPR for the
ACC ARC is A3A.
3.1.1.2.3. (Added) Prior to initiating a new airspace concept, unit airspace managers should
review the process steps and checklists available in this instruction, FAA JO 7400.2 and 7610.4.
The concept must be fully vetted through the unit’s operations and air traffic staff prior to
submitting the T/TSNS. Existing SUA/ASU within the concepts region of influence will be
examined for suitability with regard to volume, proximity, time and attributes. This review must
be documented and included in the T/TSNS. Additionally, the concept must be coordinated with
local stakeholders including the ATC controlling agencies, State interests (aviation and land
management as appropriate), and other military units that could be affected. The environmental
process will not proceed beyond the PREIAP stage until the T/TSNS has been
coordinated/adjudicated through HQ ACC and HAF.
3.1.1.2.4. (Added) Once the concept has been approved IAW paragraph 3.1.1.2.3 develop the
airspace proposal IAW FAAO 7610.4 and/or FAAO 7400.2 as appropriate. Use a current
sectional chart or full size printed facsimile of the current sectional chart to depict the airspace
proposal. Submit the proposal through the chain of command to HQ ACC/A3AA.
3.1.1.2.5. (Added) The airspace management proponent must keep a copy of completed
airspace action (to include the applicable final environmental documentation) for historical
records. See USAF RDS, Table 13-4.
3.1.1.2.6. (Added) Changes to existing SUA/ASU will follow the same process as described in
paragraph 3.1.1.2.3. through 3.1.1.2.5.
3.1.2.1.1. (Added) The Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA) should
include all new/additional flying activities proposed. These activities should be described in
sufficient detail to allow someone reviewing the document to understand the nature and extent of
the proposal. At a minimum, it should include all proposed flying activities, including type and
number of airframes, use rates by environmental day(0700-2200L) and night (2200-0700L),
sorties/sortie-operations per month, and planned profiles (airspeeds and altitudes) to be flown. It
should also include airspace utilization (MOAs and MTRs) where training and proposed flight
activities are to be considered.
3.1.2.1.1.1. (Added) The DOPAA should address alternatives to the proposal. NEPA requires
that the environmental analysis include a no-action alternative along with reasonable alternatives
to the proposal. Reasonable alternatives are those that meet mission objectives. The DOPAA
should include all reasonable alternatives. Questions on preparation and content of AF Form 813
should be directed to the local environmental coordinator.
3.1.4.2.1. (Added) Exercise Airspace. The coordination and/or development of airspace to
support special events such as Field Training Exercises, Operational Readiness Inspections,
Evaluations, or Joint Chief of Staff Exercises may require the involvement of the unit, NAF,
DRU, and/or MAJCOM airspace managers as trusted agents.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  7


3.1.4.2.2. (Added) Develop temporary or modify existing airspace for exercises IAW FAAO
7610.4 and/or 7400.2. Use of exercise airspace may require environmental evaluation. Conduct
exercise planning with sufficient lead time to meet FAA timelines to secure airspace approval
and notification.
3.4.1.2.1. (Added) Supersonic operations above 30,000 feet mean sea level (MSL), or over
water above 10,000 feet MSL and more than 15 nautical miles from land, may be conducted only
after environmental review in accordance with Title 32, CFR, part 989 and approval by the
Operations Group Commander. Recurring supersonic operations above 30,000 feet MSL, or over
water as described above, should be documented on an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental
Impact Analysis.
3.4.2.2.1. (Added) Supersonic operations below 30,000 feet MSL require an environmental
assessment (at a minimum) and Air Staff approval. This pertains not only to permanent
operations, but also to temporary test/exercises involving supersonic speeds. The DOPAA to
establish/change supersonic flight areas/operations should arrive at HQ ACC/A3A as early as
possible prior to its anticipated need. The process to obtain a permanent waiver for supersonic
operations will take approximately 36 months. This will allow for HQ ACC/A3A review, Air
Staff review/approval, and a potential lengthy environmental analysis process. Proposed changes
in supersonic operations due to a change in unit assigned weapon system(s), or a change in
tactics, must be environmentally assessed prior to implementing the proposed change.
3.4.3.2.1. (Added) Units will submit a request for renewal to the appropriate civil engineering
activity at least 6 months prior to expiration of the approved 3-year period. Forward a copy of the
locally coordinated renewal request to HQ ACC/A3AA.
3.4.5.1.1. (Added) Units will document unauthorized supersonic flight activities over land or
within 15 NM of a coast. Information to be collected for each event will include: aircraft
callsign, aircraft type, unit, airspace or location, time of event, altitude of event, and route of
flight. Documentation will be maintained for two years IAW USAF Records Disposition
Schedule Table 13-4 rule 4, Table 13-4. Retain data pertaining to property damage claims
investigation for 5 years.
3.6.1.1. (Added) The unit Operations Group Commander will sign out the correspondence.
4.1.2.1. Participation in Public Meetings. Subordinate units will advise HQ ACC/A3AA of
requests to participate in public meetings involving airspace/environmental issues. Airspace
management representatives must ensure their personal comments are not construed as HQ
ACC’s official position. The official HQ ACC position can only be determined after proper
coordination with HQ ACC/A3A. All ACC Airspace Management representatives and
operations personnel should accomplish risk communication training prior to actively
participating in public meetings.
4.1.2.1.1. (Added) Units will include ACC/A3AA on the distribution list for AOB minutes.
4.1.5.1.1. (Added) Noise complaints and Congressional inquiries originating from higher
headquarters will be referred to the appropriate unit for investigation. ACC units will establish
their own investigation procedures for handling these matters.
4.1.5.1.2. (Added) Units will coordinate all responses to Congressional or other higher
headquarters inquiries dealing with military training airspace through ACC/A3AA.
 8                                                 AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


4.1.7.1. (Added) FAA Airspace Review/Government Accounting Office (GAO)/Air Force
Audit Agency (AFAA) Visits. HQ ACC/A3AA is the central point of contact for coordinating
FAA/GAO/AFAA inquiries concerning airspace matters. Report unscheduled visits/inquiries
from these agencies to HQ ACC/A3AA.
4.3.1.1. (Added) Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Non-Combat Operations in Foreign
Airspace. RPA operations outside the United States must follow host nation policies and
procedures for unmanned aircraft operations.
4.3.1.2. (Added) Flight Operations Into or Within Canadian Airspace. Compliance with the
Canadian and United States governments’ agreement for overflight of Canadian territory by
ACC aircraft is mandatory. All flights in Canadian airspace will be conducted IAW Foreign
Clearance Guide and under instrument flight rules (IFR) according to FLIP and AFI 11-202V3
unless VFR flight is approved by HQ ACC Canadian Forces Liaison Office. ACC training flights
are approved annually between Canadian Forces and HQ ACC. Formation flights in Canadian
airspace will be IAW FLIP AP/1.
4.4.1.1.1. (Added) COA Procedures - COA processing is a coordinated effort between the
proponent requesting the COA, their MAJCOM, ACC, HAF and the FAA. These procedures
apply to all USAF proponents requesting FAA RPA COA (including ANG and AFR). They are
designed to ensure the best possible success in achieving COA approval. ACC/A3AA is the OPR
for USAF RPA COA processing.
4.4.1.1.2. (Added) ACC/A3AA will:
4.4.1.1.2.1. (Added) Establish user accounts for proponents to draft COAs after user
MAJCOM validation.
4.4.1.1.2.2. (Added) Review proponent drafts/renewals and released COAs for accuracy and
completeness within 7 days of proponent notification of completion
4.4.1.1.2.3. (Added) After review, commit or re-commit COA requests to the FAA or advise
proponent of need for additional data, information, corrections, or changes
4.4.1.1.2.4. (Added) Alert HAF A3O-BA of intent to commit or re-commit a draft or released
COA as soon as the review is complete and all requirements are met
4.4.1.1.2.5. (Added) Advise proponent when COA is (re)committed to the FAA
4.4.1.1.2.6. (Added) User MAJCOM will:
4.4.1.1.2.7. (Added) Validate unit requirement for RPA access to the NAS and the need for a
COA
4.4.1.1.2.8. (Added) Request proponent/unit account from ACC/A3AA to draft RPA COA.
4.4.1.1.2.9. (Added) Follow-up with subordinate units to ensure status and success of COA.
4.4.1.1.2.10. (Added) Unit (proponent) requesting COA will:
4.4.1.1.2.11. (Added) Advise user MAJCOM as soon as possible, (at least 120 days) prior to
the need for an RPA COA.
4.4.1.1.2.12. (Added) Draft COA IAW Attachment 16.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                  9


4.4.1.1.2.13. (Added) If COA is released by the FAA for corrections, additions, clarifications
or attachments, promptly and fully address request(s) as indicated, and then notify ACC/A3AA
to re-commit COA to the FAA.
4.4.2.1. (Added) COA Reporting: Units will inform ACC/A3AA that required reports have
been submitted NLT 7 business days after the reporting period ends.
5.2.1. (Added) Airspace Denial Report. Units must document, via a brief narrative, each
airspace denial. If an unsatisfactory trend develops, inform HQ ACC/A3AA. HQ ACC/A3AA
will work with AFREPs to resolve the issue. If this fails to resolve the issue, HQ ACC/A3A will
forward the report to HQ USAF/A3O-A for resolution. Note: Altitude restrictions are considered
airspace denials.
5.3.1.4. (Added) Restricted Area Reports are due at HQ ACC/A3AA via electronic
transmission NLT 15 Nov annually.
5.3.2.4. (Added) MOA Reports are due at HQ ACC/A3AA via electronic transmission NLT 15
Dec annually.
5.3.3. (Added) Spill-Out Reports. Units will maintain documentation of alleged DoD spill-outs
from SUA including date, time, type of aircraft, call sign, number of aircraft, airspace
designation, and reason (if known) in a brief narrative. Inform HQ ACC/A3AA of alleged spill-
outs that may attract public attention.
5.3.4. (Added) Airspace Intrusions Reports. Report alleged civil aircraft violations of military
SUA to the FAA Flight Standards District Office (FSDO). FSDO requires nature of the incident,
time of occurrence, and tail number (if known) of the alleged violating aircraft. Note: This report
is not a substitute for the USAF Hazardous Air Traffic Report.
5.5.2.1.1. (Added) Units will provide HQ ACC/A3AA an updated MTR survey listing (route
name, date last surveyed/caretaker status) by 15 Jan annually.
5.5.2.2.1. (Added) Airspace manager should serve as observer on as many evaluation flights as
possible.
5.5.5.1. (Added) Route briefing guides will include deconfliction procedures.
5.5.5.2. (Added) Unit Airspace Managers will establish procedures to ensure opposite
direction MTRs are not simultaneously scheduled.
5.5.5.3. (Added) An MTR will be used only for those activities for which it was designed and
environmentally assessed.
5.6.3.1. (Added) Deconflict routes using time, altitude, alternating days, scheduling, etc. If
unable to deconflict routes annotate in the appropriate publication/document.
5.7. (Added) Reviewing Special Use Airspace Assignments. Units will conduct SUA
Reviews each Feb annually. Unit airspace managers will maintain current SUA/MTR review
checklists. Maintain documentation for each piece of managed airspace, to include any
authorized changes in the original proposed usage, LOP/LOAs, and environmental
documentation in accordance with USAF RDS, Table 13-4.
5.7.1. (Added) Use Attachment 9, Periodic Airspace Review Checklist, AFI 13-201, when
conducting annual review of unit managed Restricted Areas (RA), Military Operations Area
 10                                                  AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


(MOAs), Air Traffic Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA), Instrument Routes (IRs), and Visual
Routes (VRs).
5.8. (Added) Review of Environmental Decision Documents. Each ACC unit will conduct a
review of all applicable environmental decision documents each Feb annually to ensure that
training operations are in strict compliance with and within the scope of all relevant
environmental analyses, including any existing management actions or mitigations. In addition
ensure similar strict compliance by others using ACC training airspace and assets. This review
should be coordinated through the unit’s installation environmental planning function. Types of
documents include a Categorical Exclusion, Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) and
Record of Decision (ROD).
5.8.1. (Added) Units will provide HQ ACC/A3AA a MTR Utilization report by 15 Oct
annually. Report will identify the route, monthly utilization numbers, aircraft type, and annual
total operations.
5.9. (Added) Specific Airspace Utilization Information. Units will maintain documentation
airspace use of each sortie-operation. Information to be retained for each event will include as a
minimum: aircraft callsign, number and type of aircraft, unit, name of airspace, airspace
activation time, airspace scheduled time, and actual entry and exit times. Documentation will be
maintained for two years IAW USAF Records Disposition Schedule Table 13-4 rule 4.
6.4.6. (Added) Advise ACC/A3A of any assessment that has major or critical impact on the
unit’s operations.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                              11


                                      Chapter 7 (Added)

                 TRAINING, ADMINISTRATION, AND MTR CRITERIA

7.1. Training:
7.1.1. USAF Airspace Management School. ACC airspace managers will attend the airspace
management course prior to assignment as an airspace manager or as soon as possible thereafter.
The course is a 9-day, joint-service, training program conducted at Keesler AFB MS. The
program covers the basics and fundamentals essential for new airspace managers. ACC class
allocations are located on the airspace CoP. Contact HQ ACC/A3AA to schedule attendance.
7.1.2. Central Altitude Reservation Function (CARF) Indoctrination Course. The CARF course
is designed to familiarize airspace managers with policies, procedures, and responsibilities
applicable to planning, coordination, and approval of altitude reservation requests. The CARF
course    is    a     Computer     Based     Instruction    (CBI)    course.    See     website
http://www.fly.faa.gov/carf/for software information. Airspace managers are encouraged to
accomplish the CARF course as soon as practical after assignment. CARF training is essential to
combat readiness and each unit should have at
7.1.3. Other Airspace Management Training Courses. Additional courses include Risk
Communications, National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Training, and Description of
Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA) Writing. These classes are occasionally offered by
HQ ACC/A7 or A3A. Dates and locations of the training will be announced via email. The
training is unit funded.
7.1.4. Airspace Management Training Program. Airspace Management personnel must complete
the training requirements established in Attachment 7. The Airspace Manager shall develop a
unit portfolio to supplement and expand on the contents of Attachment 7.
7.2. Airspace Management Administration. Subordinate units may supplement this
publication. Forward proposed supplements to HQ ACC/A3AA, 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Joint
Base Langley-Eustis VA 23665, prior to publication for approval. Units must forward a copy of
published supplement to ACC/A3AA.
7.2.1. Duty Title. The primary base level airspace manager is the Chief of Airspace
Management. Designate any additional personnel as Assistant, Airspace Manager.
7.2.2. Grade Requirements. The primary Airspace Manager should be at least a Major, GS-11,
or above. The assistant airspace manager should be at least a Captain, GS-7, Master Sergeant, or
above.
7.2.3. Skill Requirements. Special experience identifier (SEI) OUL or 350 is awarded after
Airspace Management School completion and 6 consecutive months of airspace management
duties. Awarding of the SEI is a unit responsibility. (N/A to GS/GM positions).
7.2.4. Personnel Retainability. Personnel assigned to airspace management duties must perform
in that function a minimum of 18 months after graduation from Airspace Management School.
7.3. Letters of Agreement/Procedures Administration:
 12                                                   AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


7.3.1. Units will electronically forward LOAs/LOPs, pertaining to training airspace
access/utilization, to HQ ACC/A3AA for review/approval prior to signature.
7.3.1.1. MARSA procedures for Special Activity Airspace (SAA) must be identified in a LOA.
7.3.1.2. For LOAs negotiated with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), use format
guidance in FAAH 7210.3.
7.3.1.3. The unit commander will ensure copies of the LOA are distributed to appropriate units.
7.3.2. A LOP is required when a Restricted Area is designated as joint-use. The format for the
LOP is in FAAO 7400.2, Part 7. A LOP should be accomplished with the controlling agency to
outline operating procedures within the Restricted Area. LOPs are processed using the same
procedures as LOAs.
7.4. Waivers. Due to unique local situations, units may request waivers to this supplement.
Forward requests by letter, or message, through the chain of command to HQ ACC/A3AA.
Describe the specific factors, which resulted in the request for waiver. If approved, the waiver
stays in effect indefinitely, unless HQ ACC/A3AA specifies otherwise, cancels it in writing, or
issues a change that alters the basis for the waiver. The unit OPR must coordinate with the base
publications manager to include the waiver in the applicable base publication.
7.5. Alleged Airspace Violations/Pilot Deviations. Document alleged airspace violations/pilot
deviations at the time of occurrence. The unit airspace manager is the point of contact for
processing airspace violations/pilot deviation packages. HQ ACC/A3AA will forward alleged
violation/pilot deviation packages to the appropriate unit commander. The unit will investigate
the incident and return the results of their investigation and the original violation package to HQ
ACC/A3AA. HQ ACC/A3AA will review and validate the report and forward a response to the
appropriate Air Force Representative (AFREP).
7.5.1. Airspace/Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) Violations. Alleged airspace/FAR violations
and noncompliance with ATC instructions require formal investigation and documentation. HQ
ACC/A3AA coordinates responses for HQ ACC.
7.5.1.1. Operations Group Commander (OG/CC). Upon receipt of an alleged FAR violation, the
OG/CC will review and sign each investigation report before forwarding to HQ ACC/A3AA.
7.5.1.2. Overseas Violation. Send reports on alleged oceanic routing violations involving a unit
TDY overseas to HQ ACC/A3AA.
7.5.1.3. Final Disposition. Forward final report of investigation, action taken, and attachments,
with the original violation package, to HQ ACC/A3AA.
7.5.2. Gross Navigation Errors. Units notified of FAA/International Civil Aviation Organization
flight deviations will investigate according to the provisions of AFI 13-201, Chapter 1 (Military
Pilot Deviation). Review of the unit’s over water navigation training program and crew cross-
check procedures employed during the flight will be included as part of the report.
7.6. Military Authority Assumes Responsibility for Separation of Aircraft
(MARSA). When missions and tactics require aircraft to fly in closer proximity than normal air
traffic control (ATC) approved separation standards, military authorities must accept
responsibility for separation of participating aircraft and ensure implementation with the
appropriate ATC facility. Use MARSA only for IFR operations. A LOA is required. See FAA
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 13


JO 7610.4 for MARSA operations. An aircrew does not have the authority to invoke MARSA at
any time.
7.7. Annual Airspace and Range Awards. HQ ACC/A3A is responsible for administering
these awards for outstanding performance by ACC unit personnel, military and civilian
(contractors and HQ ACC personnel are not eligible). Period of all awards is the calendar year; 1
Jan through 31 Dec. Format is AF Form 1206, limited to one page. Submit award nominations
electronically to HQ ACC/A3A by 1 Feb each year. These awards will normally be presented at
the ACC Airspace and Range Conference. Funding for award winners travel and attendance at
the conference is a unit responsibility.
7.7.1. Categories
7.7.1.1. Airspace Professional of the Year Award: Presented to the member who made the most
significant contribution to airspace management during the award period.
7.7.1.2. ACC Range Professional of the Year Award: Presented to the member who made the
most significant contribution to ACC ranges during the award period.
7.7.1.3. ACC Airspace and Range Achievement Award: Presented to the member who made the
greatest contribution to the ACC mission while directly supporting airspace or range operations
(excludes nominations for airspace and range professionals’ awards).
7.7.1.4. Any military member (officer or enlisted) or civilian member may be nominated for a
category. Units may only submit one nominee per category.
7.7.2. Scoring Criteria.
7.7.2.1. Airspace Professional Award: 80 percent duty performance which includes day to day
job performance, leadership, innovation, airspace improvements, relationships with flying
squadrons, FAA, PA, airspace users, community groups, and environmental stewardship, 20
percent self-improvement which includes PME, education, and professional courses taken.
7.7.2.2. Range Professional Award: 80 percent duty performance which includes day to day job
performance, leadership, innovation, range improvements, relationships with flying squadrons,
FAA, PA, range users, community groups, and environmental stewardship, 20 percent self-
improvement which includes PME, education, and professional courses taken.
7.7.2.3. Airspace and Range Achievement Award: (excludes airspace and range professional
awards): 80 percent duty performance involving overall contribution to airspace and range
operations. This includes airspace and range improvements, enhancements, efficiencies gained,
and innovations. 20 per cent self-improvement which can include professional courses, PME,
and/or education courses successfully completed.
7.8. Military Training Route and Slow Route Planning Criteria:
7.8.1. Minimum Altitudes. All MTRs will be designed to place the aircraft at the lowest altitude
necessary to meet mission requirements consistent with flight safety, whether at IFR or TA/TF
altitude. (NOTE: In no case will the floor of a new MTR be established below 100 feet AGL.)
Lateral separation from obstructions will be preferred to higher altitudes over obstructions. Every
effort will be made to design route segments for TFR operations so as to avoid man-made
obstructions. In certain cases, minimum operating altitudes will be dictated by environmental
constraints.
 14                                                    AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


7.8.2. Top of Block Altitudes. Each IR will have a top of the block altitude that will provide a
minimum clearance of 1000 ft above the highest obstacle/terrain within each route segment or a
minimum clearance of 500 ft above the highest obstruction/terrain within 5 miles outside the
route corridor, whichever is higher.
7.8.3. TA/TF Clearance Plane Setting (Bombers Only). Individual units will be responsible for
establishing clearance plane settings for training routes/MOAs and restricted areas for all
applicable airspace used by their unit. TA/TF altitudes will be established for each MTR with
every effort to establish the lowest altitude consistent with mission requirement and flight safety.
TA/TF clearance plane setting (CPS) will provide at least 200 feet clearance above known man-
made obstructions within the route corridor. Aircrews are advised that CPSs provide no buffer
outside the route limits; obstructions higher than the approved TA/TF altitudes could be present
immediately adjacent to the route perimeter. Aircrews are advised that not all known vertical
obstructions are depicted on standard National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Tactical
Pilotage Charts (TPC) due to cartographic limitations. The number of CPSs will be minimized to
balance safety and training benefits.
7.8.4. Route Width. MTR corridor widths shall be of sufficient size to contain all planned
activities. Unless specifically approved by HQ ACC/A3AA, the total corridor width will not
exceed 20 nautical miles.
7.8.4.1. Route Width (Corridor) -- The MTR boundary limits within which aircraft are restricted
to conduct operations. Route width will normally be defined in FLIP AP/1B as a distance right
and left of route centerline.
7.8.5. MTR Closure. The originating activity, scheduling unit, or controlling agency may close a
route to all aircraft whenever hazardous conditions, accidents, conflicting traffic conditions, or
environmental concerns warrant. The originating activity/scheduling unit should establish
procedures for closing routes to include notifying the controlling agency and all scheduled users,
as applicable. Aircrews will not enter a low level route after being advised it is closed. When a
MTR has not been closed by one of the above agencies, it is the responsibility of the using unit to
evaluate flight conditions and determine whether or not conditions warrant low altitude flight.
The final decision on whether or not to enter or abort a low level route rests with the aircrew and
will be based on evaluation of forecast or existing conditions.
7.9. Slow Speed Low Altitude Training Routes (SR) Development.
7.9.1. A Test and Training Space Need Statement (T/TSNS) is not required for a new SR.
Forward a description and map of the proposed SR to HQ ACC/A3AA for evaluation, review
and approval. HQ ACC/A3AA will provide assistance as required in the development of the SR.
The unit’s OG is the approval authority for the SR once coordination is accomplished.
7.9.2. Slow Speed Low Altitude Training Route (SR) Development. SR’s are developed for
aircraft that normally operate at airspeeds of 250 knots or less.
7.9.3. Altitudes and Corridors. SRs shall be established at or below 1500 AGL. SR widths will
be of sufficient size to encompass all planned activities required for the aircraft training profile.
Under no circumstances should the route be wider than 20 NMs.
7.9.4. Compliance with all applicable FARs is mandatory. The avoidance of persons, structures,
and obstructions is paramount.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                15


7.9.5. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) documentation will be in accordance with
Title 32, CFR, part 989. Environmental documentation shall be retained on file by the proponent
and updated as required to reflect current operations.
7.9.6. Documentation establishing SR will be accomplished using a FAA Form 7110-4.
Maintain all documents in accordance with USAF RDS Table 13, rule-4.
7.10. Low Altitude Tactical Navigation (LATN) Area Development. LATN areas are
developed for aircraft that normally operate at airspeeds of 250 knots or less. LATN areas
should provide pilots with a varying degree of geographical landmarks for navigation,
reconnaissance, low altitude equipment operations/analysis, etc. LATN areas shall, to the
maximum extent possible, include a land mass that will allow aircraft to operate all appropriate
aircraft systems to meet mission requirements and encompass a variety of ground tracks to
ensure that the same ground track is not used on a recurring (daily) basis.
7.10.1. Units will provide HQ ACC/A3AA and the respective AFREP with a description and
chart of the proposed LATN prior to approval. The unit’s OG is the approval authority for
LATN once coordination is accomplished.
7.10.2. LATN areas shall normally be established at or below 1500 AGL.
7.10.3. Compliance with all applicable FARs is mandatory. The avoidance of persons,
structures, and obstructions is paramount.
7.10.4. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) documentation will be in accordance
with Title 32, CFR, part 989. Environmental documentation shall be retained on file by the
proponent and updated as required to reflect current operations.
7.10.5. Documentation establishing LATN areas shall be kept on file by the proponent in
accordance with USAF RDS Table 13. A copy of the approved documentation and area chart
will be provided to HQ ACC/A3AA and the appropriate AFREP.
7.11. Low Level Bird Strike Hazards and Aircrew Reporting Procedures. Bird strikes are a
year round hazard and unit planners must consider the bird threat when scheduling low-level
operations. The large number of different bird species with varying flight habits results in bird
activity at all times of day or night. The most hazardous time is sunset to 0100 local during
waterfowl migration season. However, the primary year-around threat is soaring raptors.
Aircrews that observe hazardous low level bird activity must report the bird sighting to their
local safety office and MTR scheduling agency. When possible, the hazardous bird sighting
report should include, as a minimum, the following information: Location, altitude, size of flock,
and type (i.e., small bird, large bird). NOTE: The Chief of Airspace Management should notify
the wing/unit safety office of planned route surveys and dates. This notification will provide the
safety office the opportunity to accomplish their bird hazard survey in conjunction with the
required route survey(s)
7.12. Weather Information. Weather support for aircrews flying MTRs will be provided by
the using unit weather shop unless otherwise specified in a letter of agreement or route SOP.
Bomber aircrews will pre-brief Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV) contact in advance. Prior to
penetration to the low altitude route/airspace, bomber aircrews will attempt to contact one of the
weather flight PMSV stations designated during the pre-takeoff briefing for the latest
information of significant en route weather.
 16                                                 AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


7.13. VFR Traffic Avoidance (See and Avoid). Federal Aviation Administration Regulation
(FAR) Part 91 permits VFR operation in areas outside controlled airspace with flight visibility
down to one mile. This is less restrictive than the requirements of AFI 11-202V3. Therefore, the
responsibility to observe and avoid other traffic is an integral part of flying MTRs in weather
conditions equal to or better than one mile visibility.




                                            CHARLES W. LYON, Major General
                                            USAF Director of Operations
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                 17


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, 26 May 2010
FAA Notice 8900.207, Unmanned Aircraft System Operational Approval, 22 Jan 13
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFGOMO—Air Force General Officer Matters Office
ARC—Air Reserve Component (refers to both the Air Force Reserve Command and Air
National Guard).
ASU—Airspace for Special Use
COMACC—Commander Air Combat Command
HQ ACC/A3—ACC Directorate of Air and Space Operations
HQ ACC/A4—ACC Directorate of Logistics
HQ ACC/CG—ACC Directorate of Air National Guard Forces
HQ ACC/CR—ACC U.S. Air Force Reserve Advisor
ACC/JA—ACC Staff Judge Advocate
ACC/JAO—ACC Operations Law Division
HQ ACC/SE—ACC Office of Safety
HQ ACC/SEF—ACC Flight Safety Division
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
SUA—Special Use Airspace
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
 18                                                  AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


                                   Attachment 16 (Added)
  REMOTELY PILOTED AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORIZATION (COA)
                          CHECKLIST

A16.1. Ensure COA request is for an RPA (Group 4 or 5 UAS Predator or larger).
A16.2. Ensure COA is for operations OUTSIDE Restricted/Warning/Prohibitive Areas.
A16.3. Ensure COA need is validated by wing leadership, parent MAJCOM and forwarded to
ACC.
A16.4. Ensure COA website permissions are requested through the parent MAJCOM to ACC.
A16.5. Ensure an account was set-up by ACC (https://ioeaaa.faa.gov/oeaaa/Welcome.jsp)
A16.6. Ensure the proponent for the COA is also the responsible unit of the asset or POC for the
exercise/event.
A16.7. Ensure the POC has full knowledge of RPA system, characteristics, operations, the COA
process, and authority to speak and act for the proponent.
A16.8. Ensure the COA approval need is at least 120 days after date of submission.
A16.9. Ensure the COA request is input under the proper tab (MOA Class D or COA cases).
A16.10. Ensure the Executive Summary provides a brief review of overall program objectives
for FAA executive level consumption.
A16.11. Ensure the Operational summary gives detailed information and insight of the operation
not addressed elsewhere.
A16.12. Ensure Operational Summary tab contains airport information and ALL Class of
Airspace(s) where the operation(s) will take place.
A16.13. Ensure the System Description contains all attachments required along with other
pictures or depictions that would be helpful in a complete description of the RPA system.
A16.14. Ensure the Performance Characteristics contain accurate data and a depiction or
description of the Ground Station.
A16.15. Ensure there is an Airworthiness Certificate (AWC) for the RPA involved and it is
attached.
A16.16. Ensure the date on the AWC meets or exceeds the operational end date of the COA.
A16.17. Ensure the Lost Link/Lost Communication and Emergency procedures are
comprehensive and attached.
A16.18. Ensure a Spectrum/Frequency Analysis has been performed and ensure the NTIA
authorization is attached.
A16.19. If there are Onboard or Ground based electronic surveillance/detection capabilities,
ensure applicable information is included/attached.
A16.20. Ensure detection capabilities are described, depicted and attached.
AFI13-201_ACCSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                                19


A16.21. Ensure any ground based or airborne visual surveillance/detection capabilities
associated with the operation are described and/or attached.
A16.22. Ensure the Flight Operations Area/Plan is comprehensive and accurate; attach
descriptive maps, as needed.
A16.23. Ensure any supporting data, maps, procedures or additional clarifications, that do not fit
into previous tabs, are attached or explained under the Special Circumstances section.
A16.24. Ensure all blocks in all tabs are checked yes/no or filled in.
A16.25. Ensure deconfliction procedures for lost-link contingencies are identified if more than
one RPA will be airborne at a time.
A16.26. Ensure a review of the COA is accomplished and finalized for ACC review.
A16.27. Ensure an email is sent to HQ ACC/A3AA (cc parent MAJCOM) requesting COA
review/processing.
