BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-260
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          15 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                       TACTICS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A3TW                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                       (Col Jeffrey R, McDaniels)
Supersedes:    AFI11-260,                                                               Pages: 46
               12 December 2003


This instruction implements policy in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircraft Rules
and Procedures, and establishes responsibilities and procedures for conducting the Tactics
Development Program. This instruction applies to all units involved with the employment of
Combat Air Forces (CAF), Special Operations Forces (SOF), Space, Cyberspace and Mobility
Air Forces (MAF). All subordinate organizations, including individual units, may supplement
this instruction to cover unique requirements. Forward approved supplements to Headquarters
Air Combat Command, Weapons and Tactics Branch (ACC/A3TW). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This instruction applies to Air
National Guard (ANG) units when published in ANGIND2; and applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units when published in AFRCIND2. Ensure that all records prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Additionally, if the publication
generates a report(s), alert readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers
in accordance with Chapter 2 of AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information
Collections.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                                                     AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


Major areas updated include: adjusting Tactics Review Board (TRB) timing to align with major
command (MAJCOM) budget processes; implementing standard practices instituted after the
2009 Combat Air Forces Weapons and Tactics Conference; and, incorporates portions of Air
Force Space Command Instruction (AFSPCI) 10-260, Tactics Development Program for
Operational Systems; Air Mobility Command Instruction (AMCI) 11-207, AMC Tactics
Program; and Air Force Global Strike Command information.

        1.     General Policy: ......................................................................................................    2
Table 1.       MAJCOM Control Numbers. .................................................................................                 4
Table 2.       TRB Timetable. .....................................................................................................      4
        2.     CAF and CSARF Tactics Development Procedures: ............................................                                5
        3.     MAF Tactics Development Procedures: ................................................................                     15
        4.     AFSOF Tactics Development Procedures. ............................................................                       21
        5.     AFGSC Tactics Development Program. ................................................................                      27
Table 3.       Entering Arguments for TTP (Not all inclusive). ..................................................                       29
        6.     AFSPC Tactics Development Program. ................................................................                      30
        7.     Information Collections, Records, and Forms: ......................................................                      30

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          32

ATTACHMENT 2—AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES 3-1/3-3
         MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES                                                                                                          38

ATTACHMENT 3—AF INFORMATION MANAGEMENT TOOL 4326 INSTRUCTIONS                                                                           44


1. General Policy:
     1.1. The Tactics Development Program is designed to develop, document and disseminate
     tactics for the Air Force. The program’s broad goals are to:
        1.1.1. Identify tactical employment opportunities in all areas of fighter, bomber, rescue,
        command and control, airlift, air refueling, special ops, air operations center, information
        warfare, air defense sector operations, intelligence operations, information operations,
        space operations.
        1.1.2. Conduct formal Tactics Development and Evaluations (TD&E) to determine new
        tactics that correct identified tactical deficiencies and pursue new/improved Tactics,
        Techniques, and Procedures (TTP).
        1.1.3. Continually validate existing tactics against emerging threats and new
        technologies.
        1.1.4. Consolidate and rapidly disseminate tactical information.
        1.1.5. Develop tactics for new or modified weapons systems entering the AF inventory.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                    3


  1.2. Tactics incorporate all facets involved with accomplishing assigned tactical missions
  and are not limited to airborne assets. Any participants actively involved in engagement of
  the enemy while executing the mission should be involved in the tactics development
  process. This includes planning, rehearsal, takeoff, departure, intelligence preparation of the
  operational environment, command and control, ingress to the target, weapons employment,
  egress procedures, arrival, and any additional support assets required for mission success.
     1.2.1. The Tactics Development Program is not intended for hardware/software
     acquisition, Technical Order (T.O.) modifications or requests to changes in training. Use
     AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, to request changes to hardware configuration of
     less than $10 million; T.O. 00-35D-54, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and
     Resolution, to identify equipment shortfalls and software changes; AF Form 847, to
     request changes to Instructions or Publications and AFTO Form 22 for T.O.s.
  1.3. MAJCOM/Equivalent agency Responsibilities:
     1.3.1. Air Combat Command (ACC) is tasked by AFI 11-415, Weapons and Tactics
     Program, to serve as the lead command in developing, documenting and disseminating
     tactics for the CAF. CAF, as used in this AFI, refers to units within ACC, United States
     Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), Air Force Intelligence
     Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA), Air Force Space Command
     (AFSPC), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), Air Force Global Strike Command
     (AFGSC) and the Air National Guard (ANG).
     1.3.2. Air Mobility Command (AMC) serves as the lead command in developing,
     documenting and issuing tactics for the MAF in accordance with (IAW) AFPD 10-21, Air
     Mobility Lead Command Roles And Responsibilities. MAF, as used in this AFI, refers to
     mobility units within AMC, USAFE, PACAF, AFRC, and ANG.
     1.3.3. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) serves as the lead command in
     developing, documenting, and issuing tactics for AFSOF IAW AFMD 6, Air Force
     Special Operations Command.
     1.3.4. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) serves as the lead command in developing,
     documenting, and issuing tactics for space weapons systems IAW AFMD 5, Air Force
     Space Command and Cyberspace IAW Program Action Direction 07-08 change 3.
     1.3.5. Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) serves as the lead command in
     developing, documenting, and issuing tactics for global strike weapons systems IAW
     USAF Program Action Directive (PAD) 08-04.
     1.3.6. Air Force Education and Training Command (AETC) serves as the lead command
     in education and training IAW AFMD 3, Air Force Education and Training Command.
  1.4. Tactics Development Integration:
     1.4.1. Air Force personnel who identify a non-material solution to a tactical deficiency
     should submit an AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 4326, Tactic Improvement
     Proposal (TIP), to the unit tactics shop (see Attachment 3). The unit tactics shops will
     forward the TIP via the appropriate chain of command. MAJCOMs will assign control
     numbers for all received TIPs. TIPs will be referred to by the MAJCOM control number
     until they reach final disposition. Numbering begins with the fiscal year (FY) of the Test
 4                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


      Priority List (TPL) being addressed (if one is used), followed by a MAJCOM reference
      number. The reference scheme in Table 1 will be used. EXAMPLE: ACC/A3TW
      receives the first TIP in Nov 10 for consideration during the January 2011 TRB, the TIP
      will be assigned control number 12-101. For classified TIPs a ―C‖ will be added after the
      FY (12C-101).

Table 1. MAJCOM Control Numbers.

                                      MAJCOM        CONTROL NUMBER

                                      ACC           (FY)-01XX

                                      PACAF         (FY)-02XX

                                      USAFE         (FY)-03XX

                                      ANG/AFRC (FY)-04XX

                                      AMC           (FY)-05XX

                                      AFSOC         (FY)-06XX

                                      AFSPC         (FY)-07XX

                                      AETC          (FY)-08XX

                                      AFGSC         (FY)-09XX

                                      AFISRA        (FY)-10XX
      1.4.2. MAJCOMs have parallel tactics development processes aligned to support an
      integrated tactics development program. MAJCOMs will conduct separate TRB to review
      applicable TIPs from their subordinates and owned units. MAJCOMs will forward
      specific TIPs to the appropriate Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) in time for TRB
      processing. All MAJCOM TRB’s will be conducted prior to the CAF TRB. Any CAF-
      related TIPs identified during these boards will be made available for the CAF TRB.
      Forward the CAF-related TIPs to ACC/A3TW by 7 Nov each year for the CAF TRB.
      Appropriate MAJCOM representatives will be present at the CAF TRB to ensure proper
      TIP integration. Refer to Table 2 for dates for each TRB level.

Table 2. TRB Timetable.

                   TRB LEVEL                                                NLT DATE

                   Squadron                                                 15 Sep
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   5


                   Group/Wing/Direct Reporting Units (DRU)/ Primary          1 Oct
                   Support Units (PSU)/Centers

                   MAJCOM                                                    15 Oct

                   MAF and AFSOF                                             15 Nov

                   CAF                                                       5 Jan
      1.4.3. Tactics development will start as early in the equipment acquisition cycle as
      possible. Tactical objectives should be incorporated during Initial Operational Test and
      Evaluation (IOT&E), Qualification Operational Test and Evaluation (QOT&E), and
      Force Development Evaluation (FDE) as much as practical. For aircraft modifications,
      such as Operational Flight Program (OFP) upgrades, the FDE may be the only
      opportunity to evaluate the impact on tactics. MAJCOM will provide a concept of
      operation for operational test objectives to ensure tactics development starts as early as
      possible in the acquisition cycle.
   1.5. TIP Validation:
      1.5.1. Weapons shops at each level of command will evaluate and validate the accuracy
      and desired result of TIPs submitted by subordinate units prior to forwarding to the next
      level in the chain of command. Weapons shops should emphasize the following areas.
      When validating TIPs, initial and intermediate reviewers before the CAF TRB should: 1)
      research and validate that there are no existing TTP that address the problem; and 2)
      redirect any TIPs that require a hardware/ software solution (TIPs are for non-materiel
      solutions) to the MAJCOM/A8 acquisition process.
      1.5.2. MAJCOM/Numbered Air Force (NAF). Deployment, combat planning, rehearsal,
      combat operations, tasking of combat forces, and command and control of forces. If a
      NAF convenes a TRB, it is still responsible for making the MAJCOM deadline (see
      Table 2). NAFs are also responsible for any adjustments in the timelines so that
      subordinate units can achieve the MAJCOM suspense (per Table 2).
      1.5.3. Centers. Weapons and tactics issues that evolve from the respective center
      activities.
      1.5.4. Wing/Group/Air Defense Sectors. Weapons and tactics issues related to Designed
      Operational Capability (DOC) statement, local tasking, or Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
      tasking.
      1.5.5. Squadron. Weapons and tactics issues related to any aspect of mission planning
      through execution.
2. CAF and CSARF Tactics Development Procedures:
   2.1. General Policy:
      2.1.1. ACC/A3 is ACC’s focal point for the CAF Tactics Development Program.
      ACC/A3T serves as the OPR and program manager. ACC/A3T will coordinate with
 6                                                           AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        MAJCOM/A3, NGB/A3, and AFRC/A3T on programs affecting their respective
        activities.
        2.1.2. The US Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC) and Air National Guard Air Force
        Reserve Command Test Center (AATC) are the primary units for conducting TD&Es for
        the CAF. Selected operational units may also be solicited/tasked via the Consolidated
        Planning Order (CPO) to assist or participate in testing. Centers will be selected to
        conduct specific TD&E projects based on unique capabilities, resource availability, and
        projected workload.
     2.2. Tactics Development Process: The tactics development process consists of four
     phases: Identification of Tactics Deficiencies; Planning and Tasking; Execution; Reporting
     and Dissemination.
        2.2.1. Identification of Tactics Deficiencies:
            2.2.1.1. Commanders and supervisors at all levels will continually review their areas
            of responsibilities for tactical deficiencies, report those discovered, and recommend
            improvements. The designated unit weapons and tactics organization is the focal
            point for this effort.
            2.2.1.2. Intelligence units at all levels of command will continually evaluate
            information on enemy capabilities, doctrine, tactics, and will provide updates to the
            unit weapons and tactics organization.
            2.2.1.3. TIP. Tactical improvements addressing identified tactical deficiencies will be
            documented on the AF IMT 4326. The TIP form can be found on the Air Force
            Publication website. TIPs must be reviewed, validated, and annotated by an OG/CC
            or WG/CC in order to be accepted by MAJCOM. Accepted TIPs will be reviewed by
            appropriate MAJCOM weapons and tactics organization. PACAF, USAFE, AETC,
            NGB, and AFRC will review the TIPs for concurrence. Non-ACC MAJCOM
            weapons and tactics organizations will make a disposition recommendation on each
            TIP before it is forwarded to ACC/A3TW. TIPs should not be used to request
            modification or acquisition of hardware or software, nor for requesting changes in
            training procedures. A proposed change to operations/training procedures, as
            contained in the 11-series publications, should be submitted by message to ACC/A3T
            as a subject for discussion at the next scheduled Realistic Training Review Board
            (RTRB). For proposed changes to operations/training procedures impacting space
            operations and/ or cyberspace operations, as contained in the 10-series publications,
            should be submitted by message to AFSPC/A3T.
2.2.1.3.1. TIPs must be as specific as possible and contain the appropriate classification
markings. The TIP must include a detailed description of the tactical problem or deficiency and a
recommended solution or tactical improvement. The TIP should include the desired objectives
for the recommended testing. The more detailed the information and objectives are in the TIP,
the more likely that the TIP will be tested and provide the desired answers. Objectives must be
clear, obtainable, and measurable. TIPs with insufficient or unclear information in the
description or objectives section should be returned to the originator for expansion of data and
resubmission. It is highly recommended that the submitter of a TIP follow their TIP submission
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                       7


up the review and validation chain and be prepared to brief/educate the tactical deficiency and
proposed solution(s) during TRB events.
               2.2.1.3.2. TIPs can be submitted at any time of the year. TIPs do not have to wait
               for the annual TRB conference to be considered or tested. If the TIP is of
               immediate concern and will affect current operations or testing, the TIP should
               follow the established routing but at an accelerated pace. This accelerated pace
               cannot be readily defined and will be dictated by the circumstances requiring
               tactics development. All TIPs requiring accelerated review and time sensitive
               testing will be forwarded to ACC/A3TW as soon as practical. Alternatively, an
               Urgent Operational Need (UON) submission may be appropriate.
               2.2.1.3.3. All TIPs approved for formal evaluation and requiring ACC test
               involvement will be forwarded to ACC/A8 for inclusion on the ACC TPL.
               ACC/A3TW will provide the TIP to the respective test center for incorporation
               into the respective project order. The appropriate test center may initiate planning
               after project order approval by ACC/A8.
               2.2.1.3.4. Within 30 days after the CAF TRB, ACC/A3TW will report the
               disposition of TIPs on the ACC/A3TW SIPRNET website. Individuals and
               organizations submitting TIPs will be able to check the status of their TIPs by
               checking the website.
           2.2.1.4. Tactics Review Board. The purpose of the TRB is to review tactics and
           suggest changes to correct deficiencies in those tactics. Squadron TRBs should
           formulate and forward TIPs in the areas identified by paragraph 2.2.1
           Group/wing/wing equivalent TRBs will review, validate, and annotate squadron TIPs,
           formulate any additional required TIPs, and forward to their MAJCOMs. The CAF
           TRB may formulate new TIPs, but should focus on reviewing TIPs submitted by
           subordinate units. TRBs should concur/non-concur with TIPs and make a
           recommendation for the disposition of the TIP in the appropriate coordination box on
           the form. TRBs should ensure that the TIP objectives and description provide the
           necessary information to create a draft of the project order and subsequently the test
           plan.
               2.2.1.4.1. TRB Timelines. Annual TRBs will be conducted by unit weapons and
               tactics organizations. TRB Timelines are in Table 2. All TIPs must be forwarded
               to ACC/A3TW by 7 Nov for processing. Prior to conducting TRBs at any level,
               units should review the current and completed TD&Es to avoid redundancy in
               reporting tactics deficiencies.
           2.2.1.5. TRB Attendance.
               2.2.1.5.1. The appropriate commander for each TRB level will select the
               attendees. The intent is for squadrons to conduct their own TRBs, followed by the
               operations group/wing TRB which consolidates squadron TRB inputs. Single
               Mission Design Series (MDS) wings/Air Operations Centers (AOC) may not need
               to conduct a TRB above the operations group level before submitting TIPs to the
               MAJCOM weapons and tactics organization.
               2.2.1.5.2. The CAF TRB will consist of experts from several test centers and
8                                                 AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


       MAJCOMs. The CAF TRB will review all CAF-related TIPs submitted to
       ACC/A3TW. In order to review the TIPs, the CAF TRB will consist of MDS
       working groups and mission area (MA) working groups. A chairman will lead
       each MDS or MA working group. The test group commander responsible for
       conducting the TD&Es for that MDS or MA will normally recommend the
       appointment of the chairman. For example, the 53rd Test and Evaluation Group
       (TEG) Commander will recommend the appointment of the working group
       chairman for the B-52 working group. The intent is that the same test personnel
       involved in evaluating the TIPs be directly involved with the test planning and
       execution. If the test group commander does not have personnel with the
       appropriate experience, he may coordinate with ACC/A3TW to find a working
       group chairman with appropriate experience [e.g., USAF Weapons School
       (USAFWS)]. The Information Warfare (IW) mission area chairman should be
       from ACC/A3I or their selected representative.
       2.2.1.5.3. The CAF TRB attendance is by invitation only. Attendance is
       determined by each working group chairman and must be coordinated with
       ACC/A3TW. The intent is to keep the TRB participation to a manageable size
       while ensuring the correct representation is available for the latest tactical
       challenges. Working groups should normally be between eight to ten people. The
       representatives for the MA working groups will be chosen from those attending
       MDS working groups. Each working group should consist of experts from staff,
       test, and operations community. MAJCOMs should provide representatives for
       each applicable MDS or MA working group. These representatives should be able
       to address theater specific employment issues, if applicable, for the CAF TRB
       forum. PACAF and USAFE have the option to send, representatives for aircraft
       that are not permanently assigned (e.g., B-52). AETC may also send a
       representative to the CAF TRB if they train aircrew in that particular MDS.
       MAJCOM representatives may be chosen from the MAJCOM staff, subordinate
       NAF, wings, or squadrons. Working group test representation should be
       supported by anticipated test agencies to include AATC (if the working group is
       applicable to the ANG or AFRC). Operations representation should be
       experienced experts from the CAF (usually a USAFWS graduate. (IW ONLY:
       Representative will be from 346th Test Squadron.) For example, in an A-10
       working group the chairman should be from 53 Test and Evaluation Group (TEG)
       and the working group should consist of ACC, PACAF, USAFE, AATC, AFRC,
       ANG and USAFWS representatives.
    2.2.1.6. CAF TRB Actions.
       2.2.1.6.1. The CAF TRB will review all CAF TIPs, untested CAF TIPs on the
       TPL, and make a recommendation for each. Recommendations may be to delete,
       test, or forward to an OPR. The CAF TRB will funnel directly into CAF Weapons
       and Tactics Conference (WEPTAC). The TRB Working Group Chairman will
       also chair and lead the MDS or MA Working Group at the WEPTAC. The TRB
       working group chairmen will present the TRB results. CAF WEPTAC Working
       Groups will validate all TIP recommendations made at the CAF TRB. The reason
       for the WEPTAC validation is to obtain consensus from an increased number of
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  9


            warfighters. The number of attendees at the CAF TRB is limited, while
            attendance at the CAF WEPTAC is not.
            2.2.1.6.2. The CAF TRB working groups will ensure each TIP forwarded for test
            has a detailed description of the tactical deficiency and has clear, obtainable and
            measurable objectives. ACC/A3TW will, using this information, initiate test
            requests from appropriate MAJCOMs. For tests requiring ACC involvement,
            ACC/A3TW will forward the TD&E nominations to ACC/A8XT to meet the
            ACC annual call for test suspense. The appropriate MAJCOM test center will use
            information provided by the CAF TRB as part of test planning and approval
            processes.
     2.2.2. Tasking and Planning:
        2.2.2.1. ACC:
            2.2.2.1.1. Any TD&E requiring ACC involvement must be placed on the ACC
            TPL and have an approved Electronic Project Order (EPO). The ACC TPL
            combines and prioritizes all ACC related testing requirements. ACC/A8 is
            responsible for developing the ACC TPL in coordination with ACC/A3.
            Coordination and approval of the EPO constitutes approval to conduct the test. A
            TD&E test plan signed by the applicable commander constitutes approval for test
            execution.
            2.2.2.1.2. If ACC assets external to the responsible test center are required, that
            responsible test center contacts ACC/A3 to request scheduling of assets via the
            Consolidated Planning Order (CPO). The tasked operational unit’s MAJCOM/A3
            and ACC/A3 must approve participation in any MAJCOM testing. Operational
            units tasked on the CPO for test support sorties do not require additional
            ACC/A8/A3 approval.
            2.2.2.1.3. When practical, TD&E objectives should be accomplished in
            conjunction with other test missions that replicate the required testing
            environment.
            2.2.2.1.4. IW requires a flexible test capability to remain responsive to rapid
            changes in current and emerging weapon systems. In coordination with
            ACC/A3/A8, centers have the discretion to plan and conduct tactics evaluations
            limited in scope. These evaluations are designed to examine threats,
            vulnerabilities and achievable effects, using in-house and locally coordinated
            assets. ACC/A3 and ACC/A8 approval will be provided via a blanket EPO.
            NOTE: 23 IOS Tactics Development Initiatives (TDI) are not TD&E. 23 IOS
            will request 346 TS range time through 346 TS.
            2.2.2.1.5. Test centers should coordinate test requirements and objectives with
            the US Army, US Navy, and US Marine Corps test/doctrine organizations to
            ensure commonality and joint applications and to prevent duplication of effort.
        2.2.2.2. Air Force Space Command:
            2.2.2.2.1. For TIPs that are approved by the AFSPC TRB and require AFSPC-
            conducted tests, AFSPC/A3TW will forward TD&E nominations via a Test
10                                                          AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


            Request (TR) to AFSPC Space and Cyberspace Test and Evaluation Division.
            These TRs are generally completed prior to the AFSPC annual call for tests;
            however, AFSPC/A3TW may also generate an out-of-cycle TR for tactics with
            urgent development needs. The TR is the vehicle to request AFSPC MAJCOM
            test squadron support. The TR is used to identify test requirements, identify test
            funding, determine 595th Space Group (SG) and/or 318 IOG resources, facilitate
            command prioritization, and obtain final authority test. NOTE: Non-CAF-related
            TIPs should be coordinated within AFSPC only and not sent to ACC/A3TW for
            the CAF TRB.
            2.2.2.2.2. NAF/CC or their designee is the approval authority for Operational
            Asset Use Requests (OAUR) involving AFSPC operational assets unless those
            assets are under the OPCON of a Combatant Command. In that case, NAF/CC or
            designee will verify that the requested asset is operationally ready to support
            testing, evaluate mission impact and assess risk, after mitigation efforts. Based on
            this information the NAF/CC will approve or disapprove the use of the requested
            asset for test. The Combatant Command CDR or designee is the release authority
            for operational use in support of test activities for those requested assets in testing
            activities to deconflict mission priorities and test requirements. The NAF/CC or
            designated representative will adjudicate conflicting requests for use of
            operational assets.
               2.2.2.2.2.1. Requesting AFSPC operational assets. All OAURs will be
               forwarded to the applicable NAF HQ with a draft test plan for processing.
               After receipt of the OAUR, NAF and Wing representatives will coordinate the
               use of their respective assets. During coordination, Wing representatives
               ensure the amount and duration of testing does not adversely impact overall
               mission accomplishment while maximizing support to test initiatives. See
               AFSPCI 99-103 for further guidance.
            2.2.2.2.3. When practical, and on a non-interference basis, TD&E objectives
            should be accomplished in conjunction with other tests or training missions that
            replicate the environment. A TD&E project with an approved test plan can be
            executed alone or in conjunction with other tests.
     2.2.3. Execution:
        2.2.3.1. TD&Es will only be conducted by designated MAJCOM test organizations
        (or by operational units tasked directly by the MAJCOM) and only with an approved
        test project order and signed test plan. Test organizations not manned by MDS SMEs
        will coordinate directly with the operational unit responsible for submitting the TIP.
        The respective operational unit will be responsible for providing the required resident
        expertise in the drafting of the test plan.
        2.2.3.2. TD&E sorties will be flown IAW MAJCOM instructions and directives
        unless specific waivers are approved by MAJCOM.
        2.2.3.3. TD&Es not requiring sorties will be executed IAW MAJCOM guidance and
        directives unless specific waivers are approved by MAJCOM.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   11


     2.2.4. Reporting and Dissemination. Formal results of TD&E will be reviewed prior to
     publication by the operational unit responsible for submitting the TIP. The operational
     unit has 30 days to identify Critical, Major, Substantive, and Administrative comments.
     TD&Es will be documented in interim/final reports IAW AFI 99-103 and MAJCOM
     guidance. The results of the TD&Es can be disseminated through Air Force Tactics,
     Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1 Volumes, test center "road shows," and/or the
     USAF Weapons Review. (IW only: TDI will be documented in final reports and are
     accessible through the 688 IOW.)
         2.2.4.1. Interim reports will be published anytime information becomes available
         which has immediate impact on the CAF. Interim reports should also be considered
         when completion of the TD&E will take longer than 1 year or is delayed/deferred due
         to unexpected circumstances. Publication of interim reports is at the discretion of the
         test team and the test report approval authority.
         2.2.4.2. Final reports for TD&E projects will be accomplished and distributed IAW
         MAJCOM guidance. A copy of the final report will be made available for inclusion
         in the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) archives. Final reports shall also
         be made available on applicable test center SIPRNET sites. (Web Site addresses are
         listed in References section)
         2.2.4.3. MAJCOM weapons and tactics organizations and/or responsible test
         agencies will review interim and final reports on weapons systems for which they
         have tactics responsibilities and ensure appropriate information is forwarded to 561
         Joint Tactics Squadron (JTS) for inclusion in the applicable AFTTP 3-1 volume.
         2.2.4.4. AFTTP 3-1 is the primary source of tactics information for the CAF. It
         contains information that has been validated and has CAF-wide concurrence. Specific
         procedures and responsibilities for the management of AFTTP 3-1 are contained in
         AFTTP 3-1.1, General Planning and Employment Considerations. ACC/A3 will
         approve all AFTTP 3-1 supplements or changes and will be published on an as
         needed basis. These supplements/changes will contain executive summaries of
         interim/final reports, and any other information releasable to the CAF as valid tactics.
         2.2.4.5. Test Centers should conduct ―road shows‖ to rapidly disseminate
         information to the warfighter. The intent of the road show is to provide interaction
         between the test organizations and the operational units. Road show content may
         include approved test results and the effect on current tactics and training.
         2.2.4.6. USAF Weapons Review may include information that is not applicable for
         AFTTP 3-1, but can be warfighter "food for thought‖.
  2.3. Responsibilities:
     2.3.1. ACC/A3 will:
         2.3.1.1. Coordinate with ACC/A8 to ensure all TIPs forwarded for test have EPOs.
         Ensure TIPs forwarded for test appear on ACC TPL.
         2.3.1.2. Review for approval CPO taskings for all ACC non-test units tasked to
         support TD&E projects.
12                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        2.3.1.3. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs, ANG, AFRC, and NAF tactics office of
        primary responsibility to ensure program participation.
        2.3.1.4. Coordinate with ACC/A8 on ACC TPL.
        2.3.1.5. Identify ACC OPR for applicable recommendations in interim/final reports.
        2.3.1.6. Sponsor the CAF TRB and the CAF WEPTAC.
        2.3.1.7. Task ACC/A3T to be the ACC focal point for tactics development.
        2.3.1.8. When necessary, obtain formal coordination on test plans from NGB, AFRC
        and other MAJCOMs, services, or allied forces.
     2.3.2. ACC/A3T will:
        2.3.2.1. Appoint an ACC tactics officer to act as program manager for the CAF
        tactics development program.
        2.3.2.2. Chair the annual CAF WEPTAC and TRB.
        2.3.2.3. Provide copies of TIPs to Centers and NAFs, when requested.
        2.3.2.4. Document CAF TRB action on TIPs and report disposition of TIPs on the
        ACC/A3TW SIPRNET webpage.
        2.3.2.5. Coordinate all TD&E efforts with ACC/A8X.
     2.3.3. ACC/A3I will:
        2.3.3.1. Serve as the designated focal point for CAF IW integration, test and
        evaluation.
        2.3.3.2. Identify ACC OPRs for applicable recommendations in interim and final
        reports.
        2.3.3.3. Obtain formal coordination on project plans from NAFs, NGB, AFRC, and
        other MAJCOMs, Services, or Allied Forces, when necessary.
        2.3.3.4. Coordinate all TD&E efforts with ACC/A8X.
        2.3.3.5. Support ACC/A3T in tactics development and provide expertise for the CAF
        TRB.
     2.3.4. ACC/A8 will:
        2.3.4.1. Maintain liaison with ACC/A3 to ensure                  tactical   inputs   are
        available/reviewed throughout the acquisition cycle.
        2.3.4.2. Coordinate and produce an annual integrated ACC TPL.
        2.3.4.3. Be the single source of tasking for ACC test centers.
     2.3.5. PACAF/A3, USAFE/A3, AFSPC/A3, AETC/A3, AFGSC/A3 will:
        2.3.5.1. Review for approval applicable waivers to this instruction.
        2.3.5.2. Identify MAJCOM OPR for applicable recommendations in interim/final
        reports.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                13


        2.3.5.3. Review for approval MAJCOM TIPs and forward to ACC/A3TW for
        assignment.
        2.3.5.4. Appoint representatives for the working groups at the CAF TRB.
        2.3.5.5. Recommend AFTTP 3-1 changes and forward to ACC/A3.
        2.3.5.6. Task any MAJCOM units required to support TD&E projects.
     2.3.6. MAJCOM staff agencies will:
        2.3.6.1. Identify tactical information, suspected tactical deficiencies, or proposed
        improvements to MAJCOM/A3.
        2.3.6.2. Coordinate all tactics related items through MAJCOM/A3.
     2.3.7. MAJCOM/A3T (A3Z for AETC, A3O for PACAF/NGB, and A3V for AFISRA)
     will:
        2.3.7.1. Be the focal point for MAJCOM tactics development activities.
        2.3.7.2. Be MAJCOM OPR for AFTTP 3-1 and other tactics development directives.
        2.3.7.3. Maintain liaison to ensure tactician participation in applicable phases of
        equipment acquisition.
        2.3.7.4. Ensure concepts of operations are published prior to the initiation of test
        projects.
        2.3.7.5. Assist in coordinating and/or scheduling munitions, ranges, operational unit
        support, and waivers for TD&E projects.
        2.3.7.6. Initiate requests for inputs necessary to meet the CAF TRB timetable.
        2.3.7.7. Maintain liaison with other MAJCOMs to ensure a timely flow of tactics
        information.
        2.3.7.8. Provide MAJCOM recommendation on the proposed course of action,
        timetables, etc., for all TIPs submitted.
        2.3.7.9. Disseminate MAJCOM TRB TIP disposition to subordinate operational and
        training units and NAF/A3s.
     2.3.8. MAJCOM/A2 will:
        2.3.8.1. Evaluate intelligence information for possible effect on tactical operations.
        MAJCOM/A3 will be immediately notified of such information.
        2.3.8.2. Levy appropriate collection requirements and production requirements to
        national intelligence agencies to obtain and document required data on enemy
        capabilities, doctrine, and tactics.
        2.3.8.3. Disseminate enemy tactics information to subordinate units through
        appropriate intelligence channels.
     2.3.9. Centers tasked to conduct TD&E projects will:
        2.3.9.1. Program and accomplish TD&Es by establishing and adhering to suspenses
        for planning, executing, and reporting TD&Es as tasked.
14                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        2.3.9.2. Program for future TD&E projects and required funding during budget
        submissions.
        2.3.9.3. Submit interim and/or final reports IAW AFI 99-103.
        2.3.9.4. Identify tactics deficiencies or propose new tactics by submission of a TIP.
        2.3.9.5. Screen reports and project results for applicable information, and process
        that information for dissemination in AFTTP 3-1 and/or changes to AFTTP 3-1.
        2.3.9.6. Supply and solicit tactical expertise in their specialized areas to support
        TD&E efforts by other centers, as tasked by the owning MAJCOM.
        2.3.9.7. Provide center representation at CAF TRB, as required.
        2.3.9.8. Assign a center project officer to each TD&E.
        2.3.9.9. Conduct ―road shows‖ as required to rapidly disseminate information to the
        war- fighter.
        2.3.9.10. AATC is responsible to NGB/A3 and AFRC/A3 for applicable items listed
        in paragraph 2.3 AATC will host the ANG and AFRC WEPTAC. The WEPTAC will
        evaluate ANG and AFRC TIPs. AATC will forward WEPTAC approved TIPs to
        ACC/A3TW for consideration at the CAF TRB by the first week of November. The
        CAF TRB will review ANG/AFRC TIPs for applicability and support of active duty
        units.
     2.3.10. NAF/A3 will:
        2.3.10.1. Review TIPs related to NAF operations and forward to MAJCOM/A3 with
        recommendations.
     2.3.11. NGB/A3 and AFRC/A3 will:
        2.3.11.1. Sponsor the ANG and AFRC WEPTAC.
        2.3.11.2. Task the AATC for TD&E project management involving ANG and AFRC
        resources.
        2.3.11.3. Approve and support ANG and AFRC unit participation in TD&E projects.
        2.3.11.4. Budget for and provide funding, flying hours, and man-days for ANG and
        AFRC unique TD&E projects.
     2.3.12. All operational and training units will:
        2.3.12.1. Continually evaluate tactical information available to support assigned or
        expected wartime tasking, specifically analyzing the completeness of information and
        its validity in today’s environment.
        2.3.12.2. Use all available opportunities to exercise validated tactics. Examples:
        continuation training, Red Flag, RED FLAG-Alaska, Weapons System Evaluations
        Program (WSEP), Distributed Missions Operations (DMO), and 527th Space
        Aggressor Squadron (SAS) vulnerability assessments.
        2.3.12.3. Report undocumented tactics or tactical problem areas or propose new
        tactics by submission of a TIP.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   15


         2.3.12.4. Conduct an annual TRB as described in this instruction.
         2.3.12.5. Support and send representatives to the CAF WEPTAC.
         2.3.12.6. Support and send representatives to applicable AFTTP 3-1 re-write
         conferences.
3. MAF Tactics Development Procedures:
   3.1. General Policy:
      3.1.1. AMC/A3 is the focal point for the MAF Tactics Development Program.
      AMC/A3D is the OPR and program manager for the MAF Tactics Development
      Program. AMC/A3D will coordinate with MAJCOM/A3T (A3O for PACAF/NGB), and
      AFRC/A3 on programs that affect their respective activities.
      3.1.2. The AMC Test and Evaluation Squadron (TES), the Advanced Airlift Tactics
      Training Center (AATTC) and ANG AFRC Tactics Center (AATC) are the primary units
      for conducting TD&Es. Selected units may also be solicited/tasked via the Test Order to
      assist or participate in testing. Units will be selected to conduct specific TD&E projects
      based on unique capabilities, resource availability, and projected workload.
   3.2. TD&E Procedures: The TD&E process occurs in four phases: identification of tactics
   deficiencies, tasking/planning, execution, and reporting.
      3.2.1. Identification of tactics deficiencies:
         3.2.1.1. Commanders and supervisors at all levels will continually review their areas
         of responsibilities for tactical deficiencies, report those discovered, and recommend
         improvements. The designated unit weapons and tactics organization is the focal
         point for this effort.
         3.2.1.2. Intelligence units at all levels of command will continually evaluate
         information on enemy capabilities, doctrine, and tactics, and will provide updates to
         the unit weapons and tactics organization.
         3.2.1.3. TIP. Identified tactical deficiencies will be documented on the AF IMT
         4326. The TIP form can be found on the Air Force Publication website. The Group or
         Wing must review the TIPs or they will not be accepted by MAJCOM. TIPs will be
         reviewed by appropriate MAJCOM weapons and tactics organization. MAJCOM
         weapons and tactics organizations will make a recommendation on each TIP before it
         is forwarded to the MAF TRB. All TIPs with a Group, Wing, or NAF review will be
         forwarded to the MAF TRB. The only exceptions to this are TIPs that do not request
         changes in tactics. TIPs should not be used to request modification or acquisition of
         hardware or software, nor for requesting changes in training procedures or
         publications. AMC/A5R is the OPR for hardware/software modifications and
         acquisition. A proposed change to operations/training procedures, as contained in the
         11-series publications, should be submitted by message to AMC/A3T as a subject for
         discussion at the next scheduled RTRB.
             3.2.1.3.1. TIPs must be as specific as possible and contain the appropriate
             classification markings. The TIP must include a detailed description of the tactical
             problem or deficiency and a recommended solution or tactical improvement. The
16                                                   AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        TIP should include the desired objectives for the recommended testing. The more
        detailed the information and objectives are in the TIP, the better the likelihood
        that the TIP will be tested and provide the desired answers. Objectives must be
        clear, obtainable, and measurable.
        3.2.1.3.2. AMC/A3DT will assign a MAJCOM control number IAW paragraph
        1.4.1 TIPs will be referred to by the MAJCOM control number until they are
        approved for test.
        3.2.1.3.3. TIPs can be submitted at any time of the year. If the TIP is of
        immediate concern and will affect current operations/testing, the TIP should be
        accelerated through the review process and forwarded to AMC/A3DT as soon as
        possible. TIPs do not have to wait for the formal TRB process to be considered or
        tested. AMC/A3DT will coordinate MAJCOM approval or disapproval of the
        TIP.
        3.2.1.3.4. All TIPs approved for formal evaluation will be forwarded to AMC/TE
        for inclusion on the AMC TPL. AMC/A3DT will initiate the test by submitting a
        test request to AMC/TE. AMC/A3DT will also provide the TIP to the respective
        test organization for incorporation into the respective test plan. The appropriate
        test organization will initiate planning for the test after tasking through AMC/TE.
        3.2.1.3.5. After the MAF TRB, AMC/A3DT will report the disposition of TIPs
        using on the appropriate AMC/A3DT secure (SIPRNET) or non-secure
        (NIPRNET) website. Individuals and organizations submitting TIPs may check
        the status of their TIPs by checking the website.
     3.2.1.4. Tactics Review Boards. The purpose of the TRB is to review tactics and
     suggest changes to correct deficiencies in those tactics. Squadron TRBs should
     formulate and forward TIPs in the areas identified by paragraph 1.4 Group/wing
     TRBs will review squadron TIPS, formulate any additional required TIPs, and
     forward to AMC/A3DT, while courtesy copying their respective MAJCOM.
     Center/MAJCOMs and MAF TRB may formulate new TIPs, but should focus on
     reviewing TIPs submitted by subordinate units. TRBs should concur/non-concur with
     TIPs and make a recommendation for the disposition of the TIP. TRBs should ensure
     that the TIP objectives and description provide the necessary information to create a
     detailed draft test request.
        3.2.1.4.1. TRB Timelines. Annual TRBs will be conducted by unit weapons and
        tactics organizations. Follow TRB timelines in Table 2 And Paragraph 1.4.2 All
        TIPs must be forwarded to AMC/A3DT by 1 Nov for processing. Prior to
        conducting TRBs at any level, units should review the current TPL and completed
        TD&Es to avoid redundancy in reporting tactics deficiencies.
        3.2.1.4.2. TRB Attendance:
            3.2.1.4.2.1. The commander whose staff is running the TRB will select the
            TRB attendees. Squadron commanders, operations group commanders, etc.,
            will decide the number of participants and attendees. The intent is for
            squadrons to conduct their own TRBs, followed by operations group/wing
            TRB which consolidates squadron TRB inputs. Single MDS wings may not
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                               17


               need to conduct a TRB above the operations group level before submitting
               TIPs to the MAJCOM weapons and tactics organization. NAFs need not
               review TIPs submitted by subordinate wings as the MAJCOM weapons and
               tactics organization and the MAF TRB perform that function.
               3.2.1.4.2.2. The MAF TRB will consist of experts from test and MAJCOMs.
               The MAF TRB will review all TIPs submitted to AMC/A3DT. In order to
               review the TIPs, the MAF TRB will consist of MDS working groups and/or
               MA working groups. A chairman will lead each MDS or MA working group.
               AMC/A3DT will appoint a working group chairman with appropriate MDS or
               MA experience (e.g., USAF Weapons School or AMC staff).
               3.2.1.4.2.3. Attendance at the MAF TRB is open. MAJCOMs should make
               every effort to select MDS or MA representatives and intelligence specialists
               approved by AMC/A2 or AMC/A3DT best able to address theater-specific
               employment issues for each MDS within the MAF TRB forum.
               Representatives may be chosen from the MAJCOM staff, subordinate NAF,
               wing, or squadron. In addition, representatives from the responsible test
               organization (the AMC TES for active duty and AATC for the AFRC or the
               ANG), and the USAF Weapons School should participate in MDS or MA
               working groups. AETC may also send a representative to the MAF TRB if
               they train aircrew in that particular MDS. The representatives for the MA
               working groups will be chosen from those attending MDS working groups.
               The intent is to encourage TRB participation from all impacted units.
        3.2.1.5. MAF TRB Actions:
            3.2.1.5.1. The MAF TRB will review all MAJCOM TIPs and make a
            recommendation for each. Recommendations may include deletion, testing, or
            forwarding to an OPR. The MAF TRB provides a final recommendation for TIP
            disposition. Attendance at the MAF TRB is open ensuring that every TIP
            disposition has support and validation from the MAF. TIP Disposition is the
            determination of the AMC/A3.
            3.2.1.5.2. MAF TRB Working Group. MAF Working Group convenes to review
            TIPs and develop MAF TRB agenda. Composed of action officers working tactics
            issues, the MAF TRB Working Group meets 4 duty days prior to the TRB to
            ensure adequate material preparation for the MAF TRB.
            3.2.1.5.3. The MAF TRB working groups will ensure that each TIP forwarded for
            test has a detailed description of the tactical deficiency and the objectives are
            clear, obtainable, and measurable. For each recommended test, the working
            groups will also develop the test request.
     3.2.2. Tasking and Planning. AMC/TE conducts TD&Es through FDE focusing on
     research, analysis, development, and T&E of specific employment tactics against
     anticipated threats. AMC/A3D will determine if the TIP requires a TD&E. If testing is
     warranted, AMC/A3D will send a test request to AMC/TE and participate in the test plan
     working group. The TD&E will be prioritized based on command priorities (i.e., need
18                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     date, mission impact, aircraft availability). AMC/TE will coordinate the test plan and test
     report with AMC/A3D.
     3.2.3. Execution:
         3.2.3.1. TD&Es will only be conducted by designated MAJCOM test agencies (or by
         operational units tasked directly by the AMC/A3) and only with an approved test
         plan.
         3.2.3.2. TD&E sorties will be flown IAW MAJCOM instructions and directives
         unless specific waivers are approved by MAJCOM/A3.
         3.2.3.3. TD&E not requiring sorties will be executed IAW MAJCOM guidance and
         directives unless specific waivers are approved by MAJCOM/A3.
     3.2.4. Reporting and Dissemination. Formal results of TD&E will be documented in
     interim/final reports and are accessible through appropriate test agencies. The results of
     the TD&E can be disseminated through AFTTP 3-1, test organizations ―road shows,‖
     and/or published articles.
         3.2.4.1. Interim/final report formats will be IAW AFI 99-103. Interim reports will be
         published anytime information becomes available which has immediate impact on the
         MAF. The requirement for an interim report is usually coordinated during the test
         planning process. Publication and release of AMC test information is approved by
         AMC/TE. The final report will be distributed within 60 calendar days after the last
         test event or as required by the TD&E plan. A copy of the final report, with
         classification and distribution markings, will be made available for inclusion in the
         DTIC archives. Test reports are available on test center SIPRNET sites. (Web Site
         addresses are listed in References section)
         3.2.4.2. MAJCOM weapons and tactics organizations and responsible test agencies
         will review final reports on weapons systems for which they have tactics
         responsibilities and identify and forward information to the appropriate AFTTP 3-1
         volume OPR for inclusion.
         3.2.4.3. AFTTP 3-1 is the primary source of tactics information for the MAF. It
         contains information that has been validated and has MAF-wide concurrence.
         Specific procedures and responsibilities for the management of AFTTP 3-1 are
         contained in AFTTP 3-1.General Planning. Supplements/changes and will be
         published on an as needed basis IAW AFTTP 3-1.General Planning. These
         supplements/changes will contain executive summaries of interim/final reports, and
         any other information releasable to the MAF as valid tactics.
         3.2.4.4. TIPSs related to MAF intelligence functions will be coordinated with
         AMC/A2.
         3.2.4.5. Test organizations may conduct ―road shows‖ to rapidly disseminate
         information to the warfighter. The intent of the road show is to provide interaction
         between the test organizations and the operational units. Road show content may
         include approved test results and the effect on current tactics.
  3.3. Responsibilities:
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                19


     3.3.1. AMC/A3 will:
        3.3.1.1. Coordinate with AMC/TE to ensure all TIPs and Special Projects forwarded
        for test have test orders.
        3.3.1.2. Approve tasking for all AMC non-test units required to support TD&E
        projects.
        3.3.1.3. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs, NGB, AFRC, and NAF tactics office of
        primary responsibility to ensure program participation.
        3.3.1.4. Identify AMC OPR for applicable recommendations in interim/final reports.
        3.3.1.5. Sponsor the MAF TRB yearly.
        3.3.1.6. Task AMC/A3D to be the AMC focal point for tactics development.
        3.3.1.7. Obtain formal coordination on test plans, when necessary, NGB, AFRC, and
        other MAJCOMs, services, or allied forces.
     3.3.2. PACAF/USAFE/AETC A3 will:
        3.3.2.1. Task MAJCOM/A3T (A3Z for AETC, A3O for PACAF/NGB) to be the
        focal point for tactics development.
        3.3.2.2. Approve applicable waivers to this instruction.
        3.3.2.3. Identify MAJCOM OPR for applicable recommendations in interim/final
        reports or Special Project reports.
        3.3.2.4. Approve MAJCOM TIPs and forward to AMC/A3D for assignment.
        3.3.2.5. Appoint representatives for the working groups at the MAF TRB.
        3.3.2.6. Recommend AFTTP 3-1 changes and forward to AMC/A3D.
        3.3.2.7. Task any MAJCOM units required to support TD&E projects.
     3.3.3. NGB/A3 and AFRC/A3 will:
        3.3.3.1. Task the AATC for TD&E project management involving ANG and AFRC
        resources.
        3.3.3.2. Approve and support ANG and AFRC unit participation in TD&E projects.
        3.3.3.3. Budget for and provide funding, flying hours, and man-days for ANG and
        AFRC unique TD&E projects.
        3.3.3.4. Sponsor the ANG and AFRC WEPTAC.
     3.3.4. MAJCOM/A2 will:
        3.3.4.1. Evaluate intelligence information for possible effect on tactical operations.
        MAJCOM/A3 will be immediately notified of such information.
        3.3.4.2. Levy appropriate collection requirements and production requirements to
        national intelligence agencies to obtain and document required data on enemy
        capabilities, doctrine, and tactics.
20                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        3.3.4.3. Disseminate enemy tactics information to subordinate units through
        appropriate intelligence channels.
     3.3.5. AMC/A5 will:
        3.3.5.1. Maintain liaison with AMC/A3 to ensure                  tactical   inputs   are
        available/reviewed throughout the acquisition cycle.
     3.3.6. AMC/TE will:
        3.3.6.1. Support the planning, execution, and reporting for all TD&Es, as requested.
     3.3.7. MAJCOM staff agencies will:
        3.3.7.1. Identify tactical information, suspected tactical deficiencies, or proposed
        improvements to MAJCOM/A3.
        3.3.7.2. Coordinate all tactics related items through MAJCOM/A3.
     3.3.8. AMC/A3D will:
        3.3.8.1. Appoint an AMC tactics officer to act as program manager for the MAF
        tactics development program.
        3.3.8.2. Chair the annual MAF TRB.
        3.3.8.3. Provide copies of TIPs to Centers and NAFs when requested.
        3.3.8.4. Document MAF TRB action on TIPs and return all TIPs to MAJCOMs,
        NAFs, centers, or wings.
        3.3.8.5. Coordinate all TD&E efforts with AMC/TE.
     3.3.9. Test Organizations tasked to conduct TD&E projects will:
        3.3.9.1. Program and accomplish TD&Es by establishing and adhering to suspenses
        for planning, executing, and reporting TD&Es assigned by test orders.
        3.3.9.2. Program for future TD&E projects and required funding during budget
        submissions.
        3.3.9.3. Test organization commanders will sign test plans before test execution
        begins.
        3.3.9.4. Submit interim and/or final reports IAW AFI 99-103.
        3.3.9.5. Identify tactics deficiencies or propose new tactics by submission of a TIP.
        3.3.9.6. Screen reports and project results for applicable information, and process
        that information for dissemination in AFTTP 3-1 and/or changes to AFTTP 3-1.
        3.3.9.7. Supply and solicit tactical expertise in their specialized areas to support
        TD&E efforts by other centers, as tasked by AMC.
        3.3.9.8. Provide representation at MAF TRB, as required.
        3.3.9.9. Assign a project officer to each TD&E and FDE project.
        3.3.9.10. AATC is responsible to NGB/A3 and AFRC/A3 for applicable items listed
        in paragraph 3.3.9.11.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                    21


         3.3.9.11. AATC will host the WEPTAC. The WEPTAC will evaluate ANG and
         AFRC TIPs. AATC will forward TIPs approved at the WEPTAC to AMC/A3TW for
         consideration at the MAF TRB. The MAF TRB will review ANG/AFRC TIPs for
         applicability and support of active duty units.
      3.3.10. All operational and training units will:
         3.3.10.1. Continually evaluate tactical information available to support the conduct
         of assigned or expected wartime tasking, specifically analyzing the completeness of
         information, its validity in today’s environment, and usability of format.
         3.3.10.2. Use all available opportunities to exercise validated tactics, i.e.,
         continuation training, Red Flag, Joint Readiness Training Center and Cope Thunder.
         3.3.10.3. Report undocumented tactics or tactical problem areas or propose new
         tactics by submission of a TIP.
         3.3.10.4. Support and send representatives to applicable AFTTP 3-1 re-write
         conference.
         3.3.10.5. Support and send representatives to the MAF TRB.
4. AFSOF Tactics Development Procedures.
   4.1. General Policy:
      4.1.1. AFSOC/A3 is AFSOC focal point for AFSOF Tactics Development Program.
      AFSOC/A3TW serves as the OPR and program manager. AFSOC/A3TW will coordinate
      with AFSOC/CCR concerning ANG/A3 and AFRC/A3 on programs that affect their
      respective activities.
      4.1.2. The 18 Flight Test Squadron is the primary unit for conducting TD&Es for
      AFSOC units. Selected operational units will be solicited/tasked to assist or participate in
      testing.
   4.2. TD&E Procedures: The TD&E process occurs in four phases: identification of Tactics
   Deficiencies, tasking/planning, execution, and reporting.
      4.2.1. Identification of Tactics Deficiencies:
         4.2.1.1. Commanders and supervisors at all levels will continually review their areas
         of responsibilities for tactical deficiencies, report those discovered, and recommend
         improvements. The designated unit weapons and tactics organization is the focal
         point for this effort.
         4.2.1.2. Intelligence units at all levels of command will continually evaluate
         information on enemy capabilities, doctrine, and tactics, and will provide updates to
         the unit weapons and tactics organization.
         4.2.1.3. TIP. Identified tactical deficiencies will be documented on the AF IMT
         4326. The TIP form can be found on the Air Force Publication website. TIPs must be
         reviewed by OG/CC or WG/CC in order to be accepted by AFSOC. AFSOC/A3TW
         will review accepted TIPs. TIPs should not be used to request modification or
         acquisition of hardware or software, nor for requesting changes in training
22                                                    AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     procedures. A proposed change to operations or training procedures should be
     submitted by message to AFSOC/A3T.
        4.2.1.3.1. TIPs must be as specific as possible and contain the appropriate
        classification markings. The TIP must include a detailed description of the tactical
        problem or deficiency and a recommended solution or tactical improvement. The
        TIP should include the desired objectives for the recommended testing. The more
        detailed the information and objectives are in the TIP, the better the likelihood
        that the TIP will be tested and provide the desired answers. Objectives must be
        clear, obtainable, and measurable. TIPs with insufficient or unclear information in
        the description or objectives section should be returned to the originator for
        expansion of data and resubmission.
        4.2.1.3.2. AFSOC/A3TW will assign a MAJCOM control number IAW
        paragraph 1.4.1 TIPs will be referred to by the MAJCOM control number until
        they are approved for test.
        4.2.1.3.3. TIPs can be submitted at any time of the year. If the TIP is of
        immediate concern and will affect current operations/testing, the TIP should
        follow an accelerated review process and forwarded to AFSOC/A3TW as soon as
        possible. TIPs do not have to wait for the annual TRB conference to be
        considered or tested. AFSOC/A3TW will coordinate AFSOC/A3
        approval/disapproval of the TIP.
        4.2.1.3.4. All TIPs approved for formal evaluation and requiring AFSOC test
        involvement will be forwarded to AFSOC/A5ZT in the form of a test request. The
        18 FLTS will initiate planning for the test after tasking through AFSOC/A5ZT.
        4.2.1.3.5. After the AFSOC TRB, AFSOC/A3TW will report the disposition of
        TIPs on the AFSOC/A3TW SIPRNET website. Individuals and organizations
        submitting TIPs will be able to check the status of their TIPs by checking the
        website.
     4.2.1.4. TRB. The purpose of the TRB is to review tactics and suggest changes to
     correct deficiencies in those tactics. Squadron TRBs should formulate and forward
     TIPs in the areas identified by paragraph 1.4 Group/wing/wing-equivalent TRBs will
     review squadron TIPS, formulate any additional required TIPs, and forward to
     AFSOC/A3TW. The AFSOC TRB may formulate new TIPs, but should focus on
     reviewing TIPs submitted by subordinate units. TRBs should concur/non-concur with
     TIPs and make a recommendation for the disposition of the TIP. TRBs should ensure
     that the TIP objectives and description provide the necessary information to create a
     draft of the test plan as required.
        4.2.1.4.1. TRB Timelines. Annual TRBs will be conducted by unit weapons and
        tactics organizations. Follow TRB timelines in Table 2. Comply with the NLT
        times in Table 2 All TIPS must be forwarded to AFSOC/A3TW by 1 Nov for
        processing. Prior to conducting TRBs at any level, units should review the current
        and completed TD&Es to avoid redundancy in reporting tactics deficiencies.
     4.2.1.5. TRB Attendance:
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 23


            4.2.1.5.1. The commander will select the TRB attendees. The intent is for
            squadrons to conduct their own TRBs, followed by operations group/wing TRB
            which consolidates squadron TRB inputs.
            4.2.1.5.2. The AFSOF TRB will consist of experts from AFSOC and other
            MAJCOMS. The TRB will review all TIPs submitted to AFSOC/A3TW. In order
            to review the TIPs, the TRB will consist of MDS and mission area (MA) working
            groups. A chairman will lead each MDS and MA working group. Chief,
            AFSOC/A3TW will normally appoint the chairman.
            4.2.1.5.3. Attendance at the AFSOC TRB should include squadron, group
            weapons officers/tacticians, and enlisted Subject Matter Experts (SME).
            MAJCOMs should select a representative for each applicable MDS or MA
            working group. MAJCOMs should make every effort to select MDS
            representatives best able to address theater specific employment issues for each
            MDS within the AFSOF TRB forum. These representatives may be chosen from
            the MAJCOM staff, 23 AF, wing, or squadron. In addition, each working group
            should have a representative from the 18 FLTS and the USAF Weapons School.
            For example, the MC-130 working group should consist of AFSOC, AFRC,
            AETC, and USAFWS representatives. Working groups should normally be
            between four to six people. AETC may also send a representative to the AFSOF
            TRB if they train aircrew in that particular MDS. The representatives for the MA
            working groups will be chosen from those attending MDS working groups. The
            intent is to keep the TRB participation to a manageable size.
            4.2.1.5.4. AFSOF TRB Actions:
               4.2.1.5.4.1. The AFSOF TRB will review all TIPs and make a
               recommendation for each. Recommendations may include deletion, testing, or
               forwarding to an OPR. The MDS or MA working groups at the AFSOC
               WEPTAC must validate all recommendations made at the AFSOC TRB.
               While attendance to the AFSOC TRB is limited, attendance at the AFSOC
               WEPTAC is not. This ensures that every TIP recommendation has support
               and validation from the TRB & the WEPTAC. The TRB Working Group
               Chairman will also chair and lead the MDS or MA Working Group at the
               WEPTAC. The TRB working group chairman will present the TRB results for
               validation in WEPTAC MDS or MA working groups.
               4.2.1.5.4.2. The AFSOC TRB working groups will ensure that each TIP
               forwarded for test has a detailed description of the tactical deficiency and has
               clear, obtainable and measurable objectives. For each recommended test, the
               working groups will ensure adequate TIP information is captured and
               forwarded to AFSOC/A5ZT.
     4.2.2. Tasking and Planning:
        4.2.2.1. AFSOC/A5ZT is responsible for ensuring test priorities are aligned with the
        AFSOC Council approved prioritized needs. With the limited AFSOC assets
        available, most tests are executed when assets become available.
24                                                         AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


         4.2.2.2. When practical and on a non-interference basis, TD&E objectives should be
         accomplished in conjunction with other test or training missions that replicate the
         environment. A TD&E project with an approved test plan can be done alone or in
         conjunction with another test sortie.
         4.2.2.3. The 18 FLTS must coordinate test requirements and objectives with U.S.
         Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), US Army, US Navy, and US Marine
         Corps test/doctrine organizations to ensure commonality and joint applications and to
         prevent duplication of effort.
     4.2.3. Execution:
         4.2.3.1. TD&Es will only be conducted by designated MAJCOM test organizations
         and only with an approved, signed test plan.
         4.2.3.2. TD&E sorties will be flown IAW MAJCOM instructions and directives
         unless specific waivers are approved by MAJCOM/A3.
     4.2.4. Reporting and Dissemination. Formal results of TD&E will be documented in
     interim/final reports and are accessible through appropriate test organizations. The results
     of the TD&E can be disseminated through AFTTP 3-1, and/or the USAF Weapons
     Review and the 18 FLTS SIPRNET webpage.
         4.2.4.1. Interim/final report formats will be IAW AFI 99-103. Interim reports will be
         published anytime information becomes available which has immediate impact on the
         AFSOC. Interim reports should be considered when completion of the TD&E will
         take longer than 1 year or is delayed/deferred due to unexpected circumstances.
         Publication of interim reports is at the discretion of AFSOC/A5ZT. Final reports for
         TD&E projects will be accomplished and approved by the 18 FLTS/CC. The final
         report will be distributed within 60 calendar days after the last test event or as
         required by the TD&E plan. A copy of the final report, with classification and
         distribution markings, will be made available for inclusion in the DTIC archives. Test
         reports are available on test center SIPRNET sites. (Web Site addresses are listed in
         References section)
         4.2.4.2. MAJCOM weapons and tactics organizations and responsible test agencies
         will review final reports on weapons systems for which they have tactics
         responsibilities and identify and forward information to the appropriate AFTTP 3-1
         volume OPR for inclusion.
         4.2.4.3. AFTTP 3-1 is the primary source of tactics information and contains
         information that has been validated and has AF-wide concurrence. Specific
         procedures and responsibilities for the management of AFTTP 3-1 are contained in
         AFTTP 3-1.1. AFSOC/A3 will submit any supplements/changes to ACC/A3 for
         approval and will be published on an as needed basis. These supplements/changes
         will contain executive summaries of interim/final reports, and any other information
         releasable to the AFSOF as valid tactics.
  4.3. Responsibilities:
     4.3.1. PACAF/USAFE/AETC A3 will:
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                25


        4.3.1.1. Task MAJCOM/A3T (A3Z for AETC, A3O for PACAF) to be the HQ focal
        point for tactics development.
        4.3.1.2. Approve applicable waivers to this instruction.
        4.3.1.3. Identify MAJCOM OPR for applicable recommendations in interim/final
        reports or Special Project reports.
        4.3.1.4. Approve MAJCOM TIPs and forward to AFSOC/A3TW for assignment.
        4.3.1.5. Appoint representatives for the working groups at the AFSOC TRB.
        4.3.1.6. Recommend AFTTP 3-1/3-3 changes and forward to AFSOC/A3.
        4.3.1.7. Task any MAJCOM units required to support TD&E projects.
     4.3.2. AFSOC/A3 will:
        4.3.2.1. Coordinate availability and task the appropriate units to provide required
        aircraft and aircrew resources identified in the AFSOC approved TD&E test plan.
        4.3.2.2. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs, ANG, and AFRC tactics office of
        primary responsibility to ensure program participation.
        4.3.2.3. Identify AFSOC/A3 OPR for applicable recommendations provided in
        interim/final TD&E test reports.
        4.3.2.4. Sponsor the AFSOF Tactics Review Board and the AFSOF Weapons and
        Tactics Conference yearly.
        4.3.2.5. Task AFSOC/A3TW to be the AFSOC focal point for tactics development.
        4.3.2.6. Provide AFSOC/A5ZT tactics objectives for FDE projects.
     4.3.3. ANG/A3 and AFRC/A3 will:
        4.3.3.1. Task the AATC for TD&E project management involving ANG and AFRC
        resources.
        4.3.3.2. Approve and support ANG and AFRC unit participation in TD&E projects.
        4.3.3.3. Budget for and provide funding, flying hours, and man-days for ANG and
        AFRC unique TD&E projects.
     4.3.4. AFSOC/A2 will:
        4.3.4.1. Evaluate intelligence information for possible effect on tactical operations.
        MAJCOM/A3 will be immediately notified of such information.
        4.3.4.2. Levy appropriate Collection Requirements and Production Requirements to
        national intelligence agencies to obtain and document required data on enemy
        capabilities, doctrine, and tactics.
        4.3.4.3. Disseminate enemy tactics information to subordinate units through
        appropriate intelligence channels.
     4.3.5. AFSOC/A5 will:
26                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        4.3.5.1. Ensure test management responsibilities are executed through AFSOC/A5ZT
        IAW applicable test directives.
        4.3.5.2. Be the single source of tasking for AFSOC tests.
     4.3.6. MAJCOM staff agencies will:
        4.3.6.1. Identify tactical information, suspected tactical deficiencies, or proposed
        improvements to MAJCOM/A3.
        4.3.6.2. Coordinate all tactics related items through MAJCOM/A3.
     4.3.7. AFSOC/A3T will:
        4.3.7.1. Appoint an AFSOC tactics officer to act as program manager for the AFSOF
        tactics development program.
        4.3.7.2. Chair the annual AFSOC Weapons and Tactics Conference and AFSOC
        TRB.
        4.3.7.3. Provide copies of TIPs to 18 FLTS when requested.
        4.3.7.4. Document AFSOC TRB action on TIPs and return all TIPs to MAJCOMs,
        wings, or groups.
        4.3.7.5. Coordinate all TD&E efforts with AFSOC/A5ZT.
        4.3.7.6. Coordinate aircrew training needs, budget for training device modifications,
        and courseware development when implementing new tactics.
     4.3.8. 18 FLTS will:
        4.3.8.1. Program and accomplish TD&Es by establishing and adhering to suspense
        for planning, executing, and reporting TD&Es assigned by electronic project orders.
        4.3.8.2. Program for future TD&E projects and required funding during budget
        submissions.
        4.3.8.3. Submit TD&E interim and/or final reports IAW AFI 99-103.
        4.3.8.4. Identify tactics deficiencies or propose new tactics by submission of a TIP.
        4.3.8.5. Screen reports and project results for applicable information, and process
        that information for dissemination in AFTTP 3-1 and/or changes to AFTTP 3-1.
        4.3.8.6. Supply and solicit tactical expertise in their specialized areas to support
        TD&E efforts by other test units, as tasked by AFSOC.
        4.3.8.7. Provide representation at the AFSOC TRB, as required.
        4.3.8.8. Assign a project officer to each TD&E and FDE project.
     4.3.9. AATC Responsibilities. AATC is responsible to ANG/A3 and AFRC/A3 for
     applicable items listed in paragraph 4.3 ANG/A3 and AFRC/A3 will sponsor the ANG
     and AFRC WEPTAC. AATC will host the WEPTAC. The WEPTAC will evaluate ANG
     and AFRC TIPs. AATC will forward TIPs approved at the WEPTAC to AFSOC/A3TW
     for consideration at the AFSOC TRB. The AFSOC TRB will review ANG/AFRC TIPs
     for applicability and support of active duty units.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   27


      4.3.10. All operational and training units will:
          4.3.10.1. Continually evaluate tactical information available to support the conduct
          of assigned or expected wartime tasking, specifically analyzing the completeness of
          information, its validity in today’s environment, and usability of format.
          4.3.10.2. Use all available opportunities to exercise validated tactics, i.e.,
          continuation training, Red Flag, Joint Readiness Exercises, and Weapons School
          Mission Employment.
          4.3.10.3. Report undocumented tactics or tactical problem areas or propose new
          tactics by submission of a TIP.
          4.3.10.4. Support and send representatives to applicable AFTTP 3-1/3 re-write
          conference.
          4.3.10.5. Support and send representatives for AFSOC Weapons and Tactics
          Conference.
          4.3.10.6. Conduct an annual Tactics Review Board as described in paragraph 1.4.2 of
          this instruction.
      4.3.11. MAJCOM Project Monitors. Will work closely with project managers to ensure
      headquarters support for the project and timely coordination/approval of support requests.
5. AFGSC Tactics Development Program.
   5.1. General Policy: The AFGSC Tactics Development Program is designed to meet
   AFGSC’s responsibility to serve as the lead command in developing, documenting, and
   issuing TTPs for UH-1, B-2, B-52 and ICBM weapons systems. The core of the Tactics
   Development Program is the documentation of validated best practices in Air Force TTP
   documents. The program purpose is to maximize the mission effectiveness of AFGSC forces
   by supporting both the continuous improvement of the operation of conventional and nuclear
   forces and the continuing evolution of the impact long range strike assets have on military
   operations, across the spectrum of conflict.
      5.1.1. Weapons and Tactics (W&T) entities foster tactical expertise in the operation of
      given weapon systems (including the expert employment of systems and tactics in
      anomalous and/or hostile conditions) as well as an appreciation for the broader role those
      systems play in support of operational and strategic level operations and objectives. They
      develop procedures and unit tactics for planning and employing operational mission and
      wing assets and advise unit leaders on operational capabilities, limitations, and status of
      unit assets. The pursuit of continuous improvement through rigorous and ongoing critical
      analysis of all unit operational processes is a cornerstone of the AFGSC W&T Program.
      5.1.2. AFGSC serves as the lead command in developing, documenting, and issuing
      tactics for the B-2, B-52, UH-1 and ICBM weapons systems IAW USAF Program Action
      Directive (PAD) 08-04.
      5.1.3. Responsibilities: Identify tactical employment opportunities in all areas of ICBM,
      UH-1 and B-2 and B-52 nuclear/conventional operations.
   5.2. Definitions:
28                                                      AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     5.2.1. Tactics: ―The employment and ordered arrangement of forces in relation to each
     other.‖ Within the AFGSC W&T Program the term refers to employment options that are
     developed through the formal tactics development process and are documented in AFTTP
     publications.
     5.2.2. Techniques: ―Non-prescriptive ways or methods used to perform missions,
     functions, or tasks.‖ Within the AFGSC W&T Program the term refers to non-
     prescriptive ways or methods that may or may not be associated with a formally
     developed tactic.
     5.2.3. Procedures: ―Standard, detailed steps that prescribe how to perform specific
     tasks.‖ Within the AFGSC W&T Program the term refers to prescribed ways or methods
     that may or may not be associated with a formally developed tactic.
  5.3. TD & E Procedures: AFGSC has a parallel tactics development processes aligned to
  support an integrated tactics development program. AFGSC will conduct a separate TRB to
  review TIPs from UH-1, ICBM, B-2 and B-52 units. The AFGSC TRB will be conducted
  prior to the CAF TRB. Any CAF-related TIPs identified during this board will be made
  available for the CAF TRB. AFGSC/A3TW will forward the CAF-related TIPs to
  ACC/A3TW by 15 November each year for the CAF TRB. Appropriate AFGSC
  representatives will be present at the CAF TRB to ensure proper TIP integration.
     5.3.1. AFGSC/A3 is AFGSC’s focal point for UH-1, ICBM, B-2 and B-52 Tactics
     Development Program. AFGSC/A3 serves as the OPR and program manager.
     5.3.2. AFGSC will review all TIPs for concurrence. AFGSC/A3TW will make a
     recommendation on each CAF TIP before it is forwarded to ACC/A3TW.
     5.3.3. TRB. The TRB affords AFGSC senior leadership an opportunity to decide how
     and if to dedicate resources toward the development, validation, approval, and
     implementation of a TIP. Additionally, interaction among TRB participants allows for an
     exchange of ideas across AFGSC mission areas yielding additional opportunities to
     improve current and future operations through tactics development
        5.3.3.1. The AFGSC/A3 or their designated representative will host and chair an
        annual AFGSC TRB.
        5.3.3.2. Unless required by circumstances, the AFGSC TRB will be held in October
        to allow AFGSC/A3TW time to evaluate and introduce AFGSC TIPs to the January
        CAF TRB.
        5.3.3.3. The AFGSC TRB is a multi-day meeting of tacticians and select subject
        matter experts usually broken into working groups representing each AFGSC MDS
        and select operational topics.
        5.3.3.4. TRB attendance is unit funded.
        5.3.3.5. The AFGSC TRB is by invitation only. AFGSC/A3T will send invitations on
        behalf of the AFGSC/A3.
            5.3.3.5.1. The Chief of W&T at each NAF, and wing are afforded a standing
            invitation to the annual TRB. At a minimum, a representative from the W&T
            OPR at each organization will attend.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   29


                5.3.3.5.2. AFGSC/A3TW will select chairs for each working group based on
                subject matter expertise and availability.
                    5.3.3.5.2.1. Working group chairs, with AFGSC/A3TW review, will select
                    appropriate personnel to comprise each working group to ensure the group is
                    properly resourced to evaluate the TIPs for which they are responsible.
                    5.3.3.5.2.2. This should include an expert representative from each division
                    within AFGSC/A3 and other directorates, as appropriate, to ensure proposals
                    are evaluated from the most complete perspective possible.
    5.4. Responsibilities:
        5.4.1. For AFGSC subordinate units, IAW para. 5.3.1., CAF related TIPs for B-2 and B-
        52 units will be forwarded to AFGSC/A3TW for review. AFGSC/A3TW will then
        submit all CAF related TIPs to ACC/A3TW for the CAF TRB/WEPTAC. Individuals
        assigned at the unit or wing level should coordinate TIPs with the wing, group, or unit
        W&T Shops (or OSK) prior to submitting to NAF W&T. Personnel assigned to NAFs
        and HQ AFGSC should coordinate with their NAF W&T OPR or AFGSC/A3TW,
        respectively.
        5.4.2. 20 AF and 8 AF. TIPs from wings will be submitted to the appropriate NAF. The
        NAF W&T function will coordinate on the TIP and document recommendations in the
        ―NAF Recommendation‖ portion of AF IMT 4326. NAFs will forward the results of their
        coordination to AFGSC/A3TW on AF IMT 4326 within 21 calendar days of receipt or
        within 14 days of the conclusion of their TRB if applicable. Every effort will be made to
        coordinate all TIPs NLT 30 days prior to the annual AFGSC TRB. Coordinate extensions
        with AFGSC/A3TW.
        5.4.3. Units should review historical TIP submissions to determine whether the TIP was
        previously suggested.

Table 3. Entering Arguments for TTP (Not all inclusive).
Example of TTP                      Constitutes   Submit
New method of employing an          Tactic        TIP
existing system
New mission area for a system       Tactic        TIP
Deploying ICBM A1/A2 crews          Tactic        TIP
in response to a terrorist threat
Method of implementing tactic       Technique     TIP
Using Blue Force Tracking           Technique     TIP
Devices to monitor nuclear
weapons convoy in ICBM
complex
New Tech Order issue                Procedure     AFTO Form 22 (ICBM),
                                                  Technical Manual Change
                                                  Recommendation and Reply
Suggested changes to checklist      Procedure     Checklist Change Request
        5.4.4. AFGSC/A3T:
 30                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


          5.4.4.1. Sign the MAJCOM recommendations block on the AF IMT 4326.
          5.4.4.2. Send TRB invitations on behalf of the AFGSC/A3.
          5.4.4.3. Direct Out-of-Cycle TRBs.
          5.4.4.4. Disseminate TIP dispositions to the affected units within 30 days of the TRB
          via AFGSC TRB minutes prepared by AFGSC/A3TW.
          5.4.4.5. Determine 8 AF and 20 AF/CC AFTTP coordination requirements.
          5.4.4.6. Direct review of this publication in coordination with the ACC/A3TW
          review cycle.
      5.4.5. AFGSC/A3:
          5.4.5.1. Host annual TRB.
          5.4.5.2. Chair AFGSC TRB.
          5.4.5.3. Task All AFGSC units required to support TTP development.
      5.4.6. All Operational and training units will:
          5.4.6.1. If required, request TTP development support from MAJCOM and NAFs
          through AFGSC/A3TW.
          5.4.6.2. Aid in the development of products such as checklists, job-aids, etc. required
          to test and implement TTPs.
          5.4.6.3. Coordinate TIP submissions with the wing W&T OPR.
          5.4.6.4. Integrate validated TTPs into normal operations and training within 90 days
          of notification.
      5.4.7. Policy and Guidance:
          5.4.7.1. AFGSC/A3TW will accomplish a bi-annual review of this publication, but
          may accomplish sooner should circumstances require, or in accordance with
          ACC/A3TW direction.
          5.4.7.2. Coordinate additional requirements, requests, unit supplements (etc.) to this
          document with ACC/A3TW.
6. AFSPC Tactics Development Program.
   6.1. Reference AFSPCI 10-260 for all AFSPC tactics development program information.
7. Information Collections, Records, and Forms:
   7.1. Information Collections. The reporting requirement in this publication is exempt from
   licensing in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
   Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information
   Collections, para 2.11.5.
   7.2. Records. Disposition of records will be in accordance with the AF Records Disposition
   Schedule in AFRIMS, especially for certain OT&E records covered by Table 99-1, Rules 2,
   2.02 – 2.04, and 3.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                             31




                              HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                              DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 32                                                       AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1-2, Air Force Glossary, 11 January 2007
AFMD 5, Air Force Space Command, 1 August 1997
AFMD 6, Air Force Special Operations Command, 1 September 1996
AFSPCI 10-260, Tactics Development Program For Operational Systems, 1 April 2008
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management. 8 March 2007
AFI 10-601, Capabilities-Based Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 January 2005
AMCI 11-207, AMC Tactics Program, 14 June 2005
AFSOCI 11-207, AFSOC Tactics Program, 29 June 2009
AFI 11-415, Weapons and Tactics Program, 17 August 2010
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 11-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 8 April 2009
AFI 61-201, The Local Scientific and Technical Information Process, 16 June 2010
AFI 61-202, United States Air Force Technical Publications Program, 25 July 1994
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
AFI 63-114, Rapid Response Process, 4 Jan 2011
AFI 91-205, Non-Nuclear Munitions Safety Board, 1 July 1998
AFI 99-103, Operational Test and Evaluation, 20 March 2009
AFI 99-106, Joint Test and Evaluation, 26 August 2009
Prescribed Form
AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 4326, Tactic Improvement Proposal (formerly MC
Form 1007).
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF Form 1067, Modification
Proposal; and AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual ™ Change Recommendation and Reply.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AATC—Air National Guard Air Force Reserve Test Center
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACTD—Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                               33


AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFISRA—Air Force ISR Agency
AFIWC—Air Force Information Warfare Center
AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive
AFNOSC—Air Force Network Operations Security Center
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOCI—Air Force Special Operations Instruction
AFSOF—Air Force Special Operations Forces
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Operations Center
ATD—Advanced Technology Demonstration
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CFACC—Combined Forces Air and Space Component Commander
CSARF—Combat Search and Rescue Forces
COTS—Commercial Off the Shelf
CPO—Consolidated Planning Order
CY—Calendar Year
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
 34                                                   AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
EPO—Electronic Project Order
FB—Flash Bulletin
FCT—Foreign Comparative Test
FDE—Force Development Evaluation
FME—Foreign Material Exploitation
FY—Fiscal Year
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
IW—Information Warfare
JT&E—Joint Test and Evaluation
JTS—Joint Tactics Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MA—Mission Area
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MDS—Mission Design Series
MM—Model Manager
MRTFB—Major Range & Test Facility Base
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NDI—Non-Developmental Item
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NLT—No Later Than
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command
OA—Operational Assessment
OFP—Operational Flight Program
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                           35


OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OUE—Operational Utility Evaluation
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
PRA—Primary Review Authority
PSU—Primary Subordinate Unit
QOT&E—Qualification Operational Test and Evaluation
QT&E—Qualification Test and Evaluation
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
RTRB—Realistic Training Review Board
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAS—Space Aggressor Squadron
SG—Space Group
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOF—Special Operations Forces
TDI—Tactics Development Initiatives
TD&E—Tactics Development and Evaluation
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TEG—Test Evaluation Group
TES—Test and Evaluation Squadron
TIP—Tactic Improvement Proposal
T.O.—Technical Order
TPG—Tactical Pocket Guides
TPL—Test Priority List
TR—Test Request
TRB—Tactics Review Board
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UON—Urgent Operational Need
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
 36                                                            AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


USAFWS—USAF Weapons School
USSOCOM—U.S. Special Operations Command
VM—Volume Manger
WEPTAC—Weapons and Tactics Conference
WG—Wing
WSEP—Weapon System Evaluation Program
W&T—Weapons and Tactics

Terms
ACC Project Officer—An individual assigned to the headquarters, responsible for staffing the
project order, accomplishing HQ duties, and providing guidance through the life of the project.
CAF Test Priority List—An annual list approved by ACC/A8 that identifies the relative
priority of all active and projected FY ―XX‖ T&E projects for a given fiscal year. ACC/A8XT is
the OPR for producing the priority list.
Electronic Project Order—A formal headquarters document, hosted in a web-based system that
authorizes the test center to participate in a project. EPOs are issued for all T&E projects.
Force Development Evaluation (FDE)—The operational test and evaluation of fielded,
operational systems during the sustainment portion of the system life cycle after acceptance for
operational use. The focus is on maintaining or upgrading operational systems after the initial
acquisition process is complete. FDE may also support full-rate production or fielding decisions
for new systems acquisition when AFOTEC-conducted OT&E is not done.
Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E)—1. The field test, under realistic combat
conditions, of any item of (or key component of) weapons, equipment, or munitions for the
purpose of determining the effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions
for use in combat by typical military users; and the evaluation of the results of such test. (Title 10
§139(a)(2)) 2. Testing and evaluation conducted in as realistic an operational environment as
possible to estimate the prospective system’s operational effectiveness and operational
suitability. In addition, OT&E provides information on organization, personnel requirements,
doctrine, and tactics. It may also provide data to support or verify material in operating
instructions, publications, and handbooks. (Air Force Doctrine Document [AFDD] 1-2, Air
Force Glossary) NOTE: This definition may be used for OT&E.
National Guard Bureau (NGB) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Project
Officer—An individual assigned to the NGB and AFRC Staffs, in the case of activities
associated with AATC, serving as a POC for coordination with the ACC project officer, who
monitors the test and provides command coordination and support as required.
Project Manager—An individual assigned to the USAFWC, the Aerospace Command and
Control Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Center (AC2ISRC), the Air Force
Information Warfare Center (AFIWC), or the Air National Guard Air Force Reserve Test Center
(AATC) who is directly responsible for the management and coordination of all activities
associated with the planning, conducting, and reporting for the assigned project.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  37


Qualification Operational Test and Evaluation (QOT&E)—A tailored type of IOT&E
performed on systems for which there is little to no RDT&E-funded development effort.
Commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), non-developmental items (NDI), and government furnished
equipment (GFE) are tested in this manner. (AFPD 99-1)
Tactics Development and Evaluation (TD&E)—TD&E is the formal portion of a CAF tactics
development program designed to fully exploit a system’s capability. It includes research,
analysis, development, test, and evaluation of a specific employment tactic against anticipated
threats.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)—The act of generating empirical data during the research,
development or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is
useful to technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The
process by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results
analyzed so as to gauge progress and provide feedback. T&E refers to testing directed by the
MAJCOM to conduct primarily, but not necessarily limited to, Operational Test and Evaluation
(OT&E), Force Development Evaluations (FDE), foreign comparative testing (FCT), joint test
and evaluation (JT&E), and other T&E-related activities. OT&E-related activities include
operational assessments (OA), operational utility evaluations (OUE), foreign material
exploitation (FME), and test support for technology transition mechanisms. Technology
transition mechanisms include advanced technology demonstrations (ATD), battlelab initiatives
(BI), advanced concept technology demonstrations (ACTD), and exercises and experiments.
Test Director—An individual assigned to Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
(AFOTEC) or AFMC responsible for directing an OT&E or Developmental T&E (DT&E) test
team respectively, or overseeing execution of the project according to the test plan.
Unit Project Officer—An individual assigned to USAFWC, AC2ISRC, AFIWC, or AATC that
directs a test team in the execution of OT&E.
 38                                                         AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                      ATTACHMENT 2
AIR FORCE TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES 3-1/3-3 MANAGEMENT
                          PROCEDURES

A2.1. Introduction. This attachment outlines the fundamental guidelines for AFTTP 3-1/3-3
volume management including coordination procedures, responsibilities, and production.
Additional guidance associated with this attachment are outlined in AFTTP 3-1.General
Planning, Attachment 4.
   A2.1.1. Applicability. AFTTP 3-1/3-3 volumes are the primary tactical doctrine references
   for the U.S. Air Force, i.e. Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Mobility Command (AMC),
   Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), Air
   Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), United States Air
   Forces in Europe (USAFE), Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA), Air Force Reserve Command
   (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Education and Training Command (AETC),
   and North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD).
   A2.1.2. AFTTP Definition. AFTTP 3-1 is a comprehensive and current tactical forces
   employment manual bringing together lessons learned from previous conflicts, operational
   evaluations, training exercises, tactics development programs, and analyses of the threat.
   AFTTP 3-1 volumes are the standard on how to fight the war with tested and proven tactics.
   The AFTTP 3-1 series focus on three areas: (1) MDS specifics to include combat systems,
   capabilities, and limitations; (2) combat mission planning, routes, threat avoidance, and
   delivery; and (3) mission specifics to accomplish the mission and stay alive. The
   unclassified, complementary set is the AFTTP 3-3 volumes. AFTTP 3-3 should be the
   baseline instruction and focus on any combination of the following three areas: (1) mission
   preparation, planning, and execution; (2) MDS specifics of preflight, takeoff, formations,
   contracts/techniques, air-to-air refueling, approach, and landing, and/or (3) basic mission
   elements upon which fundamental AFTTP 3-1 employment is based. The AFI 11-2 series
   regulations contain rules, requirements, and restrictions for each aircraft. Phase manuals and
   USAF Weapons School texts address techniques and procedures applicable to formal training
   courses only.
   A2.1.3. Flash Bulletin (FB) Definition. Approved, produced, and distributed by 561 JTS,
   FBs are TTP or lessons learned that are time perishable and need to be passed to the
   warfighter immediately. Published as required, FBs are unofficial TTP that have been
   validated, vetted, and fused by a cadre of subject matter experts (SME) which require
   expeditious dissemination to keep TTPs current. FBs can become tactics bulletins (TB) after
   more comprehensive global combat air forces (CAF), space, cyberspace or mobility air
   forces (MAF) vetting. FBs are added to routine TTP conferencing for further vetting and
   inclusion into volumes as deemed necessary by the Model Manager (MM) and the Chapter
   Leads.
   A2.1.4. Tactics Bulletin (TB) Definition. Tactics Bulletins (TB) act as official updates to
   AFTTP 3-1 volumes between rewrites in an effort to ensure warfighter TTP remains current.
   All are TTP that SMEs across the CAF/MAF/SOF/Space/Cyberspace deem worthy of
   AFTTP 3-1 credibility and longevity without further validation. They are analyzed, vetted,
   and validated in methods similar to AFTTP, including operational test, weapons school
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 39


   missions, combat exercises, weapons validation programs, and actual combat employment.
   TBs are produced, edited, and staffed by 561 JTS, coordinated through the owning Primary
   Review Authority (PRA) (reference Table A4.1 in AFTTP 3-1 General Planning, Attachment
   4), and officially approved for publication by USAFWC/CC. To ensure TBs are rapidly made
   available to the warfighter; the PRA has six (6) working days to formally concur/non-concur
   with TTP content before USAFWC/CC approves/disapproves. TBs should be incorporated
   into future AFTTP 3-1 rewrites, as appropriate.
   A2.1.5. AFTTP Changes (Out-of-Cycle). Changes are sponsored by MAJCOM and
   published by 561 JTS. MAJCOMs are the final authority for determining the requirement for
   a change. Since significant work stoppage will occur on other volumes to produce a change,
   only urgent combat or safety requirements should be considered for a change.
       A2.1.5.1. Scope. Out-of-cycle changes to an AFTTP typically contain new systems,
       procedures, or capabilities developed between volume rewrites. AFTTP changes are
       critical updates affecting safety or significant combat capability.
   A2.1.6. Revision Schedule. With the exception of AFTTP 3-1.Shot Kill and AFTTP 3-
   1.Threat Guide, all AFTTP 3-1/3 rewrite conferences will occur on or about a 24 month
   cycle. All volume conferences will be scheduled and coordinated through 561 JTS Volume
   Managers (VM). Changing a scheduled conference requires approval from the MAJCOM
   Program Manager (PM) and 561 JTS VM.
       A2.1.6.1. AFTTP 3-1. Shot Kill. Conference full rewrite every 18 months.
       A2.1.6.2. AFTTP 3-1. Threat Guide. AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, will update specific
       chapters, as determined by the MM, every 12 months with a full rewrite on or about
       every 24 months.
   A2.1.7. Review/Approval Milestones. The review/approval milestones have been
   established to ensure timely dissemination of updated AFTTP volumes. The intent is not to
   sacrifice the quality of the information contained in each volume, but to make every attempt
   to complete all actions within the established milestones. Delays must be coordinated
   through the PRA or delegated authority, the MM, and the VM. See AFTTP 3-1. General
   Planning, Attachment 4 Figure A4.1 for the milestones.
A2.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   A2.2.1. MAJCOM. Each MAJCOM/A3 will establish the PRA staffing procedures and an
   AFTTP volume PM at the headquarters level.
       A2.2.1.1. Primary Review Authority. PRA is the MAJCOM agency (ACC/A2,
       ACC/A3, ACC/A4, AFSPC/A3, AFSOC/A3, AFGSC/A3, AFISRA/A3, AMC/A3, and
       NORAD/J33) that is responsible for the content of a specific AFTTP volume. The PRA,
       through the PM, designates the MM, provides general guidance for the volume revision,
       and approves the final edition of each AFTTP volume. The PRA is responsible for the
       specific AFTTP volumes outlined in Table A4.1 of AFTTP 3-1.General Planning,
       Attachment 4.
       A2.2.1.2. AFTTP PM. Normally, PM is at the MAJCOM agency (e.g. ACC/A3TW,
       AFSPC/A3TW, AFSOC/A3TW, AFGSC/A3TW, AFISRA/A3, AMC/A3DT, and
       NORAD/J33) for each of its own AFTTP volumes. The responsibilities of the PM are:
40                                                       AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


        A2.2.1.2.1. To facilitate funding, and manning
        A2.2.1.2.2. To identify and task a specific unit to provide MM no later than 200 days
        prior to the start of the rewrite conference.
        A2.2.1.2.3. To coordinate AFTTP conference scheduling with 561 JTS to include
        conference postponements. Conferences will not be postponed without MAJCOM
        PM and 561 JTS/VM concurrence.
        A2.2.1.2.4. To perform draft AFTTP review, provide HQ level inputs, and give final
        approval for release.
     A2.2.1.3. Conference and Production Funding. All MAJCOM/A3s are responsible for
     funding of approved conference delegates for their respective AFTTP volumes. In
     addition, MAJCOM/A3s will ensure sufficient manning or funding in lieu of manning is
     available to produce AFTTP manuals. Lack of sufficient MAJCOM manning and funding
     will result in reduced number of volumes being produced on a normal rewrite cycle. For
     example, if only 50% of the needed production personnel/funding are provided, only 50%
     of the respective volumes can be published in a given fiscal year.
     A2.2.1.4. Program Oversight. The MAJCOM/A3 will delegate to the
     MAJCOM/A3TW or equivalent to provide program oversight. The following is a list of
     program management agencies: ACC/A3TW is the designated PM responsible for
     program oversight, manning, and funding issues for ACC.           AMC/A3DT is the
     designated PM responsible for program oversight, manning, and funding issues for AMC.
     AFSPC/A3TW is the designated PM responsible for program oversight, manning, and
     funding issues for AFSPC.        AFSOC/A3TW is the designated PM responsible for
     program oversight manning, and funding issues for AFSOC.        AFISRA/A3VW is the
     designated PM responsible for program oversight manning, and funding issues for
     AFISRA.         NORAD/J33 is the designated PM responsible for program oversight,
     manning, and funding issues for NORAD.           AFGSC/A3TW is the designated PM
     responsible for program oversight, manning, and funding issues for AFGSC.        Other
     commands (i.e. PACAF, USAFE, AFRC, ANG, and AETC) will have input into the
     AFTTP process during the rewrite cycle, the MAJCOM 3-Digit Review, and the post
     production phase through the MM and 561 JTS/VM.
     A2.2.1.5. MAJCOMs and Model Managers. MAJCOMs will provide an MM to be
     the content manager for each AFTTP volume. MM is normally a USAFWS graduate at
     group or wing level, but can come from MAJCOM staff. The MM must be a knowledge
     person with a solid background in their respective weapons system and aware of current
     capabilities. If MAJCOM has a SME assigned to 561 JTS, the individual will be the MM
     for his/her own community’s volumes unless pre-coordinated otherwise with 561
     JTS/VM.
  A2.2.2. Numbered Air Forces (NAF). NAFs will provide appropriate representation at
  each AFTTP volume review conference at the discretion of their respective MAJCOMs in
  conjunction with the MM.
  A2.2.3. USAF Warfare Center (USAFWC). USAFWC/CC or designated representative is
  the production approval and provides overall production management. Although other
  commands will approve their own documents or otherwise stated in this attachment,
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                               41


   USAFWC/CC, through 57 WG/CC, will retain quality control of all documents produced by
   561 JTS. USAFWC/CC and 57 WG/CC will designate 561 JTS to manage the program
   funding, production, publication, and distribution of all MAJCOM AFTTP volumes in
   coordination with MAJCOMs.
      A2.2.3.1. LeMay Center. The LeMay Center has a liaison in the USAFWC. The
      LeMayCenter focuses on the operational level of warfare and ensures that AFTTP
      volumes do not repeat Air Force doctrine, but tactically supports it ensuring AFTTP
      volumes aligns with AFDD functions and missions of aerospace power.
      A2.2.3.2. 561st Joint Tactics Squadron. The 561 JTS is the OPR for all AFTTP 3-1/3
      and Air NTTP 3-22 series volumes. The organization is responsible for managing all
      AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes, AFTTP annexes, AFTTP out-of-cycle changes, TB, FB, Air
      NTTP volumes, and Air NTTP tactical pocket guides (TPG). This includes scheduling,
      executing rewrite conferences, production, and dissemination of MAJCOM/A3 AFTTP
      3-1/3 volumes. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4 Paragraph A4.1.2 for
      additional information.
   A2.2.4. Wings. Each wing is responsible for the following: Provide inputs on assigned
   areas to the applicable MM. Provide wing/squadron level delegates to AFTTP review
   conferences as requested by the MM. Wing delegates represent their installation commander
   and should elevate their respective wing’s position. It is imperative that each delegate
   maintain open communication with their respective wing during the rewrite conference.
   A2.2.5. Model Managers (MM). The MM is the AFTTP 3-1/3 volume SME and is
   responsible for the volume’s content. Each volume MM is responsible for the following:
   Complying with all procedures within AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4 Selecting
   an alternate MM Developing executable pre-conference, conference, and post-conference
   plan in order to ensure timely release of their respective AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes Selecting
   experienced delegates who are critical to the development of AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes for their
   respective combat system Reading applicable AFTTP volumes, TBs, FBs, safety related
   reports, and doctrines     Coordinating tactics inputs/changes with the appropriate test
   management branch and USAFWS squadrons Coordinating with PMs to identify specific
   MAJCOM interest items Utilizing cross-domain integration Meeting 561 JTS directed
   timeline/milestones
A2.3. AFTTP Concept of Operations.
   A2.3.1. AFTTP Volume Standardization. All AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes will use the standard
   formats as outlined in AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4:          Standard AFTTP
   Outline AFTTP 3-1 Strike/Air-to-Air Outline Standard AFTTP 3-3 Volume Format-CAF
   Standard AFTTP 3-3 Volume Format-MAF              Deviations are authorized by the LeMay
   Center as it suits the mission needs of the combat system. All deviations must be approved
   by VM on a case-by-case basis and coordinated through production staff
   A2.3.2. Flash and Tactics Bulletin Standardization. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning,
   Attachment 4
   A2.3.3. Pre-Conference Phase. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4
   A2.3.4. Conference Phase. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4
 42                                                          AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


   A2.3.5. Post-Conference Phase. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment 4
   A2.3.6. Review/Approval Milestones. The review/approval milestones have been
   established to ensure timely dissemination of updated tactics manuals. The MM will adhere
   to all milestones in coordination with 561 JTS/VM from pre-conferencing to approval
   process In the event of delay, the MM, VM, and PM will immediately notify each other
   regarding impacts and changes in estimated completion date. The keys to success in meeting
   the milestones are: Pre-conference drafts are submitted to 561 JTS on time Maintaining
   solid communication line      MM providing resolutions to production questions within 24
   hours of inquiry
   A2.3.7. Approval Phase. Coordination for release and distribution of all AFTTP 3-1/3
   volumes will be as follows: 57 WG/DS – Coord 57 WG/CV – Coord            57 WG/CC –
   Coord USAFWC/CS – Coord USAFWC/CV – Coord               USAFWC/CC - Coord/Concur
   MAJCOM/PRA – Approve MAJCOM/A3TW (or equivalent; A3DT for AMC) - Info/File
A2.4. Establishment of New AFTTP 3-1/3 Volumes. Submit official request to 561 JTS/VM
with a complete background of the combat system along with strong justification endorsed by the
unit leadership. VM will submit an e-SSS to MAJCOM/A3 for approval with coordination
through 561 JTS/CC, 57 WG, USAFWC, and MAJCOM PM. MAJCOM, through 561 JTS, will
determine if sufficient manning and funding provided by MAJCOM to 561 JTS will enable the
production of additional volumes. To determine conference schedules, 561 JTS/CC, or the
delegated authority, will review and match priorities to funding, manning, requirements, and
available facilities. If a conflict arises, USAFWC/CC will be the final decision authority. The
tasking to create a new AFTTP volume will occur at MAJCOM/A3 level or higher. Entrance
standards for proposed volumes are as follows:
   A2.4.1. AFTTP 3-1, Tactical/Operational Employment Volume. Only combat-coded
   aircraft, Air Force officially designated weapons systems, or Air Force ground combat teams
   will be considered. The volume must include tactical weapons effects or ―weapons-like‖
   effects, have FTU or similar training and follow-on training, e.g. instructor, flight lead, etc,
   and require specific TTP to employ in combat. The subject matter is below the operational
   level of war.
   A2.4.2. AFTTP 3-3, Fundamentals Volume. AFTTP 3-3 can be established without the
   existence of AFTTP 3-1 of the same mission design series (MDS).
   A2.4.3. AFTTP 3-1, Annex. The 561 JTS produces annexes to volumes at higher security
   levels. Access to these annex documents is strictly limited by clearance and need-to-know.
   Normally, MAJCOM/A3 is the PRA (through MAJCOM/A8) for distribution of these
   documents. ACC annexes are staffed through ACC/A8ZA to ACC/A3 for approval. Annex
   volumes may be written for any system based upon operational necessity. To request the
   establishment of an annex, MM must contact the specific VM for details. Typically, annex
   documents will follow the same production and coordination procedures with exception
   made accordingly for security needs. If necessary, 561 JTS will build a production and
   coordination program specifically for each annex. To produce annex documents, 561 JTS
   may require MM assistance with facilities, clearances, coordination, distribution, and
   additional funding.
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                      43


A2.5. Distribution. AFTTP volumes are distributed worldwide to Department of Defense
agencies and other federal organizations which require access. These volumes are not releasable
to non-U.S. government personnel, agencies, or contractors, in any form, without specific
approval from MAJCOM and SAF/IA through coordination with 561 JTS. Primary means of
distribution is via user download from primarily 561 JTS SIPRNET and NIPRNET websites.
Contact 561 JTS/VM for access to other sources. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, Attachment
4 for specific instructions on downloading, purchasing, distribution, and cost associated with
procuring hard copies. For contractor releasability procedures, see paragraph A1.6, Contractor
Releasability. For foreign national releasability, see paragraph A2.7, Foreign National
Releasability. All users are required to account for all classified material IAW applicable DoD
directives and procedures.
A2.6. Contractor Releasability. The following guidelines do not apply to contractors who
already have SIPRNET accounts; access to the SIPRNET allows access to AFTTP 3-1 volumes
by default. Contractors should have AFTTP access written into their working contract.
However, if unable to write AFTTP access into their contract, approval for releasability of
AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes to contractors is on a case-by-case basis. Submit requests for release to
the 561 JTS, who will coordinate through MAJCOM PM. MAJCOM/A3, or delegated authority,
will grant contractor access, by exception, when required to fulfill contract requirements. Access
will be limited to 1 year or the duration of the contract (whichever is shorter). The military
program officer must submit a letter stating the requirement for contract access, AFTTP volumes
required, contractor name, valid contract number, contract expiration date, uniformed U.S.
military point of contact, and how AFTTP volumes will be used. If granted, the conditions of
contractor access will be specified in a return letter from MAJCOM/A3. The military program
officer is responsible for the return/destruction of released material at the end of the contract or
when the information is no longer required. 561 JTS will assist the process. For additional
information and sample ―Contractor Access Request‖ form, visit 561 JTS NIPRNET.
A2.7. Foreign National Releasability. Approval for releasability of AFTTP 3-1/3 volumes to
foreign nationals is on a case-by-case basis. This is based on DDL or HHQ approval. Submit
requests for release to 561 JTS who will coordinate with MAJCOM/A3 and SAF/IA. The
military program officer for the foreign national is responsible for the return/destruction of
released material when the information is no longer required. See AFTTP 3-1.General Planning,
Attachment 4 for instructions on submitting request.
 44                                                                                        AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                                          ATTACHMENT 3
                AF INFORMATION MANAGEMENT TOOL 4326 INSTRUCTIONS

A3.1. Instructions for completion of AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 4326
(Formerly MC Form 1007).

Figure A3.1. Sample AF IMT 4326 With Instructions.

TACTIC IMPROVEMENT PROPOSAL                                                                                MAJCOM ASSIGNED CONTROL NUMBER

                                                                                                           CY-XXX (for MAJCOM use)

TO (MAJCOM Tactics Organization):           FROM (Unit/Organization):                                      DATE
MAJCOM/A3TW (or equivalent)                 Submitter’s unit/organization                                  Day/Month/Year

SYSTEM-MDS                                                               OTHER AFFECTED SYSTEMS
Aircraft/Systems, etc.                                                   Aircraft/Systems, etc.

TITLE

Provide short title of TIP




DESCRIPTION OF TACTIC DEFICIENCY/PROBLEM

Provide details on the problem so that the reader can understand/evaluate the validity of the proposed solution.




DESCRIPTION OF TACTICAL SOLUTION

Provide details on the proposed solution. This paragraph should contain a logical answer to solving the problem/tactical deficiency identified in the
previous paragraph.




OBJECTIVES
AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                                                                    45


Provide specific objectives as it relates to the performance on the proposed solution. Objectives should be measurable and describe the purpose of the test.




NAME (Last, First MI. Rank) AND ORGANIZATION                                  E-mail Address                                          Phone



SQUADRON                                            CONCUR                 CONCUR w/ INTENT                  DO NOT CONCUR
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖.




REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                               DATE

Squadron TRB Chair

GROUP RECOMMENDATION                            CONCUR                  CONCUR w/ INTENT                  DO NOT CONCUR
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖.




REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                               DATE

Group TRB Chair

WING RECOMMENDATION                            CONCUR                  CONCUR w/ INTENT                  DO NOT CONCUR
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖.
 46                                                                                    AFI11-260 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                         DATE
Wing TRB Chair

MAJCOM/NAF RECOMMENDATION                     CONCUR                CONCUR w/ INTENT                DO NOT CONCUR
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖.




REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                         DATE
MAJCOM/NAF TRB Chair

AFSOF/MAF RECOMMENDATION                    CONCUR           CONCUR w/ INTENT            DO NOT CONCUR              N/A
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖. N/A will be used when a TIP is deemed CAF-related and therefore is
not routed through the AFSOF/MAF TRB.




REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                         DATE

AFSOF/MAF Working Group Chair

CAF TRB ACTION                              CONCUR           CONCUR w/ INTENT             DO NOT CONCUR             N/A
Mandatory remarks are required if TRB selects ―concur w/intent‖ or ―do not concur‖. N/A will be used when a TIP is deemed AFSOF or MAF-related and
is not routed through the CAF TRB.




REVIEWED BY (Name/Rank)                                                                                                         DATE

CAF Working Group Chair
