BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-418
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                      15 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 1 MARCH 2013
                                                   SEYMOURJOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                        Supplement
                                                                             8 JANUARY 2014

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                               OPERATIONS SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A3TV                                                          Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                     (Col James W. Crowhurst)
                                                                                      Pages: 42
Supersedes:AFI11-418, 21 October 2005
                             (SEYMOURJOHNSON)
OPR: 4 OG/OGV                                                            Certified by: 4 OG/CC
                                                                    (Col Michael G. Koscheski)
                                                                                       Pages:10
Supersedes:   AFI 11-
              418_SEYMOURJOHNSON
              AFBSUP, 20 Jan 10


This instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service. It establishes the responsibilities,
requirements, procedures and training for the supervision of flying operations. This instruction
applies to all flying units, including those operating Unmanned Air Systems (UAS), of Air
Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Air Education Training
Command (AETC), Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), Combat Air Forces (CAF) units within United
States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE), and CAF units within Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC). This instruction applies to all Air National Guard (ANG) units with ACC, PACAF, and
AETC oversight. With the exception of Chapter 7 and Attachment 4, Conference Hotel
Procedures, this instruction does not apply to Air Force District of Washington (AFDW), Air
Force Material Command (AFMC), Mobility Air Forces (MAF) units within AFRC, MAF units
within USAFE, Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), and the United States Air
Force (USAF) Aerial Demonstration Team (Thunderbirds). These units will follow Conference
 2                              AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


Hotel Procedures when judged necessary for safety of flight. This instruction does not apply to
Air Mobility Command (AMC). Civil Air Patrol (CAP) is not required to comply with this
instruction.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Recommendations for improvements
to this volume will be submitted on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to the parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval. Parent MAJCOM Stan/Eval will forward
approved recommendations to lead command OPR (ACC Standardization Branch:
ACCDOTVSRTB@langley.af.mil). This instruction requires units to issue supplements. The
requirement is discussed throughout the instruction and in detail at Chapter 8.

AF/A3/5 is the approval authority for interim changes to this instruction.

(SEYMOURJOHNSON) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 11-418, 15 September 2011, related to the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) and
Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup) at Seymour Johnson AFB, NC. This supplement applies to all 4
OG flying squadrons. Refer recommended changes to this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Interim Change adjusts the MINIMUM FLYING UNIT SUPERVISION
REQUIREMENTS during mixed flying operations with RPA. It also updates Hotel Conference
Information in Attachment 4 by incorporating two Administrative Changes on MDS F-35 and
MDS T-6 (completely new Table A4.18.1 and replaced Table A4.27.) and replacing Table
A4.18. F-22A. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.

(SEYMOURJOHNSON) This document is substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed. Highlights of major changes include: Multiple paragraphs, reference to AFI 11-
202V2_4FWSUP, Attachment 11 (Added) Letter of Xs guidance. Paragraph 2.2.3. (Added) Ops
Sup Crew Rest and Duty period clarification. Table 1.1. (Added) Minimum Flying Unit
Supervision requirements and duty locations. Paragraph 4.3.4. multiple changes to SOF
requirements to include clarification on declaring diverts and alternates with the addition of the
“Weather Cat 4” alternate. Paragraph 4.3.10. (Added) added requirements to use the SOF Central
Database as well as the SOF Passdown Log on the OGV Sharepoint. Paragraph 4.4.5.5. (Added)
added Ops Sup responsibility to keep SOF informed of PWC 4 pilots on the schedule and to
manage the ORM when weather is a factor. Paragraph 6.5.1.1. clarification on when N-CMR/N-
BMC               SOFs               can             perform              SOF              duties.
Attachment 1—Glossary of References and Supporting Information
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                                                                3


      1.      General. ..................................................................................................................    3
      2.      Functions: ...............................................................................................................     4
      3.      Operations. .............................................................................................................      4
Table 1.      Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements. ................................................                                 5
Table 1.      (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements. ......                                                          5
      4.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................        6
      5.      Handling of In-Flight Emergencies: ......................................................................                     12
      6.      SOF Guidance. .......................................................................................................         13
      7.      CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. ...................................................................                              20
      7.      (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Reference the SOF Checklist and Attachment 4 for
              CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures. ....................................................................                             20
      8.      Unit Supplement. ...................................................................................................          20
      9.      Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. ............                                            23
      10.     Waivers. .................................................................................................................    23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              24

Attachment 2—SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST                                                                                             28

Attachment 3—SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE                                                                                           30

Attachment 4—CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES                                                                                                    31


1. General.
   1.1. The basic supervision structure for flying operations consists of the Operations Group
   Commander (OG/CC), the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) and the squadron supervisors, i.e.,
   Operations Supervisor (Ops Sup, also referred to as Top 3).
   1.2. The chain of supervision begins with the OG/CC, through the SOF, down to the
   individual squadron supervisors. The requirements for each position are specified in para 3.
   Specific duties and responsibilities are defined throughout this instruction.
   1.3. For the purpose of this instruction “experienced” is used in accordance with (IAW) the
   definition provided in the Mission Design Series (MDS) specific AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1.
      1.3.1. For the purposes of this instruction only, aircrews are also considered
      “experienced” when previously rated “experienced” in another MDS or previously rated
      “experienced” in a different crew position in the same MDS. These individuals must then
      be selected by the Squadron CC and approved by the OG/CC for operations supervision
      responsibilities.
      1.3.2. Where no definition is provided, “experienced” will be determined by the unit
      squadron commander and approved by OG/CC.
 4                               AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


2. Functions:
     2.1. SOF. When on duty, the SOF is a group-level position and is the direct representative of
     the OG/CC. The SOF is the focal point for command and control of flight operations. OG/CC
     decision authority is delegated to this position to accomplish the mission.
        2.1.1. SOF is not required for rescue/weather/electronic attack/airlift/air refueling/special
        operations/deployed U-2 Ops. (For C2ISR, the OG/CC will determine if a SOF program
        is required. If a program is established this Instruction applies. At a minimum, C2ISR
        units will establish an Ops Sup/Top 3 program.)
     2.2. Ops Sup/Top 3. The squadron Ops Sup/Top 3 will only be filled by the following
     individuals: the squadron commander, the squadron operations officer, assistant operations
     officer(s), flight commanders, or other individuals deemed qualified by the squadron
     commander and approved by the OG/CC. ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or Air Operations Officer
     (AOO) will determine requirements for Ops Sup and will determine the appropriate
     personnel to fill the Ops Sup position. ANG/AFRC may combine SOF and Ops Sup duties.
     2.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The OG/CC delegates to the respective Squadron
     Commanders (SQ/CCs) approval for “other individuals deemed qualified” to be certified as
     Ops Sups given successful completion of the Ops Sup upgrade and annotation on the
     applicable squadron’s Letter of Xs (see AFI 11-202V2_ACCSUP_4FWSUP, Attachment
     11, Letter of Certification (Letter of Xs) Guidance).
        2.2.1. Squadron commander and operations officer decision authority may be delegated
        to this position to make operations-related decisions and recommendations.
        2.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Ops Sup Certification. Reference the
        Operations Group Stan/Eval (OGV) Sharepoint for the most current version of the Ops
        Sup upgrade checklist. Final documentation for upgrading an aircrew member to Ops
        Sup will consist of the signed Ops Sup upgrade checklist and updating of the applicable
        squadron’s Letter of Xs IAW AFI 11-202V2_ACCSUP_4FWSUP, Attachment 11.
        2.2.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Ops Sup Crew Rest and Duty Period. The
        Ops Sup must have a minimum of 8-hours crew rest prior to performing duties and the
        Ops Sup duty day will not exceed 16 hours. For duty periods when the Ops Sup is also
        fulfilling the role of SOF, then SOF crew rest (IAW AFI 11-202V3, General Flight
        Rules) and duty day limits (IAW paragraph 6.2 of this AFI) apply.
3. Operations. This section identifies the minimum flying unit supervisory requirements
depending on types of operations involved. (Additional requirements can be defined in the unit
supplement).
     3.1. Types of Operations. The definitions for types of operations that are used in Table 1
     are:
        3.1.1. Daily Flying Operations. Normal or surge operations at the unit's home station
        (this does not include other types of operations defined below).
        3.1.2. On-Going Off Station Sorties. Missions/sorties that do not takeoff or land at
        home station.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                         5


         3.1.3. Deployed Operations. Flight operations away from home station that are part of
         a deployment, exercise or contingency.
         3.1.4. Scrambles. Aircraft launched on a scramble order from an alert posture.
   3.2. Minimum Supervision Requirements. These are outlined in Table 1 for each type of
   operation.

Table 1. Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements.

     Type of Operation                     SOF Location                     Ops Sup Location
                                                                     Squadron 1
                                                                     (Active Duty/AFRC)
Daily Flying Operations:          Duty Location 1                                3
                                                                     Available
                                                                     (ANG)
                                                                                 3
On-Going Off-Station Sorties      N/R                                Available
Deployed Operations 2             As Required                        As Required
                                                                     N/R
                                                                     (Active Duty/AFRC)
Scrambles                         N/R
                                                                     Available 3
                                                                     (ANG)
Notes:
1. The SOF and Ops Sup may leave the unit operations complex (as defined by the unit
   supplement to this instruction) after aircraft depart the local area, workload permitting and
   will be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio or intercom. The SOF and Ops Sup
   will be at their duty locations 45 minutes prior to the estimated time of arrival of unit aircraft.
   For reduced flying operations the OG/CC may determine if a SOF is required. Reduced
   flying operations are defined as 4 or less fighter aircraft or 2 or less of the same type of non-
   fighter aircraft or, while adhering to these limitations for fighter and non-fighter aircraft, 6
   total aircraft if 2 or more are RPA.
2. For deployed operations, the detachment commander will coordinate with host base
   Operations Group for supervision requirements. This may involve integrating into the host
   base SOF and/or Ops Sup program.

3. Must be immediately available by telephone, pager, radio, or intercom. (USAFE: Ops Sup
   for on-going off station sorties can be filled by an experienced aircrew member (SDO) as
   defined in the unit supplement.)


Table 1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Minimum Flying Unit Supervision Requirements.
                           Type of Operation                                  SOF     SOF           Ops Sup
                                                                             Require Locatio        Require
 6                               AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


                                                                               d            n        d3
Daily Flying Operations                                                       Yes         Tower      Yes
(five or more 4 FW aircraft scheduled during any flying period1)
Reduced Flying Operations                                                     No         N/A       Yes
                                                                1
(four or less 4 FW aircraft scheduled during any flying period )
Functional Check Flight (FCF)                                                Yes       Tower       Yes
Operational Check Flight (OCF)                                                No         N/A       Yes
                                                              2
Cross-Country/TDY (Re)Deployment (five or more aircraft)                     Yes       Tower       Yes
Cross-Country/TDY (Re)Deployment (four or less aircraft)                      No         N/A       Yes
Notes:
1. The flying period is as annotated on the daily Wing Flying Schedule published by 4 OSS/OSOS or as
dictated by ATO for any activities conducted on weekends/holidays.
2. If occurring on a non-duty day, SOF coverage for (re)deployment of five or more aircraft will be
arranged by the squadron that owns the aircraft. The squadron will also be responsible for providing the
SOF’s name and expected duty period to the command post. For deployments, the SOF will remain in
the tower until all aircraft have proceeded beyond the turn-back point or the local area, whichever is
applicable. For redeployments, the SOF will remain in the tower until the last aircraft has completed
dearm and is taxiing to park.
3. The Ops Sup duty location is the squadron. If not sitting at the Duty Desk, the Ops Sup must be
immediately available by telephone, radio, or squadron PA system.
4. Responsibilities: Note: For the purposes of this instruction, the terms “operations group
commander” (OG/CC), “squadron commander” (SQ/CC), and “director of operations” (SQ/DO)
also refer to their designated representatives.
     4.1. OG/CC (ANG/AFRC: OG/CC or AOO) will:
        4.1.1. Be responsible for the implementation, direction and execution of the Operations
        Supervision program.
        4.1.2. Be immediately available to the SOF or Ops Sup/Top 3 (if no SOF is either
        available or required based on the type of operation) for consultation during daily flying
        operations.
        4.1.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) During non-duty periods, if a SOF (or Ops Sup at
        those times when a SOF is not required) is on duty to assist transient fighter aircraft
        and/or (re)deployments, the 4 OG/CC, or designated representative, will be on call
        through the 4 FW/CP to provide assistance.
        4.1.3. Ensure tenant flying units use host/tenant memorandum of agreement
        (MOA)/letter of agreement (LOA) to avoid duplication of effort.
        4.1.4. Be the final approval authority for unit supplement to this instruction.
     4.2. SQ/CC (or equivalent) and/or SQ/DO will:
        4.2.1. Ensure a SOF/Ops Sup is on duty when required by Table 1
        4.2.2. Be available to the Ops Sup/Top 3 for consultation during flying operations.
     4.3. SOF will:
        4.3.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the OG/CC.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                    7


     4.3.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) In addition to Table 1, the SOF will be on duty in
     accordance with (IAW) Table 1.1 (Added).
     4.3.2. Be responsible to the OG/CC for monitoring and supervising all phases of unit
     flying operations and will provide guidance, advice, assistance and recommendations to
     aircrews, unit supervisors (i.e. Ops Sup/Top 3), C2 personnel, and/or other supporting
     agencies (as required) regarding the safe and efficient conduct of flight operations.
        4.3.2.1. Ensure that in-flight emergency (IFE) recovery plans and weather related
        mission changes reflect sound airmanship, follow AFI and technical order (TO)
        guidance, and adhere to sound ORM principles (i.e. does it make sense?).
     4.3.3. Direct appropriate actions, on behalf of the OG/CC, to correct/prevent unsafe
     situations. This includes the use of any and all resources to include radios, FM nets,
     telephone hot lines and all wing-flying operations on the ground or in the air.
     4.3.4. Prior to the first launch, ensure the airfield/heliport status is suitable for safe
     operations IAW Air Force, major command (MAJCOM) and local directives.
        4.3.4.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) The SOF is responsible for declaring the
        Bird Watch Condition (BWC) IAW the SJAFB BASH Plan.
        4.3.4.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Prior to assuming SOF responsibilities,
        SOFs will obtain a detailed face-to-face weather briefing from the duty weather
        forecaster and an airfield status briefing from Airfield Management personnel, and
        ensure that Airfield Management has accomplished an airfield inspection.
            4.3.4.2.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) For SOF change-overs, the SOF
            assuming control will call the weather shop as soon as practical to inform them of
            the change-over and get a weather update.
            4.3.4.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) The Mission Execution Forecast
            (MEF) does not supersede the Terminal Area Forecasts (TAF); it is only to be
            used for general local area weather awareness, water temps, and winds/waves
            assessments.
        4.3.4.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Before commencing local                        flying
        operations, the SOF will advise the 4 OG/CC (or designated representative) of
        expected runway, alternates, and any other factors (such as winds, waves, and
        weather) that may affect flying. The SOF will pass the flying status to the squadron
        duty desks primarily via the SOF Defense Connect Online (DCO) Chat page.
        4.3.4.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Declaring a Divert (see also AFI 11-2F-
        15EV3_4FWSUP, Chap 8). By default, MCAS Cherry Point (NKT) will be used as
        the 4 FW divert when an alternate is not required. If MCAS Cherry Point is not
        suitable (e.g., runway/barrier availability, weather, etc.), diverts will be chosen in the
        following priority: JB Langley/Eustis (LFI), Shaw AFB (SSC), and NAS Oceana
        (NTU).
        4.3.4.5. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Declaring an Alternate. The following
        airfields will be given primary consideration when choosing a local alternate (in order
        of priority): NKT, LFI, SSC, and NTU.
8                    AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


    4.3.4.5.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Local alternates will be declared
    based primarily on observed ceiling/visibility IAW AFI 11-202V3 (2000/3), but
    TAFs will be used to maintain situational awareness (SA) on weather trends that
    may require proactively declaring an alternate due to deteriorating conditions
    (also reference paragraph 4.3.8 for considerations on rapidly deteriorating
    conditions).
       4.3.4.5.1.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) At a minimum, SOFs will
       declare an alternate if Seymour Johnson AFB (GSB) is within 1 hour of a
       TAF that has the weather going below 2000/3. If aircrew step to fly outside
       the one hour timeframe, they can anticipate being told to expect an alternate if
       the TAF remains the same throughout their flight.
       4.3.4.5.1.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) For sorties landing at other
       than home base or for sorties taking off from an out-base and landing at GSB,
       aircrew will reference the decision chart in AFI 11-202V3, Attachment 2.
    4.3.4.5.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) The alternate criteria in AFI 11-
    202V3, paragraph 8.8 (“Ceilings 500’ above the lowest compatible approach
    minimums...”) will be based on the published ceiling minima for the best
    available approach (e.g., SSC RWY 22R ILS is “(200-1/2)”).
       4.3.4.5.2.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) PAR weather minima will
       NOT be used to determine an alternate's weather suitability. This does not
       restrict aircrew from flying a PAR at the designated alternate if desired.
       4.3.4.5.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Using Cat D minimums is
       acceptable to determine alternate weather suitability if no Cat E approach
       exists (reference AFI 11-2F-15EV3, paragraph 4.7.2).
    4.3.4.5.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) “Weather Cat 4” Alternate. If the
    ceiling at the alternate is less than 1000’, then a “Weather Cat 4” alternate will
    also be declared. While the purpose of the “Weather Cat 4” alternate is to reduce
    the Operational Risk Management (ORM) for Pilot Weather Category (PWC) 4
    pilots, Ops Sups who have PWC 4 pilots on their schedule are highly advised to
    mitigate PWC 4 risk in other ways (e.g. flying an IP in the RCP).
       4.3.4.5.3.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Determination                of      the
       “Weather Cat 4” alternate will be based on a minimum ceiling of 1000’ or
       500’ above the lowest compatible IAP weather mins (whichever is higher).
       4.3.4.5.3.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) The “Weather Cat 4” alternate
       will only apply to aircrew using PWC 4 minimums; however, other aircrew
       may use it as desired to reduce the overall ORM of their mission. Those
       aircrew or formations that use the “Weather Cat 4 alternate are only required
       to carry the IFG fuel for the “Weather Cat 4” alternate.
    4.3.4.5.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Once the SOF has determined the
    alternate(s); he/she will advise the tower Watch Sup. Tower will include the
    alternate(s) in the Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) broadcast
    IAW SJAFBI 11-250. If no “Weather Cat 4” alternate is declared, ATIS will use
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                  9


            standard "4 FW Alternate is..." terminology. If a "Weather Cat 4" alternate is
            declared, ATIS will use the terms "4 FW Alternate is" and "Weather Cat 4
            Alternate is...".
            4.3.4.5.5. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOFs will be proactive in
            communicating with the Ops Sups the weather status at the alternates so that Ops
            Sup can proactively manage the ORM of their scheduled sorties. Communication
            between the SOFs and Ops Sups will primarily be through the SOF DCO Chat
            room when it is available so that information remains visible to all players to the
            max extent possible.
            4.3.4.5.6. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Examples. Assume the weather at
            SJAFB requires that an alternate be declared and that the ILS is available at all
            primary alternate bases.
                4.3.4.5.6.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) #1: NKT is 010 OVC.
                Minimum weather required to declare as alternate is 800’ ceilings based on
                RWY 23R ILS Y Cat D weather mins of “(300-1)”. Conclusion: NKT is a
                suitable alternate, no “Weather Cat 4” alternate needed.
                4.3.4.5.6.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) #2: NKT is 008 BKN. LFI is
                020 OVC. Based on Example #1, minimum weather required at NKT is 800’.
                Conclusion: NKT is a suitable alternate; however, a “Weather Cat 4” alternate
                would be needed. LFI is suitable as a “Weather Cat 4” alternate.
     4.3.5. During an emergency or an abnormal situation, provide aircrews with guidance,
     timely advice and assistance to determine a correct course of action.
        4.3.5.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) As needed, the SOF will engage the Ops
        Sup of the owning squadron for assistance especially if the emergency or abnormal
        situation involves Formal Training Unit (FTU) crew solos and the SOF is not a
        qualified FTU instructor.
        4.3.5.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOF changeovers generally will not
        occur anytime while an emergency is in progress. However, upon the outgoing SOF’s
        discretion, if there is enough of a break during the emergency for a complete handoff
        to occur, a changeover may be conducted.
     4.3.6. Be in a position to visually monitor the final approach and landing of IFE aircraft.
     If unable, the SOF will direct another highly qualified aircrew member to be in position
     to monitor the landing and provide needed assistance or guidance. (ANG/AFRC: Not
     required.)
     4.3.6. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) To the maximum extent possible, the SOF will check
     all departing and arriving aircraft with binoculars for proper gear configuration, landing
     lights, and flaps.
     4.3.7. Monitor the status of primary and emergency airfields/heliport and inform
     aircrews of changes that may affect flight operations.
     4.3.8. When deteriorating weather conditions affect flying operations, coordinate with
     wing agencies and utilize all available resources (i.e., weather, radar, tower personnel,
10                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


     pilot reports, etc.) to determine the best course of action for wing aircraft. The SOF will
     determine suitable weather alternates and inform the OG/CC accordingly.
     4.3.8. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Deteriorating weather information and recall/divert
     instructions will be expeditiously passed by the SOF to all airborne aircraft via the
     appropriate controlling agencies, the SOF frequency, and/or via formation discrete
     frequencies. The SOF will also notify the tower Watch Sup and base weather of any
     PIREPS that may affect local air traffic operations.
     4.3.9. Coordinate with the air traffic control (ATC) watch supervisor or senior controller
     for runway changes as needed.
     4.3.10. Prepare a daily log to aid in tracking operations and major events. For units that
     do not use a SOF, this log will be filled out by the Ops Sup/Top 3 IAW paragraph 4.4.8.
     Log format and content will be defined by unit supplement.
     4.3.10. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOFs will use the SOF Central Access database as
     the primary means to track daily flying operations (reference SOF continuity material as
     well as the SOF Checklists). To the max extent possible SOFs will use the SOF DCO
     Chat page to make the SOF Central database visible to all Ops Sups.
        4.3.10.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Additionally, SOFs will utilize the
        “SOF Passdown Log” on the SOF Central Sharepoint page (referenced from the OGV
        Sharepoint) to pass pertinent information to the OG/CC as well as other SOFs. SOFs
        will describe any significant events that occurred as well as the decisions made and
        recommendations/lessons learned to aid other SOFs in the future.
        4.3.10.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) This pass down log does not alleviate
        SOFs from calling the OG/CC IAW Commander’s Critical Information Reporting
        (CCIR) guidance or at the conclusion of local flying operations IAW 4.3.11.
     4.3.11. The SOF will debrief the OG/CC of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
     IFE, weather divert or other mission change requiring SOF action or intervention. Ensure
     that the applicable Ops Sup/Top 3 has the necessary information to inform squadron
     leadership.
     4.3.11. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The SOF will call the OG/CC or his/her
     representative at the conclusion of local flying operations (4 FW aircraft only) to recap
     significant events of the day.
     4.3.12. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) All SOFs will ensure they are thoroughly
     familiar with all SOF Readfiles (posted both to the SOF Central Sharepoint as well as in
     the SOF binder) prior to commencing SOF operations. Any SOF may recommend topics
     for new SOF readfiles or rescission of current SOF Readfiles by contacting the OGV
     POC directly or sending an email to the OGV org email account.
     4.3.13. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) IAW the 4 FW Base X Plan (OPR: 4 FW/XP)
     The SOF is considered a non-player during wing OREs/ORIs, and is exempt from ground
     crew chemical gear ensemble requirements, and exercise control tower evacuations while
     performing SOF duties. To the max extent possible during wing OREs/ORIs, SOF duty
     periods will be filled by the FTU squadrons.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                  11


     4.3.14. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOFs will be thoroughly familiar with all
     SOF responsibilities and procedures as described in SJAFBI 11-250 (OPR: 4 OSS/OSA).
  4.4. Ops Sup/Top 3 will:
  4.4. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) 8 (Added) The End Of Day (EOD) report format is left to
  the discretion of the individual SQ/CCs. At a minimum, the EOD will contain any IFE
  information, unusual occurrences, significant scheduling issues, or any other
  issues/information that needs to be brought to leadership attention. Squadron Ops Sup
  continuity material will include a description of and directions for managing the EOD report.
     4.4.1. Be on duty when required by Table 1 or as directed by the SQ/CC or SQ/DO.
     4.4.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) In addition to Table 1, the Ops Sup will be on duty
     IAW Table 1.1 (Added).
     4.4.2. Be immediately available to assist the SOF and aircrew.
     4.4.3. When the SOF is not qualified in the distressed aircraft or the unit does not require
     a SOF, be the primary source of technical assistance.
     4.4.3. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) FTU squadron Ops Sups will be prepared to assist non-
     FTU instructor SOFs during any events that involve unique IQT (B/TX/SOC) student
     situations.
     4.4.4. For situations where both the SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 are not qualified to provide
     technical assistance to the type of aircraft airborne, schedule an instructor or experienced
     crewmember to be immediately available for aircraft technical assistance.
     4.4.5. Be responsible for the execution of the daily flying schedule and coordinate any
     mission changes as required (e.g. aircraft tail number changes, crew swaps, flight-plan
     and airspace changes). Note: Mission commanders/flight leads are required to coordinate
     with the Ops Sup/Top 3 prior to the flight brief when intended sortie type, profile,
     airspace, and/or aircraft configuration do not match the approved schedule.
         4.4.5.1. Ensure the SOF is advised of any changes or deviations to the squadron's
         flying schedule.
         4.4.5.2. Ensure electronic scheduling and tracking systems are updated to include
         changes to and deviations from the daily flying schedule.
         4.4.5.3. Be the primary liaison between Ops and Maintenance during the execution
         of the flying schedule.
         4.4.5.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) To the maximum extent possible, all Ops
         Sups will login to the SOF DCO Chat page for the duration of their shift. The SOF
         DCO Chat page will be the primary method for Ops Sups to communicate changes to
         the SOF in real time. FTU squadron Ops Sups will ensure the SOF is aware of any
         schedule inputs/changes that involve unique IQT (B/TX/SOC) student requirements
         (e.g., crew solos).
         4.4.5.5. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Ops Sups are responsible for managing
         the risks associated with stepping aircrew to fly who have PWCs at or near the
         observed/forecast weather for a designated alternate. Ops Sups will ensure the SOF is
 12                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


          aware of which formations need and are using the “Weather Cat 4” alternate
          (reference paragraph 4.3.4.5 (Added).
      4.4.6. Be assisted by SARM personnel or a Duty Desk Officer (DDO) as required.
      4.4.7. Ensure crews are briefed on the following:
          4.4.7.1. Aircraft/heliport and airfield status and configuration
          4.4.7.2. Scheduled and available airspace
          4.4.7.3. Applicable weather for locations that aircrew are flying
          4.4.7.4. Significant local hazards
          4.4.7.5. Additional items as defined in the unit supplement to this instruction
          4.4.7.5. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFRs) that may
          affect local flying and/or alternates/diverts, alternate field and associated weather (to
          include considerations on using the “Weather Cat 4” alternate (if applicable), bird
          watch conditions on low-levels and ranges (if applicable), aircraft status, and any
          NOTAM updates.
      4.4.8. Prepare, at squadron commander’s discretion, a daily log to aid in tracking
      operations and major events. Log format and content will be defined by the unit
      supplement.
      4.4.9. Debrief the SQ/CC and/or DO of any aircraft involved in an unusual situation,
      IFE, weather divert or other significant mission change.
   4.5. Other Key Wing Personnel:
      4.5.1. Wing (or equivalent) commanders ensure other group commanders support the
      OG/CC when and where needed in order to execute an effective program.
      4.5.2. Mission Support group commanders are responsible for the maintenance, upgrade
      and repair of the applicable SOF facilities and equipment.
      4.5.3. Mission Support group/Logistic Readiness group commanders are responsible for
      maintenance, upgrade and repair of the SOF vehicle.
      4.5.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Wing Scheduling (4 OSS/OSOS) will publish
      a weekly and daily SOF duty schedule with names as supplied by the individual
      squadrons. Scheduled SOF duty periods will usually be no longer than six hours.
5. Handling of In-Flight Emergencies:
   5.1. The primary objective during an abnormal/emergency situation is the safe recovery of
   the aircrew and aircraft. When establishing procedures, units will consider:
      5.1.1. Providing a single, discrete frequency for recovering an emergency aircraft. ATC
      and the emergency aircrew should determine when to use a single frequency approach
      (SFA). The SOF will have access to the SFA. The SFA should be available to
      crash/fire/rescue personnel to monitor the recovery.
      5.1.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) IAW SJAFBI 11-250, emergency aircraft will
      normally use local channel 10 (277.4) as the SFA. The SOF will monitor the SFA during
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                 13


      all emergency approaches. To the max extent practical, the SOF frequency or other non-
      ATC frequencies will be used for lengthy problem discussions and information gathering
      between the emergency aircrew and the SOF.
      5.1.2. Using the command post, or other capable agency, to notify all appropriate
      agencies and key personnel of an IFE and provide situation updates.
      5.1.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) IAW SJAFBI 11-250, the SOF will immediately notify
      the Tower Watch Supervisor and, when time permits, the LION NET members when an
      emergency is in progress. Reference SJAFBI 11-250, Chap 4 for further command and
      control actions in the event of aircraft emergencies.
          5.1.2.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Time and circumstances permitting, the
          SOF will consult with the OG/CC and the applicable squadron Ops Sup after
          notification of aircraft emergency when developing the initial gameplan.
          5.1.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Once the emergency is terminated the
          SOF will contact the OG/CC with pertinent details. In all cases, communication with
          the OG/CC or applicable Ops Sups will not hinder emergency support.
      5.1.3. Prioritizing actions during concurrent emergencies/abnormal situations.
      5.1.4. Authorizing direct communications (over discrete SOF or squadron common
      frequency) from the Ops Sup/Top 3 to an IFE aircrew. NOTE: Only ATC personnel may
      authorize direct communication over ATC frequencies, including the SFA frequency.
      However, this does not preclude the SOF and/or Ops Sup/Top 3 from using whatever
      communication necessary, to include GUARD and SFA, to prevent an unsafe situation
      that could immediately jeopardize safe recovery.
      5.1.5. That only the ground on-scene commander, normally the fire chief, can terminate
      an emergency.
      5.1.6. That the final decision during any IFE/abnormal situation rests with the aircraft
      commander. However, SOFs may declare an IFE for any aircraft based on their
      knowledge of the aircraft and the flight and airfield environment.
      5.1.7. Obtaining a chase ship for single ship emergency aircraft if time permits.
      5.1.8. If the SOF is not qualified in or technically knowledgeable of the aircraft with an
      IFE, then directing the Ops Sup/Top 3 or other highly experienced individual to report to
      the SOF's duty location during an abnormal situation/recovery if time permits.
      5.1.9. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) During multiple emergencies, weather recalls,
      closed runway situations, or whenever deemed necessary, the SOF may request directly
      from the squadrons augmentation of additional SOF-certified individuals for immediate
      reporting to the tower or the SOF vehicle as required. Additionally, the SOF is
      encouraged to coordinate with any Ops Sup to pass off less critical emergencies and/or
      seek advice when handling complex situations (e.g., FTU-unique situations to the FTU
      squadron Ops Sup).
6. SOF Guidance. Unless noted otherwise, this guidance applies to the Ops Sup/Top 3 when a
SOF is either unavailable or not used.
   6.1. SOF/ATC Relationship:
14                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


     6.1.1. The separation and sequencing of traffic are the responsibilities of ATC. Unless
     safety is an issue, the SOF will work directly with the watch supervisor. To promote
     effective and efficient flight operations, the SOF may suggest, based on knowledge of the
     flying schedule and unique circumstances of individual missions, actions that affect ATC
     concerns or desires.
     6.1.2. Except in an emergency, the SOF will not transmit over ATC frequencies without
     prior coordination with ATC (this does not apply to dedicated SOF frequencies). All
     radio transmissions to a distressed aircrew, from other than the SOF or ATC, will be
     coordinated through the SOF (this does not apply to the Ops Sup/Top3 if communicating
     to the aircrew via a squadron common frequency).
     6.1.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) The OGV SOF Program Manager will provide
     4 OSS/OSA via the Watch Tower Supervisor with an updated list of personnel authorized
     or nominated to perform SOF duties. This list will serve as the control tower’s entry
     authorization list (EAL) for SOF personnel.
  6.2. Duty Hours:
     6.2.1. Prior to beginning supervisory duties, the SOF will meet crew rest requirements as
     directed by AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, as supplemented.
     6.2.2. Maximum duty day for SOF is 16 hours with a limit of 12 hours performing SOF
     duties. The OG/CC is waiver authority and may extend a SOF duty day up to 16 hours
     on a case-by-case basis. (AFGSC Missile Wings: For alert and scramble operations, the
     SOF maximum duty day is 24 hrs as long as alert/sleeping facilities are readily available).
     6.2.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The maximum consecutive amount of time SOFs can
     be in the tower is 8 hours. The 4 OG/CC (or designated representative) can waive this for
     surges, exercises, or HHQ taskings (e.g., ONE).
     6.2.3. The SOF will be at the prescribed duty location IAW Table 1 NLT 30 minutes
     prior to first takeoff in order to complete required duties in paragraph 4.3
     6.2.3. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The SOF will accomplish the actions (as applicable) in
     paragraph 4.3. to be in the tower NLT 1 hour prior to the first takeoff. It is the SOF’s
     responsibility to know the first takeoff time prior to their SOF tour and not rely solely on
     their squadron scheduler’s posted time. The opening SOF will check with fighter
     scheduling the day prior to confirm the first takeoff time.
  6.3. Duty Location:
     6.3.1. Primary Duty Location. The primary duty location for active duty units will be
     in the control tower. (AFGSC Missile Wings: the primary duty location will be
     designated by the OG/CC).
     6.3.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOFs will be in their primary duty location IAW
     Tables 1 and 1.1 (Added). This includes local sorties flown by units deployed to SJAFB.
     Local fighter aircraft will not be allowed to takeoff until a SOF is in position. For cross-
     country or deployment departures, the SOF will remain in the tower for a minimum of 15
     minutes after the last takeoff. For recoveries, the SOF will be in the tower not later than
     30 minutes prior to the proposed land time.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                15


     6.3.2. Alternate Duty Location. The OG/CC will designate alternate duty locations in
     the unit supplement to this instruction. As a minimum, the location must have adequate
     communication equipment and the capability to monitor weather conditions. It is
     desirable to have a SOF duty position from which ground operations, takeoffs, landings
     and local traffic patterns can be observed. The following is a list of recommended
     alternate locations:
     6.3.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The alternate duty location is the SOF vehicle or a
     squadron operations duty desk. SJAFB does not have an alternate tower location. IAW
     SJAFBI 11-250, if the tower is evacuated for real-world circumstances, aircrew will be
     advised to contact Approach for airfield advisories. In this case, the likely course of
     action is that aircraft will need to divert and the SOF should get set up in the most
     expeditious manner to provide assistance via the UHF radio as needed.
        6.3.2.1. The SOF vehicle on the airfield.
        6.3.2.2. The runway monitoring unit (RMU)/runway supervisory unit (RSU).
        6.3.2.3. The unit dispatch desk.
        6.3.2.4. The command post.
     6.3.3. At both the primary and alternate duty locations the SOF will have timely access
     to a SOF vehicle and the airfield environment when required. AFRC: units are not
     required to have a dedicated vehicle for the SOF, but must be provided access to a
     vehicle to perform required duties in a timely manner.
  6.4. Equipment:
     6.4.1. The following communication equipment must be functional and immediately
     available to the SOF:
        6.4.1.1. A dedicated multi-frequency radio (UHF, VHF and/or HF, as appropriate
        based on supported aircraft capabilities).
        6.4.1.2. A telephone (land-line or cellular telephone) or FM radio to contact the
        OG/CC (or designated representative), command post, Ops Sups, weather facility and
        ATC watch supervisors. Dedicated phone lines (hot-lines) are preferred.
        6.4.1.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) If not in the primary duty location with
        appropriate minimum comm equipment, the SOF will carry an FM radio at all times
        (call sign "Lion SOF") to ensure communication with the 4 OG/CC.
     6.4.2. Access to approved weather resources will be available (net-centric data
     dissemination system, etc).
     6.4.3. Units are required to have a dedicated SOF vehicle immediately available to the
     SOF and positioned to respond to emergencies, perform airfield inspections, or other
     official functions. This vehicle must have a flight line clearance and be equipped with a
     multi-channel radio capable of contacting unit aircraft and ATC. Waiver authority for this
     requirement is the Wing Commander or equivalent.
     6.4.4. Locally developed checklists will be available to outline procedures for normal
     and emergency situations that included, as a minimum, the items listed in Attachment 2.
16                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


     6.4.4. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Specific procedures and checklists for 4 OG SOF
     duties are contained in the SOF Checklists (located in the SOF Book in the tower and on
     the SOF Central Sharepoint). All SOFs will comply with these procedures and utilize the
     opening, changeover, and closing checklists.
     6.4.5. Dedicated binoculars will be immediately available for SOF use when either in the
     primary or alternate duty location for a clear view of the runway.
     6.4.5. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOFs will immediately notify the OGV SOF Program
     Manager if the SOF’s binoculars are either non-functional or missing.
     6.4.6. A SOF library will be available (either hard copy or electronic as outlined in the
     unit supplement to this instruction) that includes applicable directives and instructions (to
     include AF, HHQ, and local guidance), aircraft TOs, checklists, in-flight guides, and SOF
     read/information file.
     6.4.6. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) All applicable publications may be found
     electronically in the FCIF Library on the OGV Sharepoint. The OGV SOF Program
     Manager will determine which (if any) hardcopy publications will be maintained and
     available to the SOFs.
     6.4.7. If the SOF must reposition to an alternate location, the minimum essential
     equipment outlined in this section will be available at this new location (pre-positioned or
     transported).
     6.4.7. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) In case the SOF relocates to an alternate location, the
     SOF will use the empty evacuation kit located at the SOF position and take the SOF
     book, checklists, and In-Flight Guide with them.
     6.4.8. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) For deficiencies in SOF equipment, checklists,
     or publications, follow the guidance in the SOF Checklist. Call 4 OG/OGV for immediate
     help with any deficiency. For problems/deficiencies/concerns/suggestions that affect all
     SOFs, e-mail the OGV org email account.
  6.5. Certification:
     6.5.1. SOF nominees will be experienced (IAW paragraph 1.3.), rated officers with
     proven maturity, judgment and supervisory ability and must be combat mission ready
     (CMR) or basic mission capable (BMC) in a unit aircraft
     6.5.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) In addition to the above (i.e. “experienced” IAW
     paragraph 1.3), initial SOF nominees will have a minimum of one year time on station
     (either Ops or FTU). A pilot or Weapons Systems Officer (WSO) who is a previously
     certified SOF must have flown in the local area for at least 3 months prior to regaining
     SOF certification.
         6.5.1.1. Non-CMR (N-CMR)/non-BMC (N-BMC) aircrew members may perform
         SOF duties at the discretion of the OG/CC on the condition that the status must be
         temporary in nature and all SOF currencies must be maintained IAW paragraph 6.7.
         6.5.1.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Individuals who are Non-Combat Mission Ready
         (N-CMR) or Non-Basic Mission Capable (N-BMC) due to an extended Duty Not
         Including Flying (DNIF) are authorized to perform SOF duties if already a certified
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                              17


        SOF at SJAFB before becoming N-CMR/N-BMC. Individuals who are N-CMR/N-
        BMC due to a loss of an AFI 11-202V2 qualification because of deficient periodic
        eval performance are not authorized to perform SOF duties until successfully
        regaining their qualification. Individuals who are N-CMR/N-BMC due to not meeting
        sortie lookback will be approved by the OG/CC on a case-by-case basis via an
        OG/CC authorization comment on the squadron Letter of Xs. Exceptions to this
        policy may be approved on a case-by-case basis by the OG/CC.
     6.5.2. To gain initial certification, all SOFs will complete the SOF upgrade program
     IAW paragraph 6.6.
     6.5.3. SOFs that are currently under a Duties Not Involving Flying (DNIF) status may
     perform SOF duties when specifically cleared by a flight surgeon on an AF Form 1042.
     6.5.4. Loss of SOF certification will occur for any of the following reasons:
        6.5.4.1. PCS or 179/365 day TDYs (unless the individual is performing SOF duties
        and able to retain currency while TDY).
        6.5.4.2. Direct action by the OG/CC through a written statement in the individuals
        training folder and removal from the unit “Letter of Xs” or equivalent document. Any
        supervisor may recommend action to the OG/CC for the removal of an individual’s
        SOF certification.
     6.5.5. The source documents for certifying SOF certifications are the OG/CC-signed
     approval document in the individual’s training folder and the unit “Letter of Xs” or
     equivalent document.
     6.5.6. Units will define who is certified to upgrade other aircrew members to SOF in the
     unit supplement to this instruction.
  6.6. Certification Program:
     6.6.1. Documentation of the unit upgrade program will be described in the unit
     supplement to this instruction, but will, at a minimum, include a signed document by the
     OG/CC kept in the individuals training folder that approves him/her for SOF duties.
     Additionally, upon completion of the upgrade flow, the unit “Letter of Xs” or equivalent
     document will be updated to reflect the SOF certification.
     6.6.2. Squadron commanders will screen and review (IAW para. 6.5.) all SOF candidates
     before nominating them for entry into the upgrade program.
     6.6.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) SQ/CCs nominate potential SOFs via the SOF
     Upgrade Checklist, but the OG/CC has the ultimate responsibility and waiver authority in
     determining an individual’s readiness to assume SOF responsibilities.
     6.6.3. All SOF candidates will receive an interview and briefing from the OG/CC on
     responsibilities, personal philosophy and expectations. OG/CCs will emphasize the SOFs
     position as a group level supervisor and that decision authority is delegated to the SOF
     position to ensure the safe accomplishment of the mission.
     6.6.4. The SOF upgrade will consist of two supervised tours of two hours each
     (minimum of 4 hours of training time) with a current and experienced SOF, as defined in
     the unit supplement. The tours will be conducted on two different days in order to
18                           AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


     maximize the chances of the upgradee to observe differing wind and weather conditions.
     Upgradees will act as primary SOF on their second upgrade tour. The upgrade tours must
     include the following:
     6.6.4. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Reference the OGV Sharepoint for the most current
     version of the SOF upgrade checklist.
        6.6.4.1. Familiarization with airfield/heliport procedures, primary and alternate duty
        locations, and local support agencies with emphasis on both unit and aircraft-specific
        operating procedures (AF, HHQ, and local), specifically capabilities and limitations.
        6.6.4.2. Operation of all SOF equipment and radios.
        6.6.4.3. Contact procedures for aircraft and support agencies.
        6.6.4.4. A review of publications and directives available to the SOF.
        6.6.4.5. Operation of SOF vehicle (requires a flight line permit/license).
        6.6.4.6. Successful handling of an IFE/PL (actual or simulated).
        6.6.4.7. Procuring/observing weather (to include forecaster duties and priorities)
        information.
        6.6.4.8. Approach/Departure control information.
        6.6.4.9. Tower operations.
        6.6.4.10. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Once a SOF has been performing SOF
        duties at SJAFB for six months or 12 tours, whichever occurs last, at SQ/CC
        discretion he/she may automatically be certified as an instructor SOF. The respective
        training shop will annotate the change on the Letter of Xs IAW AFI 11-
        202V2_4FWSUP, Attachment 11 (Added).
     6.6.5. Additionally, prior to being certified as a SOF, upgrades will accomplish the
     following additional training/familiarization items:
        6.6.5.1. Crash/fire/rescue operations.
        6.6.5.2. Explosive ordnance disposal operations.
        6.6.5.3. Airfield Management operations.
        6.6.5.4. Command post operations.
        6.6.5.5. Airfield Drivers License. ANG/AFRC: N/A if a SOF vehicle is either not
        provided or there is not a need to drive on the actual airfield environment.
        6.6.5.6. Performance aspects and general characteristics of all base assigned aircraft.
        6.6.5.7. Accomplish a written examination containing a minimum of 25 questions on
        SOF duties, procedures and responsibilities. Minimum passing grade is 85 percent
        with all missed questions reviewed immediately following grading of the exam.
     6.6.6. The OG/CC will review upgradee training records and approve each upgradee in
     writing prior to the individual performing SOF duties.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                               19


     6.6.7. For previously certified SOFs, the OG/CC may waive the upgrade requirements of
     these paragraphs, but at a minimum, the upgradee will perform at least one supervised
     SOF tour with an experienced SOF with emphasis on local procedures. EXCEPTION:
     SOFs who have lost certification due to N-CMR/N-BMC status IAW para. 6.5.1.2, but
     still have currency IAW para. 6.7. In this case, the SQ/CC must ensure that the unit
     “Letter of Xs” or equivalent document is updated appropriately before the individual
     performs SOF duties.
  6.7. Currency/Recurrency.
     6.7.1. SOF currency is 90 days. ANG/AFRC: 180 days (AETC ANG/Reserve
     Associate Instructor Pilots: 90 days).
     6.7.2. Individual squadrons will track SOF currencies (Aviation Resource Management
     System [ARMS] preferred).
     6.7.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) SOF currencies and CT requirements will be
     monitored primarily via PEX and alternatively via ARMS printouts.
     6.7.3. To regain currency, as a minimum, accomplish a 1-hour supervised tour with a
     current and certified SOF.
     6.7.3. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) The SOF who is providing supervision will also be an
     Instructor SOF as listed on the squadron Letter of Xs.
  6.8. Continuation Training (CT):
     6.8.1. At a minimum SOF CT will involve semi-annual SOF meetings attended by all
     certified SOFs (highly encouraged for Ops Sups/Top 3s). OG/CCs will be involved in
     developing meeting agendas. If unable to attend, SOFs will review meeting minutes that
     will be posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
     6.8.2. Annually, all SOFs are required to review applicable SOF guidance and directives
     as published in this instruction, unit supplement, and the SOF readfile. Additionally all
     SOFs will receive a briefing from the OG/CC on responsibilities, expectations and
     commander perspective (this briefing may be held as part of a semi-annual meeting). If
     unable to attend the OG/CC briefing, SOFs will review briefing minutes that will be
     posted to the SOF readfile prior to their next SOF duty.
     6.8.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Additionally, all SOFs are required to complete open
     book test at least once every 12 months. This will normally be accomplished during the
     semi-annual SOF meetings, but can be accomplished at OGV. Grace period for the
     annual SOF test is 90 days. During the grace period, SOFs may still perform SOF tours.
     After the grace period, SOFs will be considered “non-current” and shall not be scheduled
     to sit SOF before accomplishing the test.
  6.9. Program Administration:
     6.9.1. The OG/CC will designate an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the
     administration of the program.
     6.9.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) IAW AFI 11-202V2, Chap 3, 4 OG/OGV is designated
     as the overall Operations Supervision program monitor to include the SOF program.
 20                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


      6.9.2. The OPR will:
          6.9.2.1. Develop and administer the SOF initial training program.
          6.9.2.2. Develop and administer the SOF certification test. This is a controlled test of
          at least 25 questions that will be updated and reviewed annually.
          6.9.2.3. If not retained by the squadron in individual training folders, the OPR will
          retain all original initial certification and continuation training records until the
          individual PCSs to their next assignment.
          6.9.2.4. Establish standardized procedures throughout the unit for monitoring SOF
          currencies and continuation training requirements (ARMS preferred).
          6.9.2.5. Schedule and give semi-annual SOF meetings.
          6.9.2.6. Post SOF meeting minutes in the SOF readfile within one week of the
          meeting.
          6.9.2.7. Develop normal and emergency SOF checklists and review/update annually
          (reference Attachment 2).
          6.9.2.8. Update the SOF library publications as required (reference para. 6.4.6.).
          6.9.2.9. Develop the unit supplement to this instruction.
          6.9.2.10. Work with all necessary base agencies to ensure SOF equipment is
          maintained in operating condition and is adequate for mission accomplishment.
7. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. These procedures make aircraft specialists
accessible to the SOF or Ops Sup and aircrew when in-flight situations pose systems-related
questions that cannot be answered at the local level. See Attachment 4 for MDS-specific
procedures.
7. (SEYMOURJOHNSON)Reference              the   SOF    Checklist      and   Attachment    4    for
CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures.
   7.1. Lead MAJCOMs are responsible for keeping CONFERENCE HOTEL information
   updated. As a minimum, information will be checked annually and updated as required.
   When notified that CONFERENCE HOTEL information has changed, Lead MAJCOM must
   submit the change to ACC/A3TV within 48 hours.
   7.2. Units that experience problems with CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures will report
   problems through stan/eval channels to their MAJCOM stan/eval function. The MAJCOM
   stan/eval function will ensure the Lead MAJCOM is informed so that CONFERENCE
   HOTEL information can be updated.
   7.3. If units discover updated CONFERENCE HOTEL contact information different from
   the information in this guidance, they will immediately verify the corrected information and
   forward it via email through NAF/MAJCOM stan/eval channels to ACC/A3TV (no AF Form
   847 required).
8. Unit Supplement. Each unit will provide a supplement to this instruction that, at a
minimum, includes the following items:
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                21


  8.1. Unit organization with a designated OPR of the Operations Supervision program (para.
  6.9.1.).
  8.1. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraph 6.9.1 (4FW).
  8.2. Alternate SOF locations and specific equipment requirements as well as the extent of
  the unit operations complex for determining Ops Sup duty location. (para. 6.3. and Table 1,
  Note 1 & 3).
  8.2. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) For SOF, see Tables 1 and 1.1 (Added) as well as
  paragraphs 6.3.1 (4FW) and 6.3.2 (4FW). For Ops Sup duty locations, see Note 3 in Table
  1.1 (Added).
  8.3. Supervision requirements and duty locations when an FCF is airborne (para 3.2., Note
  1).
  8.3. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See Table 1.1 (Added). SOFs should expect FCF crews or
  their respective Ops Sups to provide the following information: tail number, purpose of the
  FCF (full profile v. limited profile), aircrew names, ETA/ETD, and whether or not the
  following will occur: extended runway checks, quick climb, maximum brake check upon
  landing.
  8.4. Building and maintenance of a SOF Read File.
  8.4. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraph 4.3.12 (Added).
  8.5. Local procedures and checklists for SOFs (reference Attachment 2) to include format
  and content of the daily log (para. 4.3.10.) as well as medium (i.e. electronic, hardcopy, or
  combination) for the SOF library (para. 6.4.6.).
  8.5. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraphs 4.3.10 (4FW), 6.4.4 (Added), and 6.4.8
  (Added), .
  8.6. Procedures for how deployed units will integrate into host unit operations supervision
  structure.
     8.6.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Units TDY to SJAFB. OGV will relay the
     following SOF requirement to all visiting units at the in-briefing by the host squadron.
         8.6.1.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Visiting units will distribute and update
         the schedule through 4 OSS/OSOS primarily and their host unit alternatively. 4
         OSS/OSOS will incorporate the visiting unit schedule into the PEX daily flying
         schedule. 4 FW/CP will coordinate and maintain a telephone listing of deployed unit
         operations.
         8.6.1.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Prior to performing SOF duty, units TDY
         to SJAFB will:
             8.6.1.2.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Receive a briefing                   on    SOF
             procedures from 4 OG/OGV (or designated representative).
             8.6.1.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Provide 4 OG/OGV with an EAL
             of all potential SOFs to include: name, rank, security clearance, and SSAN.
             8.6.1.2.3. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Receive a tower and facilities
22                            AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


             orientation from a SJAFB Instructor SOF.
             8.6.1.2.4. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Provide their own publications for
             SOF use in the tower if other than an F-15E.
     8.6.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SJAFB Units TDY/Deployed to Other
     Bases. At SQ/CC discretion and IAW host nation requirements, SJAFB SOFs may
     perform SOF duties at all TDY/deployed locations.
         8.6.2.1. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) If additional SOFs are needed at the
         TDY/deployed location, SQ/CCs will make every effort to get SOFs upgraded at
         SJAFB before leaving for the TDY/deployment. On a case-by-case basis the SQ/CC
         or Det CC (if applicable) may nominate aircrew for a SOF checkout at the
         TDY/deployed location IAW host base requirements and either EOG/CC (if
         applicable) or 4 OG/CC approval.
         8.6.2.2. (Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Unless stipulated otherwise in host base
         guidance, minimum requirements to be nominated for SOF upgrade while
         TDY/deployed are still IAW paragraph 6.5.1
  8.7. Procedures (pager, phone, radio, etc.) for base C2 personnel to contact unit supervision
  during flying operations.
  8.7. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) 4 FW/CP may contact the SOF either via the SOF landline
  or FM radio LION NET. Ops Sups may be contacted primarily via their respective duty desk
  landlines. See also paragraph 4.1.2 (4FW).
  8.8. Local CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures.
  8.8. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraph 7.
  8.9. Procedures for documenting and correcting Operations Supervision program and
  equipment deficiencies.
  8.9. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraphs 6.4.5 (4FW) and 6.4.8 (4FW).
  8.10. Ops Sup/Top 3 qualifications, currencies, upgrade programs, crew rest and maximum
  duty period (if any).
  8.10. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) See paragraphs 2.2.2 (Added) and 2.2.3 (Added).
     8.10.1. At a minimum, Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade will consist of at least one supervised
     tour with an experience Ops Sup/Top 3 with a review of applicable AF, HHQ, and local
     published guidance relating to the daily operations and supervision of squadron aircraft.
     8.10.2. Documentation for the Ops Sup/Top 3 upgrade is at the discretion of the unit, but
     will include, as a minimum, proof of training completion that is stored in the individual’s
     training folder (as applicable).
  8.11. ANG/AFRC: Determination of who (other than the WG/CC or OG/CC), can cancel
  flying.
  8.12. ANG/AFRC: Designate both the primary and alternate SOF duty locations (para.
  6.3.2.).
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                      23


   8.13. ANG/AFRC: Establish procedures for other highly qualified individuals to assist with
   SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 duties and responsibilities if required during times when one
   supervisor is covering both SOF and Ops Sup/Top 3 positions.
9. Special provisions for ANG/AFRC and smaller than wing-sized units (e. g. GSUs).
   9.1. If a unit operates from a location with another organization (i.e., tenant unit), integration
   into host unit supervisory program should be attempted if operations are compatible. These
   procedures will be implemented through LOAs/MOAs.
   9.2. At the discretion of the OG/CC (or equivalent), more than one supervisory position may
   be covered by a single supervisor. The responsibilities of the SOF position take priority over
   all other duties and a single Ops Sup will be SOF certified.
   9.3. AFGSC helicopter units and missile wings are considered smaller than wing-sized units.
10. Waivers.
   10.1. Unless otherwise stated, the OG/CC is the waiver authority for this instruction.
   10.2. Waivers may be issued for a maximum of 1 year or until this instruction is superseded
   or a change is posted that affects the paragraph(s) being waived, whichever occurs first. If
   annual waivers are issued they must be reviewed semi-annually (in connection with the semi-
   annual SOF CT meeting preparation) to ensure their individual validity.
   10.3. Forward a copy of any waivers through local stan/eval channels to the MAJCOM Stan
   Eval function who will then forward a copy to the OPR for this instruction. ANG/AFRC:
   forward a copy to the Numbered Air Force /A3 with oversight responsibility. ACC-gained
   ANG units will forward a copy to ACC/A3G.
   10.3. (SEYMOURJOHNSON) Route all waiver requests using the 4 OG/OGV waiver
   template found on the OGV Sharepoint through the 4 OG/OGV organizational (org) email
   account (4og.ogv@seymourjohnson.af.mil) after coordination through the SQ/CC.




                                              HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                              (SEYMOURJOHNSON)

                                              JEANNIE M. LEAVITT, Colonel , USAF
                                              Commander
 24                           AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) AFI 11-202 Volume 2, 4 FW Supplement, Aircrew
Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 September 2010
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) AFI 11-2F-15E Volume 3, 4 FW Supplement, F-15E—
Operations Procedures, 11 August 2009
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May
2006
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 Sep 2004
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1March 2008
AFI 11-2MDS Volume 1, MDS-specific Aircrew Training
AF RDS on the AF Portal at the AFRIMS link, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SJAFBI 11-250, Airfield Operations, 07 May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) 4 FW/CP—4th Fighter Wing Command Post
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) 4 OG/OGV—4th Operations Group Standardization and
Evaluation
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) 4 OSS/OSA—4th Operations Group Airfield Management
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) 4 OSS/OSOS—4th Operations Support Squadron Wing
Scheduling
A/C—Aircraft
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                          25


AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOO—Air operations officer
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ATC—Air traffic control
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information Service
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) BKN—Broken
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) BWC—Bird Watch Condition
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) CC—Commander
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
CT—Continuation training
(SEYMOURJOHNSON) CT—Continuation Training
C2—Command and Control
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) DCO——Defense Connect Online
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Det 15/CC——HQ ACC Detachment 15 Commander
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) Det CC—Detachment Commander
DNIF—Duty not involving flying
DSN—Defense switching network
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) EAL—Entry Authorization List
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) EOD—End of Day
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) EOG/CC——Expeditionary Operations Group Commander
FCF—Functional check flight
FM—Frequency modulation
FOUO—For Official Use Only
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) FTU—Formal Training Unit
HF—High frequency
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) HHQ—Higher Headquarters
IAW—In accordance with
IFE—In-flight emergency
 26                          AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) LFI—JB Langley/Eustis
LM—Lockheed Martin
LOA—Letter of agreement
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—-Major command
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) MCAS—Marine Corps Air Station
MDS—-Mission design series
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) MEF——Mission Execution Forecast
MOA—Memorandum of agreement
N/A—Not applicable
N/R—Not required
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) NKT—MCAS Cherry Point
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) NTU—NAS Oceana
OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) OCF—Operational Check Flight
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) OGV—Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation
OO-ALC—Ogden Air Logistics Center
OG/CC—Operations group commander
(SEYMOURJOHNSON) OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
Ops Sup—Operations supervisor
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) OVC—Overcast
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) PA—Public Address
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) PAR—Precision Approach Radar
PL—Precautionary Landing
POC—Point of contact
RAMC—Reliability and Maintainability Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                        27


RMU—Runway monitoring unit
RSU—Runway supervisory unit
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) RWY—Runway
SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management
SFA—Single frequency approach
(SEYMOURJOHNSON) SFA—Single Frequency Approach
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SJAFB—Seymour Johnson AFB
SOF—Supervisor of flying
SQ/CC—-Squadron Commander
(SEYMOURJOHNSON) SQ/CC—Squadron Commander
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SSAN—Social Security Administration Number
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) SSC—Shaw AFB
TACC—-Tanker Airlift Control Center
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) TAF—Terminal Area Forecast
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) TDY—Temporary Duty
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) TFR—Temporary Flight Restriction
TO—Technical Order
Top 3—Another term for Operations Supervisor
UAS—Unmanned Air System
UHF—Ultra high frequency
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
VHF—Very high frequency
WG—Wing
WG/CC—Wing commander
WR-ALC—Warner Robins Air Logistics Center
(Added-SEYMOURJOHNSON) WSO—Weapons Systems Officer
 28                              AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 2
                   SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLIST

A2.1. Procedural Checklist. The SOF will have available a procedural checklist that includes
detailed instructions for the following (if applicable):

Table A2.1. SOF Procedural/Emergency Checklist.

   Item                                           Item
  Number

      1     Opening

      2     SOF changeover

      3     Closing

      4     OG/CC notification

      5     Aircraft emergency

      6     Barrier engagement

      7     Emergency divert

      8     Weather recall

      9     Change of runway

      10    Runway closure

      11    Anti-hijack

      12    Communications search

      13    Aircraft dispersal

      14    Controlled bailout
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                           29



   15    Hung ordnance

   16    Bird condition

   17    Controlled jettison

   18    Hydrazine spill/exposure

   19    Hot brakes

   20    Suspected Lasing Incident

   21    Aircraft crash

   22    Alert force exercise/scramble (if applicable)

   23    Contractor/depot emergency telephone numbers

   24    Telephone numbers for applicable regional SOFs

   25    Telephone numbers for local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) flight service
         (if OCONUS, numbers for the associated Host Nation ATC facility), local terminal
         radar facility, and other local control towers and/or radar facilities that could
         potentially be used as alternate airfields
 30                              AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


                                          Attachment 3
                    SUPERVISOR OF FLYING CHECKLIST GUIDE

A3.1. Normal Procedures. Note: This checklist is an example of a normal checklist. Actual
local checklist contents are at the discretion of the OG/CC.
   A3.1.1. Report to duty location 30 minutes prior to first scheduled takeoff.
   A3.1.2. Review and sign off Flight Crew Information File/SOF read file.
   A3.1.3. Review daily flying schedule.
   A3.1.4. Ensure all ramps, taxiways, runways and appropriate areas are inspected before the
   first flight of the day (visual inspection by the SOF is not required if airfield management has
   performed the inspection).
   A3.1.5. Inspect SOF kit and equipment for currency/operation.
   A3.1.6. Obtain current information on:
      A3.1.6.1. Weather:
          A3.1.6.1.1. Local
          A3.1.6.1.2. Divert bases
          A3.1.6.1.3. Operating areas and ranges
          A3.1.6.1.4. Low-level routes
      A3.1.6.2. Airfield Status (Local and Divert Bases):
          A3.1.6.2.1. Active runway
          A3.1.6.2.2. Barriers
          A3.1.6.2.3. Runway condition reading
          A3.1.6.2.4. Notices to Airman
          A3.1.6.2.5. Navigational aids
          A3.1.6.2.6. Airfield lighting
          A3.1.6.2.7. Bird activity
          A3.1.6.2.8. Emergency response vehicle status
   A3.1.7. Brief the OG/CC or his designated representative on the airfield status, weather
   conditions, divert bases, unusual events and the daily flying schedule.
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                      31


                                          Attachment 4
                            CONFERENCE HOTEL PROCEDURES

A4.1. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures. CONFERENCE HOTEL procedures have been
established so expert technical advice is available to an aircrew, SOF or other supervisor to assist
in the recovery of a serious in-flight emergency. These procedures can put the OG/CC, SOF or
Ops Sup/Top 3 directly in contact with a representative from the Air Logistics Center (ALC), the
Wright Patterson Program Office, or the contractor.
A4.2. Emergency Assistance Numbers. The following contractor, Program Office or ALC
numbers provide a link to the most knowledgeable maintenance and engineering personnel for
each weapons system. Once the terms "placing a CONFERENCE HOTEL call" are expressed,
the person receiving the call will put the flying supervisor in contact with the appropriate experts.
A4.3. Call Initiation. To initiate CONFERENCE HOTEL, contact the appropriate facility IAW
A4.1 and provide the following information:
   A4.3.1. Indicate you are initiating a (simulated or actual) CONFERENCE HOTEL call for
   an in-flight emergency.
   A4.3.2. Caller's name and telephone number/base.
   A4.3.3. Type aircraft.
   A4.3.4. Nature of problem. In all cases, stress to the person(s) contacted that the problem
   involves an AIRBORNE EMERGENCY and technical assistance is required.
A4.4. Air Logistics Centers and Their Locations:
   A4.4.1. OC-ALC --Oklahoma City, OK (Tinker AFB)
   A4.4.2. OO-ALC --Ogden, UT (Hill AFB)
   A4.4.3. WR-ALC --Warner Robins, GA (Robins AFB)
A4.5. Specific Aircraft Paragraphs. See Table A4.1 for MDS-specific CONFERENCE
HOTEL reference paragraphs.

Table A4.1. MDS-Specific CONFERENCE HOTEL Reference Paragraphs.

 MDS                    Para        MDS                     Para          MDS            Para

 A/OA-10                A4.2.       C-20/C-37               A4.12.        10KC-135       A4.21.

 B-1                    A4.3.       CV-22                   A4.13.        MQ-1/          A4.22.
                                                                          MQ-9

 B-2                    A4.4.       E-3 / E-4 / E-8         A4.14.        R/O/W/T/       A4.23.
                                                                          C-135

 B-52                   A4.5.       F/QF-4 (all variants) A4.15.          RQ-4           A4.24.
 32                             AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


C-5                    A4.6.     F-15 (all variants)      A4.16.         RQ-170        A4.25.

C-9                    A4.7.     F-16 (all variants)      A4.17.         T-1           A4.26.

C-12                   A4.8.     F-22A                    A4.18.         T-6           A4.27.

C-17                   A4.9.     F-35                     A4.18.         T/ AT-38      A4.28.

C-21                   A4.10.    Helicopters              A4.19.         U-2           A4.29.

C-130 (all variants)   A4.11.    KC-                      A4.20.         RC-26         A4.30.

Table A4.2. A/OA-10:

TIME        PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                    POCs:

DUTY        Call OO-ALC                                DSN: 777-6056              Brett Hamblin
HOURS:      State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE               DSN: 586-3265              Guy Thatcher
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE A-10                    DSN: 586-3352              Bob Anderson
            AIRCRAFT.”


NON-        Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for        DSN: 777-3007
DUTY        a phone patch to A-10 CONFERENCE           Comm:
HOURS:      HOTEL POCs. Hill Command Post
            will maintain a current listing of home     (801) 777-3007
            telephone numbers for below POCs.

Table A4.3. B-1:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                    POCs:

24         Call Boeing Reliability and                 (800) 596-2951             Wilson Scott
HOURS:     Maintainability Center (RAMC)

NON-       Call Tinker RAMC                            Comm: (405) 610-3428
DUTY
HOURS:

Table A4.4. B-2:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                   CONTACT                    POCs:
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                              33


24         Call B-2 Support Center                   DSN: 272-7300          Jim Koharik
HOURS:                                               Comm:
                                                     Pri (661) 272-7300
                                                     Alt (661) 272-7999
                                                     Alt (661) 272-7693

Table A4.5. B-52:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT EMERGENCY 1-800-721-0422 or                Bob Snellenberg
HOURS:                                               Comm: (206) 655-9200
                                                     or
                                                     DSN: 743-5687


           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call Comm: (316) 977-0183

Table A4.6. C-5:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                POCs:

24         Call Lockheed Martin                      DSN: 625-9001 or       David Ables
HOURS:                                               Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                     Comm: (770) 494-3244


           Call WR-ALC                               DSN: 472-1207 or       Russ Alford
                                                     Comm (478) 222-1207
                                                     (478) 318-6303

NON-       Contact WR-ALC Command Post and           DSN: 497-
DUTY       ask for home phone number for above       2612/13/14/15.
HOURS:     personnel. WR-ALC Command Post            Comm: (478) 327-2612
           will maintain a current listing of home   13/14/15
           telephone numbers for POCs.
 34                          AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


Table A4.7. C-9:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                      POCs:

DUTY       Call Boeing                              DSN: 576-6282 or             Dave
HOURS:                                                                           Williams
                                                    Comm: (618) 256-6282
                                                    Comm: (618) 420-2205 (cell
                                                    – after hours)

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/LKRE                         DSN: 336-5384 or             Tony Sitler
HOURS:                                                                           (Lead C-9
                                                    Comm: (405) 736-5384
                                                                                 Engineer)

NON-       Call TINKER Command Post, and ask        DSN: 339-2171 or
DUTY       for home phone numbers for above
HOURS      personnel. Tinker Command Post will      Comm: (405) 739-2171
           maintain a current listing of home
           telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.8. C-12:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                      POCs:

DUTY       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS       Comm: (601) 607-6231 or      Ron Paschal
HOURS:                                              (601) 607-6345               Mark
                                                                                 Billings

NON-       Call Vertex Aerospace, Madison, MS       Comm: (601) 856-2274         Office
DUTY       and ask for a phone patch to the POC’s   Comm:                        Ron Paschal
HOURS      home.
                                                    (601) 672-1171 (cell) or     Mark
                                                                                 Billings
                                                    (601) 672-1169(cell)

Table A4.9. C-17:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                      POCs:

24         Call Boeing                              Comm: 562-384-3800           Mike
HOURS:                                                                           Maidland

24         Call Robins Command Post and ask for     DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
HOURS:     home phone numbers for above             Comm: (478) 327-2612
           personnel. Robins Command Post will
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                            35


            maintain a current listing of home    /13/14/15
            telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.10. C-21:

 TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                     POCs:

 DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKSS                      DSN: 336-3322 or            Bob
 HOURS:                                                                       Douglas (C-
                                                  Comm: (405) 736-3322
                                                                              21 Lead
                                                                              Engineer)

 NON-       Call Tinker Command Post, and ask for DSN: 339-2171 or
 DUTY       the C-21 Program Manager. Tinker
 HOURS      Command Post will maintain a current
            listing of home telephone numbers for Comm: (405) 739-2171
            POCs

Table A4.11. C-130 Variants (All variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

24         Call Lockheed Martin Technical         DSN: 625-9001 or            Steve
HOURS:     Representative:                                                    Horbath
                                                  Comm: (770) 494-1705
                                                                              Mark Neas
                                                                              Wayne
                                                                              Roberts

NON-       Call Robins Command Post and ask for   DSN: 497-2612/13/14/15 or
DUTY       home phone numbers for above           Comm: (478) 327-2612
HOURS:     personnel. Robins Command Post will
           maintain a current listing of home     /13/14/15
           telephone numbers for POCs.

Table A4.12. C-20/C-37:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                     POCs:

 24          Call Gulfstream Aerospace            1-800-810-4853
 HOURS:      Corporation                          Press 0 for emergency
 36                             AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


Table A4.13. CV-22.

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

DUTY       Contact POCs at Patuxent River Naval   Comm: (850) 881-3105/4474 Mark Whittle
HOURS:     Air Station MD                                                   (lead FST)

                                                                              Bruce
           CONTACT POCs (V-22 Fleet Support
                                                                              Ammons
           Team (FST) at NADEP Cherry Point NC
                                                                              (deputy FST)
                                                                              Eric
                                                                              Braganca

NON-                                              Comm: (252)-349-2107/2112 Mark Whittle
DUTY                                              (Cell)                    (lead FST)
HOURS
                                                                              Bruce
                                                                              Ammons
                                                                              (deputy FST)

Table A4.14. E-3 / E-4 / E-8:

 TIME        PROCEDURE                            CONTACT                     POCs:

 24          Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                206-544-7555
 HOURS:      EMERGENCY




Table A4.15. F/QF-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                     POCs:

DUTY       Call OO-ALC                            DSN:             777-6056
HOURS:                                            DSN:             586-3265
           State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE
                                                  DSN: 586-3352
           HOTEL CALL FOR THE F/QF-4
           AIRCRAFT.”
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                                  37


NON-       Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for a DSN: 777-3007 or                   Grant Herring
DUTY       phone patch to F/QF-4 Conference Hotel Comm: (801) 777-3007              Brett
HOURS:     POCs. Hill Command Post will maintain                                    Hamblin
           a current listing of home telephone
           numbers for listed POCs.

Table A4.16. F-15 (all Variants):

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                       POCs:

 24         Primary:                                  (866) 543-5444 toll free or
 HOURS:     Call Boeing in St Louis directly on the   Comm: (314) 232-9999
            dedicated CONFERENCE HOTEL
            numbers. Once connected with the
            Boeing operator, state: “THIS IS A
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE F-15”

Table A4.17. F-16 (All Variants).

TIME       PROCEDURE                                  CONTACT                       POCs:

DUTY       (Actual emergencies only):                 DSN: 940-1284 or              Ken Worell
HOURS:     Call Lockheed Martin Aeronautics
                                                      Comm: (817) 935-5011
           Company                                                                  Davey Thorn

NON-       Ask Lockheed Martin Aeronautics            DSN: 9401284 or               Steve Jennings
DUTY       Company to patch through to POC home       Comm: (817) 935-5011 and
HOURS:     telephone numbers. Lockheed Fort
           Worth Company will maintain a current      Ask to be patched through to David
           listing of home telephone numbers for      the F-16 POC.                Vandercook
           below POCs.

Table A4.18. F-22A and F-35.

 F-22A

 TIME       PROCEDURE                                 CONTACT                       POCs:

 24         Primary:                                  DSN: 625-9001 or              Tony Keith
 HOURS:     Call Lockheed Martin (LM) Aero            Comm: (770) 494-1705          Don Massett
            Marietta Company Security:                (M-F, 0600-1945 US            Bret Luedke
            State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE
 38                          AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


           HOTEL CALL.”                             Central Time)             Al Norman



 F-35

 TIME      PROCEDURE                                CONTACT          POCs:

 24        Call Lockheed F-35 ALGS Operations       888-433-5677     Buran (All)
 HOURS     Center. Once connected with the center                    Bosley (All)
           state: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE
           HOTEL CALL FOR THE F-35.”                                 Schulten (F-35A)
                                                                     VanHouten (F-35B/C)

Table A4.19. Helicopters:

 TIME      PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                   POCs:

 DUTY      Call WR-ALC GRUB.                        DSN: 468-2372             5Rotary Wing
 HOURS:                                                                       Branch

                                                    DSN: 468-7500             Joseph Jones
                                                                              (Engineering)




Table A4.20. KC-10:

TIME       PROCEDURE                                CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Boeing Operations Center            Comm: (206) 544-7500
HOURS

           Call 544th ACSS                          Comm:
                                                    (405) 414-7726
                                                    (405) 736-4978
                                                    (405) 736-4980
                                                    (405) 520-3735

NON-       Call Tinker Command Post                 DSN: 339-2171
DUTY       (ask for KC-10 Program manager)
HOURS:                                              Comm: (405) 739-2171
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                        39


Table A4.21. KC-135:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT            DSN: 743-5687                  Bob
HOURS:     EMERGENCY and request connection Comm: (206) 655-9200 or        Snellenberg
           with above numbers.
                                            1-800-721-0422




                                                                           Bob Nelson
           Routine, non-emergency assistance, call Comm: (405) 200-3826
           24/7 Message Center

DUTY       Call OC-ALC/GKC                       DSN: 336-7755 or
HOURS                                            Comm: (405) 736-7755



NON-       Call 24/7 Message Center              Comm: (405) 200-3826      Bob Nelson
DUTY
HOURS

Table A4.22. MQ-1 / MQ-9.

TIME      PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

          Call ASC/WII Det 3, San Diego,         Comm:                     Primary: Maj
24
          CA. Ask for a POC                                                Bill Harvey
HOURS                                            858-705-2254
                                                                           Alternate:
                                                 858-774-5980              Mr. Thomas
                                                                           Kirkman
                                                                           Lt Col Power

Table A4.23. R/O/W/T/C-135:

TIME       PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Boeing IN-FLIGHT                 1-800-721-0422            Bob
HOURS:     EMERGENCY                                                       Snellenberg
                                                 Comm: (206) 655-9200 or
                                                 DSN 743-5687
 40                         AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


            Routine, non-emergency assistance,    Comm: (316) 977-0183
            call

Table A4.24. RQ-4:

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

24         Call Northrop Grumman React Center     Comm: (858) 618-4444
HOURS:

Table A4.25. RQ-170:

TIME       PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY       Call Lockheed Martin                   Comm: (661) 572-3410      Eddie Cabrera
HOURS                                             Comm: (661) 572-7329
                                                                            Jim Stolting
                                                                            Larry Pellett

NON-       Call Lockheed Martin                   Comm: (661) 245-1984      Eddie Cabrera
DUTY                                              Comm: 661-400-2021/5213 Jim Stolting
HOURS
                                                  Pager: 800-206-0525       Larry Pellett
                                                  Pager: 888 449-5478
                                                  Pager: 888-689-1044



Table A4.26. T-1:

TIME        PROCEDURE                             CONTACT                   POCs:

24          Call Hawker Beechcraft                Comm: (316) 243-8694 or
HOURS                                             (316) 712-8106

            Call 545 ACSS and state: “THIS IS A   Comm: (405) 590-4541
            CONFERENCE HOTEL CALL FOR
            THE T-1 AIRCRAFT.”
AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014                                           41


Table A4.27. T-6.

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

24          Call HQ AFMC Command Center and        DSN: 787-6314
HOURS       state: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE           Comm: (937) 257-6314
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-6
            AIRCRAFT.”

Table A4.28. T/AT-38:

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY        Call OO-ALC                            DSN: 777-6056
HOURS:      State: “THIS IS A CONFERENCE           DSN: 586-3265
            HOTEL CALL FOR THE T-38                DSN: 586-3352
            AIRCRAFT.”

NON-        Call Hill AFB Command Post, ask for    DSN: 777-3007 or          Grant
DUTY        a phone patch to T-38 Conference                                 Herring
                                                   Comm: (801) 777-3007
HOURS:      Hotel POCs. Hill Command Post will
            maintain a current listing of home                               Eric Flygare
            telephone numbers for below POCs.

                                                                             Brett
                                                                             Hamblin

Table A4.29. U-2:

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:

DUTY        Call Lockheed Technical                DSN: 368-9186 or          Kurt Conklin
HOURS:      Representative                         Comm (530) 788-0281

            Call General Electric Technical        DSN: 368-3913 or          Neil Kessler
            Representative                         Comm: (530) 634-3913

NON-        Primary: Call the Maintenance          DSN: 364-5750 or
DUTY        Operations Center and ask for one of   Comm: (530) 634-5750 or
HOURS:      the POCs listed.                       Comm: (530) 788-0281

Table A4.30. RC-26:

TIME        PROCEDURE                              CONTACT                   POCs:
42                       AFI11-418_SEYMOURJOHNSONSUP_I 8 JANUARY 2014


DUTY     Call M-7 Aerospace             Comm: (210) 820-8663 or
HOURS:                                  Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
                                        7663

NON-     Call M-7 Aerospace             Comm: (210) 824-9421 Ext
DUTY                                    7294
HOURS:
