BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-132
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 10 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                    GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE (GEOINT)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions associated with this publication.

OPR: AF/A2CG                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2C
                                                                         (Brig Gen John P. Horner)
                                                                                          Pages: 25


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations and consistent with the guidance in
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
(NGA), Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT),
DoDI 3305.10, DoD Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Training, DoDI 5000.56, Programming
Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT), Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S), and Geodesy
Requirements for Developing Systems. This instruction covers Air Force (AF) Geospatial
Intelligence activities and outlines the roles and responsibilities of AF organizations. In addition,
this instruction will serve as a guide for AF adoption of GEOINT terminology and functions, as
well as integration of AF GEOINT capabilities into the National System for Geospatial
Intelligence (NSG). This publication applies to Active Duty (AD), Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG) and Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilians, and
individuals or activities, authorized to perform GEOINT-related functions. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force          Records         Disposition          Schedule          (RDS)         located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm/. Submit change recommendations
using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR). This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements
must be routed through the OPR prior to certification and approval.
 2                                                                                                  AFI14-132 10 August 2012


Chapter 1—GEOINT                                                                                                                           3
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................    3
Figure 1.     GEOINT and Related Value-Added Products and Activities. ...............................                                      4

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                       6
       2.1.   GEOINT roles and responsibilities are defined by the fundamental principle of
              value-adding, operating within the collaborative construct of the NSG. ...............                                       6
Figure 2.     The National System for Geospatial Intelligence. .................................................                           6
       2.2.   National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). .................................................                             6
       2.3.   Air Force (AF). ......................................................................................................       7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            22
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                        3



                                           Chapter 1

                                           GEOINT

1.1. Overview. GEOINT is a critical set of products and services under AF ISR and is
composed of three primary components: imagery, imagery intelligence (IMINT), and geospatial
information. This intelligence discipline provides shared awareness of strategic, operational, and
tactical environments for national decision-makers, warfighters, and weapon system developers
in support of operations across the spectrum of air, space, and cyberspace. GEOINT enables
area familiarization and monitoring, feasibility assessments, target development, weapon
effectiveness and collateral damage estimation (CDE) assessment, formulation of courses of
action (COA) and estimation of consequences of execution (COE), and strategic, operational,
and tactical planning for all AF missions from humanitarian assistance/disaster relief, to peace-
keeping and combat operations. It also supports training, mission planning, mission rehearsal,
navigation, modeling/simulation and all weapon system development required to execute the
aforementioned capabilities.
   1.1.1. The following is an amplification of the GEOINT definition as it applies to the AF
   activities. It represents the full manifestation of GEOINT within AF missions IAW United
   States Code Titles 10 and 50. The relevance of this amplification derives from the unique
   aspects of GEOINT with regard to air, space, and cyberspace.
   1.1.2. AF GEOINT capabilities encompass all imagery (excluding ground-based, hand-
   held), IMINT, and geospatial information, including a vast array of products, tools,
   processes, resources, and systems supporting AF missions (refer to Figure 1). AF GEOINT
   also includes the ancillary data and associated capabilities needed for collection management,
   data processing, exploitation, archiving, and dissemination. A critical aspect of GEOINT is
   the principle of “value-adding,” wherein any use of GEOINT automatically changes and
   transforms the resulting product or output of a particular service, increasing its potential
   application to purposes beyond those served by the original user. Thus, the value-added
   quality of any first use of a GEOINT product and/or service necessitates the existence of a
   broad and intensely collaborative community to ensure the greatest possible benefit is
   derived from GEOINT across not only the AF, but also the Department of Defense (DoD)
   and the fullest span of federal, state, and local government agencies and non-government
   organizations. As a result, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) created the
   National System for Geospatial Intelligence (NSG) to maximize efficiency and effectiveness
   in the production and use of GEOINT. All GEOINT activities, to include contracted
   GEOINT production, must be understood as implicitly operating in this encompassing NSG
   construct.
 4                                                                    AFI14-132 10 August 2012


Figure 1. GEOINT and Related Value-Added Products and Activities.




     1.1.3. GEOINT is both produced and consumed across a broad range of AF missions and
     capabilities. Its subject matter equities and dependencies coexist in multiple functional areas
     (e.g., intelligence, operations, civil engineering, security forces, etc.). To enable these
     diverse areas to operate efficiently and effectively, they must properly interface with the
     NSG Community (refer to Figure 2). The NSG is the combination of technology, policies,
     capabilities, doctrine, activities, people, data, and communities necessary to produce
     GEOINT in a variety of environments (e.g., multi-national and US classification levels, and
     multi-intelligence disciplines). IAW DoDI 3115.15, DoDI 5105.60 and DoDI 5000.56, the
     NSG community consists of members of the Intelligence Community (IC), Services, Joint
     Staff, combatant commands (COCOMs), and elements of the civilian community. Also
     contributing are the NSG partners, organizations, agencies, and people who influence or
     indirectly participate in GEOINT prioritization, collection, production, or related
     programming and budgeting. This includes Civil Applications Committee members,
     international partners, industry, academia, and defense and civil community service
     providers. There is a parallel entity known as the Allied System for Geospatial Intelligence
     (ASG). ASG is comprised of representatives from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the
     United Kingdom. These key allies actively participate in, and contribute to, the NSG
     activities. Thus, it is critically important to clearly frame the context of any discussion
     involving GEOINT to preclude misunderstanding. As a result, the term GEOINT should
     normally be understood as referring to the full spectrum of the discipline and its resulting
     products and services. More specific terms such as geospatial information and services
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                          5


   (GI&S) and Advanced Geospatial Intelligence (AGI) should be used when referring to
   specific aspects of GEOINT products and or services.
 1.2. Intelligence Oversight Compliance.           All GEOINT activities will be conducted in
compliance with applicable laws, policies, and directives. They will be conducted in a manner
that ensures legality and propriety and that preserves and respects privacy and civil liberties. All
personnel involved in the conduct of GEOINT activities will comply with intelligence oversight
procedures in accordance with DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD
Intelligence Components That Affect United States Persons and AFI 14-104, Oversight of
Intelligence Activities.
 6                                                                   AFI14-132 10 August 2012


                                            Chapter 2

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. GEOINT roles and responsibilities are defined by the fundamental principle of value-
adding, operating within the collaborative construct of the NSG. The role of the provider
and consumer may be applied to all units and organizations associated with GEOINT. The
extent to which one or both roles may pertain in any situation or mission is determined by the
specific circumstances relating to the creation and/or use of GEOINT. Units and organizations
will consider their responsibilities as both provider and consumer.

Figure 2. The National System for Geospatial Intelligence.




2.2. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). DoDD 5105.60, establishes the
Director of NGA as the functional manager for GEOINT and the NSG, which includes the
processes for tasking imagery and geospatial information collection, processing raw data,
exploiting geospatial information and IMINT, analyzing, and disseminating information and
GEOINT to consumers. The Director of NGA is chartered to set standards for end-to-end
architecture related to GEOINT; geospatial information products; career and training programs
for imagery analysts, cartographers, and related fields; and technical guidance for systems using
GEOINT. NGA provides:
     2.2.1. Support for validated recurring and ad hoc requirements for GEOINT products and
     services.
     2.2.2. The principal interface to deal with commercial vendors on the procurement of
     diverse, unclassified commercial imagery, geospatial data, and safety of navigation
     information to better support its customers.
     2.2.3. Support for collaborative efforts with allies and coalition partners, IC agencies, DoD
     organizations, and other civil and government entities.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                          7


   2.2.4. GEOINT strategic workforce planning and specific training for general and
   specialized tradecraft skills through the National Geospatial-Intelligence College.
   2.2.5. NGA support teams (NST) are composed of a core cadre including geospatial
   analysts, imagery analysts, and staff officers, in direct support to COCOM joint intelligence
   operations centers (JIOCs) and service component major commands (e.g., MAJCOM A2,
   A3/5, A4/7, and 135 A8 staffs) which produce the full spectrum of NGA’s GEOINT
   capabilities and products.
   2.2.6. Full reachback connectivity to the COCOM and NST to ensure total support of
   mission requirements.
2.3. Air Force (AF). The AF possesses unique warfighting capabilities and works with the
other services to organize, train, equip, and coordinate their capabilities in order to operate as a
joint force. The AF supports its own planning efforts as well as the planning efforts of the
COCOMs it supports with GEOINT products, service-specific content, format, and media. AF
must ensure all of its forces train with the appropriate range of GEOINT and have the
appropriate systems to implement GEOINT. The AF also coordinates with the COCOMs on
service-specific GEOINT program requirements. AF also coordinates with NGA to establish
policy regarding roles and responsibilities for co-production of value-added data and
management of distributed geospatial databases and libraries.
   2.3.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2).
   AF/A2 serves as AF focal point for the end-to-end functional management of all AF ISR
   capabilities, to include GEOINT. AF/A2 will:
       2.3.1.1. Interface with IC and combat support agency leaders, other Service Intelligence
       Chiefs and the Joint Staff, as required, to support AF GEOINT activities.
       2.3.1.2. Comply with applicable IC, DoD, and joint GEOINT policy and directives.
       2.3.1.3. Partner with other AF GEOINT stakeholders to establish a central GEOINT
       governance structure.
       2.3.1.4. Establish and lead the AF GEOINT Enterprise (AFGE) to ensure AF GEOINT
       capabilities comply with published IC and DoD standards and ensure synergistic
       GEOINT operations in conjunction with members of the NSG.
       2.3.1.5. Responsible for the effective integration of intelligence oversight into AF
       GEOINT activities.
       2.3.1.6. Provide guidance to the AFGE, consisting of the AF MAJCOMs and Component
       Numbered Air Forces (C-NAFs), Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and
       Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA), the AF GEOINT Office (AFGO), and ACC/A2
       geospatial intelligence components.      AF/A2 delegates AF GEOINT roles and
       responsibilities as follows:
   2.3.2. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities
   Directorate (AF/A2C). AF/A2C will:
       2.3.2.1. Formulate, interpret, coordinate, or recommend AF policy for targeting and
       GEOINT planning, training, and equipping matters. Provide functional and subject
       matter expertise for programming, budgeting, and execution matters.
8                                                                AFI14-132 10 August 2012


    2.3.2.2. Issue an annual memorandum to designate offices of OPRs for standing NSG
    forums and/or working groups. OPRs for ad hoc meetings of a recurring nature that are
    of limited duration will be designated on a case-by-case basis.
    2.3.2.3. Oversee AF participation in the NSG Unified GEOINT Operations (UGO)
    process.
    2.3.2.4. Serve as the AF GEOINT Functional Manager, the lead AF GEOINT
    representative within the IC and the NSG, and the primary AF interface with NGA.
    2.3.2.5. Validate and prioritize, according to published NGA guidance, AF GEOINT
    user requirements submitted to NGA. For internal AF requirements, AF/A2CG will
    ensure the prioritization methodology is promulgated with the requirements data call.
    2.3.2.6. Under direction of AF/A2D, oversee development of AF GEOINT doctrine,
    guidance and Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP).
    2.3.2.7. Direct, oversee, and support AF GEOINT modernization efforts, to include
    GEOINT collection, processing and production, and use of GEOINT information to
    ensure that AF GEOINT capabilities match the needs of the NSG.
    2.3.2.8. Coordinate GEOINT plans, policy, and guidance with other Services, Joint Staff,
    NGA, USD (I), and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) as necessary.
    2.3.2.9. IAW DoDI 3115.15, coordinate with the Director of NGA, on any requirements
    for acquisition or exchange of commercial or foreign government-owned imagery-related
    remote sensing data and services.
    2.3.2.10. Ensure AF and NSG GEOINT roles, responsibilities, dependencies, and
    equities are accurately reflected in all relevant AF and Joint Doctrine documents.
    2.3.2.11. Address GEOINT issues impacting current and future AF capabilities.
    Validate and champion requirements through the AF corporate structure, as necessary.
    2.3.2.12. Provide oversight and guidance on full-motion video (FMV) viewing,
    exploitation, and analysis tools including the Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Ground
    Control System (GCS) and the AF Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS).
    2.3.2.13. Represent AF in space-based GEOINT ISR collection capability forums and
    provide subject matter expertise (SME) for National Security (DoD-IC), DoD Military,
    Civil government, and commercial space GEOINT systems.
    2.3.2.14. Represent the AF/A2 in national, theater, and tactical forums and interface with
    national agencies, Joint Staff, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) for AF
    equities in national space-based GEOINT ISR collection systems capabilities.
    2.3.2.15. Coordinate departmental and IC space-based GEOINT ISR collection
    capabilities status, strategies, and plans.
    2.3.2.16. Ensure AF/A2 ISR organizational involvement in research and development
    (R&D) efforts regarding space-based GEOINT ISR collection capabilities.
    2.3.2.17. Maintain space and counter-space situational awareness of GEOINT ISR
    collection capabilities.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                     9


      2.3.2.18. Provide SME inputs for integrated IC space-based GEOINT ISR collection
      capabilities documents, including system CONOPS, analysis of alternatives, functional
      solutions analysis, position/background papers, mission utility assessments/summaries,
      Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) documentation and
      Congressional responses.
      2.3.2.19. Serve as functional manager for GEOINT, and serve as the AF lead for GI&S
      with specific responsibilities articulated in AF Instruction (AFI) 14-205, Geospatial
      Information and Services.
      2.3.2.20. Advocate for the service position or requirements to the Director of NGA,
      when foreign military sales cases involve articles and services that require NGA
      GEOINT data in compliance with DoD 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management
      Manual (SAMM).
      2.3.2.21. Establish policies and procedures to ensure processed data originating from AF
      managed collection and production systems is compliant with NSG-established standards
      for interoperability.
      2.3.2.22. Co-Chair, with SAF/AQ representative, the AF GEOINT Capabilities Working
      Group Executive Element. The working group is chartered to provide AF decision-
      makers a comprehensive capabilities-based investment strategy for AF airborne GEOINT
      capabilities based upon AF, Joint, and National priorities.
   2.3.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, ISR Strategy, Integration, and Doctrine Directorate (AF/A2D).
   AF/A2D will:
      2.3.3.1. Serve as the OPR for AF GEOINT work force development. Represent AF
      equities within the NGA-led, Community GEOINT Training Council (CGTC).
      2.3.3.2. Develop AF forces, structures, training, accession requirements and career paths
      to sustain an ISR career force with requisite GEOINT knowledge base to meet AF,
      MAJCOM, COCOM, and Combat Support Agency (CSA) requirements.
      2.3.3.3. Function as signatory at all DoD, National, and AF GEOINT training and force
      management forums.
      2.3.3.4. Incorporate guidance from USD(I) and the CGTC in the development and
      execution of GEOINT training.
      2.3.3.5. IAW DoDI 3305.10, assemble, maintain, and forward to USD(I) a record of all
      GEOINT training requirements and programs under its cognizance.
   2.3.4. Deputy Chief of Staff, ISR Resources Directorate (AF/A2R). AF/A2R will:
      2.3.4.1. IAW DoDI 5000.56, formulate and advocate AF GEOINT guidance, specifically
      to oversee programming, resource allocation, and program evaluation for the National
      Intelligence Program (NIP), Military Intelligence Program (MIP) and other AF Program
      Objective Memorandum (POM) funding as appropriate in support of AF ISR.
      2.3.4.2. Serve as the National Geospatial Intelligence Program (NGP) Program Element
      Monitor; primary advocate for the AF portion of the program; work with AFISRA,
      National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) and AF Targeting Center (AFTC)
      staffs to prepare and submit various planning, programming, and budgeting documents
10                                                              AFI14-132 10 August 2012


     that provide for the funding of AGI production and analysis, research and development,
     and acquisition.
     2.3.4.3. Serve as Program Element Monitor for operationally fielded MIP-funded
     GEOINT capabilities in AF programs, including DCGS and the AF Targeting Enterprise.
     2.3.4.4. Serve, as delegated by AF/A2, as the AF Battlespace Awareness Capabilities
     Portfolio Manager.
  2.3.5. Deputy Chief of Staff, ISR Innovations Directorate (AF/A2Q). AF/A2Q will:
     2.3.5.1. Provide operationally focused, quick-reaction efforts to apply GEOINT services
     and capabilities in support of Combatant Commanders (COCOMs), AF warfighters and
     our coalition partners.
     2.3.5.2. Advocate a standards-based, user-focused approach to facilitate information
     fusion at all appropriate levels of warfare.
     2.3.5.3. Advocate for new technologies or adaptation of current or planned ISR or
     GEOINT systems/components to support operational requirements and optimize end-user
     capabilities.
  2.3.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and
  Requirements (AF/A3/5). AF/A3/5 will:
     2.3.6.1. Provide policy and guidance to MAJCOM A3/5 offices to develop, monitor and
     assess GEOINT requirements to support all AF weapons and weapon system
     development and sustainment activities, as required.
     2.3.6.2. Document, validate and submit requirements to AF/A2C for new, modified and
     existing GEOINT products needed to support weapon system research, development, test
     and evaluation (RDT&E) and sustainment.
     2.3.6.3. Consider implications of shortfalls and changes in GEOINT products and/or
     services and assess their potential impact on performance of current and future weapons
     and weapon systems.
     2.3.6.4. Participate in GEOINT supportability analysis for AF acquisition activities, as
     required.
  2.3.7. Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Logistics, Installations, and Mission
  Support (AF/A4/7) will through HAF GIO guide the AF-wide implementation of the
  Installation Geospatial Information and Services (IGIS) Program.
  2.3.8. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ will ensure,
  through consultation with the Director of NGA and AF/A2 that AF systems under
  development that use or produce GEOINT comply with GEOINT and interoperability
  standards established by NGA.
  2.3.9. Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA). SAF/IA will
  coordinate with the Director of NGA and AF/A2, when foreign military sales cases involve
  articles and services that require NGA GEOINT data in compliance with DoD 5105.38-M.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                     11


   2.3.10. Chief Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6).
   SAF/CIO A6 will provide architectural standards and policies that ensure synchronization
   and integration of the geospatial-enterprise.
   2.3.11. Secretary of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) will provide legal review of
   GEOINT matters and operational proposals as required.
   2.3.12. Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) provides functional oversight to legal offices
   responsible for advising the DoD intelligence components. AF/JA will also provide a legal
   review of GEOINT matters and operational proposals as required.
   2.3.13. Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA). AFFSA will:
      2.3.13.1. Serve as the AF OPR for the advocacy of Safety of Navigation requirements.
      2.3.13.2. Encourage MAJCOM input of GEOINT requirements that have the potential to
      impact instrument flight operations, landing systems, air traffic control, and airfield
      management of AF assets and installations. Consolidate those inputs and articulate them
      to AF/A2.
      2.3.13.3. Coordinate with AF/A2 to ensure the intelligence community remains apprised
      of emerging technologies that could require initial, programmatic or other sustained
      intelligence support.
   2.3.14. Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA). AFWA provides the forecast of worldwide
   weather and environmental conditions in support of defense and intelligence operations
   planning.
   2.3.15. AF Academy Institute for Information Technology Applications (IITA) Geospatial
   Technology Center (GTC). The GTC will:
      2.3.15.1. Test, evaluate, research, adapt, advance, and integrate new and existing
      geospatial technology solutions for the DoD.
      2.3.15.2. Identify low-cost geospatial technology solutions through RDT&E, education
      and training.
   2.3.16. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA).
   AFISRA is designated the lead agency within the AFGE for the implementation of AF policy
   on AF GEOINT planning, training, equipping, programming, and budgeting matters.
   AFISRA, following AF/A2C functional guidance and AF/A2R programming and budgeting
   guidance, is responsible for ensuring AF GEOINT assets are properly integrated and tailored
   to fit within the NSG, resulting in maximum AF mission effectiveness. As the AF lead
   agency for AF integration into the NSG, the AFISRA will:
      2.3.16.1. Serve as lead element for managing and integrating AF GEOINT production
      and capability development into the NSG.
          2.3.16.1.1. Ensure the NSG has access to collected theater GEOINT data along with
          the authority to store and distribute that data, in compliance with CJCS Instruction
          3340.02, Horizontal Integration of Warfighter Intelligence.
      2.3.16.2. Execute AF GEOINT processing, exploitation, dissemination (PED), and
      production and capability development; assist in the management of service-specific
12                                                               AFI14-132 10 August 2012


     tasking and resolution of collection issues, to include the emerging field of FMV
     GEOINT.
     2.3.16.3. Assist AF/A2 in building IC relationships; ensure appropriate representation at
     applicable technical and operational forums, as directed.
     2.3.16.4. Coordinate with the operating and implementing commands to ensure
     capability planning, PED integration, and modernization issues are addressed.
     2.3.16.5. Organize, train, equip, and present AF GEOINT forces to conduct ISR for
     COCOMs.
        2.3.16.5.1. Coordinate with gained ANG and AFRC units that are engaged in the
        production and/or dissemination of GEOINT.
        2.3.16.5.2. Assist ANG and AFRC units as appropriate to establish procedures and
        guidelines that ensure adherence to standards and continuity for production and
        dissemination.
        2.3.16.5.3. Assist ANG and AFRC units as appropriate to establish and/or manage
        training programs that ensure a smooth transition to wartime posture for these units
        and their personnel.
     2.3.16.6. Implement AF GEOINT policy; lead GEOINT capabilities-based planning
     (CBP); support AF/A2 planning, programming, budgeting, and execution (PPBE)
     processes.
     2.3.16.7. Support AF/A2 in development of policy interpretation and evaluation and
     validation of systemic requirements.
     2.3.16.8. Serve as lead element for providing AF input into NSG standards development
     through the Geospatial Intelligence Standards Working Group (GWG); ensure
     compliance with Director, NSG guidance and standards.
     2.3.16.9. Interface with MAJCOMs on AF GEOINT policy and programmatics; serve as
     AF ISR Flight Plan lead for GEOINT system and capability requirements.
     2.3.16.10. Develop, monitor, and assess AF GEOINT support to AFISRA RDT&E,
     acquisition and sustainment support planning activities.
  2.3.17. Air Force GEOINT Office (AFGO) will:
     2.3.17.1. Represent AF at HQ NGA; provide integrated and coordinated GEOINT
     engagement among Air Staff and NSG, ASG, and NGA Functional Managers (FMs), as
     well as assist in integrating AF GEOINT policies, plans, programs, resources,
     capabilities, and RDT&E initiatives into the NSG.
     2.3.17.2. Represent AF/A2 equities in NSG governance forums as directed by
     AF/A2CG; advocate AF policy, operations, systems, and TTP requirements for inclusion
     in NSG/NGA policies and standards guidelines, processes, and procedures.
     2.3.17.3. Coordinate and lead AF review of NSG policy documents; facilitate AF FM
     approval of final recommendation.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                    13


      2.3.17.4. Participate in AF programming forums to assist in validation and prioritization
      of AF GEOINT requirements.
      2.3.17.5. Serve as AF NSG Mission Needs Manager to advocate and track AF
      requirements at NSG at FM reviews and deliberations.
      2.3.17.6. Participate in NSG programming and evaluation processes to advocate AF
      GEOINT MIP/ NIP programs and requirements to NGA FMs and facilitate engagement
      between AF and NGA Program Managers (PM).
      2.3.17.7. Serve as the AF UGO officer.
      2.3.17.8. Represent AF GEOINT capabilities and TTPs to NGA FMs.
      2.3.17.9. Document AF GEOINT analysis and production capabilities.
      2.3.17.10. Reconcile UGO with AF GEOINT CBP.
      2.3.17.11. Oversee AF integration into the NSG and working relationships with the
      ASG.
      2.3.17.12. Represent AF collection capabilities at NGA/Source integration forums and
      facilitate AFISRA/NGA CBP discussions to enhance planning as well as to resolve
      issues.
      2.3.17.13. Serve as AF point of contact (POC) at HQ NGA to facilitate, advocate, and
      track InnoVision future technology and NGA Acquisition/RDT&E processes, activities
      and investments.
      2.3.17.14. Advise AF acquisition agencies on NGA-sponsored future GEOINT
      technology initiatives.
      2.3.17.15. Coordinate and track NGA architectures, systems, sensors and tools
      acquisitions, and integration, enhancements, sustainment, and support initiatives.
      2.3.17.16. Participate in NSG and ASG operational planning to ensure AF requirements
      and capabilities are addressed.
      2.3.17.17. Integrate AF GEOINT operations and capabilities into the NSG and facilitate
      resolution of AF GEOINT mission issues.
      2.3.17.18. Advocate for AF training needs and serve as the AF GEOINT tradecraft,
      training and development advisor to the HQ NGA staff.
   2.3.18. NASIC will:
      2.3.18.1. Provide GEOINT content-dominant data analysis of literal imagery from
      visible, synthetic aperture radar (SAR), spectral and thermal imagery as required to
      support scientific and technical intelligence and general military intelligence
      requirements.
      2.3.18.2. Perform Time-constrained Content Centric (TC3) and Content Dominant (CD)
      (Phase II and III) analysis on data collected by all DoD and IC Overhead Persistent
      Infrared (OPIR) sensors, DoD spaceborne sensors (to include TacSats and ORS), and
      airborne GEOINT sensors as required.
14                                                               AFI14-132 10 August 2012


     2.3.18.3. Perform Phase II and III analysis on “non-literal” SAR, Spectral, and Thermal
     (SST) imagery data from National Technical Means and DoD sensors as required.
     2.3.18.4. Perform Phase II and III data analysis of non-literal SST data and ground
     moving target indicator (GMTI) forensics analysis for data collected by AF airborne
     (aircraft and RPA), other services and coalition airborne, and TacSat sensors as required.
     2.3.18.5. Perform time-dominant (TD) Phase I data analysis during R&D of new sensors
     for transition to AF DCGS or other AF, DoD, and IC ISR Enterprise nodes. Perform
     Phase I data analysis of AGI and OPIR sensors as required to meet IC and DoD
     intelligence needs.
     2.3.18.6. Perform computer-aided design (CAD) modeling from literal imagery sources
     to support science and technical intelligence requirements.
     2.3.18.7. Conduct R&D in OPIR and non-literal SST in collaboration with NGA.
  2.3.19. 480th Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Wing (480 ISRW). 480 ISRW
  will:
     2.3.19.1. Operate and manage the AF DCGS Enterprise and be a key exploiter and
     producer of AF GEOINT; articulate and formally codify requirements for consumable
     GEOINT products.
        2.3.19.1.1. Submit production requirements to AFISRA.
        2.3.19.1.2. Monitor, track, and provide feedback on products and other analyses
        provided to the wing. Produce and disseminate to AFISRA annual reports on
        utilization of GEOINT. Reports include analysis of quality and timeliness of
        GEOINT products and analyses with recommendations for improvement.
     2.3.19.2. Participate in requisite AF GEOINT working groups and other forums that
     facilitate advancement of the discipline.
  2.3.20. 70th Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Wing (70 ISRW). The 70 ISRW
  will:
     2.3.20.1. Organize, train, equip and provide NGP-billeted airmen to NGA, as required.
     2.3.20.2. Submit GEOINT production requirements to AFISRA. Submit an annual
     production plan to the AF UGO Officer for inclusion in the AF production plan.
     2.3.20.3. Participate in requisite AF GEOINT working groups and other forums that
     facilitate advancement of the discipline.
  2.3.21. Other AFISRA Units will:
     2.3.21.1. Articulate and formally codify requirements for consumable GEOINT
     products.
        2.3.21.1.1. Submit GEOINT production requirements to AFISRA.
        2.3.21.1.2. Monitor, track, and provide feedback on products provided to the unit.
        Produce and disseminate to AFISRA annual reports on GEOINT utilization. Reports
        should include analysis of quality and timeliness of GEOINT products and analyses
        with recommendations for improvement.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                     15


      2.3.21.2. As appropriate, participate in requisite AF GEOINT working groups and other
      forums which facilitate advancement of the discipline.
   2.3.22. Air Combat Command (ACC). ACC organizes, trains, equips and presents Combat
   Air Force (CAF) GEOINT forces and capabilities to conduct ISR for combatant
   commanders. ACC will coordinate with Air Force Space Command/A2 on all GEOINT
   matters involving DoD Space-based ISR assets.
      2.3.22.1. ACC Director of Intelligence (ACC/A2). ACC/A2 will:
         2.3.22.1.1. Serve as the CAF lead for AF GEOINT CBP, intelligence supportability,
         sustainment, and intelligence integration.
         2.3.22.1.2. Assist with developing national technical and procedural standards for AF
         targeting, imagery transmission to the cockpit, and certification of onboard point-
         positioning capabilities.
             2.3.22.1.2.1. Promulgate, in concert with Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC),
             Air Education and Training Command (AETC), AFISRA and ACC/A2, standards
             in joint and service TTPs and training programs for aircrews and Air Operation
             Centers.
         2.3.22.1.3. Define operational requirements for and monitor AF GEOINT
         requirements for fielded CAF weapon systems. Coordinate with AFMC and other
         MAJCOMs as required.
         2.3.22.1.4. Coordinate with AFISRA to ensure CAF CBP and PED integration and
         modernization issues are addressed.
         2.3.22.1.5. Participate in AF GEOINT enterprise activities and planning; assess
         effectiveness, evaluate shortfalls and provide feedback to AFISRA.
         2.3.22.1.6. Advocate CAF GEOINT support requirements.
         2.3.22.1.7. Execute AF GEOINT PED, production and capability development;
         address tasking and collection issues.
      2.3.22.2. Air Force Targeting Center (AFTC). AFTC will:
         2.3.22.2.1. Produce and deliver timely, tailored targeting and geospatial intelligence,
         combat identification products, strategic analysis, and unit support enabling the full
         spectrum of military operations.
         2.3.22.2.2. As one of two AF production centers for GEOINT, manage the
         production of a wide variety of products as a reachback organization for the C-NAFs
         in support of their peacetime and wartime operations. These products include
         Controlled Image Base (CIB), Geospatial Product Library (GPL), Aim Point Graphics
         (APG), Domestic Range Imagery, Thunderbird demonstrations support, battle
         damage assessments and Target Materials (TMs). These TMs include, but are not
         limited to, Joint Desired Point of Impact Graphics, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff
         Missile (JASSM) Terminal Area Models (TAM), Conventional Air Launched Cruise
         Missile (CALCM) target graphics and Collateral Damage Estimation (CDE) graphics.
16                                                              AFI14-132 10 August 2012


        2.3.22.2.3. Direct the GEOINT production and dissemination efforts of subordinate
        ANG and AFRC units that support the AETC Enterprise.
        2.3.22.2.4. Assist ANG and AFRC units as appropriate to establish and manage
        procedures, guidelines and training programs that ensure adherence to standards and
        continuity for production and dissemination.
        2.3.22.2.5. Through ACC/A2, provide targeting perspective to AF/A2CG to
        formulate AF GEOINT policies and procedures that will ensure continuity and
        standardization across the AF GEOINT community.
        2.3.22.2.6. IAW AFI 14-126, Target Coordinate Mensuration Training,
        Qualification and Certification, manage the Air Force’s Precise Point Positioning
        Program (AFP4) overseeing training, qualification, and certification. Implement the
        AFP4 which includes precise positioning mensuration (PPM) training and
        certification for CAF personnel.
        2.3.22.2.7. Ensure GEOINT personnel meet the training standards agreed upon
        through the Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW) process, as delineated in
        Chapter 5, AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program.
  2.3.23. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC). AFSPC organizes, trains, equips and presents
  DoD Space-based GEOINT forces and capabilities to conduct ISR for combatant
  commanders. AFSPC will coordinate with ACC on all GEOINT matters involving ISR as
  CAF lead AF GEOINT CBP, intelligence supportability, sustainment, and intelligence
  integration.
     2.3.23.1. AFSPC Director of        Intelligence,   Surveillance   and   Reconnaissance
     (AFSPC/A2). AFSPC/A2 will:
        2.3.23.1.1. Serve as the primary point of contact for all issues regarding DoD space-
        based ISR assets.
        2.3.23.1.2. Will maintain close coordination with AFMC, SMC, AFISRA and
        ACC/A2, on DoD Space-based ISR standards and in joint and service TTPs and
        training programs involving DoD Space-based ISR platform’s PCPAD, and overall
        command and control of each asset.
        2.3.23.1.3. Develop and document functional GEOINT requirements. Functional
        requirements include requirements for new or modified GEOINT products, as well as
        requirements for existing GEOINT products to support weapon system research,
        development, test, initial fielding and sustainment. Functional requirements are
        defined as an output of systems-level engineering analysis conducted on warfighter
        performance requirements. Implementing command assesses the availability of NGA
        resources against weapon system performance requirements and develops production
        requirements to address the capability gaps between development needs and NGA
        resources.
  2.3.24. AETC is responsible for the holistic approach to training and education for AF
  personnel to understand, produce, and use GEOINT. AETC will:
     2.3.24.1. Incorporate MAJCOM requirements into course development processes and
     provide formal and continuation training courses IAW AFI 36-2201.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                      17


      2.3.24.2. Provide specialized precision mensuration training courses when required to
      meet specific personnel training needs, as determined by the Air Force Specialty Code
      Career Field Manager (CFM).
      2.3.24.3. Evaluate student performance ex post facto to determine if training being
      provided is meeting established training standards and students are able to perform the
      tasks required.
      2.3.24.4. Maintain and adjust formal training courses to meet evolving requirements as
      developed by MAJCOMs, C-NAFs, and COCOMs (where suitable).
      2.3.24.5. Recommend changes to precision training based on course evaluations and
      student post-graduate reviews to better meet established training requirements.
   2.3.25. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) develops and documents functional GEOINT
   requirements for all non-Air Force Space Command weapon systems. Functional
   requirements include requirements for new or modified GEOINT products, as well as
   requirements for existing GEOINT products to support weapon system research,
   development, test, initial fielding and sustainment. Functional requirements are defined as an
   output of systems-level engineering analysis conducted on warfighter performance
   requirements. AFMC assesses the availability of NGA resources against weapon system
   performance requirements and develops production requirements to address the capability
   gaps between development needs and NGA resources. Establishes and maintains liaison
   with the AFGO at NGA, in coordination with AF/A2, as a principal means of routine
   technical exchange with the NSG on matters of weapons and weapon systems GEOINT
   dependencies. AFMC will:
      2.3.25.1. Ensure integration and implementation of AF GEOINT strategy, policy,
      planning and programming into AFMC CBP RDT&E and sustainment activities.
      2.3.25.2. Provide, develop, monitor and assess AF GEOINT support to all AFMC
      RDT&E and sustainment activities throughout their lifecycle.
      2.3.25.3. Embed GEOINT supportability analysis into AF acquisition activities to ensure
      early and sustained support throughout the lifecycle of systems, to include the projection
      of GEOINT costs as a Life Cycle Cost Estimate.
      2.3.25.4. Serve as the lead for developing, managing, and resolving AFMC acquisition-
      related AF GEOINT requirements and shortfalls developed throughout the acquisition
      life-cycle process.
      2.3.25.5. Assess shortfalls and changes in AF GEOINT community processes and
      products for impact to RDT&E, modernization and sustainment; report impact of changes
      to program offices, lab activities and responsible OPRs.
      2.3.25.6. Develop, document, and submit requirements for new, modified, and existing
      production of GEOINT products in support of AF RDT&E and sustainment.
      2.3.25.7. Establish AFMC policies and procedures to ensure processed data originating
      from AFMC-managed collection and production systems is compliant with NSG-
      established standards for interoperability.
18                                                              AFI14-132 10 August 2012


     2.3.25.8. Identify classified information and provide security classification guides
     approved by authorized original classification authorities for all AF GEOINT data,
     sensors, and systems developed within their organizations.
  2.3.26. Aeronautical Systems Center Capabilities Integration Directorate (ASC/XR) will:
     2.3.26.1. Serve as lead for CBP while user requirements are under development.
     2.3.26.2. Ensure identification of key GEOINT product and service dependencies in the
     RDT&E of current and future AF weapons through coordination with relevant PMs.
     2.3.26.3. Ensure comprehensive GEOINT planning and integration into ASC activities.
  2.3.27. Air Armament Center (AAC). AAC will:
     2.3.27.1. Ensure identification of key AF GEOINT product and service dependencies in
     the RDT&E of current and future AF weapons through coordination with relevant
     Program Managers.
     2.3.27.2. Coordinate AF weapon GEOINT dependencies with the DoD Joint Technical
     Coordinating Group for Munitions Effectiveness (JTCG/ME) to ensure relevant weapon
     performance data and characteristics are obtained, and Joint Munitions Effectiveness
     Manual methodologies are properly configured to enable operational effectiveness and
     collateral damage estimation, and post-attack assessment.
  2.3.28. Other MAJCOMs and C-NAF. Through their senior appointed AF GEOINT
  representative, all MAJCOMs and C-NAFs will coordinate with AF/A2C and the AFGO to
  effectively and efficiently work organization and subordinate-level GEOINT issues through
  applicable channels. All MAJCOM and C-NAF SIOs will (if applicable):
     2.3.28.1. Represent organization GEOINT mission activities as directed by AF/A2C.
     2.3.28.2. Review and implement AF GEOINT policy, guidance, and standards.
         2.3.28.2.1. Prepare and issue supplements to higher headquarters GEOINT
         publications and directives.
         2.3.28.2.2. Coordinate command responses to higher headquarters GEOINT data
         calls, tasking, and requests for information.
     2.3.28.3. Participate in AF GEOINT enterprise activities and planning; assess
     effectiveness, evaluate shortfalls, and provide feedback to AF/A2C.
     2.3.28.4. Organize, train, equip, and present forces to COCOMs and DoD to execute
     assigned GEOINT missions; develop or request development of GEOINT capabilities
     and applications that provide direct mission planning and execution in support of
     warfighter missions; develop plans to integrate GEOINT capabilities into assigned ISR
     forces.
     2.3.28.5. Support AF/A2 and AF/A3 PPBE processes; develop organizational procedures
     for unit submissions IAW AF/A2 timelines.
     2.3.28.6. Ensure effective and efficient integration of AF GEOINT capabilities in
     assigned missions/weapon systems and coordinate with AFISRA to resolve CBP,
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                    19


      Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and exploitation, Analysis and production,
      and Dissemination (PCPAD), and modernization issues.
      2.3.28.7. Identify requirements to AF/A2C and work with appropriate AF POC
      concerning modernization and acquisition initiatives IAW established procedures.
      2.3.28.8. Identify force GEOINT training and develop requirements to AF/A2C.
      2.3.28.9. Develop plans, policies, standards, and procedures pertaining to command
      GEOINT activities.
      2.3.28.10. Ensure GEOINT points of contact establish and maintain GI&S distribution
      accounts and submit routine and automatic distribution requests to Defense Logistics
      Agency, as necessary.
      2.3.28.11. Coordinate with subordinate units, MAJCOM staff, Air Staff, COCOM, and
      other commands or services concerning command GEOINT requirements, deficiencies,
      and recommended solutions.
      2.3.28.12. Liaise with NGA, National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), ACC, COCOM,
      AFMC, and relevant contractors to establish and maintain for their respective MAJCOM
      GEOINT capabilities.
      2.3.28.13. Integrate emerging technology, adhering to community standards where
      possible, into MAJCOM GEOINT plans/architectures; provide expertise to MAJCOM
      planning, programming, and budgeting process.
      2.3.28.14. As required, prepare GI&S Annexes (Annex M) to Operation Plans
      (OPLANs) and Concept Plans (CONPLANs) according to AFMAN 10-401, Operation
      Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementation, and supported COCOM
      directives. Ensure dissemination of digital materials via the GPL supersede and replace
      traditional bulk hardcopy materials currently in War Reserve Stock (WRS).
      2.3.28.15. Identify, request and maintain on GPL, appropriate GI&S stocks/data to
      support OPLAN or CONPLAN tasking.
      2.3.28.16. Conduct WRS planning. Where applicable, identify WRS requirements for
      movement in the Time Phased Force and Deployment Data Listing (TPFDD) and the
      OPLAN or CONPLAN Logistics Annex.
      2.3.28.17. Establish procedures to ensure sufficient GI&S items are available to sustain
      routine operations and ensure adequate re-supply. Issue maps, charts, digital GI&S data,
      and related items when required. Maintain accessibility to pertinent NGA instructions,
      manuals and catalogs.
      2.3.28.18. Actively coordinate with command operations, plans, training, logistics,
      requirements, inspection, and intelligence staffs to ensure doctrine, strategy, tactics,
      logistics, and RDT&E efforts adequately address GI&S functional requirements.
      2.3.28.19. Assist in the creation, development and fielding of new procedures and
      techniques to facilitate AF-generated changes such as the GPL development.
      2.3.28.20. Ensure GEOINT plans/architectures are funded, as applicable.
20                                                               AFI14-132 10 August 2012


     2.3.28.21. Ensure data/product reviews are accomplished and responses to all NGA
     GI&S product reviews are routed through the chain of command to AF/A2C for AF
     position.
     2.3.28.22. Participate in annual AF GEOINT conferences, periodic special GEOINT
     meetings and the AF GEOINT Community of Interest, to address critical GEOINT
     matters of mutual concern.
     2.3.28.23. Ensure subordinate units are aware of, and comply with AF and Joint Chiefs
     of Staff (JCS) policy regarding use of World Geodetic System (WGS) and other datum.
     2.3.28.24. Provide GEOINT support to all gained Air Reserve Components (ARC)
     [ANG and AFRC] IAW AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC)
     Forces.
  2.3.29. Units. Units will consider their responsibilities as both provider and consumer and
  ensure their combined operations, intelligence and logistics GEOINT requirements are
  consolidated via a single unit-level OPR and articulated through appropriate command
  channels. Units will:
     2.3.29.1. Support periodic higher headquarters solicitation of GEOINT support
     requirements with responses (to include negative responses) identifying requirements for
     each of the three components of GEOINT particular to the individual unit’s mission(s);
     specified in volumetric terms of GEOINT support products and/or services, necessary
     currency and/or timeliness, minimum acceptable level of detail, geographic area(s) of
     coverage, transmission media, and data formats.
     2.3.29.2. Identify unit activities and/or processes that manipulate GEOINT to add value
     to the form in which it was originally received and/or to transform it into a new product
     or service, which can then be made available to a broad range of addition potential users
     resident in the NSG and the ASG.
     2.3.29.3. Identify processes in unit activities and/or missions which are actually or
     potentially GEOINT-dependent and which are currently unsupported or underserved; to
     include such activities and missions as targeting (e.g., physical and functional
     characterization of tasked targets for late-stage target development, weaponeering,
     collateral damage estimation, mission planning, and assessment), flight operations
     planning (e.g., mission visualization for rehearsal and crew training and/or Safety-of-
     Flight), and resource/facility management/protection (e.g., geospatial datasets for use in
     CAD systems by civil engineers, local, and peripheral terrain and intervisibility analysis
     by security forces).
     2.3.29.4. Participate in operations-oriented, end-user/producer technical exchange
     meetings and working groups, as applicable to the unit mission, to ensure relevance and
     focus in the ongoing development of GEOINT products and services by the NSG and
     ASG.
     2.3.29.5. Adhere to mandated unit-level training standards to ensure effective
     understanding of principles of relevant GEOINT products, services and TTPs for their
     application to particular unit activities and missions.
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                       21


      2.3.29.6. Translate principles and processes contained in AF and Joint GEOINT doctrine
      into local TTPs pertaining to all unit activities and missions that produce, provide or
      consume GEOINT products and/or services.
      2.3.29.7. Establish local procedures for the capture of evolving GEOINT product and/or
      service support requirements associated with unit activities and missions.
      2.3.29.8. Establish local procedures for capture, cataloging and transmission of GEOINT
      and/or value-added GEOINT created in the conduct of unit activities and missions.
      2.3.29.9. Maintain situational awareness of the status of submitted GEOINT product
      and/or service requirements and collaborate with end users to ensure responses meet their
      intelligence needs.




                                           LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance
                                           and Reconnaissance
 22                                                               AFI14-132 10 August 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Air Force Intelligence Planning and Operations, 1 June 1999
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces, 16 August 2006
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2011
AFI 14-126, Target Coordinate Mensuration Training, Qualification and Certification, 16
November 2009
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
DoD Directive 5105.60, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), July 29, 2009
DoD Instruction 3115.15, Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT), December 6, 2011
DoD Instruction 3305.10, DoD Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) Training, December 22, 2006
DoD Instruction 5000.56, Programming Geospatial-Intelligence (GEOINT), Geospatial
Information and Services (GI&S), and Geodesy Requirements for Developing Systems, July 9,
2010
DoD Instruction 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), October 3, 2003
DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That
Affect United States Persons, December 1, 1982
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Air Armament Center
ACC—Air Combat Command
AD—Active Duty
AF—Air Force
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFGE—AF GEOINT Element
AFGO—AF GEOINT Office
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTC—Air Force Targeting Center
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                  23


AGI—Advanced Geospatial Intelligence
ANG—Air National Guard
APG—Aim Point Graphic
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
ASG—Allied System for Geospatial Intelligence
C- NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
CAD—Computer-Aided Design
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CBP—Capabilities-Based Planning
CD—Content Dominant
CDE—Collateral Damage Estimation
CFM—Career Field Manager
CGTC—Community Geospatial-Intelligence Training Council
CIB—Controlled Image Base
COA—Course of Action
COCOM—Combatant Command
COE—Consequences of Execution
CSA—Combat Support Agency
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System
DCS—Deputy Chiefs of Staff
DoD—Department of Defense
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ESC—Electronic Systems Center
FM—Functional Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GCS—Ground Control Station
GEOINT—Geospatial-Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information & Services
GPL—Geospatial Product Library
GWG—Geospatial Intelligence Standards Working Group
 24                                                           AFI14-132 10 August 2012


HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAF GIO—Headquarter Air Force Geo Integration Office
IC—Intelligence Community
IITA—Institute for Information Technology Applications
IMINT—Imagery Intelligence
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
IAW—In accordance with
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JIOC—Joint Intelligence Operations Center
JTCG/ME—Joint Technical Coordinating Group for Munitions Effectiveness
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIP—Military Intelligence Program
MRTP—Mission Ready Training Program
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NGP—National Geospatial Intelligence Program
NIP—National Intelligence Program
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
NST—NGA Support Teams
NTM—National Technical Means
ODNI—Office of the Director of National Intelligence
OPIR—Overhead Persistent Infrared
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORS—Operationally Responsive Space
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PCPAD—Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and exploitation, Analysis and
production, and Dissemination
PED—Processing, Exploitation, and Dissemination
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
R&D—Research and Development
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
AFI14-132 10 August 2012                                                                      25


RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
SAR—Synthetic Aperture Radar
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SON—Safety of Navigation
SST—SAR, Spectral, and Thermal
TMs—Target Materials
TC3—Time-constrained Content-Centric
TPFDD—Time Phased Force and Deployment Data
TTP—Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop
UGO—Unified GEOINT Operation
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—Unites States Code
USD—Under Secretary of Defense
WGS—World Geodetic System
WRS—War Reserve Stock

Terms
Advanced Geospatial Intelligence (AGI)—Refers to the technical, geospatial, and intelligence
information derived through interpretation or analysis using advanced processing of all data
collected by imagery or imagery-related collection systems. Also known as imagery-derived
measurement and signature intelligence. (JP 2-03)
Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT)—The exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial
information to describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and geographically
referenced activities on the Earth. Geospatial intelligence consists of imagery, imagery
intelligence, and geospatial information. (JP 2-03)
Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S)—The collection, information extraction, storage,
dissemination, and exploitation of geodetic, geomagnetic, imagery (both commercial and
national source), gravimetric, aeronautical, topographic, hydrographic, littoral, cultural, and
toponymic data accurately referenced to a precise location on the Earth’s surface. Geospatial
services include tools that enable users to access and manipulate data, and also include
instruction, training, laboratory support, and guidance for the use of geospatial data. (JP 2-03)
Imagery Intelligence (IMINT): The technical, geographic, and intelligence information
derived through the interpretation or analysis of imagery and collateral materials. (JP 2—
03)
