BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-119
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                 AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                      SUPPLEMENT

                                                                           1 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                              INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO
                                                                 FORCE PROTECTION (FP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY : Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A2XS                                              Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A2X
                                                                     (Lt Col Derek C. Gardner)
                                                                                      Pages: 8

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to
Force Protection (FP), dated 15 August 2007. This supplement describes AFGSC’s procedures
for use in conjunction with the basic AFI. It establishes additional guidance to support force
protection mission execution, encompassing peacetime through wartime operations in the Air
Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) area of operations. This instruction may not address all
missions or responsibilities of AFGSC Intelligence units that perform specialized force
protection functions (i.e., Contingency Response Groups (CRG)). This instruction applies to HQ
AFGSC, its Numbered Air Forces (NAF), and their assigned wings. Approval for deviations will
be in the form of a unit supplement or waiver. Waivers will be considered if compliance will
adversely affect mission accomplishment, exceed local capabilities, or require substantial
expenditure of funds at a location where forces will be removed or relocated in the near future.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through the appropriate intelligence chain of
command to HQ AFGSC/A2X, 245 Davis Ave East, Suite 316, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110.
This publication may require the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain records prescribed in this
publication are Title 37 United States Code, Section 301a and Executive Order 9397,
2                                              AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010

NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR FEDERAL ACCOUNTS RELATING TO INDIVIDUAL
PERSONS, November 22, 1943.
4.1.1.1. (Added) Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) will act as a conduit for flow of information
between HQ AFGSC/A2O and subordinate units. NAFs will submit Force Protection
Intelligence (FPI) budget requirements annually to HQ AFGSC/A2X for funding (conferences,
training, workshops, etc.).
4.1.1.2. (Added) The designated focal point for AFGSC intelligence support to antiterrorism and
force protection (AT/FP) is AFGSC/A2O.
4.1.1.3. (Added) NAFs will provide an annual report to HQ AFGSC/A2O no later than 1 (one)
September of each year. This report will summarize their AT/FP Intelligence Program,
identifying any discrepancies, best practices, and items for HQ AFGSC/A2 consideration. HQ
AFGSC/A2O will compile and coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A2X for programming actions.
4.1.2. Final approval and publication authority for all required documentations will remain the
responsibility of HQ AFGSC/A2O.
4.1.3. HQ AFGSC/A2O and NAF A2 will support units in conducting all-source intelligence
analysis for AT/FP to include leveraging national/service intelligence and law enforcement
organization/activities (i.e. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), Federal Bureau
of Investigation (FBI), Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency (NGA), etc.). Develop actions and implement a comprehensive intelligence support to
AT/FP program in compliance with established HQ AFGSC standards and guidance. Processes
and procedures must be documented in the form of a Concept of Operations (CONOPS),
Operating Instructions (OIs) or Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP).
4.1.3.1 (Added) AFGSC Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) will be responsible for ensuring
intelligence support to AT/FP is provided.
4.1.3.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O develops, coordinates, and implements unit level intelligence
systems requirements. When validated, develops and integrates required functionality into
appropriate intelligence applications and/or systems. Establishes standard analytical processes,
procedures, and products in support of AT/FP. Trains intelligence professionals to use AT/FP
applications and apply established analytical methods. Develops and manages technologies with
cost-efficient strategies to integrate capabilities while meeting current and future intelligence
requirements.
4.1.6. AFGSC/A2 and NAF/A2 will leverage AFOSI Defense Threat Assessments (DTAs) for
installation-level threat awareness in support of regional-level threat assessments. Additionally,
they will support AFOSI with all-source information and feedback on gaps within installation
DTAs.
4.1.7. NAF A2, in conjunction with the Threat Working Group (TWG), Antiterrorism Working
Group (ATWG), and Force Protection Working Group (FPWG), participate in installation and
HHQ vulnerability assessments in accordance with (IAW) AFI 10-245 and AFGSC Supplement
to AFI 10-245, the DoD directed Joint Staff Integrated Vulnerability Assessment (JSIVA) and
Defense Critical Infrastructure Program (DCIP) conducted by the Defense Threat Reduction
Agency (DTRA), as well as the USAF and AFGSC Vulnerability Assessment Programs and
Critical Infrastructure Programs. In coordination with the HQ AFGSC TWG, assess the terrorist
AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                3

threat for the Area of Interest and provide threat information to subordinate units and
commanders.
4.1.7.1. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A7S chairs the AFGSC TWG, HQ AFGSC/A2O as a TWG
member coordinates FPI support to subordinate AFGSC units when requested by respective
NAF.
4.1.9. HQ AFGSC/A2O provides staff assistance and guidance on standardization and evaluation
for AT/FP programs.
4.1.10. NAFs will analyze, advocate, and staff subordinate units’ intelligence resource issues
(e.g., manpower, systems, facilities, and information/production requirements); maintain a list of
command and unit intelligence AT/FP focal points; and ensure information is coordinated with
and reflected in the HQ AFGSC/A2 Intelligence Functional Area Assessment.
4.1.11. For NAF installations that do not have intelligence professionals permanently assigned,
HQ NAF A2 will establish procedures to ensure threat information is available to the installation
commander (e.g., assigning non-intelligence personnel to fulfill the AT/FP responsibilities listed
in this instruction, establishing a MOA with local AFOSI detachments, BLUE DART,
Operations Report-3 (OPREP-3) message, or other products for immediate coordination through
the TWG and rapid transmission of terrorist threat information). When NAF determines organic
resources cannot meet unit AT/FP needs, a request will be submitted to HQ AFGSC/A2O to
provide interim intelligence support to ensure the subordinate echelon commander receives
needed AT/FP intelligence. NAFs may delegate AT/FP responsibilities to collocated units. When
delegated, a MOA will be generated with signed copy submitted to HQ AFGSC/A2O.
4.1.12. HQ AFGSC/A2 and NAFs will incorporate AT/FP requirements into intelligence
architecture and contingency planning, including 24/7 connectivity and requirement for access to
Top Secret (TS), Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI), Talent Keyhole (TK), HUMINT
Control System (HCS), and Gamma (G). NAFs assist units in resolving problems, requesting
products and services, and defining and satisfying their intelligence support to AT/FP
requirements to include identifying, validating, and submitting intelligence information
requirements to support AT/FP.
4.1.13. Vulnerability Assessment Benchmarks. HQ AFGSC/A2 and NAF A2 intelligence AT/FP
programs will use the Joint Staff/Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Vulnerability Assessment
Benchmarks, Annex A: Terrorist Operations and Annex B: Security Operations, as the baseline
benchmark tool.
4.1.22. HQ AFGSC/A2 will annually assess subordinate installations’ intelligence capability to
collect, receive, evaluate, analyze, and disseminate all relevant data on terrorist activities, trends
and indicators of imminent attack and assist AFOSI in fusing suspicious activity reports from
Security Forces (SF), law enforcement, and counterintelligence (CI) organizations with national-
level Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) collection activities. Review all plans
(e.g., installation AT/FP Plan) at least annually, and write intelligence annexes to identify all
required intelligence support and information requirements.
4.1.23. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O will serve as the lead for Nuclear Force Protection Analysis
for all subordinate commands.
4                                             AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010

4.1.23.1. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O will plan, program, budget, validate, and manage all
intelligence Nuclear Force Protection Analysis requirements for installations and subordinate
units.
4.1.23.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O will ensure any additional training required for AT/FP
intelligence personnel to support Nuclear Force Protection Analysis is provided.
4.1.23.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O will coordinate with theater/national commands and
agencies, (e.g., USSTRATCOM, Department of Energy [DOE], etc.) for inclusion of nuclear
force protection analysis in all theater exercises.
4.1.23.4. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A2O will establish standard guidelines for conduct of nuclear
force protection analysis, supporting analytical procedures, and supporting products.
4.1.24. (Added) Adhere to AF guidance and policies for the release of intelligence and military
information.
4.1.24.1. (Added) For intelligence information follow AFI 14-302, Control, Protection, and
Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information, and AFMAN 14-304, The Security,
Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information. All classified and unclassified
controlled AT/FP intelligence information must be reviewed and approved for release by the
originator and/or a properly designated intelligence disclosure authority.
4.1.24.2. (Added) For military information follow AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure
and Technical Transfer Program, for disclosing classified and unclassified controlled (i.e., For
Official Use Only (FOUO), tech orders, schematics, etc.) AT/FP information to foreign
nationals. All classified and unclassified controlled AT/FP military information must be
reviewed and approved by a properly designated disclosure authority before release. Contact
NAF and HQ AFGSC/A5 Foreign Disclosure Offices for guidance.
4.1.25. (Added) IAW AFI 14-105 and AFGSCSUP to AFI 14-105, NAF intelligence personnel
will not be assigned additional duties that interfere with their contingency/wartime taskings or
intelligence responsibilities. Intelligence personnel will not be designated as augmentees for
other base functions during wartime, contingencies or exercises.
4.2.1. HQ AFGSC/A2O will lead and coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A7S and AFOSI on PIR
development supporting AT/FP requirements.
4.3.1. HQ AFGSC/A2O will establish qualifications for intelligence personnel to certify as
AT/FP intelligence trainers prior to conducting training. NAF A2s will ensure intelligence
professionals performing AT/FP functions receive appropriate training.
4.3.2. NAF will develop an AT/FP intelligence training program as necessary to accommodate
AT/FP support to assigned units without dedicated intelligence personnel. NAF training will be
consistent with paragraph 5.3.
4.3.3. HQ AFGSC/A2O will lead the development and review of the AFGSC AT/FP Internal
Intelligence Training Program requirements. The AT/FP Intelligence Training Program will be
crafted and maintained through input from HQ AFGSC/A7S, NAF and Unit intelligence
personnel, Security Forces, and AFOSI.
4.3.3.1. (Added) NAFs submit specific NAF and unit level requests for formal AT/FP training
course billets through the unit intelligence training manager to HQ AFGSC/A2O and A2X.
AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            5

Where required, HQ AFGSC/A2O incorporates command-wide intelligence personnel training
requirements and approves related AT/FP training plans as part of the Command Intelligence
Education Training Plan.
4.3.3.2. (Added) All HQ AFGSC and NAF designated primary and alternate AT/FP intelligence
professionals will attend AT/FP level II training in accordance with AFGSCSUP to AFI 10-245.
Upon completion, a copy of certificate of training will be sent to HQ AFGSC/A2O. Waiver
requests will be submitted to HQ AFGSC/A2O should training not be available. HQ
AFGSC/A2O will maintain NAF and Unit waivers until training requirements are met.
4.3.4. HQ AFGSC/A2O will develop procedures for identifying and tracking all AFGSC and
subordinate unit intelligence professionals with AT/FP background and experience. NAFs shall
establish internal AT/FP intelligence training programs and develop OIs detailing how the
programs will be conducted.
4.3.5. NAFs will identify and coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A2O any NAF and unit-level AT/FP
training requirements that should be incorporated into entry level intelligence courses and
advanced skills courses (i.e., Intelligence Master Skills Course) curricula to enhance
understanding of terrorist threats and the role intelligence plays in combating the threat.
5.1.1.1. AFGSC Units will provide copies of the intelligence AT/FP designation letters to NAF
A2 and HQ AFGSC/A2O.
5.1.1.3. (Added) The designated unit-level Intelligence AT/FP analyst will not be the Wing
AT/FP Officer. Designated AT/FP intelligence analysts will: in coordination with the local
AT/FP officer and AFOSI liaison develop working relationships with local FBI and law
enforcement (LE) organizations, as well as the Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF); participate in
installation-level and HHQ-level TWG; and maintain a copy of the minutes and list of attendees
for each regularly scheduled meeting of the TWG in the Force Protection Continuity Book for
previous two years.
5.1.1.4. (Added) AFGSC Units hosted on non-AFGSC installations will accomplish at a
minimum the following:
5.1.1.4.1. (Added) Obtain a copy of the host base antiterrorism/force protection (AT/FP) plan
and/or local supplement which should explain their responsibilities to the host command.
5.1.1.4.2. (Added) If the AFGSC Unit provides or is reliant upon the host base for intelligence
AT/FP support, establish a MOA outlining the responsibilities (e.g., analysis, products, training,
etc.).
5.1.1.4.3. (Added) Create a continuity book, and keep all memorandums, requirement
statements, MOA, checklists, instructions, supplements, etc. that are relevant to intelligence
support to AT/FP.
5.1.1.4.4. (Added) Be familiar with the general AT/FP policy and procedures as defined in AFI
10-245, AFGSCSUP to AFI 10-245, AFI 14-119 and this supplement.
5.1.2.1. (Added) Support AFOSI in the development of the installation and/or regional threat
assessment.
6                                              AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010

5.1.2.2. (Added) Host base intelligence units will take lead intelligence AT/FP responsibility and
coordinate a supporting MOA in order to provide intelligence AT/FP support to tenant nuclear
wings/squadrons.
5.1.2.3. (Added) AFGSC subordinate echelons that are tenants on a host base are highly
encouraged to attend the FPWG and/or TWG for informational purposes.
5.1.5. In coordination with TWG, develop realistic terrorist threat scenarios for installation
exercises.
5.1.14. In conjunction with the local TWG, ATWG, and FPWG, participate in installation and
HHQ vulnerability assessments IAW AFI 10-245 and AFGSC Supplement to AFI 10-245, the
DoD directed JSIVA and DCIP conducted by DTRA, as well as the USAF and AFGSC
Vulnerability Assessment Programs and Critical Infrastructure Programs. In coordination with
the HQ AFGSC TWG, assess the terrorist threat for the local AOI and provide threat information
to local commanders, subordinate units, and tenant units.
5.1.15. Leverage AFOSI Defense Threat Assessments (DTAs) for installation-level threat
awareness and in support of local-area threat assessments (see paragraph 5.1.22). Coordinate
AT/FP all-source intelligence threat information with TWG for a consolidated assessment for
base, NAF, and AFGSC commander’s risk management analysis.
5.1.16. For installations without assigned intelligence professionals, the NAF will make sure
procedures are established to ensure critical AT/FP information is passed to the wing and/or
installation commander.
5.1.18.5. Intelligence AT/FP programs will use the Joint Staff/Defense Threat Reduction
Agency, Vulnerability Assessment Benchmarks, Annex A: Terrorist Operations and Annex B:
Security Operations, as the baseline benchmark tool.
5.2.3. (Added) AFGSC subordinate echelons will identify and submit AT/FP production
requirements (PRs) IAW AFGSC Instruction 14-250, Collection Management Procedures; use
the Command/NAF AT/FP-related priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) as a baseline to
determine their own PIRs; and ensure Command/NAF AT/FP requirements are reflected in their
own Essential Element of Information (EEIs) and Commander’s Critical Information
Requirements (CCIR).
5.3.1. Units submit specific requests for formal AT/FP training course billets through the
intelligence training manager to HQ AFGSC/A2O with copies to HQ AFGSC/A2X.
5.3.2.4. (Added) All designated primary and alternate AT/FP intelligence professionals will
attend AT/FP level II training in accordance with AFGSCSUP to AFI 10-245. Upon completion,
a copy of certificate of training will be sent to HQ AFGSC/A2O. Waiver requests will be
submitted to HQ AFGSC/A2O should training not be available.
6.1.4. Ensure deploying intelligence personnel assigned to support AT/FP have TS/SCI clearance
with authorized access to TK, SI, HCS, and G compartmented information. Those units that do
not have access to TS/SI, TK, HCS and G at home station will arrange to have their AT/FP
personnel read into these programs, either prior to deployment departure or upon arrival at the
deployed location. These actions must be coordinated with the deployed/host base SSO as soon
as possible following official notification of the deployment. The deployed/host base SSO will
establish and maintain the ―need to know‖ for AT/FP personnel who are not already read into
AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                               7

TS/SI, TK, HCS and G. Units with access to these programs at home station must take care of
the applicable requirements prior to deployment.
6.1.5. Ensure coordination with communications and SSO staffs so deploying intelligence
personnel have appropriate intelligence communications connectivity to receive near real time,
all-source threat updates.
6.1.6. No later than 60 days prior to a deployment/exercise, prepare and submit pre-deployment
message through HQ AFGSC, to the servicing Joint Intelligence Center (JIC)/Joint Analysis
Center (JAC), identifying AT/FP intelligence requirements. If deployment is short notice, a pre-
deployment message will be submitted no later than 48 hours after deployment notification is
received.
6.3.1. Develop and implement AFGSC and theater FPI policy for the analysis, production, and
dissemination of asymmetric threat warning/intelligence to friendly forces. Coordinate with
respective OCONUS/CONUS gaining MAJCOM for receipt of regional command threat
assessment. Review and validate the assessment for AFGSC deploying forces. Identify
intelligence gaps commensurate with unit mission/needs and submit RFIs, as necessary, per
AFGSC Instruction 14-250. Establish procedures to track operational, training and exercise wing
deployments and coordinate with theater and national intelligence centers to ensure receipt of
latest threat information, intelligence and deployment orders, particularly for in-transit units.
6.3.3. All echelons shall establish processes/procedures for wings/bases/centers to receive,
evaluate, analyze and disseminate all relevant data on terrorist activities, trends and indicators of
possible/imminent attack. Ensure AT/FP is addressed in current intelligence briefings.
6.3.12. Coordinate with the Wing AT/FP Officers, AFOSI, SF, and other TWG members to
design procedures to deter or defeat terrorist/criminal actions and recommend mitigation
solutions to AFGSC subordinate commanders.
6.3.13. In coordination with the TWG, fuse all-source intelligence with CI and LE information
provided by the AFOSI to analyze terrorist group patterns of behavior and identify evolving
threats within the AOI.
6.3.14. Coordinate, as required, with local, theater, national and other (e.g., Department of State,
coalition, etc.) intelligence agencies regarding threats. Ensure intelligence is incorporated in the
ATWG, FPWG, Vulnerability Assessment Teams, TWG, and installation threat assessment.




                                                      RICHARD R. AYRES, Col, USAF
                                                      Director, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                                      And Reconnaissance
8                                            AFI 14-119_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-245_AFGSCSUP, Air Force Antiterrorism (AT) Standards
AFI 14-105_AFGSCSUP, Unit Intelligence Mission and Responsibilities, 1 Dec 09
AFGSCI 14-250, Collection Management Procedures
AFI 14-302, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information,
18 Jan 94
AFMAN 14-304, The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented
Information, 1 May 99
Joint Staff/Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Vulnerability Assessment Benchmarks, 1 Jan 08
* When using this instruction, readers are responsible for verifying the currency of the cited
references.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGSCSUP— Air Force Global Strike Command Supplement
AOI—Area of Interest
AT/FP—Antiterrorism and Force Protection
ATWG—Antiterrorism Working Group
CCIR—Commander’s Critical Information Requirements
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
DCIP—Defense Critical Infrastructure Program
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DOE—Department of Energy
DTRA—Defense Threat Reduction Agency
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
IAW—In Accordance With
JAC—Joint Analysis Center
JIC—Joint Intelligence Center
JSIVA—Joint Staff Integrated Vulnerability Assessment
JTTF –Joint Terrorism Task Force
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
NAF— Numbered Air Force
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
Antiterrorism Working Group—Serves as the action officer group overseeing the integration
of multiple functional activities to ensure cohesive protection of personnel, assets and
information. Its responsibilities include facilitating implementation of AT program efforts,
developing and refining AT Plans, and addressing emergent AT program issues.
