BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2802
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           20 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                           AIR FORCE EXPERIMENTATION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A5XS                                                              Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                                    (Brig Gen Timothy M. Ray)
                                                                                       Pages: 28




This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-28, Air
Force Concept Development and Experimentation. It applies to all Air Force active and reserve
units, and to Air National Guard (ANG) units in United States Title 10 status, when sponsoring,
participating in, or otherwise supporting experimentation in support of AF and joint capability
development. This AFI is approved for public release; distribution is unlimited. This AFI may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records Information
Management                  System               (AFRIMS)                 located              at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This AFI will be revised, as required,
to address changes, additions, and/or deletions.
2                                                                                       AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


Chapter 1—OVERVIEW                                                                                                                           3
     1.1.   Purpose. .............................................................................................................           3
     1.2.   Objectives. .........................................................................................................            3

Chapter 2—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                   4
     2.1.   The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5) shall:
            .............................................................................................................................    4
     2.2.   The Director of Operational Planning, Policy, & Strategy (AF/A5X) shall: .........                                               4
     2.3.   The Chief, Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming (AF/A5XS) shall: ......................                                             4
     2.4.   The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) shall: ............                                              6
     2.5.   The Director of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X) shall: ............................................                                  6
     2.6.   The Chief, Future Concepts (AF/A8XC) shall: ....................................................                                 6
     2.7.   AF Experiment Sponsors shall. ...........................................................................                        7
     2.8.   Experimentation Support. ...................................................................................                     7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              10

Attachment 2—PLANNING, EXECUTION, REPORTING AND TRANSITION                                                                                  14

Attachment 3—WARGAMING MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT                                                                                      17

Attachment 4—UNIFIED ENGAGEMENT                                                                                                             19

Attachment 5—FUTURE CAPABILITIES GAME                                                                                                       24
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                        3


                                            Chapter 1

                                           OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose. Per AFPD 10-28, the AF uses experimentation to help mature concepts, to
identify gaps in future capabilities, and to evaluate solutions that potentially mitigate current and
future capability gaps. This AFI establishes responsibilities and describes processes for
experimentation, including Title 10 Wargames sponsored by Headquarters Air Force (HAF),
Major Commands (MAJCOM), the Air National Guard (ANG), Direct Reporting Units (DRU),
and Field Operating Agencies (FOA). This AFI also establishes responsibilities for AF support to
experimentation and related activities sponsored by the Joint Staff, Combatant Commands
(CCMD), sister Services and other organizations external to the Department of the Air Force.
This AFI is not intended to govern wargaming or other experimentation for education, training,
or scientific research and development prior to prototyping demonstrations in an operational
environment.
1.2. Objectives. This AFI establishes an institutional approach for experimentation, including
wargaming, when used to support concept and capability development. Specific objectives of
this AFI are to:
   1.2.1. Implement AFPD 10-28.
   1.2.2. Describe how the Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements
   (AF/A3/5) and subordinate organizations provide Policy, Guidance and Oversight (PGO) for
   HAF and MAJCOM sponsored experimentation, as assigned by AFPD 10-28.
   1.2.3. Identify HAF and MAJCOM responsibilities for experimentation sponsored by AF
   organizations as well as by organizations external to the Air Force.
   1.2.4. Describe best practices for the design, execution, reporting, and transition of
   experiments and wargames.
   1.2.5. Provide specific guidance for Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) directed Title 10
   Wargames.
 4                                                          AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                           Chapter 2

                                     RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5) shall:
     2.1.1. Provide PGO for all HAF and MAJCOM level experimentation IAW AFPD 10-28.
     2.1.2. Be responsible to the CSAF for AF participation in and support to joint
     experimentation, as described in CJCSI 3010.02C, and other applicable Chairman of the
     Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) directives and guidance.
     2.1.3. Be responsible to the CSAF for AF participation in and support to sister Service
     experimentation, including Title 10 Wargames.
     2.1.4. Be responsible to the CSAF for all aspects of the Unified Engagement (UE) Title 10
     Wargame, including design, execution, reporting, and transition.
     2.1.5. Coordinate with other HAF 2-Digit Organizations and MAJCOMs as required, to
     fulfill all assigned experimentation responsibilities.
2.2. The Director of Operational Planning, Policy, & Strategy (AF/A5X) shall:
     2.2.1. Oversee a management structure and coordinate as required to enable AF/A3/5 PGO
     for HAF and MAJCOM level experimentation:
        2.2.1.1. Disseminate AF/A3/5 experimentation guidance.
        2.2.1.2. Collect information to enable AF/A3/5 experimentation oversight.
        2.2.1.3. Enable the exercise of AF/A3/5 responsibilities for supporting joint and sister
        Service experimentation, including Title 10 Wargames.
     2.2.2. Represent the AF in senior leader Joint Concept Development & Experimentation
     (JCD&E) governance meetings.
     2.2.3. Direct all aspects of the UE Title 10 Wargame, to include designating a Wargame
     Director.
2.3. The Chief, Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming (AF/A5XS) shall:
     2.3.1. Develop and implement a management structure to enable AF/A3/5 PGO for HAF and
     MAJCOM level experimentation, reference Paragraph 2.2.1 and its subparagraphs.
        2.3.1.1. Develop, implement, and maintain an AF-wide electronic information sharing
        capability that:
            2.3.1.1.1. Tracks selected AF and non-AF experimentation activities to improve
            awareness across the AF and prevent/resolve scheduling conflicts.
            2.3.1.1.2. Archives AF experimentation reports IAW Attachment 2 paragraph A2.4.
            2.3.1.1.3. Tracks AF and externally sponsored experimentation participation requests
            to ensure a coordinated effort is made to validate and provide AF support to such
            activities.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    5


     2.3.1.2. Coordinate, as required, directly with other HAF, MAJCOM, ANG, DRU, and
     FOA organizations, to ensure fulfillment of AF/A3/5 experimentation responsibilities and
     ensure synchronization of experimentation and wargaming efforts.
  2.3.2. On behalf of AF/A3/5 and AF/A5X, manage AF participation in and support to CJCS
  directed experimentation and similar activities sponsored by sister Services.
     2.3.2.1. Integrate AF objectives into joint and sister Services experimentation, when
     appropriate.
     2.3.2.2. Participate in planning conferences/workshops associated with joint and sister
     Services experimentation, as appropriate.
     2.3.2.3. Review and coordinate on joint and sister Services experimentation plans and
     reports, as appropriate.
     2.3.2.4. Coordinate, as required, directly with the Joint Staff, CCMD staffs, sister
     Service staffs, and any other organizations external to the Department of the Air Force
     (DAF).
     2.3.2.5. Promulgate CJCS experimentation guidance and results, as appropriate, to
     sponsors of AF experimentation.
     2.3.2.6. When requested by CJCS, develop prioritized experimentation needs or other
     related inputs for CSAF approval.
     2.3.2.7. Prepare periodic summary reports documenting AF-wide experimentation results
     and AF support to Joint Staff, CCMD, and sister Services sponsored experimentation
     IAW Attachment 2, paragraph A2.4.
     2.3.2.8. Represent the AF for Colonel (or civilian equivalent) and Action Officer-level
     JCD&E governance and planning meetings.
  2.3.3. Design, execute, prepare reports on, and monitor transition activities related to the UE
  Title 10 Wargame, per Attachment 4.
     2.3.3.1. Develop and coordinate: UE objectives, scenario considerations, host MAJCOM
     selection, key partner participation, and final reports with analysis, recommendations, and
     follow-on actions.
     2.3.3.2. Develop memoranda outlining support requirements between HAF and the UE
     host MAJCOM.
     2.3.3.3. Coordinate for required UE participation and other support from HAF,
     MAJCOM, ANG, DRU, FOA, the Joint Staff, sister Services, partner nations, and other
     organizations external to the AF.
     2.3.3.4. Incorporate tailored multinational workshops into UE, in close coordination with
     the host MAJCOM. Ensure results are documented IAW theater security cooperation
     plans.
     2.3.3.5. Document and brief UE findings, recommendations and follow-on transition
     actions at all appropriate levels. Publish a final report after UE completion.
 6                                                           AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


        2.3.3.6. Coordinate all aspects of post UE activities to include tracking of follow-on
        initiatives and any other CSAF directed actions.
     2.3.4. Develop, operate and maintain a deployable Wargaming Information Environment
     (WIE) to support HAF and MAJCOM level experimentation, including Title 10 Wargames.
     (Refer to Attachment 3.)
     2.3.5. Assist AF experimentation sponsors, as required, in sourcing support from HAF,
     MAJCOM, ANG, DRU, FOA, the Joint Staff, CCMD staffs, sister Services, and other
     organizations external to the sponsor’s organization.
     2.3.6. Coordinate on and prioritize (if required) all external requests for AF support to
     national level, Department of Defense (DOD), Joint Staff, or sister Services sponsored
     wargame/experimentation activities.
     2.3.7. Assist AF/A8XC and MAJCOMS to ensure realistic air and space representation and
     appropriate data standards, enumerations, hardware, and architectures are employed for
     wargames and other experiments.
2.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) shall:
     2.4.1. Be responsible to the CSAF for all aspects of the Futures Game (FG) Title 10
     Wargame, including design, execution, reporting, and transition.
     2.4.2. Advocate for future programming actions related to FG results.
2.5. The Director of Strategic Planning (AF/A8X) shall:
     2.5.1. Serve as the Executive Wargame Director for the FG Title 10 Wargame and direct FG
     planning and execution.
2.6. The Chief, Future Concepts (AF/A8XC) shall:
     2.6.1. Plan and execute the FG Title 10 Wargame and serve as the FG Wargame Director.
     2.6.2. Develop and coordinate for CSAF approval: FG objectives, scenario, key partner
     participation, final reports and follow-on tasks.
     2.6.3. Develop memoranda as required outlining support requirements between HAF and
     MAJCOM/other key participants.
     2.6.4. Coordinate FG support from HAF, MAJCOM, ANG, DRU, FOA, the Joint Staff,
     CCMD staffs, sister Services, partner nations, and other organizations external to the DAF.
     2.6.5. Document and brief FG findings, recommendations and follow-on actions at all
     appropriate levels. Publish a final report after FG completion.
     2.6.6. Coordinate all aspects of post FG activities to include tracking of FG concept and
     capability studies, and any other actions directed by CSAF.
     2.6.7. Determine Information Technology (IT) and modeling and simulation (M&S)
     requirements for FG execution and adjudication. Coordinate IT and M&S support with
     AF/A5XS, as required.
     2.6.8. Develop and maintain the AF Toolbox for use in wargaming and experimentation
     sponsored by the AF and by organizations external to the DAF, as appropriate.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  7


2.7. AF Experiment Sponsors shall.
   2.7.1. Design, execute, prepare reports on, and monitor transition for HAF 2-digit or
   MAJCOM commander directed experimentation.
   2.7.2. Inform AF/A5XS of planned wargames or other experimentation designed to help
   mature concepts, to identify gaps in future capabilities, and/or to evaluate solutions that
   potentially mitigate current and future capability gaps.
   2.7.3. Source support for their sponsored activities directly from HAF, MAJCOM, ANG,
   DRU, FOA, the Joint Staff, CCMDs, sister Services, partner nations, and other organizations
   external to the sponsor’s organization. Coordinate with AF/A5XS for assistance, as required.
   2.7.4. Follow AF/A3/5 guidance for AF experimentation and consider related Core Function
   Lead Integrator (CFLI) needs when developing objectives.
   2.7.5. Provide experimentation data/results to support CJCS directed reporting, when
   requested by AF/A5XS.
   2.7.6. Report experimentation results to AF/A5X IAW Attachment 2, paragraph A2.4.
   Distribution should also include CFLIs for their consideration in developing Core Function
   Concepts and Core Function Master Plans, as appropriate.
   2.7.7. Track to completion any doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and
   education, personnel, facilities, and policy (DOTMLPF-P) changes resulting from
   experimentation. Provide updated status to AF/A5XS and the appropriate MAJCOM
   Commander/HAF 2-digit, as required.
   2.7.8. Nominate critical emerging needs/gaps identified through experimentation as
   capability-based assessment topics for AF Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC) review
   and prioritization IAW AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements
   Development, and its implementing instructions.
2.8. Experimentation Support. HAF, MAJCOM, ANG, DRU, and FOA organizations shall
support experimentation as follows, subject to resource availability.
   2.8.1. General responsibilities:
      2.8.1.1. Provide inputs to AF experimentation objectives and design, to include needs
      based on key elements of Core Function Concepts and Core Function Master Plans, as
      appropriate.
      2.8.1.2. Provide prioritized experimentation needs and inputs for experimentation reports
      when requested by AF/A5X, in support of AF/A3/5 experimentation responsibilities.
      2.8.1.3. Provide personnel/expertise to support experimentation when requested by
      AF/A3/5, AF/A5X, or AF/A5XS.
      2.8.1.4. Provide personnel/expertise to support the FG Title 10 Wargame, when
      requested by AF/A8, AF/A8X, or AF/A8XC.
      2.8.1.5. Provide personnel/expertise to support AF-sponsored experimentation, when
      requested by sponsoring organizations.
8                                                            AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


       2.8.1.6. Coordinate with AF/A5XS on all requests for experimentation support received
       from organizations external to the DAF. CCMD requests to subordinate AF service
       components are exempt from this coordination requirement, but AF/A5XS should be kept
       informed of any such requests.
       2.8.1.7. Plan and conduct commander-directed experiments and wargames.
    2.8.2. Specific organizational responsibilities:
       2.8.2.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall
       provide personnel with expertise in science and technology and related information
       support for wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) shall
       assist in identifying senior AF leaders with the required background, skills, and/or
       qualifications to participate in AF, Joint Staff, or sister Services experimentation.
       2.8.2.3. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
       (AF/A2) shall:
           2.8.2.3.1. Provide proper representation of intelligence, surveillance, and
           reconnaissance capabilities and related information support for wargames and other
           experiments.
           2.8.2.3.2. Assist in providing proper representation of adversary capabilities and
           related information to support Red Team functions for wargames and other
           experiments.
           2.8.2.3.3. Assist in scenario development for wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support
       (AF/A4/7) shall provide proper representation of logistics, security, civil engineering
       capabilities, and related information support for wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.5. The Director of Studies & Analysis, Assessment, and Lessons Learned
       (AF/A9) shall provide strategic assessment and analysis support for wargames and other
       experiments.
       2.8.2.6. The Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration
       (AF/A10) shall provide proper representation of strategic deterrence, nuclear capabilities,
       and information support for wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.7. The Director of the Office of Cyberspace Operations (AF/A3C/A6C) shall,
       in coordination with Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), provide proper representation
       for policy, guidance, and oversight of cyber operations and information technology
       capabilities for wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.8. The Director of Operations (AF/A3O) shall assist AF/A5X and AF/A8X to
       ensure representative and realistic weather data is made available for integration into
       Title 10 Wargames and other experiments.
       2.8.2.9. Air Combat Command (ACC) shall provide proper representation of the AF
       core function capabilities and technologies for which they are responsible for wargames
       and other experiments.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    9


     2.8.2.10. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) shall provide proper
     representation of doctrinal issues for wargames and other experiments.
     2.8.2.11. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) shall:
     2.8.2.11.1. Provide proper representation of the AF core function capabilities and
     technologies for which they are responsible for wargames and other experiments.
        2.8.2.11.2. Provide authoritative system fact sheets of future capabilities for inclusion
        in the AF Toolbox.
     2.8.2.12. Air Force Space Command (AFSC) shall:
        2.8.2.12.1. Provide proper representation of the AF core function capabilities and
        technologies for which they are responsible for wargames and other experiments.
        2.8.2.12.2. Provide authoritative epoch-specific space and cyberspace orders of battle
        and system fact sheets for inclusion in the AF Toolbox.
     2.8.2.13. Air Mobility Command (AMC) shall provide proper representation of the AF
     core function capabilities and technologies for which they are responsible for wargames
     and other experiments.
     2.8.2.14. Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) shall provide proper
     representation of the AF core function capabilities and technologies for which they are
     responsible for wargames and other experiments.
     2.8.2.15. AF Reserve Command (AFRC) shall provide representation of AF Reserve
     force capabilities and technologies for wargames and other experiments.
     2.8.2.16. Air National Guard (ANG) shall provide proper representation of ANG force
     capabilities and technologies for wargames and other experiments.
     2.8.2.17. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) shall provide proper
     representation of the AF core function capabilities and technologies for which they are
     responsible for wargames and other experiments.




                                          BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 10                                                       AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3010.02C, Joint Concept Development and Experimentation (JCD&E) 15 January 2012
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military & Associated Terms, 8 Nov 2010, as
amended 15 July 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development and Experimentation, 17 April 2012
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
Alberts, David S., Richard E. Hayes, Dennis K. Leedom, John E. Kirzl, and Daniel T. Maxwell,
Code of Best Practice for Experimentation, Washington, DC, DoD Command and Control
Research Program (CCRP) Publication Series, 2002
Alberts, David S. and Richard E. Hayes, Code of Best Practice for Campaigns of
Experimentation: Pathways to Innovation and Transformation, Washington, DC, CCRP
Publication Series, 2005
Simpson, Michael D., Code of Best Practices for Office of Naval Research (ONR) Operational
Experimentation, San Diego, CA, The Ranger Group, for the Schafer Corporation, revised 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements
AF/A3O—Directorate of Operations
AF/A3C/A6C—Directorate of Cyberspace Operations
AF/A4/7—Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
AF/A5X—Directorate of Operational Planning, Policy & Strategy
AF/A5XS—Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming Division
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                     11


AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs
AF/A8X—Directorate of Strategic Planning
AF/A8XC—Future Concepts Division
AF/A9—Directorate of Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
AF/A10—Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration
AFAMS—Air Force Agency for Modeling & Simulation
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFS—Alternative Force Structure
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CCMD—Combatant Command(s)
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
COA—Course of Action
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DOD—Department of Defense
DOTMLPF—P – Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education,
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FG—Air Force Future Capabilities Game
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
 12                                                         AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
JFC—Joint Force Commander
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
M&S—Modeling & Simulation
MoA—Measures of Achievement
MoE—Measures of Effectiveness
NAF—Numbered Air Force
ONR—Office of Naval Research
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PFE—Programmed Force Extended
PGO—Policy, Guidance, and Oversight
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/CIO A6—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Chief, Warfighting Integration & Chief
Information Officer
SLS—Senior Leader Seminar
UE—Unified Engagement
USAF—United States Air Force
WIE—Wargaming Information Environment

Terms
Air Force Experiment Sponsor: An AF organization that designs, executes, prepares
reports on, and monitors transition for an experiment in accordance with AFI 10—2802.
Air Force Toolbox— Official repository of Air Force Program of Record and future concept
systems and platforms. The Toolbox is maintained by AF/A8XC and used to develop Toolkits
for use by the Air Force, sister Services, OSD, Joint Staff, and other organizations. (AFPD 10-
28, 17 Apr 2012)
Air Force Toolkit— A subset of the Air Force Toolbox; tailored to meet customers’ needs; used
to execute wargame, conduct experiments, run exercises, or provide analysis. (AFPD 10-28, 17
Apr 2012)
Experiment— A process to explore the effects of manipulating a variable; an analytical activity
to determine the efficacy of something previously untried, examine the validity of a hypothesis,
or demonstrate a known or believed truth within a specific context. (CJCSI 3010.02C, 15 Jan 12)
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    13


Experimentation— An iterative process for developing and assessing concept-based hypotheses
to identify and recommend the best value-added solutions for changes in doctrine, organization,
training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities and policy required to
achieve significant advances in future joint operational capabilities. (CJCSI 3170.01G, Mar 09).
For the purposes of AF CD&E, experimentation methods include wargaming, exercises and
experiments, with wargaming as the primary method of CD&E experimentation. Experiments
can be another method of experimentation. Experimentation can include live, virtual and
constructive activities to provide a ―low-risk‖ environment to explore and assess new or refined
concepts, processes, technology, tactics, techniques and procedures. Exercises are not an explicit
experimentation activity, but can provide a venue to explore some limited experimentation
objectives. (AFPD 10-28, 17 Apr 2012)
Programmed Force Extended— The Programmed Force Extended is a planning excursion
developed to support a strategic risk assessment. For planning purposes, the Programmed Force
is projected two additional Fiscal Years Defense Plan (FYDP) periods in order to support a
comparison with the Planning Force. This comparison provides a basis for assessing strategic
risk with respect to the future security environment. (AFPD 90-11)
Test and Evaluation (T&E)— The act of generating empirical data during the research,
development or sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is
useful to technical personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The
process by which systems are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results
analyzed so as to gauge progress and provide feedback (Reference AFI 99-103)
Title 10 Wargame— A CSAF-directed, HAF-conducted wargame which explores current and
future issues impacting doctrine, force structure and concepts (future, employment, operational,
etc.). HAF conducts two Title 10 wargames: 1. Unified Engagement (UE) is the biennial
wargame operationally focused to address military challenges and concept exploration
(traditionally 12 years out), and 2. The AF Future Capabilities wargame (FG) is the biennial
wargame focused on addressing future concepts and force structure alternatives (traditionally
20+ years out). (AFPD 10-28, 17 Apr 2012)
Wargame— A simulation, by whatever means, of a military operation involving two or more
opposing forces, using rules, data, and procedures designed to depict an actual or assumed real-
life situation. (Joint Publication 1-02, 8 Nov 10, as amended through 15 Aug 11)
Wargame Director— The senior officer responsible for ensuring the accomplishment of
experiment or wargaming objectives.
 14                                                          AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
               PLANNING, EXECUTION, REPORTING AND TRANSITION

A2.1. Purpose. This attachment provides a set of general organizing principles/guidelines for
AF organizations sponsoring experiments/wargames to consider. It is intended to inform these
activities, and provide experimentation and wargaming reporting guidance. This information is
derived from the Code of Best Practice for Experimentation Series and Code of Best Practices
for ONR Operational Experimentation (reference Attachment 1).
A2.2. Planning and Organizing
      A2.2.1. Planning:
         A2.2.1.1. Identify, collect, and prioritize candidate experimentation needs. AF sponsored
         experimentation should support the development of AF and joint capabilities. Therefore,
         potential sources include: AF capability-based assessments, CFLI Core Function
         Concepts and Core Function Master Plans, CJCS, CCMD, and sister Service plans,
         concepts, capability assessments, etc.
         A2.2.1.2. Develop a central hypothesis and/or objectives that map to experimentation
         needs, concepts, capability gaps, or potential solutions to be evaluated. Obtain approval
         from the experiment/wargame sponsor.
         A2.2.1.3. Determine the type of experiment/wargame (e.g., discovery, hypothesis,
         demonstration) necessary to produce relevant and useful results.
         A2.2.1.4. Develop analytical questions that support hypothesis/objectives, and develop a
         data collection and analysis plan to answer the questions during the course of the
         experiment/wargame.
         A2.2.1.5. Select and develop an experiment/wargame scenario.
         A2.2.1.6. Develop interrelated metrics that will shape the data collection and analysis
         plan.
             A2.2.1.6.1. Develop Measures of Achievement (MoA) capable of assessing the
             overall success of evaluating the central hypothesis and/or solutions.
             A2.2.1.6.2. Develop Measures of Effectiveness (MoE) that map to analytical
             questions and support MoA assessment.
             A2.2.1.6.3. Develop Measures of Performance that support MoEs and consist of
             observable/recordable data to be collected during an experiment/wargame.
         A2.2.1.7. Draft an experiment/wargame execution plan, to include a timeline with key
         milestones identified. Obtain approval from the experiment/wargame sponsor.
      A2.2.2. Organizing:
         A2.2.2.1. Designate an AF organization responsible for planning and executing the
         experiment/wargame.
         A2.2.2.2. Identify candidate experiment/wargame stakeholders within and external to the
         AF.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      15


      A2.2.2.3. Obtain and document support commitments from participating organizations.
      A2.2.2.4. Identify organizations and individuals as needed                to     serve     as
      experiment/wargame host, director, controller, and other key roles.
      A2.2.2.5. Evaluate the feasibility of partnering or integrating                with      other
      experiments/wargames (or exercises, as applicable) for efficiency/synergy.
      A2.2.2.6. Establish a proposed location/facility for the experiment/wargame.
      A2.2.2.7. Establish preliminary resource requirements, including: manpower, logistics,
      training, support, and network/communications. Prepare an estimate of required funding.
      Provide preliminary resource requirements to applicable experiment sponsor offices to
      ensure resources are allocated in time for proper planning.
      A2.2.2.8. Identify one or more organizations responsible for implementing or otherwise
      transitioning experiment/wargame results in support of AF or joint capability
      development.
A2.3. Execution
   A2.3.1. Install and test equipment and systems (venue permitting).
   A2.3.2. Validate/exercise event design to include training and practice runs for
   participants/players, experiment control team, and data collection/analysis team.
   A2.3.3. Conduct frequent close observation of data collection efforts for proper time samples
   and format.
   A2.3.4. Provide frequent status updates to key members of the experiment team,
   experiment/wargame director, and participants/players on metrics, objectives, and overall
   progress.
   A2.3.5. Ensure analytical results are understood and relevant to decision makers.
   A2.3.6. Present ―hot wash‖ and/or ―quick look‖ information to key participants immediately
   after experiment conclusion in preparation for a final analysis report.
A2.4. Reporting
   A2.4.1. Reporting of HAF and MAJCOM level experimentation results serves several
   purposes:
      A2.4.1.1. Informs other AF and MAJCOM/CFLI decision processes by the sharing of
      findings and results.
      A2.4.1.2. Reduces the risk of unintentional duplication of efforts.
      A2.4.1.3. Enables achievement of results that can serve as a research data base to inform
      future experimentation, formal Test and Evaluation (T&E), and development of potential
      solutions to capability gaps.
      A2.4.1.4. Supports the development of AF inputs to other required Office of the
      Secretary Defense (OSD) and CJCS reporting.
 16                                                             AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


      A2.4.2. Report submission:
         A2.4.2.1. Per paragraph 2.7.6, HAF and MAJCOM level experiment sponsors will
         submit copies of post-event reports to AF/A5XS (afa5xs.workflow@pentagon.af.mil or
         af.xoxs@pentagon.smil.mil). Reports shall include the following minimum elements:
             A2.4.2.1.1. Event title.
             A2.4.2.1.2. Sponsoring organization and key partners.
             A2.4.2.1.3. Event description.
             A2.4.2.1.4. Scenario timeframe.
             A2.4.2.1.5. Summary of milestones/significant events.
             A2.4.2.1.6. Experiment objectives.
             A2.4.2.1.7. Summary of participation.
             A2.4.2.1.8. Specialized technologies employed, if applicable.
             A2.4.2.1.9. Identification of outcomes and recommendations.
      A2.4.3. Report Disposition. AF/A5XS shall:
         A2.4.3.1. Maintain an electronic archive available to the AF experimentation/wargaming
         community of all reports received.
         A2.4.3.2. Prepare semi-annual summaries of experiment/wargame reports received and
         AF participation in experimentation/wargames sponsored by AF, CJCS, CCMD, and
         sister Services. Coordinate for distribution to all HAF 2 Letters and MAJCOMs/CFLIs.
A2.5. Transition Considerations. Ultimately, successful transition of solutions identified
through experimentation result in meaningful change for the warfighter. The transition of
experiment/wargame results requires careful attention throughout planning and execution to
maximize opportunities for impact after completion.
      A2.5.1. Keep senior leaders informed at key decision points throughout the experiment
      planning and execution phases.
      A2.5.2. Develop a transition strategy that identifies potential transition paths for
      implementing validated experiment solutions.
         A2.5.2.1. Potential transition paths include changes to elements of doctrine,
         organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and policy
         (DOTMLPF-P).
      A2.5.3. Develop a transition implementation plan that describes potential courses of action
      for passing experimentation findings and conclusions to responsible requirements
      organizations and other interested parties.
      A2.5.4. Follow-up with organization responsible for transitioning results until transition is
      complete.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 17


                                           Attachment 3
              WARGAMING MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT

A3.1. Purpose. This attachment describes the WIE developed, operated, and maintained by
AF/A5XS. The WIE is a deployable and scalable capability that includes IT and M&S tools. It
uses both industry standard and emerging technologies, and will work within Assistant Secretary
of the Air Force, Chief, Warfighting Integrations & Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6)
and Air Force Research Lab implementation guidelines and procedures where applicable.
AF/A5XS will evaluate new tools as required to ensure wargame participants have access to the
best available IT and M&S resources.
A3.2. The WIE will consist of multiple IT and M&S tools that enhance experimentation and
wargaming events to include:
   A3.2.1. Collaborative software.
   A3.2.2. Integrated models and simulations.
   A3.2.3. Visualization tools.
   A3.2.4. Office automation tools.
   A3.2.5. Business intelligence tools.
   A3.2.6. Databases and data warehousing tools.
   A3.2.7. Instant messaging tools.
   A3.2.8. Identity and access management capabilities.
   A3.2.9. Data processing capabilities.
   A3.2.10. Business process management tools.
A3.3. The WIE may also incorporate joint and sister Service IT and M&S tools to support
achievement of specific experimentation and wargaming objectives. Other potential IT and M&S
tools that could be used include, but are not limited to:
   A3.3.1. Time-phased force and deployment data creation.
   A3.3.2. Ballistic missile defense modeling.
   A3.3.3. Air refueling capability.
   A3.3.4. Space asset modeling.
   A3.3.5. Air platform orbit modeling.
   A3.3.6. Ground coverage by aerial and space based assets.
   A3.3.7. Communications modeling and nodal analysis.
   A3.3.8. Hazardous nuclear/chemical/biological trend analysis and modeling.
   A3.3.9. Campaign modeling and analysis.
   A3.3.10. Data creation and analysis.
 18                                                         AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


A3.4. WIE support can be used in the following areas:
      A3.4.1. Game IT and M&S design.
      A3.4.2. Game system accreditation support.
      A3.4.3. IT and M&S support.
      A3.4.4. Deployable WIE and support activities.
      A3.4.5. Data development and management.
      A3.4.6. Product evaluation support.
      A3.4.7. Custom solution support.
A3.5. IT and M&S Support Requests. Requests for IT and M&S support for experimentation
should be forwarded to AF/A5XS for review and assistance. After reviewing requests, AF/A5XS
will assist as able in providing the support and/or identifying other AF organizations capable of
doing so. If necessary, AF/A5XS will act as an initial liaison to assist experimentation sponsors
obtain IT and M&S support from other AF organizations.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  19


                                        Attachment 4
                                 UNIFIED ENGAGEMENT

A4.1. Overview
   A4.1.1. UE is an Air Force Title 10 Wargame sponsored by AF/A3/5 to address CSAF-
   approved objectives. UE provides the Air Force with a means for critical self-examination to
   guide capability and concept development for future operations. It also offers unique
   opportunities for Airmen to foster and build relationships with sister Services and the air
   forces of Allies and other Partner Nations.
   A4.1.2. UE emphasizes operational challenges from the perspectives of a Joint Task Force
   (JTF) Commander/staff and subordinate Joint Functional Component Commanders/staffs.
   Interactions with and between Combatant Commanders/staffs and their subordinate
   components are also examined. Typical UE scenarios are set approximately 12 years in the
   future—far enough in the future to distinguish from the scenarios associated with current
   CCMD contingency plans, yet not so far that data about friendly and potential enemy forces
   and systems is not readily available to support realistic planning, modeling and simulation.
   By studying a timeframe outside the FYDP, the full range of DOTMLPF-P solutions can be
   considered for addressing capability gaps.
   A4.1.3. AF/A3/5 partners with a MAJCOM, as directed by the CSAF, to develop the
   regional focus for a given iteration of the UE Wargame. Joint and Partner Nation
   representatives can also be included in wargame design and execution to incorporate their
   expertise and perspectives. As appropriate to the specific UE regional focus, scenario and
   objectives, representatives of other U.S. Government Departments/Agencies can also be key
   contributors to UE.
   A4.1.4. UE consists of a series of multiple workshops and other planning activities that take
   place over the course of an execution phase lasting roughly one year. This series culminates
   in a wargame-style event (―capstone wargame‖), conducted roughly every other year.
   Following wargame execution, AF/A3/5 prepares a report of findings and recommendations
   for submission to CSAF, while simultaneously beginning the design phase for the next UE
   iteration.
A4.2. Purpose. The development of specific wargame objectives is a key early step in the
planning stage of any UE cycle. (See A4.3.) These objectives define the specific purpose for a
given iteration of the wargame. However, the following five overall goals outline the enduring
purpose of UE:
   A4.2.1. Enhance joint/combined warfighting relationships and capabilities. By designing the
   wargame around the priorities of a MAJCOM and the associated CCMD/components, and
   maximizing the use of personnel from these organizations, UE reinforces the same
   organizational and personal relationships that are central to actual contingency plans and
   operations. The wargaming environment also provides these warfighters with an opportunity
   to understand how existing capabilities will or should evolve to meet the future demands of
   the area for which they are responsible.
   A4.2.2. Prevent or mitigate operational surprise. UE scenarios are designed to provide a
   plausible strategic backdrop for operational decision making, and the wargaming
 20                                                              AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


      environment allows competing decisions to be extrapolated to logical conclusions. This time-
      tested methodology often results in operational outcomes other than what was originally
      planned by either friendly or enemy forces, leading to potentially important insights and
      discovery. In doing so, UE helps commanders and their staffs prepare themselves for such
      experiences.
      A4.2.3. Explore concept, capability, and capacity shortfalls. UE provides an operational lens
      through which documented Air Force capability gaps can be examined, both to understand
      the implications of these gaps across the joint force, and to develop mitigating strategies. UE
      is also an opportunity to subject emerging warfighting concepts to scrutiny by operational
      planners, with the goal of improving or discarding such concepts on the basis of their merits.
      Finally, wargame results can reveal previously undocumented needs/gaps in Air Force
      capabilities.
      A4.2.4. Build and nurture partnerships and alliances worldwide. Multinational participation
      is a hallmark of modern operations involving Air Force forces and UE is designed to match
      this reality. Representatives of partner nations and their air forces are involved throughout the
      UE planning and execution efforts, to include robust role play by international officers in key
      wargame positions. Targeted partnership seminars are also used to maximize the
      opportunities for Air Force leaders to interact with their regional counterparts in order to
      build and nurture relationships that are key to advancing U.S. interests worldwide.
      A4.2.5. Develop Airmen and our joint partners for operational and strategic leadership. UE
      provides a unique opportunity for many AF senior leaders and staff officers to experience
      first-hand the complexities of leading a representative joint/coalition military operation. The
      emphasis on interaction between functional components, the JTF headquarters, and multiple
      combatant commands provides a rare venue for exercising such aspects of joint doctrine,
      particularly in the context of a high-tempo, cross-domain, and full-spectrum combat
      operation.
A4.3. Timeline. AF/A3/5 synchronizes four distinct efforts over a two year timeframe to
successfully accomplish UE. These efforts consist of wargame design, execution, reporting and
transition. (See Figure A4.1.)
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  21



Figure A4.1. Notional UE Timeline



                      DESIGN

                                  EXECUTION

                                               CAPSTONE
                                               WARGAME
                                                         REPORTING

                                                             TRANSITION


                          APPROXIMATELY 2 YEARS

   A4.3.1. Design. AF/A5X carries out all aspects of planning associated with UE Wargame
   design. This planning begins in advance of UE execution, and continues until the start of the
   capstone wargame. The period where wargame design and execution overlap is a key
   characteristic of UE, allowing for extensive interaction between these two efforts: the
   wargame design influences execution, and the role player decisions early in execution also
   shape the ultimate design of the capstone wargame. Wargame design consists of the
   following key elements:
      A4.3.1.1. Nomination of a MAJCOM to partner with AF/A3/5 and host the capstone
      wargame and other key events.
      A4.3.1.2. Determination of Partner MAJCOM priorities and translation of those
      priorities into wargame focus areas.
      A4.3.1.3. Identification of wargame stakeholders across HAF and other
      MAJCOMs/NAFs, CCMDs/components, Services, U.S. Government agencies, and
      Partner Nations.
      A4.3.1.4. Development of wargame objectives by: solicitation of stakeholder inputs;
      drafting and coordination; obtaining CSAF approval; and development of data
      collection/analysis plans.
      A4.3.1.5. Development of wargame scenario, friendly and enemy orders of battle,
      tasking orders and other strategic guidance.
      A4.3.1.6. Drafting a wargame timeline (player events, design activities, other
      milestones) that accounts for and ideally complements other DOD, HAF and Partner
      MAJCOM activities.
      A4.3.1.7. Planning of individual workshops and other events.
22                                                            AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


        A4.3.1.8. Outreach     to   senior    leaders,   player    education/training,    strategic
        communications.
        A4.3.1.9. Acquisition, configuration and transportation of computers, servers, software
        and other critical equipment and supporting data. This includes the development of new
        software and adaptation of existing applications.
     A4.3.2. Execution. UE execution begins with the first ―in-role‖ wargame event, typically a
     simulated National Security Council meeting that establishes the political/strategic context
     for operational planning, and continues through the adjudication of the final operational
     move at the capstone wargame. There are five distinct elements of UE execution: wargame
     control, operational planning, data collection/analysis, network operations, and security.
        A4.3.2.1. Wargame control consists of all actions and decisions that establish the
        environment in which role players and adjudicators carry out their assigned
        responsibilities. The wargame director leads a team of scenario creators, data collectors,
        analysts, and facilitators who closely monitor progress towards wargame objectives. The
        director and control team are responsible for establishing the operational conditions under
        which wargame play begins, providing strategic guidance and other
        information/decisions to role players, and determining the timeframe for individual
        wargame moves.
        A4.3.2.2. Crisis action planning in UE conforms to current doctrinal and/or other
        established procedures. Role playing participants are the primary operational planners,
        with support from the wargame control team in the form of strategic guidance and
        tasking. Crisis action planning takes place over the course of UE execution, culminating
        in the final move of the capstone wargame.
            A4.3.2.2.1. Crisis action planning workshops are conducted to set the stage for
            wargame moves at the capstone wargame. The events are typically conducted in the
            host-MAJCOM’s theater of operations to facilitate maximum participation of the
            planners assigned to the associated CCMD and its Service components.
            A4.3.2.2.2. Functional workshops are executed to analyze or plan a specific
            functional area of relevance to operations planning.
            A4.3.2.2.3. Partnership workshops are essential components of UE execution that
            enable the AF to incorporate a wide range of international perspectives in the pursuit
            of wargame objectives. These workshops use basic wargaming methods and tools,
            and also support theater security cooperation goals by creating military-to-military
            engagement opportunities for regionally focused AF senior commanders and their
            staffs. AF/A5X plans and executes UE partnership workshops in close coordination
            with MAJCOM staffs and the associated CCMD staff.
            A4.3.2.2.4. A capstone wargame culminates UE execution where opposing teams
            plan sequential moves that are independently adjudicated by subject matter experts.
            Move adjudication relies predominantly on expert judgment, supplemented by the use
            of models and simulations. Role player decisions during the course of the moves and
            the adjudicated operational outcomes are analyzed to generate observations, insights
            and conclusions that inform Air Force capability development and future planning.
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    23


         The capstone wargame is typically conducted in the host MAJCOM’s theater of
         operations to maximize participation by the ―warfighters‖ assigned to that CCMD.
     A4.3.2.3. AF/A5XS collects data throughout UE execution, and analyzes that data to
     form observations, insights and recommendations relevant to wargame objectives.
     A4.3.2.4. Network operations are a key aspect of UE execution. Refer to Attachment 3
     for a detailed description of the Wargaming Information Environment.
     A4.3.2.5. Physical and information security are also key components of UE execution.
  A4.3.3. Reporting
  A4.3.3.1. Senior Leader Seminar. The first opportunity to formally out brief UE results and
  emerging insights to an external audience is during the Senior Leader Seminar (SLS),
  conducted as soon as practical after the final move of the capstone wargame. The Wargame
  Director, the Senior Air Force officer participating in UE, and other senior leader participants
  use the SLS to share their experiences with the host MAJCOM leadership, as well as with the
  CSAF and other AF senior leaders. Senior leader representatives from other Services, the
  Joint Staff, and the CCMDs can also participate in the SLS. The SLS provides a means for
  the CSAF and other senior leaders to provide early feedback on wargame results to guide
  follow-on analysis, reporting and transition efforts.
  A4.3.3.2. Post-wargame analysis consists of two distinct efforts: validation of subjectively
  adjudicated outcomes via modeling and simulation; and detailed study of data collected
  throughout the wargame to verify emerging insights and/or identify other insights.
     A4.3.3.3. AF/A5XS prepares and coordinates a written report that documents wargame
     design, participation, outcomes and findings. The report is drafted for submission to and
     approval by the CSAF. UE reports can consist of sections classified at different levels,
     based upon the nature of the information and the intended audience. At a minimum, they
     should include unclassified summaries of all major design elements and findings.
     A4.3.3.4. AF/A5X presents summary briefings on UE outcomes and findings to select
     senior leaders from HAF, MAJCOMs, CCMDs, OSD, the Joint Staff, sister Services, and
     other U.S. Government organizations. These briefings are used to inform a wider
     audience and to increase support for UE transition efforts.
  A4.3.4. Transition
     A4.3.4.1. Development of follow-on actions. AF/A5XS works closely with appropriate
     HAF and MAJCOM organizations, and in some cases with organizations external to the
     AF, to develop a set of follow-on actions intended to either implement UE
     findings/recommendations or to conduct additional study where needed. On behalf of
     AF/A3/5, AF/A5XS coordinates proposed follow-on actions and prepares AF/A3/5
     transition action recommendations for CSAF approval.
     A4.3.4.2. AF/A5XS tracks completion of follow-on actions, and provides periodic status
     updates to AF/A5X and AF/A3/5.
 24                                                             AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


                                            Attachment 5
                                 FUTURE CAPABILITIES GAME

A5.1. Overview. The Future Capabilities Game (FG) is an AF Title 10 Wargame sponsored by
AF/A8 to address CSAF approved objectives. FG provides the AF with a means for critical self-
examination to inform force structure planning and investment strategies.
      A5.1.1. FG is CSAF’s far-term, strategic-level wargame focusing on future force structure
      alternatives and employment concepts. FG focuses on force-on-force engagement from the
      Joint Force Commander (JFC) perspective. FG examines several CSAF objectives that are
      derived from enduring challenges to the Air Force. These objectives use alternative force
      structures and employment concepts and are examined against the programmed force. FG
      scenarios are set 20 years in the future far enough into the future to distinguish from the
      scenarios associated with current CCMDs contingency plans and to allow wargaming of two
      distinct, technologically feasible, and cost neutral Blue Forces, yet not so far that data about
      friendly and potential enemy forces is not available (or cannot be generated) to support
      realistic planning and M&S. By studying a timeframe outside the Future Years Defense
      Program, a full range of force structure concept employment solutions can be considered for
      addressing capability gaps.
      A5.1.2. AF/A8 partners with all MAJCOMs, Numbered Air Forces (NAFs) and AF
      agencies.    Joint, DOD, US Government, and Allied representatives provide a unique
      perspective and expertise; so they also participate in wargame planning and execution.
      A5.1.3. FG is built using an iterative approach consisting of a series of build-up workshops
      and planning activities that take place over a two-year planning cycle. These events
      culminate with a capstone wargame. After completion of capstone, AF/A8 prepares a report
      of findings and insights, and a set of recommendations for CSAF approval.
A5.2. Purpose. FG execution supports both the Strategic Planning Process and force structure
planning efforts. FG assesses the ability of an alternative AF force structure to meet the
operational requirements of a JFC approximately 20 years in the future. The game compares
performance of an Alternative Force Structure (AFS) to the performance of Programmed Force
Extended (PFE). It also focuses on specific, CSAF-approved objectives. These objectives define
the specific purpose for a given iteration of the wargame. FG has the following four enduring
purposes:
      A5.2.1. Enhance joint and combined warfighting relationships and capabilities. By designing
      the wargame around adapted OSD-approved planning scenarios, FG reinforces the
      organizational and command relationships central to contingency planning and operations.
      Future wargames provide warfighters with an opportunity to understand how existing and
      future capabilities may evolve to meet future challenges.
      A5.2.2. Prevent or mitigate technological/operational surprise. FG scenarios are designed to
      provide a plausible strategic backdrop for operational decision-making. This unique wargame
      - where two different blue forces fight a common enemy in a common scenario - allows a
      detailed evaluation of potential, future force structures. This time-tested methodology often
      results in operational outcomes other than what was originally planned by either friendly or
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    25


   enemy forces, thereby faithfully representing the fog and friction inherent to actual combat
   operations.
   A5.2.3. Explore concept, capability, and capacity shortfalls. FG provides an opportunity to
   subject emerging warfighting concepts to scrutiny by operational planners, with the goal of
   improving or discarding such concepts on the basis of their merits. FG also provides a
   strategic lens through which documented AF capability gaps can be examined. This provides
   an understanding of the implications of these gaps across the coalition and joint force, and
   helps evaluate proposed alternative force structure solutions. Finally, wargame results can
   reveal previously undocumented AF capacity gaps.
   A5.2.4. Develop Airmen and our joint partners for operational and strategic leadership. FG
   provides a unique opportunity for many AF senior leaders and staff officers to experience
   first-hand the complexities of leading a representative joint/coalition military operation. The
   emphasis on interaction between functional components, the Coalition Joint Task Force
   headquarters, and multiple combatant commands provides a rare venue to exercise joint
   doctrine in the context of high-tempo, full spectrum combat operations.
A5.3. Timeline. AF/A8 synchronizes five distinct efforts over a two-year timeframe to
successfully accomplish FG. These efforts consist of wargame design, planning, execution,
reporting, and follow-on analysis. (See Figure A5.1.)

Figure A5.1. Notional FG Timeline




   A5.3.1. Design. Wargame design consists of nominating objectives, identifying
   stakeholders, developing a scenario, developing a schedule/timeline, and constructing the
   wargame framework. This phase continues well into the planning phase. The period where
   wargame design and planning overlap is a key characteristic of FG, allowing for extensive
   interaction between these two efforts. FG design influences both planning and the ultimate
   structure of the alternative force. Design includes:
26                                                            AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


        A5.3.1.1. Nomination of wargame objectives by soliciting input from enduring partners;
        drafting and coordination; obtaining CSAF approval; and development of data
        collection/analysis plans.
        A5.3.1.2. Identification of wargame stakeholders across HAF, other MAJCOMs/NAFs,
        CCMDs/components, sister Services, other U.S. Government agencies, and Allied
        Partners.
        A5.3.1.3. Development of wargame scenario, friendly and enemy orders of battle,
        tasking orders and other strategic guidance.
        A5.3.1.4. Development of a wargame schedule/timeline (player events, design activities,
        other milestones).
        A5.3.1.5. De-confliction from other DOD, HAF and Partner MAJCOM/NAF activities.
        A5.3.1.6. Construction of the wargame framework. The FG process historically uses
        current doctrinal and/or established procedures (Military Decision Making Process and
        the Combined Command and Control structure). However, wargame designers must
        remain open to the possibility of modifying these processes and structures.
     A5.3.2. Planning. FG planning begins with the first objective-based seminar and ends with
     campaign plan development during a Courses of Action (COA) Conference. Planning actions
     impact wargame design and wargame design impacts planning actions. Planning consists of,
     but is not limited to:
        A5.3.2.1. Hosting objectives-based workshops/seminars. These events educate and
        inform AF Senior Leaders, validate and verify wargame design concepts, and narrow the
        AFS options.
        A5.3.2.2. Collaboration with enduring partners, preparation of senior leaders, player
        education/training, and strategic communications.
        A5.3.2.3. Nominate Blue and Red Team Leads.
        A5.3.2.4. Develop the AFS. AFS development allows two Blue force structures to be
        compared and contrasted. The AFS is derived to address the CSAF-approved objectives
        by modifying the PFE. The AFS must consist of force options that are technologically
        feasible. The AFS must also match the cost of the PFE.
        A5.3.2.5. Develop Courses of Action. The COA Conference requires the PFE, AFS, and
        Red teams to perform operational planning to address the challenges presented in the FG
        scenario.
     A5.3.3. Execution. FG execution has four distinct elements: wargame control, data
     collection, analysis, and game play.
        A5.3.3.1. Wargame control consists of all actions and decisions that establish the
        environment in which role players and adjudicators carry out their assigned
        responsibilities. The wargame director leads a team of scenario creators, data collectors,
        analysts, and facilitators who closely monitor progress towards wargame objectives. The
        director and control team are responsible for establishing the operational conditions under
        which wargame play begins, providing strategic guidance and other
AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  27


     information/decisions to role players, and determining the timeframe for individual
     wargame moves.
     A5.3.3.2. The Capstone event is typically preceded by a conference that performs final
     planning based on JFC COA selection and executes ―Move Zero.‖ At Move Zero teams
     develops and executes a feasible force flow that meets JFC operational objectives.
     A5.3.3.3. AF/A8 assembles a simulated National Security Council (NSC) to represent
     the interface between civilian policy-makers and senior military officials responsible for
     executing the policy. Individuals with first-hand experience at this level of government
     play the roles of National Security Advisor, Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense,
     Secretary of the Treasury, Director of National Intelligence, and Chairman of the Joint
     Chiefs of Staff. NSC guidance is documented and translated into orders and memoranda
     for use by wargame players.
     A5.3.3.4. A capstone wargame culminates FG execution. In this event, opposing teams
     plan sequential moves that are independently adjudicated by subject matter experts. Move
     adjudication relies predominantly on expert judgment, supplemented by the use of M&S.
     Role player decisions during the course of the moves and the adjudicated operational
     outcomes are analyzed to generate observations, insights and conclusions that inform AF
     capability development and future planning. The capstone wargame is typically
     conducted at the LeMay Center Wargaming Institute at Maxwell AFB.
     A5.3.3.5. AF/A8XC collects data throughout FG execution and analyzes that data to
     develop and document observations, insights and recommendations relevant to the
     wargame objectives.
  A5.3.4. Reporting. The first FG reporting event is the initial out-brief presented to the
  CSAF at the Capstone event. Other reporting products include post-game workshops and
  analysis to develop the final report, and all prescribed and requested Senior Leader back-
  briefs.
  A5.3.4.1. Post-game workshops. A series of small, rapid succession post-game workshops
  focused on the major insights presented at FG’s initial out-brief .These events are used to
  refine and validate the capstone event insights. Individuals with JFC experience typically
  lead the workshops.
  A5.3.4.2. Post-game analysis. Further analysis is then accomplished to refine and validate
  the capstone event insights. This includes a review of all notes and records from the capstone
  event to include player comments, player move sheets, adjudication transcripts, and Senior
  Leader direct input. M&S results will be reviewed and additional data runs may be executed.
  The results of post-game analysis are documented in the CSAF-signed, FG Final Report.
  A5.3.5. Follow-on Analysis. The CSAF-signed FG final report mandates follow-on tasks
  with proposed OPRs.
     A5.3.5.1. Follow-on actions are developed in coordination with the proposed OPR
     during the writing of the FG final report. All follow-on actions are fully coordinated.
     A5.3.5.2. Tasking and tracking of follow-on actions. AF/A8XC through the AF/CC
     Executive Services sends out the follow-on actions to the respective OPRs and tracks
     action completion. The OPR is responsible for completion of all actions pertaining to the
28                                                     AFI10-2802 20 FEBRUARY 2013


     follow-on actions to include researching and producing a response. The OPR is also
     responsible for fully coordinating the final response.
     A5.3.5.3. Compilation of follow-on actions. AF/A8XC will compile all follow-on
     actions for final submission to the CSAF, and coordinate them across all HAF 2 -digit
     organizations and CFLIs.
