BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-208
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             10 MARCH 2007
                                                                            480TH ISR WING
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                            2 OCTOBER 2012

                                                       Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                              PERSONNEL RECOVERY COORDINATION
                                                    CELL OPERATING PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                     e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A3C                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                                                    (Brig Gen Robert C. Kane)
Supersedes:   AFI 13-208, 1 January 1996                                            Pages: 26
                                         (480ISRW)
OPR: 480 ISR WG/DOO                                             Certified by: 480 ISR WG/DO
                                                                         (Mr Robert T. Hamel)
                                                                                     Pages:10


This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield, and Range
Management, and the concepts found in AFDD 2-1.6, Personnel Recovery Operations. It
governs the coordination of active and reserve component forces committed to the operation of
Personnel Recovery Coordination Cells (PRCC) during contingency or combat operations. It
establishes guidance for command, communication, control, and coordination of Air Force forces
to accomplish personnel recovery (PR). This instruction applies to all Air Force major
commands, AF Reserves, Air National Guard, and numbered air forces involved in establishing
PRCCs and the Air Force component element of the Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC)
when the Air Component Commander is given responsibility for joint PR, the Air National
Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). While a PRCC may be established
as an independent entity, information in this instruction focuses on operations of a PRCC
established as an integral part of an Air Component Commander's Air and Space Operations
Center (AOC), Joint Air and Space Operations Center (JAOC), or Combined Air and Space
Operations Center (CAOC). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force. Send comments and suggested improvements to this publication on AF IMT 847,
 2                                                               AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to Headquarters Air Combat
Command (HQ ACC/A3C) 205 Dodd Blvd, Suite 101, Langley AFB, VA, 23665. This
instruction is affected by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

(480ISRW) AFI 13-208, Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell Operating Procedures is
supplemented as follows. It provides policy and guidance for 480th Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance Wing (480 ISR WG) and directs actions, assigns responsibilities, and
prescribes oversight for the personnel recovery combat search and rescue (PR/CSAR) program.
It applies to all 480 ISR WG personnel. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air National
Guard. This supplement may be supplemented at any level but must be routed through the higher
headquarters functional OPR for review before publishing. Send waiver requests through the
appropriate chain of command to 480 ISR WG/CC. Recommendation for changes on AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to 480 ISR WG/DOO,

(480ISRW) 34 Elm Street, Joint Base Langley-Eustis, VA 23665-2092. This instruction may
be supplemented at any level but must be routed through the higher headquarters functional OPR
for review and coordination before publishing. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
managers as required.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: changing the name of the publication from Rescue Coordination Center Combat Search
and Rescue Operating Procedures to Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell Operating
Procedures (title page); changing terminology from Rescue Coordination Center (RCC) to
Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell (PRCC) (throughout); changing terminology from Joint
Search and Rescue Center (JSRC) to Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC) (throughout);
recommending theater air component personnel recovery (PR) command and control (C2) staff
(paragraph 4.1); identifying PRCC augmenting personnel (paragraph 4.2); outlining PRCC
training requirements (paragraph 5 and Table 1)

       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................     3
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         3
       3.     Requirements. ........................................................................................................          5
       4.     Staffing. ..................................................................................................................    7
       5.     Training. .................................................................................................................    10
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                         3


Table 1.      Mandatory (M) & Recommended (R) Training for PRCC/JPRC Personnel. ........     13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                               21

Attachment 2—(Added-480ISRW) PR/CSAR EVENT CHECKLIST                                         25


1. General.
   1.1. Personnel Recovery (PR). ―The sum of military, diplomatic, and civil efforts to effect
   the recovery and return of Military, DOD civilians, and DOD contractor personnel who are
   isolated or missing while participating in a US government-sanctioned military activity or
   missions in an uncertain or hostile environment, or as determined by the Secretary of
   Defense.‖ (CJCSI 3270.01A)
   1.2. Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR). CSAR is the primary USAF recovery method
   utilized to conduct component and joint PR taskings.
   1.3. Personnel Recovery Coordination Cell (PRCC). The PRCC is the primary command
   and control (C2) agency responsible for the execution of PR operations for the Commander
   Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) within the assigned area of responsibility.
   1.4. Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC). When the COMAFFOR is designated the
   Joint Force Air Component Commander (JFACC) by the joint force commander, and is the
   supported commander for joint PR, the Air Force PRCC may form the nucleus for the JPRC
   while continuing to perform duties as the theater air component PRCC.
   1.5. Supplements. Major commands (MAJCOM), groups, or units may supplement this
   document in order to provide specific guidance to their aligned units. The parent MAJCOM
   PR C2 functional manager must approve all supplements prior to publication. Forward
   published and approved supplements to the parent MAJCOM within 30 days of publication.
   ANG units will forward supplements for approval through ANG/C4B. AFRC units will
   forward supplements for approval through AFRC/DOC.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. HQ ACC/A3C. HQ ACC/A3C will be responsible for developing and publishing this
   instruction, formal changes and interim message changes to this instruction, and
   incorporating recommended changes to this document as required.
   2.2. Theater COMAFFOR. The theater COMAFFOR will establish PRCC Operations.
   Each theater COMAFFOR will have an assigned core PR C2 element. This element is
   responsible for ensuring all preparations for conducting PR C2 operations in their area of
   responsibility (AOR) are current. This may include but is not limited to developing the PR
   annex of theater air component war plans, developing an initial PR section of the Air Tasking
   Order (ATO) Special Instructions (SPINS), ensuring PRCC augmentation forces are
   identified in theater air component war plans and time phased force deployment data, training
   and certification of assigned PR C2 personnel, ensuring the theater Air and Space Operations
   Center (AOC) is properly configured to support PRCC operations, coordinating personnel
   and equipment requirements for establishing a JPRC, and other duties as assigned by the
   COMAFFOR. The assigned theater PR C2 personnel form the core of the PRCC and, with
4                                            AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


    appropriate augmentation, provide the COMAFFOR a robust capability to conduct C2 of PR
    across the full range of military operations.
    2.3. PRCC.
       2.3.1. The PRCC initially assumes the duties of PR mission coordinator, initiates PR
       planning, and reports any incident to the JPRC. As the PR mission coordinator, the PRCC
       tasks and coordinates mission requirements with subordinate PR capable units, provides
       mission information, and ensures taskings are clearly understood. If mission execution
       requires assets outside the operational control of the COMAFFOR, the PRCC coordinates
       all requests through the JPRC.
       2.3.2. PR Communications Plan. Communications between the PRCC and theater PR
       forces are critical to the efficient execution and accomplishment of any PR operation. The
       PRCC will ensure a thorough PR communications plan is coordinated, established and
       published in the theater ATO for the execution of PR operations. PR communications
       procedures are typically delineated in theater PR Concept of Operations.
       2.3.3. Operating Checklists. In-depth procedural checklists play a critical role in
       executing PR operations. The PRCC will maintain and keep current checklists outlining
       positional PRCC actions for all known contingencies. Thorough and concise checklists
       must lead controllers through an orderly sequence from initiation to completion. As a
       minimum, maintain checklists that address initial PRCC set up, PRCC daily operations
       and procedures, PR mission decision matrix (including risk assessment), incident and
       mission opening and closing, and PR operations in a hostile or permissive environment,
       as applicable.
       2.3.4. Documentation of PR Events. The PRCC will maintain a file on each isolated
       person until recovery has been completed or confirmation of death has been verified, and
       pass files on successful recoveries and/or closed incidents to the theater JPRC. Thus, the
       PRCC must develop procedures to document daily activities and specific PR incidents.
       Several of the AOC baseline systems and collaborative tools allow for electronic record
       keeping of PR mission information. The following forms are available digitally on the
       AFDOP WWW site at http://afpubs.hq.af.mil and may be used at the discretion of the
       PRCC to assist in PR event documentation:
          2.3.4.1. AF Form 3959, RCC ELT/EPIRB Incident Log. This form allows for
          documentation of emergency locator transmitter (ELT) or emergency position-
          indicating radio beacon (EPIRB) incidents.
          2.3.4.2. AF Form 3960, Controller’s Log. This form allows the PRCC to maintain a
          chronological record of daily activities, or activities for a specific incident.
          2.3.4.3. AF Form 3961, RCC Aircraft Incident Log. This form allows for
          documentation of aviation-related incidents.
          2.3.4.4. AF Form 3962, RCC Non-Aircraft Incident Log. This form allows for
          documentation of non-aviation-related incidents.
       2.3.5. Aircraft Wreckage Locator. The PRCC will maintain a database of known crash
       locations within their AOR. To the furthest extent possible, the PRCC ascertains from
       available resources the approximate location of the site. This record provides information
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                           5


      that could possibly prevent the misidentification of crash sites during other PR missions.
      The database should include, as a minimum: the known location (geographic reference or
      coordinates), type of aircraft, date of crash, the incident or mission number assigned, and
      any amplifying remarks.
   2.4. JPRC. The JPRC plans, coordinates, and recommends tasking of components to
   support joint PR missions, coordinates PR procedures published in the SPINS, reviews
   theater plans, and coordinates joint training and exercises. Since PR is inherently joint and
   transcends component functional responsibilities and organizational boundaries, the JPRC
   should be staffed appropriately by each component to coordinate joint PR requirements.
   Though staffed suitably by each component, the primary responsibilities of JPRC personnel
   are to coordinate PR operations between component PRCCs, prevent duplication of PR
   efforts, and facilitate the efficient exchange of information. PR support is based on real-time
   operations and requires extensive coordination with other joint air assets and support
   functions. The JPRC should be fully integrated into the JFACC JAOC or Combined Forces
   Air Component Commander (CFACC) CAOC. Theater air component PR C2 personnel
   should establish requirements with the Combatant Command for JPRC staffing from other
   components, ensure additional workstations are available in the JPRC for component
   personnel, and ensure component personnel are trained and prepared to assume their duties
   prior to the start of any operations.
3. Requirements.
   3.1. Facility Requirements. When planning for and establishing PRCC operations consider
   the following items:
      3.1.1. Location and Manning. The PRCC should be located within the AOC to optimize
      integration with the AOC divisions, and be manned with personnel specifically trained to
      coordinate PR operations.
      3.1.2. Workspace. Sufficient workspace must be available to accommodate a deployed
      staff of up to 10 personnel per shift for continuous 24-hour operations of a PRCC and up
      to 15 personnel per shift for a JPRC. However, space limitations may require establishing
      the PRCC in a facility close to but separate from the AOC. If the PRCC is established in
      a separate facility, give appropriate consideration to the space required for office and
      communications equipment and connectivity to appropriate individuals or functions
      within the AOC. Regardless of PRCC location, certain PRCC personnel are typically
      integrated in the Combat Operations Division and Combat Plans Division of the AOC.
      3.1.3. Auxiliary Power. If the PRCC is established in a facility separate from the AOC an
      auxiliary power source is required for critical mission equipment to prevent mission
      degradation in the event normal power is lost. At locations where PRCC personnel might
      operate the emergency power equipment, training and a written operating instruction or
      checklist will be provided.
      3.1.4. Environmental Conditions. Ensure sufficient air cooling and heating is available at
      the deployed location to maintain satisfactory temperature ranges for efficient radio and
      computer operation.
      3.1.5. Establishing a PRCC Without an AOC Infrastructure. Operations may occur when
      the establishment of a PRCC is required without the support or infrastructure of an AOC.
6                                             AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


       This may occur during small-scale contingencies, military operations other than war,
       non-combatant evacuation operations, natural disasters, or other times at the discretion of
       the Combatant Commander. Theater air component PR C2 staff personnel should make
       every effort to prepare for this by developing a plan for independent PRCC operations
       that includes means for securing all support requirements.
    3.2. System Requirements.
       3.2.1. Equipment and Application Requirements. Since the theater air component PRCC
       is an integral part of the AOC weapon system, all equipment necessary to operate the
       PRCC is contained in the AOC baseline. The assigned theater PR C2 staff is responsible
       for ensuring specific equipment and applications required for normal functioning of the
       PRCC are identified and allocated.
       3.2.2. Standard Systems. Commonality of equipment and systems between theater air
       component PRCCs and the JPRC is essential. This will reduce training requirements for
       augmenting personnel that may be required to deploy to the different theaters and
       enhance standardization of processes.
       3.2.3. Computer Workstations. The recommended workstation configuration is a single,
       windows-based operating system with dual monitors. Each workstation should be
       configured to access both SIPRNET and NIPRNET central processing units using a
       common monitor, keyboard, and mouse through a keyboard-video-mouse sharing device.
       3.2.4. Workstation Applications. Applications identified in the AOC baseline that are
       relevant to PR operations should be loaded on each PRCC workstation. These
       applications may include but are not limited to theater battle management core system
       (TBMCS), AOC Portal, command and control-personal computer (C2PC), FALCON
       VIEW, joint automated deep operations coordination system (JADOCS), information
       work station (IWS) (or other collaborative tool), combat survivor evader locator (CSEL)
       workstation, and personnel recovery mission software (PRMS). The preferred method for
       receiving CSEL information is through the use of the personnel recovery applications
       tool kit that allows UNIX-based information to be displayed on a windows-based system.
       The standard suite of Microsoft Office applications should also be available on each
       workstation.
       3.2.5. Search and Rescue Satellite-Aided Tracking (SARSAT). The PRCC should have
       connectivity to commercial SARSAT alerts. This can be accomplished by contacting the
       United States Mission Control Center (USMCC) at 301-457-5434/5433/5678/5428.
       3.2.6. Situational Awareness Tools. The PRCC should have access to the common
       operational picture (COP) and other situational awareness tools, such as blue force
       tracker (BFT) if BFT is being used. The COP provides a near real-time picture of air and
       ground tracks; along with BFT these can be useful tools to assist the PRCC in
       maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions.
       3.2.7. Future Applications. The PRCC should incorporate new application technologies
       relevant to PR operations as they are approved in the AOC baseline. Examples of these
       future technologies may be web-enabled execution management capability (WEEMC)
       and global personnel recovery system (GPRS). WEEMC is a web-enabled software
       application that provides an integrated set of tools for fire support coordination data
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                          7


       management and analysis, along with mission planning, coordination, and execution.
       WEEMC is organized as a series of data managers including: map; fire mission
       coordination; suppression of enemy air defense planner; artillery locations; aircraft
       interdiction nominations; time-sensitive target nominations; close air support mission
       coordination; airspace control request; aviation routes; CSAR and airspace control points,
       all of which enables WEEMC to provide horizontal and vertical coordination between
       echelons. The CSAR manager is used to provide coordination across the functional
       elements engaged in planning and conducting CSAR operations. The manager provides
       tools for assembling and maintaining survivor information as well as identifying assets
       for recovery operations.
   3.3. Communications Requirements. PR events are normally short-notice and rapidly
   evolving dynamic situations that depend on rapid and reliable communications with all
   primary and secondary PR agencies for prompt receipt of distress information, alerting
   assisting agencies, launching PR forces, and directing or coordinating subsequent PR
   operations. Joint and component command, control, communications, computers and
   intelligence (C4I) planning should include potential PR requirements and inter-service and
   functional component C4I interoperability as it relates to communicating from air-to-air, air-
   to-surface, or surface-to-surface. The PRCC should maintain a close liaison with local
   communication representatives to obtain assistance, to evaluate communications needs and
   support, and to ensure effective and adequate service. The theater of operations should
   provide communications capabilities or make them accessible.
       3.3.1. Voice Communications. Each workstation should be equipped with a STU, STE,
       voice over internet protocol, or any other common secure-voice communication system
       used in the AOC. Automatic access to theater-wide telecommunications, including
       Defense Switched Network, Defense Red Switch Network, and international dialing,
       must be available in order for the PRCC or JPRC to coordinate with the Combatant
       Command and other components for PR.
       3.3.2. Radio Communications. The PRCC as well as the PR Duty Officer (PRDO)
       require the ability to communicate directly with air component forces involved in a PR
       mission. The PRCC radio communications systems must be compatible with the forces’
       communications systems, securable, and include beyond line of sight capabilities.
       Theater PR C2 staff should coordinate PR frequency requirements and authorizations, to
       include dedicated PR SATCOM Nets, during the operational planning phase.
4. Staffing.
   4.1. Core Theater PR C2 Staff. The dedicated theater air component PR C2 staff provides
   the COMAFFOR with PR subject matter expertise and prepares to conduct operations to
   recover air component and other personnel as directed. This staff forms the core of the
   theater air component PRCC and when augmented and properly equipped, gives the
   COMAFFOR a full-spectrum capability for C2 of air component PR operations.
       4.1.1. Recommended Theater Air Component PR C2 Staff. The complexity of the PR
       mission dictates expertise in a number of specialized functional areas and requires
       dedicated and properly trained personnel to prepare the theater air component to conduct
       operations across a gamut of missions from a major theater war to natural disaster
       recovery. The following positions should be incorporated in the dedicated theater air
8                                         AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


    component PR C2 Staff. The wartime mission descriptions for each position are included
    here. Peacetime duties should focus on training, exercising, planning, and preparation to
    conduct operations during hostilities and other operations.
       4.1.1.1. PRCC Director/Deputy Director. The COMAFFOR directs Air Force PR
       operations through the PRCC Director. The PRCC Director is responsible for the day-
       to-day operations of the PRCC and is responsible to the Combat Operations Division
       Chief. If the COMAFFOR is designated the JFACC and responsible for joint PR
       operations, the PRCC Director will normally be designated the JPRC Director.
       Additionally, that person will still be responsible for Air Force PRCC operations.
       Recommended rank is O-5. Recommended AFSCs are 11H3E, 11R3D, 12R3E,
       13D3A. Alternate AFSCs, provided the individual has rescue experience, are
       11S3A/E/F and 12S3G.
       4.1.1.2. PR Combat Plans Officer. Responsible to the PRCC Director and the Chief
       of Combat Plans with duties in the Combat Plans Division. Typically works in the
       Master Air Attack Plan cell while providing expertise to all other elements of the
       Combat Plans Division. Applies operational art to develop detailed execution plans
       for PR operations. The end result is publication and dissemination of a daily ATO.
       Based on joint force commander (JFC) objectives and apportionment, the Air
       Operations Directive, forces made available for JFACC tasking, and the operational
       environment; these execution plans and each daily ATO apply specific CSAR
       capabilities and assets to accomplish JFACC tasks in fulfillment of the JFC mission.
       Packages and inputs the missions, to include all tanker, electronic warfare, and other
       support, into the appropriate theater battle management system applications for the
       creation of the daily ATO and Airspace Control Order messages for dissemination to
       units. Compiles SPINS inputs from the PRCC and reviews for accuracy,
       completeness, and potential conflicts. Resolves potential conflicts among the team
       chiefs. Plans, coordinates, and tasks CSAR air refueling assets available for JFACC
       tasking. Works with the C2 Planning Team to develop detailed execution plans and
       the data link architecture to provide C2 of PR forces. Recommended rank is O-3.
       Recommended AFSCs are 11H3E, 11R3D, 12R3E.
       4.1.1.3. Personnel Recovery Plans Officer (PRPO). Responsible to the PRCC
       Director. Conducts PR operations planning to include development, coordination and
       modification of the AFFOR PR Plan; develops and coordinates the AFFOR
       Reintegration Plans; coordinates non-conventional assisted recovery requirements to
       include the development of pre-determined recovery areas and associated tactics,
       techniques, and procedures with Special Operations Component; implements and
       monitors component Reintegration Plans; develops Daily Summary of MIA/POW
       status; develops and coordinates theater PR SPINS with recovery team tactics,
       techniques and procedures; plans and advises utilization of pararescue recovery teams
       (9PJ series Unit Type Codes (UTCs)); plans and advises utilization of survival,
       evasion, resistance, escape (SERE) specialists during preparation and
       debrief/reintegration of isolated personnel; coordinates medical evaluation and
       treatment and transportation of isolated personnel with the air evacuation system;
       provides subject matter expertise (SME) to the COMAFFOR regarding capabilities of
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                          9


         the Guardian Angel Weapon System. (Combat Rescue Officer (CRO)/pararescueman
         (PJ)/SERE) Recommended rank is O-3. Recommended AFSC is 13D3A.
         4.1.1.4. SERE Program Manager. Responsible to the PR Plans Officer. Responsible
         to the CSAR Watch Officer when providing SME support during active missions.
         Develops SERE joint TTP. Supports operational tasking for theater and JFCs.
         Functions as in-theater SERE and PR subject matter expert. Manages development
         and coordination of SERE and PR operational support programs, to include SERE
         debriefing during Reintegration operations. Manages SERE programs including
         isolated personnel reports, evasion plans of action, blood chits, evasion charts, and PR
         aids. Augments JPRC and PRCC as SERE and PR SME. Assists in developing PR
         policies and special instructions. Recommended rank is E-7. Recommended AFSC is
         1T071.
         4.1.1.5. Theater PR Controller. Responsible to the PR Watch Officer. Ensures that
         various functions of PR operations are performed and accountability functions are
         properly executed and sustained for JFACC-assigned forces that become isolated.
         Maintains execution checklists for isolated PR, operates C4I equipment, prepares
         required PR support requests and situation reports, and obtains and forwards isolated
         personnel data to other component organizations and the joint force supporting PR
         organization, when required. Experience as a controller at a civil Rescue
         Coordination Center (RCC) may be beneficial. Recommended rank is E-6.
         Recommended AFSC is 1C3X1.
  4.2. Augmenting PR C2 Personnel. Although each theater air component may obtain
  augmentation from within their assigned forces, Air Combat Command maintains the
  capability to augment theater air component PRCCs with trained and experienced personnel
  through four dependent UTCs available in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution
  System. These UTCs (7FVRQ, 7FVSR, PFSFX, and PFSF0) provide manpower only and
  can be tailored to meet specific augmentation requirements to include an Air Force
  component sub-PRCC. The following paragraphs provide position descriptions and
  amplifying remarks for augmenting personnel.
     4.2.1. PR Duty Officer - The PR Duty Officer (PRDO) is responsible to the PRCC
     Director, Chief of Combat Operations, and Senior Operations Duty Officer, as
     appropriate, for the management of all PR assets assigned or made available. The PRDO
     monitors CSAR packages from departure through recovery. The PRDO must know the
     details of each package in which CSAR forces participate, such as ordnance, primary
     target, secondary target, assigned pre-strike and post-strike tanker, orbit, off-load, and
     mission results. They also pass on critical information to/from CSAR forces to include,
     significant battle damage, unexpected changes, diverting aircraft, and airfield status. The
     PRDO should be collocated with the Offensive Operations section of the Combat
     Operations Division in the AOC. It is strongly recommended that the PRDO be an
     aircrew member highly experienced in their primary AFSC; weapons school graduates
     desired.
     4.2.2. PR Intelligence Officer – Responsible to the PRCC Director. Provides command-
     level combat intelligence support for the PRCC/JPRC. Functions as rescue intelligence
     liaison between staff and other command elements. Extracts, collects, and collates
 10                                          AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


      appropriate real-time all-source intelligence from the AOC to support combat intelligence
      requirements in the PRCC. Provides support to rescue missions at decision-maker level.
      Prepares mission viability assessments, threat system analysis and trend analysis. Advises
      the PRCC Director on rescue-related force protection issues
      4.2.3. PR Watch Officer – Responsible to the PRCC Director or Deputy. Manages all
      aspects of the shift. Assigns incidents/missions to controllers. Assigns incident and
      mission numbers. Develops controller checklists, as required. Identifies and assigns PR
      mission coordinator for each mission. Monitors status of recovery assets. Advises
      Director/Deputy of unusual incidents or support requirements. Makes recommendations
      on closure/suspension of missions. Prepares and conducts shift changeover briefings.
      Completes briefing slides for daily standup. Personnel selected for deployment as Watch
      Officers should have a minimum of two years experience in their primary AFSC or
      mission design series.
      4.2.4. SERE Specialist - Responsible to the SERE Program Manager. Responsible to the
      PR Watch Officer when providing SME support during missions. Develops SERE joint
      tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTP). Supports operational tasking for theater and
      Joint Forces Commanders. Functions as PRCC/JPRC SERE and PR SME on subjects
      including isolated personnel reports, evasion plans of action, blood chits, evasion charts,
      and PR aids. Assists in developing theater PR policies and special instructions.
      4.2.5. Life Support Specialist – Responsible to the PRCC Director. Plans, directs,
      organizes, and evaluates aircrew life support operational aspects of PR. Identifies and
      documents equipment and personnel training discrepancies and recommends corrective
      action. Evaluates data involving equipment development and modification. Resolves life
      support equipment problems. PRCC/JPRC SME for all aspects of U.S. aircrew survival
      radio systems.
      4.2.6. PR Intelligence NCO – Responsible to the PR Intelligence Officer. Extracts,
      collects, and collates appropriate real-time all-source intelligence from the AOC to
      support combat intelligence requirements in the PRCC. Provides support to PR missions
      at decision-maker level. Prepares mission viability assessments, threat system analysis,
      and trend analysis as required.
      4.2.7. Information Manager – Responsible to the PR Watch Officer. Performs workgroup
      administration duties. Helps conduct information analysis to determine proper
      information flow. Operates office equipment. Operates records staging area and records
      information management system database. Conducts records management surveys.
      Establishes and maintains office records. Defines format and publishes local forms, web
      pages, administrative publications, and correspondence. Performs and assists in planning
      and programming functions such as wartime and contingency needs, resource
      management, and preparing support agreements. Processes, controls, and delivers
      administrative communications and mail. Prepares and monitors accountable
      communication control records. Performs quality assurance duties.
      4.2.8. Public Affairs - Although not augmented by PA, the PRCC will work with the
      Strategic Communication Combat Information Cell in the AOC.
5. Training.
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                        11


  5.1. General. Command and control of Air Force assets participating in PR missions has
  become increasingly complex. Add to this the joint PR operations increasingly performed by
  mixed component resources and we quickly outstrip the old notion that a "pick-up team" with
  no formal training or experience can accomplish C2 of PR missions. The advent of the AOC
  weapon system with its integrated systems approach to C2 requires those personnel we
  entrust to accomplish the PR C2 mission be adequately trained and exercised. During combat
  operations, PRCC personnel may staff either a PRCC or JPRC. For this reason, all PRCC
  personnel require thorough training in operations, plans, coordination and responsibilities at
  both command levels. When possible, enhance all PR training by individual participation in
  command and joint exercises. Whenever possible, planners should include PR C2
  participation in exercises. When tasked by operation plan or contingency operations,
  commanders should assign only the most capable personnel to the PRCC/JPRC. During
  combat operations, on-the-job training is an option of last resort in today's fast paced
  environment since it requires diverting knowledgeable personnel from their primary duties.
  This section prescribes recommended training responsibilities and requirements for PRCC
  personnel. Refer to AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume 1 for training and certification program
  requirements.
  5.2. Formal Training. In accordance with AFI 13-1 AOC Volume 1, attendance at the Air
  and Space Operations Center Initial Qualification Training (IQT) course is mandatory for
  certain personnel assigned to the AOC weapon system. This includes those personnel
  assigned to a theater air component PR C2 staff/PRCC. To the maximum extent possible,
  attendance should be in conjunction with PCS to the assignment. Table 1 shows mandatory
  (M) and recommended (R) training for each position discussed in paragraph 4.1.1 and the
  PRCC augmenting UTCs.
     5.2.1. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) Initial Qualification Training Personnel
     Recovery Course (AOCIQTPR). Trains personnel, O-5 and below, assigned to an
     AN/USQ-163 AOC weapon system or augmenting PRCC how to perform PR duties in a
     JAOC. Personnel receive education and training on joint and Service doctrine; JAOC
     organization and processes; PRCC and JPRC organization and procedures; TBMCS
     applications and other associated AOC PR C2 systems tools. Training consists of
     academic lectures, seminars, computer application labs, practical exercises and a
     comprehensive end-of-course exercise simulating a JAOC environment. This course is
     conducted by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field, FL. Air Force students
     submit nominations to ACC/A-3C.
     5.2.2. Air and Space Operations Center (AOC) Initial Qualification Training ISR
     Officers Course (AOCIQTISR). Trains personnel, O-5 and below, assigned to an
     AN/USQ-163 AOC weapon system or augmenting manpower forces unit how to perform
     Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance duties in a JAOC. Personnel receive
     education and training on joint and Service doctrine; JAOC organization and processes;
     predictive battlespace awareness; ISR division integration, coordination and execution;
     and TBMCS ISR applications and other associated AOC C2 systems tools. Training
     consists of academic lectures, seminars, computer application labs, practical exercises
     and a comprehensive end-of-course exercise simulating a JAOC environment. This
     course is conducted by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field, FL.
12                                          AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


     5.2.3. Air and Space Operations Center Familiarization Course. Familiarizes personnel,
     O-5 and below, on the C2 of air and space power at the operational level of war. The
     course covers the basic fundamentals of joint and Service doctrine and organization for
     combat, Theater Air Ground System, JAOC organization, processes and systems, and the
     ATO cycle. This course is conducted by the 505th Training Squadron at Hurlburt Field,
     FL.
     5.2.4. Joint Search and Rescue Coordinator's Course (JSRCC). JSRCC is a course in the
     Joint Personnel Recovery education continuum which focuses on CSAR coordination
     within the larger framework of PR. Specifically, the course concentrates on coordination
     that takes place internally within the PRCC and/or JPRC and externally with all the
     various units, offices, assets, and agencies that assist in and/or conduct CSAR operations.
     Additionally, the course will provide introductory education on the collaborative tools
     that assist in external coordination and information management. The objective of this
     course is for each student to comprehend the operational requirements, procedures, and
     techniques of JPRC/PRCC personnel in prosecuting the CSAR mission. The JSRCC
     target audiences are those personnel tasked to perform as watch supervisors, controllers,
     or fill other coordinator/support positions in a JPRC/PRCC. Those personnel in higher
     levels of responsibility (directors and deputy directors) will still benefit from the course
     significantly but will not gain the depth and breadth of education necessary to optimally
     fulfill their responsibilities. This course is conducted by the USAF Special Operations
     School at Hurlburt Field, FL.
     5.2.5. PR 102, Fundamentals of Personnel Recovery. PR 102 familiarizes Department of
     Defense personnel (E4-O6 or civilian equivalent) on PR policies, concepts, roles,
     responsibilities, planning and execution. PR 102 is a distributed learning course
     developed by the Joint Personnel Recovery Agency (JPRA). Completion of this course is
     a prerequisite for many of the other courses listed in this section and is recommended for
     all personnel involved in the combat search and rescue or PR missions. This course is
     available online at the following address: https://www.jkddc.net/portal/index.html.
     5.2.6. PR 210, Joint PR Coordinators Course. PR 210 prepares the student to coordinate
     a combat PR mission during execution. Students participate in practical exercises, a
     command-post exercise (CPX), and successfully complete an end-of-course written test.
     Upon completion, the student will be able to apply essential Joint PR mission
     management procedures and techniques to successfully manage a PR incident.
     5.2.7. PR 220, Intelligence Support to Personnel Recovery. PR 220 provides joint-level
     intelligence-specific PR training to Intelligence personnel assigned to a Rescue/Special
     Operations unit, service, component PRCC, JPRC, or national PR desk, with the
     objective of producing Intelligence professionals capable of providing accurate and
     timely intelligence support for the PR mission. The course requires a top secret/sensitive
     compartmented information security clearance. PR 220 is taught at the personnel
     recovery education training center (PRETC) in Fredericksburg, VA. There are no
     prerequisites for this course.
     5.2.8. PR 240, PR Debriefer’s Course. This three-day course is designed to prepare
     Combatant Command, JTF, Component, Service, and MAJCOM personnel in the grades
     of E-4 to O-5 whose duties include performing reintegration debriefings. Course includes
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                                                               13


      training in the reintegration process, administrative and legal processing, debriefing
      skills, and includes a practical evaluation. Course is taught via mobile training team
      (MTT). There are no prerequisites for this course.
      5.2.9. PR 241, Reintegration Team Chief Responsibilities. PR 241 is designed to certify
      Field Grade Officers or Civilian Equivalents to perform duties as Reintegration
      Team Members, Team Chiefs/Deputies at the Debriefing Team Chief and Yellow Ribbon
      Team Chief (mandatory O-6) levels. Upon completion, students should have an
      understanding of the tasks and policy/legal requirements involved in planning and
      executing reintegration operations. These duties will range from managing a debriefing
      team to arranging base level support for debriefing teams and returnees. Students should
      also be able to assist in casualty assistance efforts (including family support) and public
      affairs guidance development. Course is taught via MTT. PR 241 can be conducted right
      after PR 240.
      5.2.10. PR 301, PR Program Management. This course is designed to prepare combatant
      command, JTF, component, service, and MAJCOM personnel (E-6 to O-6) responsible
      for the development and management of their command’s PR program. Course focuses
      on preparation and planning concerns and activities, culminating in a 3-day command
      post exercise. PR 301 is for personnel assigned to, or being assigned to, duties to oversee
      and manage the PR program for their command. PR 301 is highly recommended for
      JPRC and component PRCC Director/Deputy Directors. PR 301 is not a JPRC/PRCC
      controller’s course. PR 301 is a 2-week in-resident course offered at the PRETC in
      Fredericksburg, VA. Prerequisites for PR 301 are a current secret security clearance and
      completion of any of the following: PR 101, PR 102, PR 103, PR 110, PR 120, PR 202,
      PR 210 or JSRCC.

Table 1. Mandatory (M) & Recommended (R) Training for PRCC/JPRC Personnel.
                                        PR-102

                                                  PR-210
                                                           PR-220
                                                                    PR-240
                                                                             PR-241

                                                                                      PR-301

                                                                                                JSRCC

                                                                                                        AOC FAM

                                                                                                                  AOCIQTPR

                                                                                                                             AOCIQTISR
 PRCC Director                         M                                              M                           M
 PRCC Deputy                           M                                              M                           M
 PR Duty Officer                       M                                                                          M
 (PRDO)
 PR Combat Plans Officer               M                                                                          M
 Personnel Recovery Plans Officer      M                                     M        M                           M
 (PRPO)
 PR Intelligence Officer / NCO         M         M1,2 M                                        M1,2                          M
 PR Watch Officer                      M         M1,2                                          M1,2     M         R1
14                                              AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012




                                       PR-102

                                                 PR-210
                                                          PR-220
                                                                   PR-240
                                                                            PR-241

                                                                                     PR-301

                                                                                               JSRCC

                                                                                                       AOC FAM

                                                                                                                 AOCIQTPR

                                                                                                                            AOCIQTISR
SERE Program Manager                  M         M1,2               M                 M        M1,2     M         R1
(PRCC/JPRC assigned)
SERE Specialist                       M         M1,2               M                          M1,2     M
(PRCC/JPRC assigned)
Theater PR Controller                 M         M1,2                                          M1,2     M         R1
Life Support Specialist               M         M1,2                                          M1,2     M
                                                  1,2                                           1,2
PRCC Information Manager              M         M                                             M        M

NOTE:
  1. Attendance at AOC Familiarization course and JSRCC/PR 210 not required if individual
  attends AOCIQTPR.
  2. Attendance at EITHER PR 210 or JSRCC will satisfy this requirement.
     5.2.11. Formal Training Waivers.
         5.2.11.1. Waivers for the AOC IQT formal training courses identified in Table 1 for
         permanently assigned AOC personnel will be in accordance with procedures outlined
         in AFI 13-1 AOC Volume 1.
         5.2.11.2. ACC/A3C is the waiver authority for formal training requirements for
         PRCC augmenting personnel and the non-AOC IQT courses listed in Table 1.
  5.3. Mission Qualification Training (MQT). The courses listed in paragraph 5.2 are
  considered IQT type courses and as such, are generic in nature. MQT provides personnel
  working in a PRCC/JPRC with the specific training needed to operate in the position they are
  assigned in the PRCC/JPRC and in the specific theater of operations they are assigned or
  deployed to. Theater air component dedicated PR C2 staffs will develop MQT plans for both
  assigned and augmenting personnel. See AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume 1 for requirements for
  permanently assigned personnel.
  5.4. Continuation Training (CT). CT ensures individuals remain qualified on all critical
  peacetime/wartime knowledge, skills, new or upgraded systems, and tasks. Those personnel
  permanently assigned to a theater air component PRCC/JPRC complete CT IAW AFI 13-1
  AOC, Volume 1.
  5.5. Augmentee Training. Augmentees may be temporarily assigned to a unit to support
  PRCC/JPRC operations. Training for augmentees will include unit specific training (i.e., unit
  mission, organization, critical functions, and theater support requirements) and duty position
  training on the task assigned to the augmentee to include the related equipment/systems. The
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                        15


  host unit (the unit in which the individual is augmenting) will provide or coordinate unit
  specific training. Unqualified augmentees should not be assigned to support PRCC/JPRC
  operations. If the host unit determines the augmentee is not qualified, the host unit will
  coordinate training either en route or at the host unit location. Unless determined to be task
  qualified through a unit-developed evaluation/assessment process, augmentees will not
  perform the assigned task/duties unless supervised. This certification process may consist of
  the team chief determining if an individual is certified to work the position without
  supervision. The unit training manager will establish and maintain a unit specific training
  program for augmentees. The unit commander will review and approve the augmentee-
  training program annually.
     5.5.1. MQT for Augmentees. MQT training plans for those personnel augmenting
     operational PRCCs/JPRCs will model those of permanently assigned personnel to the
     greatest extent possible within the time constraints allowed by short deployment cycles.
     Training of personnel deployed to a PRCC/JPRC for exercise support should be
     considered during exercise planning development by adding training days to the front of
     the exercise to provide augmentees a minimal level of training on unique theater systems
     and processes.
     5.5.2. CT for Augmentees. Theater air component dedicated PR C2 staffs determine CT
     requirements for personnel augmenting an operational PRCC/JPRC for periods of more
     than 30 days. CT is not required for those personnel providing augmentation for exercises
     or for operational deployments of less than 30 continuous days.
  5.6. Exercise Requirements. Permanently assigned AOC PRCC personnel will follow
  exercise participation in accordance with CT policy outlined in AFI 13-1 AOC Volume 1.
  All personnel augmenting a theater air component PRCC/JPRC should participate in one
  exercise per year in which C2 of PR forces is integrated into the exercise. Actual real-world
  PRCC/JPRC positional tasking satisfies annual exercise participation requirement.
  5.7. Training Documentation. Document training as prescribed in AFI 13-1 AOC, Volume
  1.
  5.8. Training Projections. Develop annual training projections to identify formal training
  requirements outlined in Table 1. Provide this information to ACC/A3TOP not later than 31
  July for the following fiscal year.
     5.8.1. AOC-Related Courses. Refer to the 505th Training Squadron's Internet site at
     https://505ccw.hurlburt.af.mil/505trg/505trs for schedules of all AOC-related training
     courses. ACC/A-3C solicits and coordinates all student nominations for AOC training
     courses for all Air Force personnel permanently assigned to or augmenting theater air
     component PRCCs or theater JPRCs.
     5.8.2. Joint Search and Rescue Coordinator's Course. Refer to the Joint Special
     Operations University (JSOU)/USAF Special Operations School (USAFSOS) Internet
     site at https://www.hurlburt.af.mil/milonly/tenantunits/jsou for schedules and
     registration requirements for the JSRCC.
     5.8.3. PR-XXX Courses. Refer to the JPRA Internet site at http://www.jpra.jfcom.mil
     for information about courses labeled PR-XXX and student nomination procedures.
16                                       AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


  5.9. Forms Adopted.
     5.9.1. AF Form 3959, RCC ELT/EPIRB Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.2. AF Form 3960, Controller’s Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.3. AF Form 3961, RCC Aircraft Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.4. AF Form 3962, RCC Non-Aircraft Incident Log, 1 Jan 1996.
     5.9.5. (Added-480ISRW) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  5.10. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG Responsibilities.
     5.10.1. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG/Director of Operations (DO) will:
        5.10.1.1. (Added-480ISRW) Accept responsibility for the overall execution and
        management of 480 ISR WG PR/CSAR operations.
        5.10.1.2. (Added-480ISRW) Assign 480 ISR WG/Current Operations (DOO) as the
        Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for PR/CSAR operations within the Wing.
     5.10.2. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG/ Current Operations (DOO) will:
        5.10.2.1. (Added-480ISRW) Interpret Higher Headquarters (HHQ) and theater
        requirements, and establish and disseminate PR/CSAR program policy and guidance.
        5.10.2.2. (Added-480ISRW) Provide direction to units on establishing PR/CSAR
        program procedures and checklists.
        5.10.2.3. (Added-480ISRW) Solicit feedback from Wing customers and provide
        timely post-mission feedback on PR/CSAR events to subordinate units as needed.
        5.10.2.4. (Added-480ISRW) Establish guidelines for creating checklists, reference
        materials, reporting criteria, and working aids for use within the Wing.
        5.10.2.5. (Added-480ISRW) Establish and maintain a Wing PR/CSAR trends
        program. When trends are noted, recommend corrective action and assign an
        OPR/Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR), when needed; report trends and
        status to the 480 ISR WG Commander (480 ISR WG/CC) and 480 ISR WG/DO
        quarterly. 480 ISR WG/DOO will publish Wing trends semi-annually and
        disseminate to subordinate units.
        5.10.2.6. (Added-480ISRW) Review and endorse recommend changes and unit
        supplements to PR/CSAR policy, guidance, and this instruction, making
        recommendations, as necessary.
        5.10.2.7. (Added-480ISRW) Conduct unit Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) to
        subordinate units.
     5.10.3. (Added-480ISRW) 480 ISR WG ISRG (Group) Commanders (CC) will:
        5.10.3.1. (Added-480ISRW) Provide oversight and direction regarding PR/CSAR
        policy and training, as needed.
        5.10.3.2. (Added-480ISRW) Review and endorse recommended changes to unit
        PR/CSAR instructions.
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                        17


        5.10.3.3. (Added-480ISRW) Review unit supplements to PR/CSAR procedures,
        guidance and this instruction.
     5.10.4. (Added-480ISRW) ISRG Standardization and Evaluations (Stan/Eval) will:
        5.10.4.1. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure PR/CSAR materials are contained within all
        applicable Stan/Eval programs.
        5.10.4.2. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure PR/CSAR guidance and procedures are
        evaluated during operational Stan/Eval certifications.
        5.10.4.3. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure PR/CSAR checklists, reference materials,
        reporting criteria, and working aids are incorporated into unit training and Stan/Eval
        programs.
     5.10.5. (Added-480ISRW) Squadron and Detachment Commanders will:
        5.10.5.1. (Added-480ISRW) Be directly responsible to the Group CC for the unit’s
        PR/CSAR mission operations.
        5.10.5.2. (Added-480ISRW) Provide the necessary resources to the Sq/Det DO for
        the execution of responsibilities assigned in this instruction.
     5.10.6. (Added-480ISRW) Squadron and Detachment DO will:
        5.10.6.1. (Added-480ISRW) Be directly responsible to the Squadron/Detachment
        Commander (Sq/Det CC) and the Wing DO for compliance with this instruction and
        subsequent volumes and keeping the Sq/Det CC and Wing DO informed on the unit’s
        ability to execute its assigned PR/CSAR mission.
        5.10.6.2. (Added-480ISRW) Provide manpower and resources to staff the
        appropriate office functions to execute all assigned or tasked PR/CSAR mission
        operations and perform the duties directed by this instruction.
        5.10.6.3. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure compliance with this instruction or supplement
        of procedures to implement this instruction, if necessary.
        5.10.6.4. (Added-480ISRW) Publish an instruction or supplement of procedures to
        implement this instruction, if necessary.
        5.10.6.5. (Added-480ISRW) Appoint a PR/CSAR Program Manager in writing to
        act as the focal point for all PR/CSAR operations activities affecting the unit.
     5.10.7. (Added-480ISRW) Operations Mission Management (DOM) will:
        5.10.7.1. (Added-480ISRW) Act as the focal point for their respective unit
        PR/CSAR programs.
        5.10.7.2. (Added-480ISRW) Establish unit operations policy, guidance, and
        procedures for PR/CSAR mission execution.
        5.10.7.3. (Added-480ISRW) Develop and maintain operating instructions in order
        to implement PR/CSAR program responsibilities, if required.
        5.10.7.4. (Added-480ISRW) Develop and maintain mission crew PR/CSAR
        position handbooks and checklists, including inspection criteria suitable for unit self-
        inspections and HHQ inspections.
18                                       AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


        5.10.7.5. (Added-480ISRW) Request and/or coordinate PR/CSAR program SAVs
        with 480 ISR WG/DOO.
        5.10.7.6. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure compliance with this OI and HHQ operating
        instructions, directives, guidance, and policies.
     5.10.8. (Added-480ISRW) PR/CSAR Program Managers will:
        5.10.8.1. (Added-480ISRW) Be the focal point for all PR/CSAR operations
        activities affecting the unit and are responsible for all aspects of day-to-day
        management for their respective PR/CSAR programs.
        5.10.8.2. (Added-480ISRW) Interpret, apply, and deconflict PR/CSAR policy, as
        stated in the appropriate United States Signals Intelligence Directives (USSIDs),
        theater Concept of Operations (CONOPs), and HHQ instructions with local
        operations.
        5.10.8.3. (Added-480ISRW) Acquire theater specific PR/CSAR CONOPs for unit
        PR/CSAR operations prior to deployments or in-garrison operations in support of the
        theater.
        5.10.8.4. (Added-480ISRW) Develop, maintain and/or review all PR/CSAR
        working aids and training materials.
        5.10.8.5. (Added-480ISRW) Review and critique all actions, completed checklists,
        and reports associated with PR/CSAR situations (actual, simulated, exercise or
        terminated events), providing feedback to operators/analyst as required.
        5.10.8.6. (Added-480ISRW) Provide senior leadership with trends, analysis, and
        events concerning the PR/CSAR program.
        5.10.8.7. (Added-480ISRW) Conduct self inspections at least annually, and brief
        senior leadership on the results.
     5.10.9. (Added-480ISRW) Operations Weapons and Tactics (DOK) will:
        5.10.9.1. (Added-480ISRW) Weapons and tactics ensure Tactics, Techniques, and
        Procedures (TTP) meets existing operational and customer requirements.
        5.10.9.2. (Added-480ISRW) Weapons and Tactics coordinate with Sq/Det
        Operations Training (DOT) and Group Standards and Evaluations (IGV) to
        incorporate emerging TTPs into PR/CSAR training and evaluation criteria.
     5.10.10. (Added-480ISRW) Operations Training will:
        5.10.10.1. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure initial training is provided to all personnel
        tasked to prepare and release PR/CSAR reports, and to all personnel involved in the
        collection of distress signals.
        5.10.10.2. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure all Job Qualification Standard (JQS) tasks
        which directly relate to PR/CSAR signals are identified as critical items.
     5.10.11. (Added-480ISRW) The Mission Operations Commander (MOC) will:
        5.10.11.1. (Added-480ISRW) Is the overall authority regarding PR/CSAR events
        during mission operations.
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                   19


     5.10.12. (Added-480ISRW) The Ground Mission Supervisor (GMS) will:
        5.10.12.1. (Added-480ISRW) Is the focal point for the handling of mission
        operations PR/CSAR activities.
        5.10.12.2. (Added-480ISRW) Briefs PR/CSAR procedures during each pre-mission
        briefing.
        5.10.12.3. (Added-480ISRW) Monitors collection and reporting efforts and directs
        actions of crewmembers during PR/CSAR situations.
        5.10.12.4. (Added-480ISRW) Adjusts collection to support the PR/CSAR situation,
        while ensuring minimum disruption of tasked SIGINT collection.
     5.10.13. (Added-480ISRW) The Special Signals Operator (SSO) will:
        5.10.13.1. (Added-480ISRW) Operates HOOK-112 (aka PRC-112) equipment
        within the Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS) weapon system.
        5.10.13.2. (Added-480ISRW) Establish Priority 2 search assignments for known
        PR/CSAR signals during mission operations.
        5.10.13.3. (Added-480ISRW) Ensures the correct Search and Rescue (SAR) A/B
        frequencies and encryption codes are loaded into the HOOK-112 SUITCASE laptop
        computer prior to mission operations.
     5.10.14. (Added-480ISRW) The Data Link Operator (DLO) will:
        5.10.14.1. (Added-480ISRW) Tip all collected PR/CSAR related information over
        threat radios and will transmit all valid PR/CSAR positions over IBS-I and Link-16.
     5.10.15. (Added-480ISRW) The Surveillance and Warning Center (S&W) will:
        5.10.15.1. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure all PR/CSAR activities are accurately
        reported in a timely manner.
     5.10.16. (Added-480ISRW) The Product Reporter (PR) will:
        5.10.16.1. (Added-480ISRW) Draft any necessary PR/CSAR-related CRITIC or
        product reports.
     5.10.17. (Added-480ISRW) The Technical Reporter (TR) will :
        5.10.17.1. (Added-480ISRW) Report all collected PR/CSAR information via
        Kleiglight (KL) and Tactical Reports (TACREP) as required.
     5.10.18. (Added-480ISRW) The Correlation Analyst (CAN) will:
        5.10.18.1. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure all collected PR/CSAR information is tipped
        within the appropriate ZIRCON chat room on NSANET and SIPRNET.
        5.10.18.2. (Added-480ISRW) Provide relevant coordinates to imagery Mission
        Planners (MPs) for ADHOC imagery tasking.
        5.10.18.3. (Added-480ISRW) Provide any PR/CSAR information received via
        ZIRCON chat to the MOC, GMS, S&W, EMS, IMS, and MP.
20                                      AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


     5.10.19. (Added-480ISRW) The Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) Mission Supervisor
     (EMS) will:
        5.10.19.1. (Added-480ISRW) Closely monitor the ELINT environment in the area
        of a PR/CSAR event and will pass any threat information to the GMS.
     5.10.20. (Added-480ISRW) The Imagery Mission Supervisor (IMS) will:
        5.10.20.1. (Added-480ISRW) Coordinate with the MOC, GMS, and MP to task
        imagery sensors and personnel for collection and exploitation of PR/CSAR related
        information.
     5.10.21. (Added-480ISRW) The Mission Planner (MP) will:
        5.10.21.1. (Added-480ISRW) Perform ADHOC tasking of imagery sensors to aid
        in the collection of PR/CSAR related information.
     5.10.22. (Added-480ISRW) All Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS)
     Crewmembers will:
        5.10.22.1. (Added-480ISRW) Review weekly theater Special Instructions (SPINS)
        and the Air Tasking Order (ATO) prior to each mission.
        5.10.22.2. (Added-480ISRW) Use the appropriate unit checklists during PR/CSAR
        events/activities.
        5.10.22.3. (Added-480ISRW) Ensure dual collection of any activity distress
        frequencies in order to minimize impact to mission tasking.




                                       CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt General, USAF
                                       DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements

                                       (480ISRW)

                                       JEFFREY A. KRUSE, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                     21


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2-1.6, Personnel Recovery Operations, 1 Jun 2005
AFPD 10-30, Personnel Recovery, 26 Dec 2006
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield, and Range Management, 7 Jan 1994
AFI 13-1AOCV1, Ground Environment Training-Air and Space Operations Center, 1 Aug 2005
AFI 13-1AOCV3, Operational Procedures - Air and Space Operations Center, 1 Aug 2005
(Added-480ISRW) AFI 13-208, (U) Rescue Coordination Center Combat Search and Rescue
Operating Procedures, 10 Mar 2007
AFOTTP 2-1.2, Air and Space Power Functions and Tactics (S), 27 Mar 2006
AFOTTP 2-3.2, Air and Space Operations Center, 13 Dec 2004
CJCSI 3270.01A, Personnel Recovery Within the Department of Defense (S), 1 Jul 2003
DODD 2310.2, Personnel Recovery, 22 Dec 2000
DODI 2310.3, Personnel Recovery Response Cell (PRRC) Procedures, 6 Jun 1997
DODI 2310.4, Repatriation of Prisoners of War (POW), Hostages, Peacetime Government
Detainees and Other Missing or Isolated Personnel, 21 Nov 2000
DODI 2310.5, Accounting for Missing Persons, 31 Jan 2000
DODI 2310.6, Non-Conventional Assisted Recovery in the Department of Defense, 13 Oct 2000
(Added-480ISRW) Joint Pub 3-50, (U) Joint Doctrine for Personnel Recovery, Second Draft
(3), 11 May 2007.
(Added-480ISRW) USSID CR1521 (formerly USSID 313), (U//FOUO) Reporting of Distress
Signals, 20 Dec 2010
(Added-480ISRW) USSID SP0018 (formerly USSID 18), (U//FOUO) Legal Compliance and
Minimization Procedures, 28 Jul 1993

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-480ISRW) —Stan/Eval - Standardization and Evaluations
AFFOR—Air Force forces
(Added-480ISRW) AFI—Air Force Instruction
(Added-480ISRW) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—United States Air Force specialty code
ACC—Air Combat Command
AOC—Air and Space operations center
 22                                      AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


AOR—area of responsibility
ATO—air tasking order
C2—command and control
C2PC—command and control-personal computer
C4I—command, control, communications, computers and intelligence
(Added-480ISRW) CAN—Correlation Analyst
(Added-480ISRW) CC—Commander
CFACC—combined forces air component commander
COMAFFOR—commander, Air Force forces
(Added-480ISRW) CONOP—Concept of Operations
CPD—combat plans division
CPX—command post exercise
CRO—combat rescue officer
CSAR—combat search and rescue
CSEL—combat survivor evader locator
CT—continuation training
(Added-480ISRW) DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System
(Added-480ISRW) DLO—Data Link Operator
(Added-480ISRW) DO—Director of Operations or Operations Officer
(Added-480ISRW) DOK—Operations Weapons and Tactics Shop
(Added-480ISRW) DOM—Operations Mission Management Shop
(Added-480ISRW) DOO—Current Operations
(Added-480ISRW) DOT—Operations Training Shop
(Added-480ISRW) ED—Emergency Distress
(Added-480ISRW) ELINT—Electronic Intelligence
ELT—emergency locator transmitter
(Added-480ISRW) EMS—ELINT Mission Supervisor
EPIRB—emergency position-indicating radio beacon
(Added-480ISRW) GMS—Ground Mission Supervisor
(Added-480ISRW) HHQ—Higher Headquarters
(Added-480ISRW) IGV—Intelligence Group Standards and Evaluations
(Added-480ISRW) IMS—Imagery Mission Supervisor
AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                        23


ISR—intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
IQT—initial qualification training
JADOCS—joint automated deep operations coordination system
JAOC—joint air operations center
JFACC—joint force air component commander
JFC—joint force commander
JPRA—Joint Personnel Recovery Agency
JSOU—Joint Special Operations University
JPRC—joint personnel recovery center
JSRCC—joint search and rescue coordinator’s course
JTF—joint task force
(Added-480ISRW) KL—Kleiglight
MAJCOM—major command
MIA—missing in action
(Added-480ISRW) MOC—Mission Operations Commander
(Added-480ISRW) MP—Mission Planner
MQT—mission qualification training
MTT—mobile training team
NCO—noncommissioned officer
NIPRNET—non-secure internet protocol router network
(Added-480ISRW) NSA—National Security Agency
(Added-480ISRW) NSANET—NSA Network
(Added-480ISRW) OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
(Added-480ISRW) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PJ—pararescue jumper
(Added-480ISRW) PM—Program Manager
POW—prisoner of war
PR—personnel recovery
(480ISRW) PR—Product Reporter
PRCC—personnel recovery coordination cell
PRDO—personnel recovery duty officer
PRETC—personnel recovery education training center
 24                                          AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012


PRMS—personnel recovery mission software
PRPO—personnel recovery plans officer
RCC—rescue coordination center
SARSAT—search and rescue satellite-aided tracking
SATCOM—satellite communications
(Added-480ISRW) SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SERE—survival, evasion, resistance, escape
SIPRNET—SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—subject matter expert/expertise
SPINS—special instructions
(Added-480ISRW) SSO—Special Signals Operator
STE—secure telephone equipment
STU—secure telephone unit
(Added-480ISRW) TACREP—Tactical Report
TBMCS—theater battle management core system
(Added-480ISRW) TR—Technical Reporter
TTP—tactics, techniques, and procedures
USAFSOS—United States Air Force Special Operations School
USMCC—United States Mission Control Center
(Added-480ISRW) USSID—United States Signals Intelligence Directive
UTC—unit type code
WEEMC—web enabled execution management capability
           AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012                                                        25


                                             Attachment 2 (Added-480ISRW)
                                             PR/CSAR EVENT CHECKLIST

           Table 2.1. PR/CSAR Event Checklist.
                                     PR/CSAR EVENT CHECKLIST                        PAGE 01   OF   02     PAGES
TITLE/SUBJECT/ACTIVITY/FUNCTIONAL AREA                                                             DATE


NO                                               ITEM                               Time
 .
1      Notified of PR/CSAR event tasking

2      Record Relevant Data
         a. Who is in distress?           ____________________
         b. Location of PR/CSAR event? ____________________
         c. Source of Geo-Location?       ____________________
         d. Presence of distress signal? (yes/no)
         e. Frequency?                   ____________________
         f. Other information             ____________________

3      If CRITIC criteria has been declared by S&W initiate CRITIC checklists

4      Determine initial direct steer plan if necessary

5      GMS will confirm HOOK-112 laptop is operational

6      Coordinate with pilot for direct steer using most expeditious route/method

7      Request pilot report any QUICKDRAW databurst or SAR freq data

8      Request pilot initiate comms with distressed element (as applicable)

9      Develop collection plan with sensor planner/GMS IAW ROE and flight safety

10     Brief mission pilot on any necessary modifications to initial direct steer

11     If an ETP mission inform ROD (ERC) of track deviation plan, as necessary

12     Consider cross cueing/correlation opportunities

13     If possible, determine type of Recovery/CSAR assets being employed

14     Query all mission resources to determine threat to CSAR assets and/or
       distressed element and pass to ISRC
         26                                            AFI13-208_480ISRWSUP_I 2 OCTOBER 2012



     NOTE: DGIF crews will ensure survivor location(s) and imminent threat
     information are passed to necessary assets as valuable/needed (AWACS, RJ,
     AOC, JSATRS, etc). Consider utilizing the pilot to pass critical information to
     CSAR assets and distressed elements.

15   Ensure CSAR event data and imaging information is passed to IMS




16   Inform JSRC/DGS/pilot LNO of CSAR progress as applicable
        a. Anticipated TOT                    ____Z
        b. Imminent threat information
        c. Image receipt/Actual TOT            ____Z
        d. Product time estimate                ____Z
        e. Imagery derived intelligence
        f. Actual reports dissemination and times ____Z ____Z ____Z ____Z
        g. Other information as requested

17   Continue (5-13) until completion of CSAR tasking

18   Obtain PR/CSAR event impact on imagery and SIGINT from SP and GMS

19   Inform DGS LNO of PR/CSAR event impact on standing tasking (imagery and
     SIGINT)
        a. Coordinate mission extension if necessary

20   Ensure SP prepares a resumption of collection plan

21   Pass resumption of collection plane to mission and pilot and ROC

22   Resume collection of standard tracking
