BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-216
AIR FORCE                                                                                     5 MAY 2005

                                                                  Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                         EVALUATION OF AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                                              AND LANDING SYSTEMS (ATCALS)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFFSA/XVE Lt C.G. Senkbeil                     Certified by: HQ AFFSA/CC Col W.E. Schepens
Supersedes AFI13-216, 1 May 1996                                                          Pages: 13
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, and Range Management. It estab-
lishes responsibilities and procedures for the technical evaluation and optimization of ATCALS and
applies to all US Air Force (USAF), National Guard, and Air Force Reserve organizations having respon-
sibility for these systems. It outlines procedures for requesting, scheduling, conducting and documenting
ATCALS evaluations. This instruction may be supplemented to facilitate further program implementa-
tion. Such supplements may not change the intent of the instruction or add to the reports created. Send
comments and suggested improvements to HQ Air Force Flight Standards Agency (HQ AFFSA/XVE),
1535 Command Drive, Suite D309, Andrews AFB, MD 20762-7002.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. IC 2005-1 major changes include: Deployed
ATCALS (paragraph 1.1.9), Maximum interval between evaluations (paragraph 1.3.2) MAJCOM point of
contact for evaluation requests (paragraph 1.3.3), scheduling conflict reporting (paragraph 1.3.4), assist-
ing technician certification requirements (paragraph 1.4.5), reference to superseded AFI
(paragraph 1.1.3.7). Minor changes were made throughout to update office symbols, editing errors. A bar
( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition. The entire text of the IC is at the last attachment.


1. Objective. The ATCALS Evaluation Program provides a capability to systematically test, evaluate,
optimize, solve problems, and document performance of selected ATCALS. It does not mandate that all
ATCALS be evaluated but prescribes criteria under which selected systems will be evaluated. This capa-
bility will concentrate on evaluating those systems and situations with the greatest need as determined by
the applicable Major Command (MAJCOM) and HQ Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA). Iden-
tification of capabilities and limitations, optimization, and problem solving on other ATCALS can be
accomplished through more conventional means such as carefully documented acceptance tests, commis-
sioning flight inspections, quality control (QC) efforts, or special assistance by special maintenance teams
(SMT). Other objectives for the ATCALS Evaluation Program include:
2                                                                               AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


    1.1. Develop and maintain an experienced, sophisticated, technical capability to investigate Air Force
    ATCALS capabilities and limitations, by maintaining a pool of highly skilled (5/7 level) technicians in
    the air traffic control (ATC) radar maintenance, navigational aids (NAVAIDS), and ground radio
    career fields.
    1.2. Determine the optimum configuration for selected facilities based on equipment capabilities,
    mission requirements, and environmental conditions.
    1.3. Identify, evaluate, troubleshoot, solve, recommend solutions, and document problems that affect
    system performance.
    1.4. Identify and evaluate equipment deficiencies, siting deficiencies, or propagation anomalies, and
    provide technical information for follow-on equipment upgrade programs.
    1.5. Support, per provisions of AFI 63-101, Acquisition Systems, and AFI 99-102, Management of
    Operational Test and Evaluation, as technical experts during development of new ATCALS systems.
    1.6. Assure that evaluation procedures and program procedures are responsive to MAJCOM needs.
    1.7. Establish and maintain an ATCALS technical library and disseminate evaluation findings to
    appropriate agencies.
    1.8. Provide a database to account for past and future ATCALS evaluations.
    1.9. Provide evaluation support to select deployed ATCALS IAW AFMAN 13-220, Deployment of
    Airfield Operations.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. ATCALS Evaluation Division Chief (HQ AFFSA/XAE):
       2.1.1. Direct and monitor the ATCALS evaluation program.
       2.1.2. Act as focal point for evaluation requests.
       2.1.3. In August of each year, develop an annual, prioritized list of ATCALS to be evaluated and
       disseminate annual ATCALS evaluation schedule to all applicable operations and maintenance
       points of contact covering the following fiscal year. Factors considered are:
           2.1.3.1. Priority of MAJCOM requests. Attachment 2 shows the ATCALS evaluation selec-
           tion criteria.
           2.1.3.2. Justification by requesters, provided on the Request for ATCALS Evaluation.
           2.1.3.3. Past reliability and performance of facilities that have been recommended for evalua-
           tions.
       2.1.4. Receive and process follow-on requests for special and baseline evaluations and determine
       priority.
       2.1.5. Monitor the activities of each evaluation branch to ensure that they meet MAJCOM
       requirements.
       2.1.6. Review evaluation report recommendations and monitor the status of those that require
       headquarters staff action and action outside HQ AFFSA.
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                                  3


     2.1.7. Review ATCALS evaluation test procedures, test plans, and report outlines to ensure they
     meet command needs.
     2.1.8. Periodically review and correct, with functional managers and the evaluation branch, prob-
     lem areas and adverse trends.
  2.2. MAJCOMs:
     2.2.1. Establish operations and maintenance points of contact for coordinating ATCALS evalua-
     tion matters.
     2.2.2. Coordinate with each subordinate base to be evaluated to establish evaluation dates that
     best fit the overall requirements and minimize interference with operations, taking all activities
     into account (mobile depot maintenance (MDM), runway construction, prevailing weather, exer-
     cises, etc.).
     2.2.3. Submit, by 15 July of each year, a list of ATCALS to be evaluated during the next fiscal
     year to HQ AFFSA/XVE. Include nominations for baseline and special evaluations. The list
     should be prioritized with narrative justification; i.e., provide reasons why the evaluation is
     needed. List the requests in order of priority and include:
        2.2.3.1. Name of base.
        2.2.3.2. Type of evaluation: special or baseline.
        2.2.3.3. Type of ATCALS to be evaluated and runways supported.
        2.2.3.4. Nomenclature of equipment to be evaluated.
        2.2.3.5. Optimum time period for the evaluation to be scheduled.
        2.2.3.6. Special items of concern, if appropriate. For special evaluations to investigate prob-
        lems, describe the problems and provide a summary of requests for assistance and actions
        taken.
        2.2.3.7. The reporting requirement in this paragraph is exempt from licensing with a Report
        Control Symbol in accordance with paragraph 2.11.5 of AFI 33-324, The Information Collec-
        tions and Reports Management Program, Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air
        Force Information Collections.
        2.2.3.8. Historical data shows that ATCALS are likely to degrade over time in ways not
        detectable by normal preventive maintainence alone. Therefore, MAJCOMs will request eval-
        uations and give priority to all systems that have gone over six years without a baseline evalu-
        ation when compared to other systems within the same prioritization level applicable
        according to Attachment 2. As legacy systems are replaced by newer technology, time
        between evaluations will likely increase, therefore this requirement will be continually evalu-
        ated.
     2.2.4. Operations and maintenance POCs will maintain contact with units considered for evalua-
     tions to ensure problems (i.e. exercises, equipment deficiencies, scheduled maintenance) that
     would adversely affect the evaluation are taken into account and promptly reported to HQ
     AFFSA/XAE.
4                                                                              AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


       2.2.5. Submit out-of-cycle baseline evaluation requests as needed and special evaluation requests
       at anytime when ATCALS deficiencies cannot be corrected with local unit, MAJCOM, or other
       available resources.
    2.3. Units requiring or receiving ATCALS evaluations will:
       2.3.1. Advise their MAJCOM and/or wing when deficiencies, which are beyond local and MAJ-
       COM capability, occur which would require maintenance assistance, engineering assistance, and/
       or ATCALS special evaluation.
       2.3.2. Submit, through their MAJCOM and/or wing, requests for baseline ATCALS evaluations
       when it is determined that detailed documentation of system's performance is needed.
       2.3.3. Coordinate directly with AFFSA/XAE and their MAJCOM to establish exact dates for
       scheduled evaluations. Factors to consider in the scheduling are: operational requirements, evalu-
       ation team availability, and any conflicting situations (e.g. runway construction, MDM, exercises).
       2.3.4. Ensure that all equipment scheduled for a baseline evaluation is operational and performing
       in accordance with Technical Order (TO) specifications prior to the arrival of the evaluation team.
       Equipment not operating within TO specifications is not ready for evaluation unless a special eval-
       uation is being conducted to determine the cause of the out-of-tolerance condition(s).
       2.3.5. Ensure that a journeyman or craftsman level maintenance technicians are available during
       the evaluation. These technicians must be available to work varying shifts and weekends to ensure
       timely completion of the scheduled evaluation, and must be certified on the system being evalu-
       ated. The work schedule is included in the notification letter.
       2.3.6. Provide administrative support to enable transmittal of ATCALS evaluation team arrival,
       status, and departure messages.
       2.3.7. Take appropriate action to correct deficiencies discovered during the evaluation.
       2.3.8. Respond to HQ AFFSA/XAE notification letter not later than 30 calendar days prior to the
       evaluation start date. Send an information copy of response to the MAJCOM and wing.
           2.3.8.1. Arrange for equipment downtime required for the evaluation as requested in the noti-
           fication letter from HQ AFFSA/XAE.
           2.3.8.2. Ensure the MAJCOM and/or wing concurs with the evaluation schedule before
           arrival of the evaluation team.
           2.3.8.3. Immediately notify HQ AFFSA/XAE and MAJCOM when a problem is discovered
           that will delay the start of the scheduled evaluation or have a serious impact on the outcome of
           the evaluation.
    2.4. HQ AFFSA/XAE:
       2.4.1. Perform ATCALS evaluation. The evaluation will normally be scheduled around flying
       hours to minimize mission impact. Evaluation team will work shifts and weekends as needed to
       maximize the evaluation effort.
       2.4.2. Provide evaluation support, as ATCALS experts, to Development Test and Evaluation
       (DT&E) and Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) activities as needed.
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                                            5


        2.4.3. Establish agreements with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for flight inspection
        support, as necessary and consistent with other priorities.
        2.4.4. Forward a notification letter or message to communications units prior to an evaluation.
        2.4.5. Make waiver recommendations per paragraph 5. (Waivers) of this instruction.
        2.4.6. Publish and distribute all evaluation reports within 90 calendar days following evaluation
        completion.
        2.4.7. Provide expertise for procedures and forms development to Engineering and Installation
        (E&I) and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) activities for the purpose of developing acceptance
        test procedures.

3. Special Augmented Evaluation. Coordinated efforts to investigate common ATCALS deficiencies are
often more productive than those done by one organization because of special knowledge, skills, and
experience. Any organization can propose special augmented evaluations for any ATCALS-related defi-
ciency. HQ AFFSA/XAE will receive evaluation requests, coordinate with applicable ATCALS branches
and, if appropriate, augment an organization with a Test Plan Working Group (TPWG). The TPWG will
review the problem, develop a test plan, select a test director, select a test site, plan a schedule, assign tests
as needed, and determine team members to correct common problems. The TPWG may meet in person,
but its objectives can usually be handled by correspondence.

4. Scheduling. HQ AFFSA/XAE will develop and distribute an annual evaluations schedule. This sched-
ule will be based on a HQ AFFSA/XAE developed priority (Attachment 2, ATCALS Evaluation Selec-
tion Criteria) list, which results from inputs from the MAJCOMs. HQ AFFSA/XAE coordinates with the
affected communications unit, MAJCOM, and the FAA to establish a schedule, which considers evalua-
tion team and Flight Check support availability, flying mission issues, weather conditions, and other
activities that would affect evaluation dates. Changes to the schedule may occur as special requests are
received by HQ AFFSA/XAE, their relative priority determined, and taskings to HQ AFFSA/XAE are
made. This may also result in deletions of lower priority evaluations from the schedule.

5. Waivers. Evaluation teams are required, as part of the evaluation effort, to determine the optimum
configuration of the equipment they evaluate. At times, the optimum configuration may only be achieved
by adjusting some equipment parameters out of TO specifications. If this situation occurs, the evaluation
team will thoroughly document the condition and result obtained, as well as, restore the facility to TO
specifications before departing the site. If deemed necessary, the evaluation team will recommend spe-
cific waivers as part of the evaluation report. If a waiver is required, the evaluated unit will submit a
request for waiver per established procedures.

6. Classification. Evaluation reports will normally be unclassified. When classification is required,
classify data gathered and reports prepared under the ATCALS evaluation program per AFI 31-401, Infor-
mation Security Management Program, and other applicable directives. Any information criticizing the
performance of a particular manufacturer's equipment may be proprietary. Mark such information "For
Official Use Only" and handle accordingly.
6                                                                     AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


7. Disposition of Reports. Disposition of ATCALS evaluation reports are covered by AFI 37-138,
Records Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.



                                         STEPHEN G. WOOD, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Plans and Operations
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                             7


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 13-220, Deployment of Airfield Operations, May 1997
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, November 2001
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program, Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, June 2000
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition¯Procedures and Responsibilities, March 1994
AFI 63-101, Acquisition System, May 1994
AFI 99-102, Operational Test and Evaluation, June 1998
NOTE:
The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited documents.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
DoD—Department of Defense
DT&E—Development, Test, and Evaluation
E&I—Engineering and Installation
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDM—Mobile Depot Maintenance
NAVAID—Navigational Aid System
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
QC—Quality Control
SMT—Special Maintenance Team
TO—Technical Order
TPWG—Test Plan Working Group
8                                                                                AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


Terms
Acceptance Tests—These are tests performed by the installers and the unit QC function to assure that the
system is installed properly and performs according to TO specifications.
ATCALS—This term includes a large group of interrelated equipment associated with ATC facilities. As
used herein, ATCALS applies to ATC NAVAIDs, radars, and communications equipment. This equipment
is both airborne and ground, fixed and mobile, and is used by the Air Force to manage air traffic in the
worldwide military and civil aviation environment.
Baseline Evaluation—This type of evaluation defines the operational capabilities and limitations of the
facility. A baseline evaluation is documented in a formal report, which includes analysis of any anomalies
or deficiencies and includes recommendations for optimum performance consistent with its assigned
mission and operating environment. Based on historical data, these evaluations should be repeated every
seven years or if there is a significant change in siting conditions or equipment configurations. Baseline
evaluations are conducted on the more complex systems or on those that are most critical. Baseline
evaluations will result from a priority list established by MAJCOMs and HQ AFFSA.
Evaluation Branch—The section of the ATCALS Evaluation Division (HQ AFFSA/XAE) responsible
for performing evaluations on a particular type ATCALS. HQ AFFSA/XAE has evaluation branches for
ATC Radar Systems, ATC Communications Systems, and ATC Navigational Aids.
Optimization—Actions that result in a facility providing improved performance even though TO
specifications are being met. For instance, adjusting radar antenna tilt to provide coverage at a particular
altitude or installing a radar screen to overcome undesired clutter.
Special Evaluation—A special evaluation is documented in a formal report and is conducted to
accomplish specific objectives, such as:
        -- Update a baseline evaluation.
        -- Solve or identify cause of a specific problem that is beyond the capability of the responsible
        unit.
        -- Accomplish other projects as requested. This may include evaluations conducted to investigate,
        solve, and document ATCALS problems of common concern to various support functions. These
        evaluations may be conducted for other DoD agencies. The evaluation may be conducted exclu-
        sively by the evaluation branch or augmented by individuals from other activities (MAJCOMs or
        units) based on their particular specialty or closeness to the problem being investigated. In this
        case, the evaluation branch will function as the experts in test direction and report documentation.
        Requests for these augmented special evaluations may be initiated by any branch in HQ AFFSA/
        XAE or the MAJCOMs.
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                                       9


                                               Attachment 2

                         ATCALS EVALUATION SELECTION CRITERIA

Priority 1. Immediate Mission Impact

       a. Special-facility off the air (failed flight check)

        b. Special-on the air but restrictions imposed (coverage limited, unacceptable approaches, radar
holes, etc.).

Priority 2. Mission Impact

       a. Special-to investigate a generic problem of value to other like systems.

        b. Special-meeting operational requirements, but anticipate deterioration (high vegetation growth
rate causing signal blockage).

         c. Baseline-newly installed critical ATCALS with extraordinary mission requirements or unique
siting terrain which puts in question its capabilities and limitations.

       d. Baseline-all newly installed fixed ATC radar facilities.

       e. Baseline-previously installed fixed ATC radar facilities.

       f. Baseline-previously installed fixed NAVAIDS and communications facilities.

Priority 3. Possible Future Mission Impact

       a. Special-to update a baseline

       b. Special or Baseline-non critical facilities, beacon, pilot to forecaster, etc.

       c. Special-projected installment of fixed ATC radar, NAVAIDS, and communications facilities.

NOTE: Other issues such as a unique or severe mission impact or sensitive political situations may result
in deviation of evaluation priorities.
10                                                                              AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


                                              Attachment 3

     IC 2005-1 TO AFI 13-216, EVALUAION OF AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL AND LANDING
                                   SYSTEMS (ATCALS)


5 MAY 2005


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. IC 2005-1 major changes include: Deployed
ATCALS (paragraph 1.1.9), Maximum interval between evaluations (paragraph 1.3.2) MAJCOM point of
contact for evaluation requests (paragraph 1.3.3), scheduling conflict reporting (paragraph 1.3.4), assist-
ing technician certification requirements (paragraph 1.4.5), reference to superseded AFI
(paragraph 1.1.3.7). Minor changes were made throughout to update office symbols, editing errors. A bar
( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition. The entire text of the IC is at the last attachment.
1.9. Provide evaluation support to select deployed ATCALS IAW AFMAN 13-220, Deployment of Air-
field Operations.
2.1. ATCALS Evaluation Division Chief (HQ AFFSA/XAE):
2.2.3.7. The reporting requirement in this paragraph is exempt from licensing with a Report Control Sym-
bol in accordance with paragraph 2.11.5 of AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Man-
agement Program, Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections.
2.2.3.8. Historical data shows that ATCALS are likely to degrade over time in ways not detectable by nor-
mal preventive maintainence alone. Therefore, MAJCOMs will request evaluations and give priority to
all systems that have gone over six years without a baseline evaluation when compared to other systems
within the same prioritization level applicable according to Attachment 2. As legacy systems are
replaced by newer technology, time between evaluations will likely increase, therefore this requirement
will be continually evaluated.
2.2.4. Operations and maintenance POCs will maintain contact with units considered for evaluations to
ensure problems (i.e. exercises, equipment deficiencies, scheduled maintenance) that would adversely
affect the evaluation are taken into account and promptly reported to HQ AFFSA/XAE.
2.3.3. Coordinate directly with AFFSA/XAE and their MAJCOM to establish exact dates for scheduled
evaluations. Factors to consider in the scheduling are: operational requirements, evaluation team avail-
ability, and any conflicting situations (e.g. runway construction, MDM, exercises).
2.3.5. Ensure that a journeyman or craftsman level maintenance technicians are available during the eval-
uation. These technicians must be available to work varying shifts and weekends to ensure timely comple-
tion of the scheduled evaluation, and must be certified on the system being evaluated. The work schedule
is included in the notification letter.
2.3.8. Respond to HQ AFFSA/XAE notification letter not later than 30 calendar days prior to the evalua-
tion start date. Send an information copy of response to the MAJCOM and wing.
2.3.8.1.Arrange for equipment downtime required for the evaluation as requested in the notification letter
from HQ AFFSA/XAE.
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                                           11


2.3.8.3. Immediately notify HQ AFFSA/XAE and MAJCOM when a problem is discovered that will
delay the start of the scheduled evaluation or have a serious impact on the outcome of the evaluation.
2.4. HQ AFFSA/XAE:
3.       Special Augmented Evaluation. Coordinated efforts to investigate common ATCALS deficiencies
are often more productive than those done by one organization because of special knowledge, skills, and
experience. Any organization can propose special augmented evaluations for any ATCALS-related defi-
ciency. HQ AFFSA/XAE will receive evaluation requests, coordinate with applicable ATCALS branches
and, if appropriate, augment an organization with a Test Plan Working Group (TPWG). The TPWG will
review the problem, develop a test plan, select a test director, select a test site, plan a schedule, assign tests
as needed, and determine team members to correct common problems. The TPWG may meet in person,
but its objectives can usually be handled by correspondence.
4.      Scheduling. HQ AFFSA/XAE will develop and distribute an annual evaluations schedule. This
schedule will be based on a HQ AFFSA/XAE developed priority (Attachment 2, ATCALS Evaluation
Selection Criteria) list, which results from inputs from the MAJCOMs. HQ AFFSA/XAE coordinates
with the affected communications unit, MAJCOM, and the FAA to establish a schedule, which considers
evaluation team and Flight Check support availability, flying mission issues, weather conditions, and
other activities that would affect evaluation dates. Changes to the schedule may occur as special requests
are received by HQ AFFSA/XAE, their relative priority determined, and taskings to HQ AFFSA/XAE are
made. This may also result in deletions of lower priority evaluations from the schedule.
12                                                                            AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFMAN 13-220, Deployment of Airfield Operations, May 1997
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, November 2001
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program, Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, June 2000
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition¯Procedures and Responsibilities, March 1994
AFI 63-101, Acquisition System, May 1994
AFI 99-102, Operational Test and Evaluation, June 1998
NOTE: The user of this instruction is responsible for verifying the currency of the cited documents.
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFSA-Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFI-Air Force Instruction
ATC-Air Traffic Control
ATCALS-Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
DoD-Department of Defense
DT&E-Development, Test, and Evaluation
E&I-Engineering and Installation
FAA-Federal Aviation Administration
MAJCOM-Major Command
MDM-Mobile Depot Maintenance
NAVAID-Navigational Aid System
NOTAM-Notice to Airmen
O&M-Operation and Maintenance
OT&E-Operational Test and Evaluation
QC-Quality Control
SMT-Special Maintenance Team
TO-Technical Order
TPWG-Test Plan Working Group
Terms
Acceptance Tests-These are tests performed by the installers and the unit QC function to assure that the
system is installed properly and performs according to TO specifications.
AFI13-216 5 MAY 2005                                                                                       13


ATCALS-This term includes a large group of interrelated equipment associated with ATC facilities. As
used herein, ATCALS applies to ATC NAVAIDs, radars, and communications equipment. This equipment
is both airborne and ground, fixed and mobile, and is used by the Air Force to manage air traffic in the
worldwide military and civil aviation environment.
Baseline Evaluation-This type of evaluation defines the operational capabilities and limitations of the
facility. A baseline evaluation is documented in a formal report, which includes analysis of any anomalies
or deficiencies and includes recommendations for optimum performance consistent with its assigned mis-
sion and operating environment. Based on historical data, these evaluations should be repeated every
seven years or if there is a significant change in siting conditions or equipment configurations. Baseline
evaluations are conducted on the more complex systems or on those that are most critical. Baseline eval-
uations will result from a priority list established by MAJCOMs and HQ AFFSA.
Evaluation Branch-The section of the ATCALS Evaluation Division (HQ AFFSA/XAE) responsible for
performing evaluations on a particular type ATCALS. HQ AFFSA/XAE has evaluation branches for ATC
Radar Systems, ATC Communications Systems, and ATC Navigational Aids.
Optimization-Actions that result in a facility providing improved performance even though TO specifi-
cations are being met. For instance, adjusting radar antenna tilt to provide coverage at a particular altitude
or installing a radar screen to overcome undesired clutter.
Special Evaluation-A special evaluation is documented in a formal report and is conducted to accom-
plish specific objectives, such as:
       -- Update a baseline evaluation.
       -- Solve or identify cause of a specific problem that is beyond the capability of the responsible
       unit.
       -- Accomplish other projects as requested. This may include evaluations conducted to investigate,
       solve, and document ATCALS problems of common concern to various support functions. These
       evaluations may be conducted for other DoD agencies. The evaluation may be conducted exclu-
       sively by the evaluation branch or augmented by individuals from other activities (MAJCOMs or
       units) based on their particular specialty or closeness to the problem being investigated. In this
       case, the evaluation branch will function as the experts in test direction and report documentation.
       Requests for these augmented special evaluations may be initiated by any branch in HQ AFFSA/
       XAE or the MAJCOMs.
