BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 16-402
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                   AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        SUPPLEMENT

                                                                              1 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                               Operations Support

                                                    AEROSPACE VEHICLE PROGRAMMING,
                                                           ASSIGNMENT, DISTRIBUTION,
                                                        ACCOUNTING AND TERMINATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A8PA                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A8P
                                                                          (Col Chad M. Stevenson)
                                                                                         Pages: 4

AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting and
Termination, 1 December 2009, is supplemented as follows. AFI 16-402 implements AFPD 16-
4, Accounting for Units, Installations, and Aerospace Vehicles, 7 Sep 1993, and provides
procedural guidance relative for worldwide programming, assignment, transfer, distribution,
accounting, and termination of Air Force aerospace vehicles. This instruction provides guidance
to Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) staff on responsibilities and procedures for the
transfer (reassignment or loan) of AFGSC aircraft. This publication applies to Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions
regarding this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_
series.cfm.

5.1. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A8P, Programs Division:
5.1.1. (Added) Evaluates AFGSC force projections in relation to known and forecasted
availability of resources. Prioritizes resources within a total force context, normally with highest
priority to warfighting tasked forces. If a fleet has inventory in excess of primary aircraft
2                                              AFI 16-402_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


authorizations (PAA) and backup aircraft authorizations (BAA), those aircraft are designated
attrition reserve (AR).
5.1.2. (Added) Controls the transfer of AFGSC total aircraft inventory (TAI), to include all
aircraft assigned for mission, training, test, and maintenance functions. Distributes aircraft to fill
inventory requirements (authorizations) in the following priority: combat units, training units,
and test units, filling PAA first and then BAA.
5.1.3. (Added) Controls the assignment/possession of all AFGSC AR aircraft, including AFGSC
AR aircraft assigned to/possessed by non-AFGSC units. Distributes AR equitably across the
fleetwith priority given to alleviation of PAA and BAA shortfalls, followed by test support and
other high priority programs. When sourcing AR aircraft to fill these requirements, A8P
generally draws first on AR possessed by wings with multiple squadrons and larger PAA units
due to the smaller relative impact on those units.
5.1.4. (Added) If changes are likely to affect unit capabilities, coordinate as appropriate with
A3/A5 to ensure unit Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements are in line with
availability of resources. In some cases changes may require DOC statement adjustments.
5.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3T (Training and Stan/Eval Division):
5.2.1. (Added) Identifies and validates number and types of aircraft needed for formal and
continuation training requirements for all AFGSC units.
5.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3/A4/A5 Weapons System Teams (WST) and HQ AFGSC/A5
(Policy and Requirements):
5.3.1. (Added) Determines and validates numbers and types of aircraft needed for AFGSC tests,
higher headquarters directed tests, and lateral command testing support. This includes
requirements for all nuclear stockpile flight tests to verify that nuclear weapon subsystems
(NWSS) function in a variety of stockpile-to-target sequence (STS) environments and
demonstrate continuing compatibility between Department of Energy (DOE) and Air Force
subsystems.
5.3.2. (Added) Assesses the impact of command depot-level maintenance and modification
programs on assigned and possessed aircraft.
5.4. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A4M (Maintenance Division):
5.4.1. (Added) Evaluates the impact of command depot-level maintenance and modification
programs on assigned and possessed aircraft, related systems, and support equipment.
5.4.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A4MX (Policy, Development, and Analysis Branch):
5.4.2.1. (Added) Monitors the distribution of aerospace vehicles within the command by
maintaining the Equipment Inventory Status Utilization and Reporting Subsystem (EIMSURS)
in the Reliability Maintainability Information System (REMIS).
5.4.2.2. (Added) Issues assignment directions for reassignment of aerospace vehicles by issuing
assignment directives IAW AFI 16-402.
5.4.2.3. (Added) Provides liaison/coordination with Air Staff and other MAJCOMS.
5.5. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A1M (Manpower and Organization Division):
AFI 16-402_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            3


5.5.1. (Added) Validates aircraft maintenance manpower requirements associated with the
number and type of PAA assigned.
6.1. (Added) The AFGSC staff agency or action officer desiring to reassign/loan an aerospace
vehicle will:
6.1.1. (Added) Identify and verify the need for reassignment or loan.
6.1.2. (Added) Establish contact with offices of primary and collateral responsibility. The action
officer-level communication should clarify operational and maintenance requirements.
6.1.3. (Added) Submit a request to HQ AFGSC/A8P.
6.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A8P will evaluate and perform the necessary coordination and
ultimately approve/disapprove request. A8P will forward transfer decision or directive to HQ
AFGSC A4/7 by letter or copy of notification message. The message will contain the following
information:
6.2.1. (Added) Number of aerospace vehicles to be reassigned/loaned.
6.2.2. (Added) Units losing and gaining assignment/possession of aircraft.
6.2.3. (Added) Effective date of reassignment.
6.2.4. (Added) Rationale for transfer.
6.2.5. (Added) Effective date and estimated return date for loan.
6.2.6. (Added) Expectation of aircraft condition upon transfer.
6.2.7. (Added) The projected aircraft status for the losing and gaining units. Status will include
number of aircraft authorized, assigned, possessed, and in depot status following the transfer.
6.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A8P will initiate coordination through HQ AFGSC A4/7 and A3 and
secure HQ AFGSC/A8 approval for all aircraft transfers that will result in any unit possessing
fewer aircraft than authorized. This does not apply to movement of AR as these aircraft are
assigned/ possessed in excess of actual unit authorizations and remain AFGSC assets. HQ
AFGSC/A8P will redistribute AR as needed within the AFGSC to replace primary aircraft
losses.
6.3.1. (Added) AFGSC WST will coordinate with A8P to identify aircraft serial numbers to be
transferred. AFGSC WST has the final authority over tail number selection.
6.4.1. (Added) A4MX will:
6.4.1.1. (Added) Upon receipt of HQ AFGSC/A8 transfer directive, transmit an assignment
directive notice to the appropriate addressees indicating the appropriate loan or transfer of
assignment IAW AFI 16-402 and AFI 21-103_AFGSCSUP.
6.4.1.2. (Added) Coordinate unit requests for serial number changes or assignment/loan date
extensions due to maintenance.
7. (Added) Form Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
8. (Added) Classification. All communications will be classified as applicable IAW AFI 31-
401.
4                                          AFI 16-402_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


9. (Added) Documentation. Dispose of documentation required to be created by this directive
IAW AFMAN 37-139.
                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI31-401, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI31-401.pdf, Security
Program Management
AFI21-103_AFGSCSUP, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI21-
103_AFGSCSUP.pdf , Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAF—Combat Air Force
DOE—Department of Energy
EIMSURS—Equipment Inventory Status Utilization and Reporting Subsystem
NWSS—Nuclear Weapon Subsystems
REMIS—Reliability Maintainability Information System
STS—Stockpile-to-Target Sequence
TAI—Total Aircraft Inventory
WST—Weapons System Teams

Terms
AFGSC Weapon System Team (WST) — The designated weapon system functional manager
for each aircraft mission design series (MDS).
Assignment — The allocation of an aerospace vehicle to a unit for mission accomplishment.
Attrition Reserve (AR) — Aircraft procured to replace anticipated primary aircraft inventory
peacetime losses.
Authorization — The number of aircraft programmed for a flying unit.
Loan — Temporary transfer from one unit to another for short term (normally not longer than 9
months) mission requirements. Assignment status remains unchanged.
Possession — Having organizational control and responsibility for an aerospace vehicle.
Reassignment — The change of assignment of an aerospace vehicle from one unit to another.




                                                  JEFFRY F. SMITH
                                                  Brigadier General, USAF
                                                  Director, Plans, Programs and Requirements
