BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-103
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          25 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                         VISUAL RECOGNITION TRAINING
                                                               MATERIALS PRODUCTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                    (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
Supersedes:   AFI 14-103, 25 January 2005                                               Pages: 6


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations. It establishes the requirements
and responsibilities for the production of visual recognition (VR) training materials. This
publication supports qualification and specialized training requirements outlined in Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 11-2, AFI 13-1, and AFI 14-2 series publications. It supports the concept in
Joint Publication 3-09, Joint Fire Support. This publication applies to Active Duty, Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard personnel. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS). Submit change recommendations using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This publication may be
supplemented, but all direct supplements must be coordinated through the OPR of this
publication prior to certification and approval. Upon publication, MAJCOMS will ensure copies
are provided to the OPR of this publication. Units may request waivers for tiered compliance
items IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. The OPR is the waiver authority
for non-compliance items; these requests must be submitted through the chain-of-command to
the publication OPR.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This rewrite clarifies the responsibilities, incorporates changes in organizational designations,
and includes risk factors (known as "tiers") to tasks assigned to organizations below major
command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. It has also been
 2                                                            AFI14-103 25 NOVEMBER 2013


renamed and revised to focus on visual threat recognition, instead of the former threat
recognition training materials production program. Air Combat Command, Intelligence
Directorate (ACC/A2) is designated as lead for program management and Air Force Targeting
Center (AFTC) replaces the 480th Intelligence Wing as the lead for visual recognition training
material production management.
1. OVERVIEW. This publication provides the basic policy and guidance for the management,
production and dissemination of VR training materials. It provides information for submitting
VR training materials production requirements. Production of VR training materials support a
variety of training programs mandated in the AFI 11-2, 13-1, and 14-2 series publications. The
use of VR training materials ensures operations personnel are able to recognize key features of
weapon systems and other military equipment. When combined with threat knowledge training,
the ability to visually identify weapon systems enables operators to:
     1.1. Identify and understand the physical characteristics of weapon systems.
     1.2. Identify patterns of employment and enhance their knowledge of equipment capabilities.
     1.3. Identify deviations from known equipment characteristics and patterns of employment
     to enable them to report these deviations through intelligence channels.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2)
     provides oversight for policy development on VR training program management. Plans,
     advocates, and coordinates, as necessary with other military services, national agencies,
     combat support agencies (CSA) and foreign military organizations.
     2.2. Air Combat Command, Intelligence Directorate (ACC/A2).
        2.2.1. Provides oversight and program management of VR training materials production
        program.
        2.2.2. Plans, advocates, and coordinates (with higher headquarters, supported major
        commands (MAJCOM), CSAs, etc.) on behalf of AFTC to support VR materials
        production management, resources, associated system/software development and
        fielding, and development of VR training processes.
        2.2.3. Conducts quarterly review of production requirements with AFTC to facilitate
        ACC advocacy (with higher headquarters, supported MAJCOMs, CSAs, etc.) of
        resources, system/software/computer-based training (CBT) development, and training
        processes in support of total force units.
        2.2.4. Coordinates development of VR training processes (training for VR trainers)
        across MAJCOMs.
     2.3. Air Force Targeting Center (AFTC):
        2.3.1. Provides production management of VR training materials. (T-2)
        2.3.2. Serves as focal point for units requesting VR training materials. (T-2)
            2.3.2.1. Receives, validates, prioritizes, and provides status updates on production
            requests for VR training materials or requests for VR training program support
AFI14-103 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   3


         through the AFTC EnterpriseWizard (EW) on the AFTC Secure Internet Protocol
         Router Network (SIPRNET) homepage. (T-2)
     2.3.3. Collects, coordinates, validates, and reports on VR training material production
     requirements and status. (T-3)
         2.3.3.1. Forwards resource and training tactics techniques and procedure
         requirements to ACC/A2 Staff to facilitate headquarters advocacy (with higher
         headquarters, supported MAJCOMs, CSAs, etc.) of resources, system/software/CBT
         development, and training processes in support of units. (T-3)
     2.3.4. Develops and produces VR training materials to meet standing and ad hoc
     requirements, and requests for information. (T-2)
         2.3.4.1. Coordinates with outside entities (e.g., combatant commands, MAJCOMs,
         CSAs) to acquire weapon system video footage or other source materials needed to
         produce VR products. (T-3)
         2.3.4.2. Maintains the capability to produce and disseminate limited hard copy, large
         format poster-sized materials. (T-3)
     2.3.5. Provides a secure, online mechanism to store, search, and retrieve VR products
     and associated requests for information. (T-2)
         2.3.5.1. Disseminates to units instructions for search and retrieval of select VR
         products and production management services. (T-3)
         2.3.5.2. Disseminates VR training materials in appropriate formats to meet unit
         requirements. (T-3)
     2.3.6. In coordination with ACC/A2 Staff, coordinates recurring forums with supported
     MAJCOMs/units and stakeholders to receive, validate, prioritize, and provide status
     updates on production requests or training program support. (T-3)
     2.3.7. Develops and implements feedback mechanisms to solicit and address unit
     feedback. (T-3)
  2.4. Customer. In order for customers to manage training aids efficiently, they must
  become familiar with AFTC’s EW tool. It not only allows AFTC to receive, validate and
  prioritize customer production requests for VR training materials or requests for VR training
  program support, it also allows customers to obtain the status of their orders at any time.
  Whenever customers develop training processes, they may transmit them to AFTC via e-mail
  for consideration of implementation by other customers. Customers shall:
  2.4.1. Submit requirements for new or existing VR training materials through the AFTC EW
  on the AFTC SIPRNET homepage. If EW is unavailable or not accessible, send requests via
  email to AFTC.DO@langley.af.mil (Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network
  (NIPRNET)), AFTC.DO@langley.af.smil.mil (SIPRNET), or via phone call to AFTC Staff
  (DSN 575-4098). Standing production requirements for VR material can also be submitted
  at the annual AFTC Target Requirements Conference. (T-2)
     2.4.2. Manage local VR training programs IAW applicable AF, MAJCOM, and local
     guidance. (T-3)
4                                                       AFI14-103 25 NOVEMBER 2013


    2.4.3. To enhance the VR training materials production program, customers should send
    locally developed VR training directives and products to AFTC via email to
    AFTC.DO@langley.af.mil (NIPRNET) or AFTC.DO@langley.af.smil.mil (SIPRNET).
    (T-3)




                                         ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                         Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-103 25 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC/A2—Air Combat Command, Intelligence Directorate
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTC—Air Force Targeting Center
CBT—Computer-based Training
CSA—Combat Support Agencies
EW—EnterpriseWizard
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
NIPRNET—Non Classified Internet Protocol Router Network
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
EnterpriseWizard—AFTC's SIPRNET based online production request and management
system. Used by customers to submit and track requirements and by production managers to
reach-back to the customers for requirement coordination and to validate, assign, and track the
status of production requirements. EW is also used to collect feedback from customers and to
build reports for the AFTC Staff on products, man-hours, requesting organizations.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
 6                                                        AFI14-103 25 NOVEMBER 2013


may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3) —Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
Visual Recognition—VR is a subset of combat identification. It is a method used to identify
objects such as aerospace, ground, and naval equipment likely to be encountered in the
operational environment.
