BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AF INSTRUCTION 13-212
AIR COMBAT COMMAND                                                  AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement

                                                                                29 APRIL 2010
                                                          Certified Current, 10 September 2012
                                                         Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                     RANGE PLANNING AND OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ ACC/A3AR                                                     Certified by: HQ ACC/A3-2
Supersedes: AF13-212V1_ACCSUP1, 27                            (Col James G. Riemens-Van Laare)
            May 2003                                                                   Pages: 40


AFI 13-212, 16 November 2007, is supplemented as follows. This supplement does not apply to
Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or members. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Contact supporting records managers as required.             Send comments and/or suggested
improvements using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to this
supplement, through channels, to HQ ACC/A3AR, acc.a3ar@langley.af.mil,205 Dodd Blvd,
Suite 101, Langley AFB VA 23665-2789.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major 16 changes
include incorporation of the previous ACC Supplement 1 and ACC Addendum A into a single
publication. Establishes ACC/A3A as the POC for coordinating with the Army's Integrated
Training Area Management program where Army activities have significant impacts to AF range
lands in paragraph 2.4.17. (Added). Provides guidance for the Range Operating Authority (ROA)
to identify and prevent potential mission impact from internal encroachment due to unintended
consequences of non-mission activities in paragraph 2.5.7. (et al). Paragraph 4.1.3. (Added)
establishes procedures for ACC/A3A review and approval of test activities on training ranges.
Paragraph 4.10.9. (Added) directs the ROA to perform a risk assessment and establish operating
procedures for the firing of ground weapons. Paragraph 4.13.3.4. (Added) limits activities which
detract from situational tasks such as controlling or monitoring the movement of aircraft or
 2                                                         AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


ground parties. Paragraph 4.13.4.5. (Added) includes fire prevention procedures as part of the
overall fire risk management plan. Paragraph 4.18. (Added) directs a target management
program for the entire target life-cycle. Directs the Range Readiness Report to assess each
range's ability to support training requirements in paragraph 6.6. (Added). Attachment 3 (Added)
specifies the format for local addendums to this supplement. Attachment 5 (Added) specifies
Range Control Officer (RCO) qualifications and certification requirements. Attachment 7
(Added) provides a reference list of ROA submittals to ACC/A3A. Attachment 8 (Added)
provides additional procedures for Smokey SAM operations. Attachment 9 (Added) provides
additional procedures for Electronic Combat Range (ECR)/Electronic Scoring Site (ESS)
operations. Attachment 10 (Added) provides an example quarterly fiscal year spending report.
Attachment 11 (Added) provides an example range residue disposal document. Attachment 12
(Added) provides an example Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) briefing statement.
1.3.1. Primary Training Ranges (PTRs) are not designed to support test activities. Exceptions
may be made IAW paragraph 4.1.3. (Added). PTR ROAs will forward all test activity requests
to ACC/A3A. ACC PTRs are listed in Table 1.1., ACC Primary Training Ranges (Added).

Table 1.1. (Added) ACC Primary Training Ranges.
 Primary Training Range                  Type1          Range Operating Agency and Location
 Avon Park                               A-S            23 WG/CC, Moody AFB, GA
 Dare County                             A-S            4 FW/CC, Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
 Grand Bay                               A-S            23 WG/CC, Moody AFB, GA
 Poinsett                                A-S, ECR       20 FW/CC, Shaw AFB, SC
 Red Rio, Oscura, Centennial, Casa       A-S            49 FW/CC, Holloman AFB, NM
 Saylor Creek, Juniper Butte             A-S, ECR       366 WG/CC, Mt Home AFB, ID
 Belle Fourche ESS                       ESS2           28 BW/CC, Ellsworth AFB, SD
 Granite Peak ESS                        ESS2           388 FW/CC, Hill AFB, UT
 Snyder ESS                              ESS2           7 BW/CC, Dyess AFB, TX
 1
     See paragraph 1.4 for range classifications.
 2
     An Electronic Scoring Site is considered a range for the purpose of this supplement.
1.3.2. ACC Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) activities are primarily training
ranges but possess capability to support test activities and are considered ranges for the purpose
of this supplement. ACC MRTFB ranges are listed in Table 1.2., ACC Major Range and Test
Facility Base Ranges (Added).

Table 1.2. (Added) ACC Major Range and Test Facility Base Ranges.
  MRTFB Range                                         Range Operating Agency and Location
  Nevada Test and Training Range                      98 RANW/CC, Nellis AFB, NV
  Utah Test and Training Range                        388 FW/CC, Hill AFB, UT
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                   3


1.5.4. ROAs requiring a waiver/exemption to AFI 13-212, Range Planning and Operations, will
send the request to HQ ACC/A3A where it will be reviewed and forwarded to AF/A3O-AR for
approval. HQ ACC/A3A is the approval authority for waivers/exemptions to AFI 13-212_ACC
SUP .
2.4. MAJCOM Responsibilities. Unless otherwise noted, below HQ ACC/A3A is the focal
point for ACC ranges and is responsible for coordinating HQ ACC review or approval of the
following.
2.4.4. Range-related documents are those pertaining to actions or plans with real or potential
mission impact. ACC/A3A/A7A/A7O/A7P/A7X will forward their respective range-related
documents to the remaining offices for review and coordination. ACC/A7 is responsible for
accomplishing review and coordination of documents in A7 functional areas.
2.4.16. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A will conduct detailed Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) to all ranges
approximately 3 - 6 months before a scheduled Unit Compliance Inspection or as deemed
necessary by HQ ACC/A3A. SAVs facilitate communication between the ACC staff and each
range and provide an opportunity to identify best practices to share across the command's ranges.
SAVs also provide HQ ACC with insight into range operations, including range maintenance
procedures, scoring, training, vehicle authorizations, environmental status, and manning. They
are not "inspections", but are to be informative, promote cross-tell and assist in problem solving.
2.4.17. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A is the POC for coordinating with the Army Integrated Training
Area Management (ITAM) program where the Army has significant impacts to Air Force range
lands. The ACC/A3A ITAM coordinator ensures Air Force interests are protected, ITAM
concerns are addressed, and liability due to non-AF activities is limited. ACC/A3A may provide
environmental subject matter expertise to the ITAM program if requested. The ACC ITAM
coordinator will conduct a SAV on Air Force ranges having ITAM programs approximately
every 12 months.
2.4.18. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A is the Combat Air Forces (CAF) Lead for Air Combat Training
Systems (ACTS) pod management, see paragraph 6.5 for policy and management.
2.4.19. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A is the OPR for issues relating to integration of range capabilities
into the Live-Virtual-Constructive (LVC) and Cross-Domain Integration (X-DI) arenas.
2.5. Range Operating Authority (ROA) Responsibilities. The wing/CC or equivalent may
delegate ROA responsibilities for Primary Training Ranges no lower than the operations group
commander (OG/CC) or equivalent. EXCEPTION: Wing commanders having a detachment or
squadron overseeing a range with direct reporting may designate the detachment/CC or SQ/CC
as the ROA. Units shall submit a memorandum to HQ ACC/A3AR that documents the name or
duty title of the ROA within 30 days of designating an ROA other than the wing/CC or
equivalent.
2.5.5. In situations where the ROA is a tenant unit, ensure host/tenant agreements describe
support requirements for range programs. The ROA should develop a close working relationship
with the installation commander to ensure appropriate support and compliance with applicable
laws, directives, and AFIs.
2.5.7. The ROA must be proactive in identifying and preventing internal encroachment due to
plans or actions initiated or approved at the installation level. Proposed actions must be
 4                                                        AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


identified in the Comprehensive Range Plan (CRP) or corresponding plan supporting the CRP.
The proponent for an action with the potential to encroach on the military mission of the range
must demonstrate the proposed action will not impact current or foreseeable future missions.
Range-related documents which are not already required for MAJCOM review must be
submitted to their appropriate HQ ACC directorates for review and coordination (see paragraph
2.4.4.) prior to installation approval.
2.5.8. Work closely with host wing and other supporting organizations to develop procedures for
consistent cross-flow of information in an effort to identify funding requirements and
responsibilities, ensuring appropriate resources are allocated to accomplish the range mission.
Ensure issues, plans or actions which directly or indirectly affect the range mission are also
included in the CRP IAW AFI 13-212 and ACC Sup Chapter 9 (environmental plans,
communications infrastructure, vehicle requirements, support contracts, etc.).
2.5.9. Coordinate with HQ ACC/A3TS on all foreign military issues such as exercises, weapons
footprints, ACTS, etc.
2.5.10. Designate a Scheduling Authority (SA) responsible for range scheduling IAW paragraph
4.1.2 (Added). The SA will ensure all range users have access to all applicable range operating
instructions. The SA will be familiar with range operations and procedures and can serve as the
ROA's agent to enforce this requirement.
2.5.12. Post a copy of the Comprehensive Range Plan (or hyperlink to the official document) on
the ACC Range Operations and Requirements Community of Practice (CoP) website on the Air
Force Portal. Include copies or hyperlinks to supporting documents approved for release by the
OPR.
2.5.13. Post range information on the ACC Range Operations and Requirements CoP. Data
includes, but is not limited to, target information/restrictions, authorized ordnance per target,
manned sites, no-drop targets, unusual weather phenomena that impacts range operations (e.g.
standing water causing visual illusions), and potential night lighting interference issues (e.g. use
of night vision devices on ranges near well lit towns/areas). Establish procedures to disseminate
pertinent range information to off-station/non-local users in the event the CoP is not accessible.
2.5.14. When existing targets are repositioned or new targets added to a range, ROAs must
disseminate this information within 10 days and revise the associated range document as soon as
practicable.
2.5.14.1. Local published guidance is mandatory, will address all pertinent areas as listed in
Attachment 3, ACC Format for the Range Addendum, and will follow the ACC format. Develop
a local addendum within 120 days from the issue date of this supplement and submit the
addendum to HQ ACC/A3A for review prior to ROA approval.
2.5.14.2. (Added) The distribution list for the local addendum will include the following:
All units known to use the range on a regular basis
8 AF/OV
9 AF/OV
12 AF/OV
HQ ACC/A3AR
HQ ACC/A6OF
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                 5


HQ ACC/A7AN
HQ ACC/A7XE
HQ AFSOC/A3V
HQ AFRC/A3V
NGB/A3A
HQ USAF/A3O-AR
HQ USAF/A7CA/A7CI
2.5.28. PTR ROAs shall designate dual Range Operations Officers (ROOs), an aircrew member
in the existing range management chain of command and a federal civilian employee. The
aircrew ROO will serve as the central focal point for operational requirements and flight safety.
The civilian ROO has authority over all ground operations and support functions, as well as
applicable QAE duties. The ROA may further designate each ROO’s responsibilities. ROO
duties and qualifications are listed in Attachment 4, Range Operations Officer (ROO) Duties and
Qualifications (Added).
2.5.29. Each RCO must maintain currency in order to perform RCO duties. Immediately
decertify an RCO who is not current. The ROA may waive RCO currency for unusual
circumstances. Waivers will be in writing and for a period not to exceed 24 hours. RCO
qualification and certification requirements are listed in Attachment 5, RCO Qualifications and
Certification (Added). RCO records are the property of the US government and will: reflect the
qualifications, training, currency and certification of all RCOs; be maintained for a minimum of
5 years; be available for review.
2.5.29.3. (Added) The RCO duty day will consist of an 8-hour duty day, but should not exceed
12 consecutive hours in one 24-hour period. Duty days in excess of 12 hours require notification
of the next higher level of authority. RCOs will not exceed 60 duty hours in any consecutive 7-
day period. The ROA should establish local requirements for crew rest to ensure crew safety and
safe conduct of range operations.
2.5.31. Conduct Vehicle Control Officer/Vehicle Control             Noncommissioned      Officer
responsibilities IAW AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management.
2.5.36. (Added) Range Manager (RM). This PTR range management position will be a DoD
civilian or aircrew member and can be filled by the civilian ROO (dual-hatted, as applicable).
The RM is the POC for range management and planning. The RM evaluates range conditions
and mission requirements, helps develop and coordinate range plans with stakeholders, and
works to resolve issues pertaining to applicable laws, regulations and programs, resource
shortfalls and competing organizational goals.
2.5.37. (Added) A reference list of documents to be submitted to ACC/A3A is provided in
Attachment 7, ROA Submittals To ACC/A3A (Added).
2.7.7. Coordinate range-related environmental programs or actions with the ROA or designated
representative (e.g. RM) prior to final signature or implementation.
2.7.9.3. Include fire prevention measures in the Wildland Fire Management Plan IAW paragraph
4.13.4.5 (Added) and ensure appropriate resources are allocated to enact the plan.
3.2.2.1.3. (Added) Range Users Conference. All ROAs will hold an annual "range users"
conference to ensure user’s training requirements are identified. Conference attendees should
 6                                                        AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


include at a minimum: the RM, OSS, Intelligence, and Wing Weapons and Tactics representative
or equivalent, and representation by each range user. Examples of topics to address are: range
safety, operating procedures, scheduling, targets and target sets, threats, range clean-up, weapons
danger zones, scoring, etc. The minutes will be signed by the ROA and an electronic copy sent
to HQ ACC/A3AR. The forum should gather range user inputs prior to the semi-annual ACC
Realistic Training Review Board or the annual ACC Airspace and Range conference.
3.2.2.1.4. (Added) Combatant Commands and Operational Wings submit training requirements
through the ACC Realistic Training Review Board (RTRB). HQ ACC/A3A will advise ROAs of
range-related inputs and issues received from the RTRB, and review/approve their inclusion in
the respective Comprehensive Range Plans and Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
submissions.
3.2.2.2. HQ ACC/A3AR will hold an annual MRTFB meeting following the HQ AF MRTFB
meeting to review, validate and prioritize command MRTFB resource requirements.
3.2.4. The ROA is the installation OPR for the CRP and will review/update the CRP annually.
Development and review of the CRP should involve all stakeholders IAW paragraphs 9.1.1. and
9.1.2. HQ ACC/A3A is the MAJCOM OPR for CRPs and will coordinate MAJCOM review
prior to approval. Send CRPs to HQ ACC/A3A for review and approval prior to implementing
any action.
3.2.4.1. Include a summary of factors affecting unrestricted use of the range and suggested
solutions, including potential Readiness and Environmental Protection Initiative proposals.
Include these factors in the Range Readiness Report IAW paragraph 6.6. (Added). Ensure
environmental funding requirements are identified IAW paragraph 9.4.
3.2.4.1.1.7. Include architecture requirements to support LVC, X-DI, target networking,
information nodes, etc.
3.2.4.1.5. Submit documents supporting the CRP to HQ ACC for appropriate review; HQ
ACC/A7A will coordinate with ACC/A3A on documents relating to the range. Reference
supporting plans by title and date in the CRP. Supporting plans should address, but are not
limited to Emergency Management, Integrated Natural and Cultural Resource Management
plans, Wildland Fire Management, BASH, etc. Supporting documents approved for release by
the OPR shall be electronically attached to the CRP or readily available through the ACC CoP.
3.3.2.4.1. Conduct regular public outreach meetings, not less than annually, to maintain
relationship with communities affected by range operations. Active participation in the Wing’s
Community Action Group or similar public outreach program is sufficient. These meetings
should be open forum question and answer periods designed to foster a relationship of trust. The
meetings should be attended by the wing commander or his designated representative (at a
minimum squadron commander). The airspace/range/airfield representative, PA officer, JA,
CEV, CEA (Community Planner), and SE shall participate as required.
3.3.2.4.2. (Added) Work with the PA officer to: submit letters to local civic leaders and
government officials informing them of current activities and future actions; issue an annual
local press release describing activities that occur on the range; and work with local civic leaders
to ensure the ROA or appropriate base representatives are invited to any city, county, or regional
planning meetings that may impact airspace/range operations. Optimally, the ROA should seek
permanent representation in these planning forums.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                 7


3.4. National, Regional, and Local Range and Airspace Meetings. Airspace and Range
Conference. ACC/A3A will hold an annual Airspace and Range Conference to ensure the widest
dissemination of current Airspace and Range information. Conference attendees should include:
RM, OSS/CC, Intelligence, and Wing Weapons and Tactics representative or equivalent.
Examples of topics to address are: range safety, operating procedures, targets and target sets,
threats, range clean-up, weapons safety footprints, scoring, cooperative natural resource
management, wildland fire management, etc.
3.6. (Added) Funding Requirements. HQ ACC/A3A is the OPR for all mission essential
operational training and range funding requirements. Range funding requirements are captured
in both the POM cycle (and associated Amended POM (APOM)) and the Execution Plan
(EXPlan) submission. Submit all funding requirements to HQ ACC/A3A IAW the procedures
below. Reference all requirements to a specific range investment area (see paragraph 3.2.4.1.1.).
Submissions will clearly describe the requirement and the impact if not funded. HQ ACC/A3A
will validate, prioritize and advocate these requirements in the ACC corporate process.
3.6.1. (Added) POM submissions primarily address recurring program requirements over a 6
year period, as well as disconnects and initiatives to those requirements. Disconnects are
unfunded requirements for existing funded programs/projects. Initiatives are new requirements
that have no existing funding source. POM inputs are normally due in mid September. APOM
submissions cover 5 years, typically do not include initiatives and are due biennially.
3.6.2. (Added) EXPlan submissions address the execution of previously POM'd requirements,
both funded and unfunded. Submissions will clearly describe funded requirements based on
current year funding levels. Requirements that exceed current year funding will be identified as
unfunded. All ranges will submit their EXPlan to HQ ACC/A3AR. HQ ACC/A3A will validate
range EXPlan submissions and advocate them in the ACC corporate process. Do not consider
supplemental funding opportunities such as the Mid Year Review in the financial planning
process.
4.1. Range Operations. RCOs and ROOs must be familiar with Joint Publication (JP) 3-09,
Joint Fire Support, JP 3-09.1, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Laser Designation
Operations, and JP 3-09.3, Close Air Support (CAS), to ensure range procedures are compatible
and consistent with appropriate operational doctrine.
4.1.2. (Added) Range Scheduling. Publish range scheduling procedures in the local range
addendum and post them on their range web page. The SA will establish, as a minimum,
scheduling procedures for: normal and additional operating hours, schedule changes, and
dissemination of range safety information to off-station/non-local users. Only the SA will
coordinate changes to the range schedule. The RCO or ROO may coordinate current-day
schedule changes with range users but will immediately inform the SA of those changes.
4.1.2.1. (Added) Off-station/Non-local users (units without established Letters of Agreements
with the range). These users will provide a mission profile for each requested range period. The
SA will validate and approve the mission profile, then inform the user of acceptance, denial or
recommended changes. The user must acknowledge receipt of the approved mission profile at
least 24 hours prior to range usage. The acknowledgement will include: mission number (if
applicable), flight call sign, scheduled range date/time, and ordnance (if applicable).
 8                                                       AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


4.1.2.2. (Added) Short Notice Cancellations. For range scheduling purposes, a short notice
cancellation is defined as 48 hours prior to the scheduled mission or the minimum time needed
for another user to prepare a mission. Publish short notice cancellation times in the local range
addendum.
4.1.3. (Added) Conducting Tests on PTRs. IAW AFI 99-109, Major Range and Test Facility
Base (MRTFB) Test and Evaluation Resource Planning, testers will take full advantage of
investments in DoD ranges and facilities. Test teams should plan to use DoD MRTFBs, other Air
Force test capabilities or non-DoD government facilities before requesting the use of a PTR.
Testing exceptions may be made if all the following conditions are met.
4.1.3.1. (Added) There are no scheduling impacts to the training mission of the range.
4.1.3.2. (Added) There are no costs incurred by the range or the range operations and
maintenance (O&M) contractor, to include overtime.
4.1.3.3. (Added) The test is not conducted on a PTR due to cost savings or cost avoidance. Ease
of scheduling is not an adequate reason to conduct a test at a PTR.
4.1.3.4. (Added) There are no permanent impacts to the range, i.e. the range will be returned to
the same state as prior to the test.
4.1.3.5. (Added) Test activities are IAW the approved National Environmental Policy Act
process developed for the range.
4.1.3.6. (Added) The tester is completely aware of the PTRs capabilities (or lack of), is aware of
potential issues such as limited instrumentation, and any associated impacts will not adversely
affect the test.
4.1.3.7. (Added) Proper Operational Risk Management (ORM) is accomplished prior to
conducting any portion of the test on the PTR. The tester must provide test-specific ORM to the
ROA for consideration, and the ROA must determine whether the test activity can be safely
conducted on their range.
4.1.3.8. (Added) ACC/A3AR reviews and approves of the requested test activity. Forward test
activity requests, to include a test POC and the ORM determination, to ACC/A3AR.
4.2. Written Agreements for USAF-Operated Ranges. This supplement contains additional
operational checks and balances to enhance range safety. However, each flight crew/range user
is responsible for thoroughly understanding the contents of the instruction, this supplement, and
any range-specific addendum or agreement. The ROA will ensure the necessary procedures are
in place to enforce this requirement.
4.2.1. The ROA of the ACC range being used, or the commander of the ACC unit using a non-
ACC range, will serve as the Functional Area Agreements Coordinator IAW AFI 25-201,
Support Agreements Procedures, paragraph 2.4.1. Forward all written agreements which
describe ACC’s responsibilities to HQ ACC/A3A for coordination prior to implementation.
4.2.3.2. Address unit priorities and specific scheduling concerns in a letter of agreement between
the range scheduling office and frequent range users.
4.3.2. The ROA must work with the installation civil engineering unit on cooperative, integrated
range management planning and decision-making in order to develop suitable shared use
programs and activities. The installation commander is the ultimate authority to determine the
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                      9


suitability of shared use programs and activities which may affect range operations.              See
paragraph 2.4.4.
4.4. Supersonic Flight. Refer to AFI 13-201_ACC SUP, Air Force Airspace Management.
4.7. Armament Safety Procedures. All users of ACC ranges must perform a dry/familiarization
pass on that range before weapons delivery (day or night) for any of these conditions: no specific
AFI 11-2 Mission Design Series (MDS) Specific, Volume 3, MDS Operations Procedures (e.g.,
AFI 11-2F-22A, Volume 3, F-22A--Operations Procedures), the aircrew/aircraft operator's
initial use of the range (regardless of class) or if the aircrew/operator has not frequented the
range within 1 year.
4.8.4. (Added) On the day of the mission employing ordnance (practice or full-scale), but no
later than the start of the tactical portion of the mission, each flight/mission lead shall confirm
with the range control agency the specific target, planned ordnance on each target and applicable
restrictions (manned sites, etc.). In-flight "retargeting" exercises require approval of the RCO
before expending ordnance on the new target, and the flight/mission lead shall confirm approval.
4.10.3. To further ensure public safety, the ROA will perform an ORM assessment annually to
establish specific weapons restrictions, procedures, armament switch settings, etc., for aircraft
delivering ordnance on the range. Include this information in the range addendum to AFI 13-
212_ACC SUP or other local guidance. Consider all applicable guidance in AFI 11-214, Air
Operations Rules and Procedures, AFI 11-2 Mission Design Series (MDS) Specific, Volume 3,
and other DoD service-specific guidelines.
4.10.3.4. (Added) For allies/foreign countries using same type U.S. aircraft and U.S. weapons,
ROAs may use a U.S. aircraft Weapons Danger Zone (WDZ) in their ORM assessment. Notify
ACC/A3A of the use of this applicable WDZ prior to actual employment. ROAs may also apply
a larger buffer, for risk mitigation purposes, if the ally is not a routine participant and unfamiliar
with the range and exercise/training scenario. For unique ally aircraft and weapons which are
not in the U.S. inventory refer to paragraph 4.10.4.2.
4.10.9. (Added) Ground Weapons. ROAs will perform a risk assessment and establish
appropriate procedures prior to firing ground weapons. Ground weapons (small arms, artillery,
surface-to-surface missiles, etc.) present surface danger hazards not accounted for in the WDZ
tool; therefore, the requestor must provide the ROA detailed information to support a risk
assessment. The requestor can use a suitable planning tool such as the Army’s Range Manager
Tool Kit (RMTK), available on the Army Sustainable Range Program website,
https://srp.army.mil/, to provide the required information to the ROA. The RMTK calculates
the Surface Danger Zone (see paragraph 4.12.4.2.) for ground weapons. The ROA must validate
the information provided, and may use the same planning tool.
4.11.6. The ROA must specify the lasers and settings authorized for use on the range (IAW the
Laser Survey), e.g. "COMBAT MODE" versus "TRAINING MODE" settings, etc.
4.12.1.4. (Added) Post warning signs at the entrance(s) to areas with specific hazards
(Unexploded Ordnance, Lasers, RF, etc.) and include the hazard on the sign.
4.13.2. Each range will maintain a visitor's log documenting the visitor’s name, grade,
organization, date, and purpose of visit. Maintain the log at the range for a minimum of 1 year.
 10                                                      AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


4.13.3.2. Each Class A range will maintain a reliable anemometer to measure the local wind
speed and direction. Speed and direction readout will be available in the range tower.
4.13.3.3. Each ROA will inform their intermediate command and HQ ACC/A3A at the earliest
opportunity following major accidents/incidents such as crashes, off-range munitions impacts,
inadvertent releases/dropped objects, fires and personnel injuries. ROAs may provide initial
notification telephonically, as soon as practical, of incidents that will require HQ ACC/A3A
involvement or assistance, and will follow up via electronic mail. Notify ACC/A3A by
electronic/standard mail when a formal investigation is convened concerning range incidents.
Send information copies of correspondence concerning range incidents to HQ ACC/A3AR.
4.13.3.4. (Added) Personnel must not conduct activities which divert attention from situational
tasks such as controlling or monitoring the movement of aircraft or ground parties using a range.
Ensure personnel are available to perform these tasks during all required duty times. Personnel
performing such duties must not compose or send emails or text messages unless required for the
operation at hand, and should minimize activities which prevent timely communications or
situational evaluation, e.g. unofficial telephone calls, etc.
4.13.4.2. Develop RCO checklists for opening/closing procedures and emergency actions.
Maintain a copy of AFI 13-212, higher headquarters supplements and the local addendum, along
with any RCO checklists in the main RCO tower of a Class A Range. Review checklists
annually to ensure currency.
4.13.4.3. Personnel will not enter any Hazard Area until they have received the range safety
briefing. Tailor the safety briefing, as-needed, to include the items listed in AFI 13-212,
paragraph A2.1.
4.13.4.5. (Added) Fire Prevention. Identify range activities likely to cause range fires, and
develop and implement procedures to mitigate them. Identify a single agency or office
responsible for determining the fire danger hazard level, typically in cooperation with the land
management agency. Develop a decision matrix and checklist to standardize fire prevention
actions and ensure appropriate responses as fire conditions change. Include fire prevention in the
Wildland Fire Management Plan and CRP.
4.15. Night Operations. The ROA shall determine the need for a night RCO. RCO qualification
and certification requirements are listed in Attachment 5 (Added), RCO Qualifications and
Certification. Each range will establish procedures to support aircraft utilizing Night Vision
Devices (NVD)/Infrared Targeting Devices (ITD) compatible lighting or lights-out operations, to
include mixed NVD/lights-out and NVD/lights-on missions.
4.15.1. ROAs will ensure RCOs are equipped with, and have current training in, the use of
NVDs for night range operations (as required).
4.15.2. Include lighting upgrade plans in the Comprehensive Range Plan. Coordinate closely
with local users to determine the best settings for range lighting. For the purposes of this
publication, use the lighting definitions in Table 4.1., Lighting/Marking Scheme Definitions
(Added).

Table 4.1. (Added) Lighting/Marking Scheme Definitions.
      Type                            Definition
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                               11


    NVD/ITD Invisible Lighting        Light/marking schemes that cannot be seen by individuals
                                      using NVDs/ITDs, but are clearly visible at night without
                                      NVDs/ITDs. (EXAMPLE: NVDs--Low-powered blue
                                      light emitting diodes.)
    NVD/ITD Visible Lighting          Light/marking schemes clearly visible to individuals with
                                      or without NVD/ITDs, but does not cause NVD/ITD
                                      vision impairment. (EXAMPLE: High-powered blue
                                      strobe lights for NVDs.)
    NVD/ITD-Only Lighting             Light/marking schemes clearly visible only to individuals
                                      using NVDs/ITDs, but does not cause NVD/ITDs vision
                                      impairment. (EXAMPLE: IR pointers.)
4.15.2.1. Mark the range boundaries (the four corners as a minimum) and any other significant
boundary-defining points with NVD visible lighting. This guidance is not meant to impede night
operations at ranges where ranges are not yet compliant with the above guidance.
4.15.2.3. Each scheduled user will specify to the RCO what type of lighting/marking scheme is
required for their mission. The RCO will ensure lighting/marking scheme is set as requested and
inform aircraft of issues that prohibit planned use of specific targets at night.
4.16. Communications Requirements. Careful planning should precede all range Command,
Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence (C4I) requirements. Coordinate with the
local communications support unit to receive the technical solution for range C4I requirements.
Use at least a 50% expansion rate when planning/justifying C4I infrastructure. Consider using
the ACC Enterprise above all alternatives. Submit all purchases of C4I equipment not listed in
the EXPlan (except Automated Data Processing Equipment) to HQ ACC/A3AR for
coordination.
4.16.2.2. Recordings will contain the RCO's name, current weather, will be numbered in
sequence, and major changes such as weather and RCOs will be noted as they occur. Recordings
will be held a minimum of 48 hours prior to being overwritten.
4.16.2.3. All ACC ranges must maintain the capability to broadcast emergency information on
each radio frequency normally in use during range operations and on UHF Guard (243.0) and
VHF Guard (121.5).
4.17.2. Establish procedures to provide vehicle support to range clearance operations. Identify
problems obtaining vehicles to HQ ACC/A4XV and HQ ACC/A3AR that cannot be resolved at
the local level. Submit requests for assistance to HQ ACC at least 60 days prior to the required
date.
4.17.4. (Added) Other. The OSS/CC, the ROO and the O&M Site Manager shall meet regularly
(no less than quarterly) to discuss range operations and requirements. The ROO/QAE and range
O&M contractor team shall attend selected squadron tactics/aircrew meetings for the same
purpose. Also, the ROA should encourage regular range visits by wing leadership.
4.18. (Added) Target Management Program. Establish a comprehensive target management
program for the entire target life-cycle, from acquisition through disposal. The program will
document, as a minimum, the original equipment/vehicle (nomenclature, make/model, etc.) or
 12                                                      AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


target construction material, preparation actions, location on the range, required certifications,
and disposal actions. Maintain target management records as part of the range archives.
4.18.1. (Added) Requirements. Target requirements should be documented through the Range
Users Conference or other cooperative means involving both the users and ranges. This is a
cost-effective means to determine the need for new targets or when to eliminate existing targets.
4.18.2. (Added) Acquisition. Select the type of target, target material or construction method
based on target suitability and projected life cycle cost. Factors to consider may include, but are
not limited to: target fidelity, durability/ordnance to be used, and accessibility on the range,
repair/maintenance, recycling opportunity, environmental impact and disposal costs. NOTE: The
final target determination should be based on which target satisfies the training or test
requirement and is the most cost effective. The ROA should work closely with OSS Intelligence
and Weapons and Tactics shops to develop realistic target sets to meet unit training
requirements.
4.18.3. (Added) Preparation. Proper target preparation will greatly reduce safety hazards and
cleanup costs. Identify and remove all hazardous materials IAW paragraph 2.5.35 and the
following procedures.
4.18.3.1. (Added) Perform, in coordination with the Installation Radiation Safety Officer
(IRSO), a radiological screen to identify and remove radioactive components from military
hardware; do not use technical publications as the sole means of identifying radiological hazards.
Ranges will procure a commercial radiation detector (upon consultation with the IRSO) to screen
military vehicles, equipment or aircraft intended to be used as targets. Radiological detection
equipment will be operated by appropriately trained personnel.
4.18.3.2. (Added) Drain all fluids except for a small amount of transmission fluid to permit the
target to be dragged, as needed.
4.18.3.3. (Added) Remove dense metal portions (engines, transmissions, etc.) from potential
strafe targets unless essential to the operation or effectiveness of the target.
4.18.3.4. (Added) Despecularize potential laser targets by removing reflective components; limit
painting or masking to components which cannot be removed.
4.18.3.5. (Added) Demilitarize military hardware (tank, artillery, aircraft, etc.) to the greatest
extent practical before use as a target.
4.18.4. (Added) Disposal. Targets which have been fired upon are considered material
potentially presenting an explosive hazard (MPPEH) and will be disposed of IAW Chapter 7.
Ensure all required inspections and certifications are properly documented prior to release from
DoD control.
4.19. (Added) Smokey SAM/Smokey Gun Operations. ACC ranges conducting launch
operations of the GTR-18A Rocket (Smokey SAM) or PJU-7A/E Projectile Simulator (Smokey
Gun) will follow the guidance in T.O. 11L1-2-23-1, Operational, Organizational and
Intermediate Maintenance Instruction--Smokey SAM Simulator/Antiaircraft Artillery Visual
Cueing System, and this supplement. Develop an operating instruction (OI) IAW AFMAN 91-
201, Explosives Safety Standards, to include procedures not covered in technical orders,
operators manuals, or this instruction.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                 13


4.19.1. (Added) Responsibilities. The ROA and Launch Site Supervisor (LSS) will ensure
compliance with this instruction. The LSS will directly monitor launch operations while the
RCO will monitor overall range operations.
4.19.2. (Added) Single person launches. T.O. 11L1-2-23-1 recommends two people for safe
launch operations; however, launch operations may be performed by a single person if approved
by the local weapons safety office. If single person launch operations are used, the ROA shall
conduct an ORM assessment and forward a copy of the assessment to HQ ACC/A3AR. Single
person launch operations will cease while visitors are present.
4.19.3. (Added) Remote Controlled Launchers. Do not use remote control launchers without
safety certification for operational use IAW AFI 91-205, Non-Nuclear Munitions Safety Board.
Develop strict operating procedures to ensure personnel safety and prevent foreign object
damage (FOD) hazard to aircraft. Remote controlled launchers must incorporate a means to
remotely disable launcher functioning (Safe).
4.19.4. (Added) Operating procedures are in Attachment 8, Smokey SAM/Smokey Gun
Operations (Added).
5.1.3.1. All personnel who operate or maintain Electronic Combat (EC) threat simulators and
visual cueing systems will be trained in a unit or contractor-developed training program.
Training records will be maintained by hard copy or electronic means.
5.1.3.1.1. (Added) Familiarization. Conduct a one-time orientation covering the mission,
organization, equipment/system familiarization, safety and security at the operating location. All
newly assigned ECR personnel will receive familiarization training no later than 30 working
days after arrival on site. Personnel will not operate any threat simulator or UHF/VHF radio for
aircrew training until they have completed this training.
5.1.3.1.2. (Added) Operator Training. Hands-on Operator/Maintenance training for the specific
threat simulator, radio, or visual cueing system will be documented and personnel evaluated to
demonstrate proficiency before they are considered qualified.
5.1.3.1.3. (Added) Recurring Training. The ROA or site manager will determine the need for
recurring training, e.g. to keep current on the latest operations tactics and techniques or when
threat equipment operations procedures change.
5.1.4. (Added) Range Integration Instrumentation System (RIIS). The RIIS provides an
unclassified debriefing capability for EC training. Range data is collected, processed and
analyzed, and delivered back to the aircrews for mission replay on standard desktop computers.
Conduct RIIS operations IAW RIIS User Manual, available on the ACC/A3AR CoP. Sites will
coordinate closely with the RIIS Operations Center (ROC) for timely, accurate data processing.
5.2.1. HQ ACC/A3A directs the movement/transfer of all CAF EC threat systems. Before any
range can add or transfer threat systems to/from their inventory, the ROA will validate the
request by official correspondence to HQ ACC/A3A. The request must include the number and
type of systems required, changes to the wing mission that justify the additions/transfer, and
confirmation of maintenance facilities, funding, and personnel to adequately support the
requested systems.
 14                                                     AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


5.2.2. HQ ACC/A3A approval is required before any ACC electronic threat asset is deactivated
or decommissioned by a wing. Once approved, HQ ACC/A3AR will provide the unit with
disposition instructions for the equipment.
5.2.3. HQ ACC/A3A approves all equipment configuration changes. Submit configuration
change requests on AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, IAW procedures in AFI 63-131,
Modification Program Management, and any ACC supplement.
5.5. Electronic Scoring Site/Electronic Combat Range Activity. Aircrews should conduct site
activity IAW ACCI 10-707, Air Combat Command (ACC) Electronic Attack Training and
Emissions Control (EMCON) Procedures, and this supplement. Refer to the chapter pertinent to
the system or area of operation necessary for mission completion. Publish local guidance in the
range addendum to AFI 13-212_ACC SUP, to include special instructions and letters for special
training missions and exercises. Additional operating procedures are provided in Attachment 9,
ECR/ESS Operations (Added), which represents the continuation of operating procedures where
training requirements have changed or responsible organizations deactivated, and which do not
exist in official publications, technical orders or equipment manuals. Send recommendations to
add, delete or change these procedures to the ACC/A3AR Threats Team.
5.5.1. (Added) Develop local procedures and scenarios based on the unique ECR/ESS
capabilities taking into account Military Training Route (MTR) and Special Use Airspace
restrictions, types of range equipment and types of aircraft conducting training. Scenario
development should be coordinated with the ROC at Nellis AFB.
5.5.2. (Added) The SA controls and advertises EC vulnerability periods and will publish
scheduling procedures for vulnerability periods and unscheduled "bootleg" opportunities. Sites
will constantly monitor assigned UHF/VHF radio frequencies for bootleg aircraft during the
vulnerability period.
5.5.3. (Added) ROA and HQ ACC/A3AR approval is required prior to equipment relocation
beyond normal range operating areas.
6.1. Reporting Requirements. Use reports to help evaluate the effectiveness of mission support
and facilitate comprehensive range planning. Data collected in support of various taskings
includes, but is not limited to, munitions expended on the range, detailed airspace and range
utilization, weapons scores, and maintenance data. Maintain a 3-year historical archive of all
reports. Local archives will not be required once a central database becomes available; however,
previously submitted reports must be maintained until added to the database. The ROA or
designated AF representative will submit reports to ensure government review; contractors must
not submit reports directly to HQ ACC. Submit all reports to HQ ACC/A3AR NLT the 5th
working day of the month following the end of the reporting period.
6.1.2. (Added) Each ROA will ensure a monthly Weapons Range Activity Report is compiled,
including Air Combat Training Systems (P4RC, P5CTS, ADDS facilities, etc.). Each range
operations officer/contract range supervisor will maintain accurate records of range operation
and maintenance time plus closures and cancellations to assist in making accurate monthly
reports. The ROO/contract range supervisor will submit the completed form to the ROA at the
end of each range week.
6.2. Range Utilization Reporting. Submit a monthly Range Utilization Report for each range
which supports missions independent of any co-located range. For example, Avon Park - North
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                15


and Avon Park - South support missions at the same time independent of the other.
Supplemental information is available on the ACC Range Operations and Requirements CoP, to
include the ACC Utilization Report User’s Guide, the report template, and a Frequently Asked
Questions (FAQ) list for clarification of range-specific issues, those subject to change or not
addressed in AFI 13-212. Email questions, recommendations or problem (bug) reports directly
to ACC/A3AR with “Ute Report” in the subject line.
6.2.1. (Added) The ACC Range Utilization Report Control Symbol (RCS) is ACC-DOR
(M)7301.
6.3. Expended Munitions Tracking. Report expended munitions, including Smokey SAMs, on
the ACC Range Utilization Report until a replacement system is provided. Maintain cumulative
munitions quantities in support of the installation environmental office annual Toxic Release
Inventory report, to include chaff and flare expenditures. Develop adequate methods to account
for munitions expended on scored, manned and unmanned ranges. Locations should be as
accurate as possible but may consist of the intended target, range subdivision or airspace
component.
6.4. Range Clearance Report. Maintain all range clearance reports for the life of the range. A
copy of the EOD range clearance report submitted in the Automated Civil Engineers System will
suffice for the range clearance report, so long as it meets the reporting criteria.
6.6. (Added) Range Readiness Report (RRR). This unclassified report enables the Relevant
Range Strategic Vision by assessing each range’s ability to support the training requirements of
the primary users. The RRR assigns each range Mission Essential Task (MET) a stoplight color
code. The report is a snapshot of the previous 3 months along with a 3 month projection of
anticipated yellow or red items. Any red coded item must provide an estimated “get-well” date.
Submit the RRR quarterly at the end of March, June, September and December. Assess whether
the following METs support the range users’ needs:
6.6.1. (Added) Targets and target arrays. Are targets relevant, realistic, challenging and cost-
effective (R2C2)?
6.6.2. (Added) Electronic threats. As with targets, do threats provide adequate R2C2?
6.6.3. (Added) Scoring and feedback systems. Do systems provide meaningful information to
support the warfighting cycle (See-Assess-Decide-Act)?
6.6.4. (Added) Adequate hours of operation. Is the range and airspace available at appropriate
times and of sufficient duration to meet users’ needs?
6.6.5. (Added) Infrastructure. Is the real property, facilities, utilities and communications
infrastructure adequate to allow the range to support its users?
6.6.6. (Added) Environmental stewardship. Does the range manage, cooperate on, and act to
improve all aspects of the natural infrastructure for long-term sustainability?
6.6.7. (Added) Adequate airspace/land. Does the ROA own, lease or otherwise control access to
land overlaid by safety footprints? Is there adequate airspace volume to meet training and safety
requirements?     Are airspace and ranges located within a reasonable distance of the
installation/primary user?
 16                                                        AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


6.7. (Added) Fiscal Reports. All ranges will submit quarterly fiscal year spending reports to HQ
ACC/A3AR. MRTFBs will also include quarterly reimbursement earnings data. A sample
report format is provided in Attachment 10 (Added); however, a unit-developed format may be
used so long as it provides the same level of detail.
6.8. (Added) Annual Range Awards. HQ ACC/A3A administers awards for outstanding
performance by ACC unit personnel. Period of all awards is the calendar year from 1 Jan through
31 Dec. Format is AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, limited to one page. Submit award
nominations electronically to HQ ACC/A3AR by 1 Feb each year. These awards will be
presented at the annual ACC Airspace and Range Conference. Funding for award winners travel
and attendance at the annual conference is a unit responsibility.
6.8.1. (Added) Categories. Any military member (officer or enlisted) or civilian member may be
nominated for a category (contractors and HQ ACC personnel are not eligible). Units may only
submit one nominee per category.
6.8.1.1. (Added) ACC Range Professional of the Year Award. Presented to the member who
made the most significant contribution to ACC ranges during the award period.
6.8.1.2. (Added) ACC Airspace and Range Environmental Achievement Award. Presented to
the member who made the greatest contribution to the advancement of environmental
management for an ACC range or airspace. The Environmental Achievement Award is also
directed in AFI 13-201, ACC Supplement.
6.8.2. (Added) Scoring Criteria.
6.8.2.1. (Added) Range Professional Award: 80 percent duty performance which includes day-
to-day job performance, leadership, innovation, range improvements, relationships with PA,
range users, community groups, and environmental stewardship; 20 percent self-improvement
which includes PME, education, and professional courses taken.
6.8.2.2. (Added) Airspace and Range Environmental Achievement Award: 80 percent duty
performance which includes day-to-day job performance, leadership, innovation, airspace and
environment improvements/enhancements, relationship with flying squadrons, FAA, PA,
airspace and range users, community groups, and environmental stewardship; 20 percent self-
improvement which includes, PME, education and professional courses taken.
7.2.1. ROAs will submit exemptions/waivers IAW paragraph 1.5 for cancellation of the
clearance or modification of range clearance criteria. A cancellation occurs when a clearance
cannot be performed before the next scheduled clearance of the same type, e.g. a semi-annual
clearance, regardless of any intervening, less restrictive clearance. A postponement occurs if the
clearance can be performed before the next required clearance of the same type.
7.3.1. EOD are military personnel, UXO-qualified personnel are non-military personnel.
7.3.1.4. (Added) Any use of explosives by UXO-qualified personnel will only be permitted after
a Site Specific Safety Plan (SSSP) is approved by HQ ACC/A3A/SEW/A7X. The plan will
address all aspects of the explosive operations, to include those listed in Table 7.1., Site Specific
Safety Plan (Added). The SSSP is valid for the duration of the contract or until operational
procedures change.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                  17


Table 7.1. (Added) Site Specific Safety Plan (SSSP) Items.
Item       Topic
A          Organization, Qualifications, and Responsibilities of Personnel Project Manager,
           UXO Site Safety and Health Officer, UXO QAE. NOTE: Safety deficiencies noted
           by the EOD QAE will be immediately identified to the Project Site Manager and/or
           the UXO Site Safety and Health Officer.
B          Site Description and Contamination Characterization
C          Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment
D          Training (i.e., medical monitoring, HAZWOPR, site-specific training, Hazard
           Communication)
E          Personal Protective Equipment
F          Medical Surveillance
G          Environmental and Personal Monitoring
H          Site Control (i.e., Access, Communication, Security)
I          Personnel and Equipment Decontamination
J          Hazardous Waste Management
K          Emergency Response and Contingency Procedures
L          Spill Containment
M          Heat/Cold Stress Monitoring
N          Logs, Reports, and Record Keeping
7.3.3. Range material (target debris, munitions and munitions debris) which has been fired upon
is considered MPPEH until properly inspected and certified to be safe. Once certified, this
material is no longer considered MPPEH so long as the chain of custody is maintained until
released from DoD control.
7.3.3.2. Secure MPPEH in a Residue Holding Area (RHA) until final disposition. The RHA
will have appropriate administrative/physical controls to limit access and must be located outside
any WDZ Footprint. All range residues will be checked and approved for movement by
qualified EOD/UXO-qualified personnel prior to placement in the RHA. Segregate residues
according to type, such as full scale practice munitions, sub-scale practice munitions, light metal
and commercial grade vehicles, armored vehicles, Smokey SAMs, non-recyclable residue, etc.
7.3.3.3. MPPEH shall be processed to ensure explosive safety, demilitarization and
environmental requirements are met before this material is released from DoD control. This
process shall leave munitions and munitions residue in a condition where they will not be
recognizable as munitions, allows for full inspection of the interior to ensure no explosive hazard
remains, and typically prepares the material into an industry standard form. Use DoD 4160.21-
M and DoD 4160.21-M-1, Defense Demilitarization Manual, to ensure proper demilitarization is
accomplished. All processed material will be accompanied by a Range Residue Disposition
 18                                                      AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


Document, DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document, or locally generated
documentation (see Attachment 11) and certification statements will only be signed by qualified
personnel.
7.3.3.3.1. (Added) Sub-scale practice bombs (e.g., bomb dummy unit ) and other sub-scale
practice munitions, expended rockets and warheads, inert projectiles; guided missile parts and
guided bomb components will be run through a process that reduces these items into 4-inch
pieces or smaller and unrecognizable as munitions items.
7.3.3.3.2. (Added) Full-scale inert bombs will be cut into at least four (4) pieces (the nose and
tail portions of the bomb must be cut off). Filler materials will be removed.
7.3.3.3.3. (Added) Third Party UXO QA. For contracted range residue removal (R3) operations,
no site activity will take place without third party UXO QA personnel on-site. The UXO QA
will have "stop work" authority and will monitor the UXO actions to ensure project compliance
and safety. The third party UXO QA must be a UXO Technician III or equivalent IAW DDESB
Technical Paper 18 (EOD must be at least a 7-skill level) or government personnel who are
authorized to sign munitions residue inspections IAW T.O. 11A-1-60, General Instructions--
Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Material Generated from Items Exposed
to or Containing Explosives. The UXO QA will document custody transfer of all residue
removed from the range. Active duty and Air Reserve Component EOD personnel may perform
QAE duties contingent upon availability. Requests for military EOD support should be
submitted at least 30 days prior to the start of operations through appropriate Base Civil Engineer
Commanders and HQ EOD Functional Managers (ACC/AFRC/ANG).
7.3.3.3.4. (Added) MPPEH Certification. Range residue will be inspected by a UXO Technician
to ensure that it is inert and/or free of explosives before any processing will occur. No site
activity will take place without the presence of qualified UXO personnel. The Senior UXO
supervisor is responsible for all contractor on-site range residue certification activities. This
individual shall have documented experience with and/or specialized training in the type of
munitions/ordnance items expected while on each site.
7.3.3.3.5. (Added) The R3 process requires documented double inspections of MPPEH,
certification of safe status and demilitarization, documentation of the training of personnel
responsible for these functions, and positive control of the material through final disposition.
The ROA must control MPPEH until final disposition, while the ACC R3 contractor performs
the remaining functions during their periodic visits to ACC ranges. If the ACC R3 contract (or
similar contract vehicle) is not used the ROA will ensure all requirements are met before
disposing of range residue.
7.4.4. Clear the entire prepared (graded) target area if it exceeds the minimum clearance distance
to provide a safe working environment for range maintenance activities.
7.4.5. (Added) Radiological Survey. Perform a radiological survey, in coordination with the
IRSO, of all target debris from military hardware/equipment before removal from the range
unless a radiological survey is documented under the target management program. Radiological
detection equipment will be operated by appropriately trained personnel. Pay particular attention
to aircraft components, dials, gauges, tank starting units, etc. to determine if radioactive
components are present. If radioactive components are found, remove, segregate, and package
radioactive items. Consult the IRSO for proper handling and disposition requirements. NOTE:
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                     19


(Added) Be aware that the level of radioactivity allowed by smelters and scrap yards is less than
that allowed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission
Regulatory Guide 1.86, Table 1.
7.5.1.3. Document non-EOD range clearance safety briefings IAW Attachment 12.
8.2.3. The ROA will work with the Depleted Uranium (DU) permittee and the IRSO to ensure a
DU Management Plan is developed prior to the use of DU or any subsequent cleanup. The plan
will define responsibilities for the activities listed in paragraph 8.4., to include funding and other
resources, and must be approved by HQ ACC/A3A. A separate DU Management Plan is not
required if the Radioactive Material Permit or the installation radiation safety instruction
suffices.
8.3.2.3. (Added) The Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office and the National
Nuclear Security Administration are responsible for DU environmental compliance on the
Nevada Test and Training Range per the Sandia Land Use Permit, dated 26 Apr 2002.
9.2. Develop range-related portions of the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan,
Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan and their subordinate plans in coordination with
the ROA or equivalent range representative (e.g. RM). Ensure all pertinent installation offices
review these plans, then forward the plans to HQ ACC for coordination prior to final signature.
9.7. (Added) Adopted Forms. DD Form 1348-1A, Issue/Release and Receipt Document
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award




                                               JAMES M. FRASER III, General, USAF
                                               Commander
 20                                                       AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4160.21-M-1 (http://www.dla.mil/dlaps/dod/416021m1/guide.asp), Defense
Demilitarization Manual, 1 Oct 1991
DoD Instruction 4715.16, Cultural Resources Management, 18 Sep 2008
Joint Publication 3-09, Joint Fire Support, 13 Nov 2006
Joint Publication 3-09.1, Joint Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Laser Designation
Operations, 28 May 1999
Joint Publication 3-09.3, Close Air Support (CAS), 28 May 1999
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, U. S. Atomic Energy Commission Regulatory Guide 1.86,
Termination of Operating Licenses for Nuclear Reactors, Jun 1974.
ACCI 10-707, Air Combat Command (ACC) Electronic Attack Training and Emissions Control
(EMCON) Procedures, 7 Oct 2008
AFI 13-201_ACC Sup, Air Force Airspace Management, 14 May 2007
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 Oct 2007
AFI 33-360, Publications Management Program, 18 May 2006
AFI 91-205, Nonnuclear Munitions Safety Board, 1 Jul 1998
T.O. 11A-1-60, General Instructions - Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap
Material Generated from Items Exposed to or Containing Explosives, 15 Jan 2007
T.O. 11L1-2-23-1, Operator, Organizational, and Intermediate Instruction with IPB - Smokey
SAM Simulator/Aircraft Artillery Visual Cueing system, Model LMU-23A/E and -24A/E, 14 Nov
1989

Abbreviations and Acronyms

C4I
CoP—-Community of Practice
ECR—-Electronic Combat Range
EOD—-Explosive Ordnance Disposal
ESS—-Electronic Scoring Site
FOD—-Foreign Object Damage
IP—-Initial Point
IRSO—Installation Radiation Safety Officer
ITAM—-Integrated Training Area Management
ITD—-Infrared Targeting Devices
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                  21


LSS—-Launch Site Supervisor
LVC—-Live-Virtual- Constructive
MET—-Mission Essential Task
MRTFB—-Major Range Test Facility Base
RHA—Residue Holding Area
RM—-Range Manager
RIIS—-Range Integration Instrumentation System
RM—-Range Manager
RMTK—-Range Manager Tool Kit
ROA—-Range Operating Authority
RRR—-Range Readiness Report
RTRB—-Realistic Training Review Board
SA—-Scheduling Authority
SAV—-Staff Assistance Visit
SSSP—Site Specific Safety Plan
X-DI—-Cross-Domain Integration
Terms—Chain of Custody-The activities and procedures taken to maintain positive control of
MPPEH from the time of collection through final disposition. This includes documentation and
physical control of the material. The chain of custody ensures the integrity of the process used to
determine the explosive safety status of this material.
Site Manager—The person authorized to act on behalf of the contractor on all matters relating
to daily range operations.
Unrestricted Use—The ability to operate within, construct on, develop or otherwise make use of
a military range with no mission impact due to limitations, workarounds, delays or additional
cost. Restrictions may be due to encroachment, environmental/cultural factors, public law, etc.,
and may be temporary, cyclical or permanent.A2.3.22.20. (Added) Dive angle references
A2.1.12. (Added) Natural and cultural resource protection
A2.3.22.18. (Added) Combat laser operations and safety procedures
A2.3.22.19. (Added) Directed Energy Weapons procedures
A2.3.22.21. (Added). Automated range scoring systems
A2.3.22.22. (Added). Generator operations
A2.3.23. (Added) Range security
A2.3.24. (Added) General aviation corridor
A2.3.25. (Added) Helicopter operations
A2.3.26. (Added) In—flight emergency and divert procedures
22   AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                             23


                                   Attachment 3 (Added)
                    ACC FORMAT FOR THE RANGE ADDENDUM

A3.1. (Added) Local Range Addendum. The range addendum will address all appropriate
items applicable to all weapons systems and using agencies. Instructions and their complements
are discussed in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
   A3.1.1. (Added) Wings with multiple ranges shall include applicable information for each
   range in the addendum. Items not applicable to individual ranges will be so noted.
   A3.1.2. (Added) Because the content of the local range addendum will probably interface
   with other wing/base activities, the local range addendum should be published at wing/base
   level.
   A3.1.3. (Added) Local addenda will be submitted to HQ ACC/A3A for review prior to
   ROA publication. NOTE: (Added) OPRs must contact their host base or unit publishing
   activity for formatting guidance prior to develop an addendum. Failure to do so may cause
   otherwise unnecessary rework.
(Added) Chapter Structure. The content may be expanded as required; however, the basic
chapter structure should be used.
CHAPTER 1        RESPONSIBILITIES

     1.1. General Information
     1.2. xx FW (ROA)
     1.3. Other Agencies
     1.4. Host Unit
     1.5. CES
     1.6. Weather
     1.7. Range User
     1.8. Unit Feedback
     1.9. Scheduling Authority
CHAPTER 2       DESCRIPTION OF RANGE AND MILITARY OPERATING AREA
     2.1. General Information
     2.1.1. Capabilities
     2.1.2. Hours of Operation
     2.1.3. Scheduling Procedures
     2.2. Restrictions.
     2.2.1. Common/General
     2.2.2. Range
     2.2.3. Airspace
     2.3. Range and Military Operating Area (MOA)
     2.3.1. Air-to-Ground Range
     2.3.2. Tactical Range
     2.3.3. Electronic Range
     2.3.4. Air-to-Air Range
     2.3.5. MOA
     2.4. Range Routes, Air Refueling Tracks and Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Cooridors
24                                      AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


     2.5. Landing Zones and Drop Zones
CHAPTER 3       OPERATIONS/WEAPONS DELIVERY PROCEDURES
     3.1. Overview
     3.2. Authorized Ordnance
     3.3. Restrictions, Limitations and Footprint Data
     3.4. Laser or Directed Energy Operations
     3.4.1. Laser Systems
     3.4.2. Airborne
     3.4.3. Ground Laser Operations
     3.4.4. Directed Energy Operations
     3.5. Night Operations
     3.5.1. Night Lighting
     3.5.2. NVD
     3.5.3. Infrared Enhanced Targets
     3.6. Unmanned Threat Emitters
     3.7. Transition Corridor Operations
     3.8. Helicopter Operations
     3.9. Weather
     3.10. Minimums and Fouls
     3.11. Emergency Procedures
     3.11.1. Emergency Airfields
     3.11.2. Dropped Object and Inadvertent Release
     3.11.3. Hung Ordnance and Unsafe Gun Procedures
     3.11.4. Jettison Procedures
CHAPTER 4       ELECTRONIC COMBAT RANGE/ELECTRONIC SCORING SITE
     4.1. Purpose
     4.2. Scheduling
     4.3. Events
     4.4. Restrictions
     4.5. Communications
     4.6. Tactics
     4.7. Operations
     4.8. Simulators
     4.9. Feedback
CHAPTER 5       RANGE CONTROL OFFICER PROCEDURES
     5.1. Responsibilities
     5.2. Checkout and Certification Procedures
     5.3. Range Control Officer (RCO) Scheduling
     5.4. Notification and Transportation
     5.5. Range Opening
     5.6. Range Schedule
     5.7. Aircraft Control
     5.8. Range Fouls
     5.9. Ground Party Control
     5.10. Restricted Operations
     5.11. Strafing Operations
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                           25


     5.12. Range Visitors
     5.13. Range Closure
     5.14. Reports
CHAPTER 6       AIR COMBAT MANEUVERING INSTRUMENTATION
     6.1. Purpose
     6.2. Scheduling
     6.3. Restrictions
     6.4. Operations
     6.5. Feedback
 26                                                     AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


                                    Attachment 4 (Added)
      RANGE OPERATIONS OFFICER (ROO) DUTIES AND QUALIFICATIONS

A4.1. (Added) Range Operations Officer (ROO).

Table A4.1. (Added) Range Operations Officer (ROO) Duties and Qualifications.
Duties and Qualifications                               References
Supervise daily range management.                       AFI 13-212, paragraph 2.5.28
Supervise daily range planning.                         AFI 13-212, paragraph 2.5.28
Supervise daily range maintenance.                      AFI 13-212, paragraph 2.5.28
Will be an aircrew member and/or a federal civilian     AFI 13-212_ACC SUP, paragraph
employee.                                               2.5.28
The civilian ROO has authority over all ground          AFI 13-212, paragraph 2.5.28
operations and support functions on the range.
The aircrew ROO will serve as the central focal         AFI 13-212_ACC SUP, paragraph
point for operational requirements and flight safety.   2.5.28
Ensure the contract site manager maintains the          AFI 13-212_ACC SUP, paragraph
required RCO training expertise.                        2.5.28
Evaluate the RCO program.                               AFI 13-212_ACC SUP, paragraph
                                                        2.5.28
Will be responsible for all range maintenance and       AFI 13-212, Attachment 1 (Terms),
day-to-day operating activities.                        Range Operations Officer
The ROO will interface with operations personnel        AFI 13-212, Attachment 1 (Terms),
and other base agencies.                                Range Operations Officer
Will be qualified as a RCO as needed for                AFI 13-212, paragraph 2.5.29
operational requirements.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                  27


                                   Attachment 5 (Added)
                    RCO QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATION

A5.1. (Added) Experience. RCOs must have experience in at least one of the following areas:
   A5.1.1. (Added) Military experience in the tactical delivery of air-to-ground munitions.
   A5.1.2. (Added) Military or civilian experience in the management, supervision, or control
   of air operations on a conventional or tactical military range.
   A5.1.3. (Added) Military or civilian experience in the management, supervision, or control
   of air operations of a military airfield, including fighter or conventional bomber operations.
A5.2. (Added) Qualifications. RCOs must possess the following qualifications:
   A5.2.1. (Added) Able to operate UHF, VHF, FM, LMR and telephonic two-way
   communications equipment.
   A5.2.2. (Added) A working knowledge of range scoring systems, range target systems, and
   emergency response actions.
   A5.2.3. (Added) Familiarity with the general classes and types of aircraft and ordnance
   employed at the range, and the general classes and types of pattern deliveries employed.
   A5.2.4. (Added) Able to assimilate a variety of information in a dynamic environment and
   react with sound decisions and judgment while adhering to established practices and
   procedures.
A5.3. (Added) Annual Physical Examination. RCOs must meet the following minimum
physical requirements. A comprehensive physical examination such as a Class II FAA physical
examination, or similar examination, may be used to document these in the RCOs records.
   A5.3.1. (Added) Vision correctable to 20/20 and the ability to distinguish primary colors.
   A5.3.2. (Added) Normal depth perception.
   A5.3.3. (Added) Full use of both hands, arms and legs.
   A5.3.4. (Added) Normal hearing.
   A5.3.5. (Added) Clear, intelligible speaking voice
   A5.3.6. (Added) Able to climb steps to a height of 120 feet.
   A5.3.7. (Added) Able to maintain civilian driver's license.
A5.4. (Added) RCO Records. RCO certifications are valid when the following areas, as a
minimum, are documented in each RCOs records:
   A5.4.1. (Added) Section 1: Personnel Data.
   A5.4.2. (Added) Section 2: RCO Certification and Currency Documentation.
   A5.4.3. (Added) Section 3: Academic and On-Range Training.
   A5.4.4. (Added) Section 4: Evaluations.
   A5.4.5. (Added) Section 5: Certification of Annual Physical Examination.
 28                                                     AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


   A5.4.6. (Added) Section 6: Supplemental Data.
A5.5. (Added) Training.
   A5.5.1. (Added) Academic Training. The RCO training program will include, but is not
   limited to, the applicable items listed in Attachment 2, paragraph A2.3.
   A5.5.2. (Added) On-Range Training. Practical training on range-specific equipment and
   procedures will take place at the range.            Training will cover range equipment,
   inspection/operation of scoring/target systems, and exercising operating procedures or
   checklists. The RCO trainee will observe a qualified RCO demonstrate the proper methods
   and techniques for controlling aircraft during air-to-ground operations, and must observe at
   least four flights conducting daytime range operations.
   A5.5.3. (Added) Night Operations. RCOs must be day-qualified before upgrading to night
   operations. Night RCO training will consist of ground training and observation of at least two
   night flights under the control of a night-qualified RCO. To qualify for NVD duties, an RCO
   must be night-qualified.
A5.6. (Added) Evaluations. The QAE will evaluate the RCO Program during normal
scheduled contract surveillance. Evaluations will be documented.
   A5.6.1. (Added) Written Examination. An open-book, written examination, consisting of
   35 randomly selected, multiple-choice questions, will be administered by an RCO supervisor.
   The examination will cover all academic training. A passing score is 85 percent, corrected to
   100 percent.
   A5.6.2. (Added) On-Range Demonstration. An appropriately qualified RCO will directly
   observe the RCO trainee control four flights (two for night RCO). If 4-ship formations
   frequent the range, the RCO trainee must also control at least one 4-ship during the
   demonstration.
A5.7. (Added) Certification and Currency. The certification training period and
requirements vary with each range, but upgrading RCOs will be certified within 30 workdays.
A5.7. 1 (Added) Certification. RCO certification requires an evaluation IAW A5.6 and a
completed RCO Certificate (see Attachment 6). If an RCO is decertified the ROA, or a qualified
representative designated by the ROA, may re-certify the RCO by observing him/her in the
performance of all RCO duties.
   A5.7.2. (Added) Currency. To maintain currency, each RCO must:
       A5.7.2.1. (Added) Perform RCO duty (at the highest qualification level) at least once
       every 180 days.
       A5.7.2.2. (Added) Successfully complete the RCO written examination annually. RCOs
       must re-accomplish the entire RCO training program if they fail the annual written
       examination twice, or after 365 days of non-currency. If the RCO fails the annual written
       examination a third time they will be dismissed from performing RCO duties.
       A5.7.2.3. (Added) Pass an annual physical examination for the requirements of
       paragraph A5.3. (Added).
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                         29


  A5.7.3. (Added) Recurrency. If an RCO becomes non-current due to nonperformance of
  RCO duties or expiration of written examination, the RCO must be reevaluated in the area
  which caused the loss of currency. Conduct reevaluations IAW paragraph A5.6. (Added) and
  document on the RCO Certificate.
 30                                                 AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


                                 Attachment 6 (Added)
            SAMPLE RANGE CONTROL OFFICER (RCO) CERTIFICATE

RCO CERTIFICATION FOR _________John Doe, GS-9____________________
                                 Full Name of Individual, Rank/Grade
on _____________Pecos_______________ RANGE
1. Is qualified and recommended for training as a RCO IAW AFI 13-212_ACC SUP.
______XXXXX_____________________________                             _____9 Feb 08____
ROO signature                                                               Date
2. Has completed initial RCO academic training and written examination.
______XXXXX_____________________________                             ______9 Feb 08___
ROO signature                                                               Date
3. Has completed initial/requalification On-Range Demonstration.
    Day __X__                                   Night _____
__XXXXX__________________9 Feb 08__ ___________________________                  _______
RCO Supervisor signature             Date       RCO Supervisor signature         Date
4. Has successfully completed all the requirements IAW AFI 13-212_ACC SUP 1 and is
authorized to perform the following RCO duties.
    Day RCO ___X____                            Night RCO ________
___XXXXX________________________________                             ____9 Feb 08____
Range Operating Officer (ROO) signature block                               Date
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                    31


                                        Attachment 7 (Added)
                              ROA SUBMITTALS TO ACC/A3A

Table A7.1. (Added) Reference List of ROA Submittals to ACC/A3A.
                                                                                   Final
Subject                                     References                  A3A Action Authority
ACTS Pod management requests                6.5.5; 6.5.6                Coordinate   ACC/A3A
Annual awards                               6.8                         Approve      ACC/A3A
C4I equipment purchase - unfunded           4.16                        Approve      ACC/A3A
Comprehensive Range Plan                    2.4.8; 2.5.12; 3.2.4        Approve      ACC/A3A
DU Management Plan                          8.2.3                       Approve      ACC/A3A
EC Threats management                       5.2.1; 5.2.2; 5.2.3         Approve      ACC/A3A
EC Threats used outside operating area      5.6.2.3                     Approve      ACC/A3A
Exemptions, waivers                         1.5.4; 2.5.11; 7.2          Coordinate   HQ AF/A3O
Formal agreements                           4.2.1                       Coordinate   ROA
Funding                                     3.6                         Validate     ACC/FM
Major incidents                             4.13.3.3                    Info         n/a
ORM assessments                             2.5.21                      Coordinate   ROA
Range access denials by other service       7.4.1.4                     Info         n/a
Range addendum                              2.5.14.1                    Review       ROA
Range Users Conference minutes              3.2.2.1.3                   Info         n/a
Range-related documents                     2.4.4; 2.5.7; 2.5.12; 9.2   Coordinate   WG/CC, ROA,
                                                                                     MAJCOM,
                                                                                     etc., as needed
RCO NVD Training Program                    2.4.5                       Approve      ACC/A3A
Reports                                     6.1                         Submit       ACC/A3A
ROA delegation                              2.5                         Info         n/a
Single person SAM launch ORM                4.19.2.1                    Info         ROA
T/TSNS                                      3.3                         Coordinate   HQ AF/A3O
Actions
Approve - final authorization
Coordinate - formal review prior to implementation or higher level approval
Info - notification only
Review - evaluation
Submit - collection and consolidation
Validate - certify the requirement
32   AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                33


                                   Attachment 8 (Added)
                     SMOKEY SAM/SMOKEY GUN OPERATIONS

A8.1. (Added) Safety Requirements. All persons will be trained prior to performing launch
operations.
   A8.1.1. (Added) Simulators will be handled, transported, and stored IAW AFMAN 91-201,
   Explosive Safety Standards, T.O. 11L1-2-23-1 and local procedures.             Contractors
   transporting simulators over public roads will meet Department of Transportation hazardous
   material transportation requirements.
   A8.1.2. (Added) The RCO, or responsible person delegated by the ROA, will verify
   favorable launch conditions prior to beginning operations, e.g. current fire danger, weather
   conditions, etc. Terminate launch operations immediately if weather conditions become
   unfavorable.
   A8.1.3. (Added) The LSS will have direct communications with the RCO and/or Mission
   Director. Terminate launch operations immediately if any condition arises that could present
   a hazard.
   A8.1.4. (Added) All personnel involved in launcher loading and/or unloading operations
   will wear full face protection, leather gloves, shirt with sleeves rolled down.
   A8.1.5. (Added) Angle the launcher away from the aircraft flight path, if known, or with
   the direction of the wind to prevent a FOD hazard.
   A8.1.6. (Added) The minimum safe distance for Smokey SAM launches against inbound,
   low-level, fixed-wing aircraft is approximately 2 miles. This will allow the rocket to fall to
   the ground before the aircraft overflies the target. The minimum safe distance for all other
   activities is 2,000 feet.
   A8.1.7. (Added) The LSS will control the Fire Control Assembly Enable Plug or the Fire
   Control Assembly when the Enable Plug is installed and the launcher is armed.
   A8.1.8. (Added) Do not launch/initiate simulators without direct view of the launch site and
   surrounding airspace.
   A8.1.9. (Added) All personnel shall remain a minimum of 100 feet or the full length of the
   control cable from the launch site, whichever is greater, prior to launching/initiating
   simulators.
A8.2. (Added) The LSS must ensure the following before launching Smokey SAMs:
   A8.2.1. (Added) Access routes to the launch site are blocked and warning signs are posted.
   A8.2.2. (Added) The launch site and immediate area is clear of personnel and vehicle
   traffic.
   A8.2.3. (Added) Receive a “Clear to Fire” call from the RCO/Mission Director.
   A8.2.4. (Added) Visually acquire the target aircraft.
A8.3. (Added) Collection and Disposal. Collect spent simulators to minimize litter on the
range and ensure proper disposal.
 34                                                     AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


   A8.3.1. (Added) Collect expended igniter rods and rockets that can reasonably be recovered
   without placing personnel at risk. Ensure launch areas are included in the range
   decontamination schedule for EOD personnel to collect rockets that could not be recovered
   due to missions, terrain, or other hazards. Recover all Smokey SAMs that land off DoD
   property.
   A8.3.2. (Added) Handle and dispose of spent simulators as MPPEH IAW Chapter 7. Place
   collected items in the residue holding area separate from any inspected range residue, labeled
   and secured to prevent inadvertent or unauthorized additions.
A8.4. (Added) Remote Controlled Launches.
   A8.4.1. (Added) Launch Site Access. Follow live-fire target entry procedures for ground
   party access to remote launch sites on active targets. All rocket loading operations will be
   scheduled in advance and identified on range operations schedules. Do not allow aircraft to
   overfly the launch area during launcher loading operations. Do not leave launchers and
   rockets unattended overnight or in areas frequented by non-DOD personnel. Post a minimum
   of four warning signs around the launch site equally spaced, starting from the primary entry
   point or direction.
   A8.4.2. (Added) Minimum operating distances. The launch crew will position themselves
   outside of the WDZ footprint. The LSS should exercise caution when launching against
   helicopters to ensure the launch occurs before the target enters the 2,000 foot safety bubble.
   A8.4.3. (Added) The RCO will confirm remote control Smokey SAM operations with the
   aircrew during check-in to include launcher locations and number of passes requiring launch
   activity. Use binoculars or Night Vision Goggles to help visually acquire the aircraft.
   A8.4.4. (Added) Instrumented ranges may use video cameras to monitor the launch site so
   long as the fields of view encompass the 2,000 foot safe distance, to include the airspace.
   A8.4.5. (Added) Consider other factors such as Joint Terminal Attack Controller
   operations, helicopter tactics, terrain, etc. before allowing remote controlled launches.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                                 35


                                    Attachment 9 (Added)
                                  ECR/ESS OPERATIONS

A9.1. (Added) These operating procedures represent the continuation of operating procedures
where training requirements have changed or responsible organizations deactivated, and which
do not exist in official publications, technical orders or equipment manuals.           Send
recommendations to add, delete or change these procedures to the ACC/A3AR Threats Team.
A9.2. (Added) Low-level/MTR activity is controlled and advertised by the SA or MTR
owner/scheduling authority. The ROA will determine intervals for checking schedules based on
flight times from the MTR Entry to the Initial Point (IP). Short notice changes (i.e., sorties
scheduled the same day they are flown) warrant a courtesy call from the scheduling agency to the
operating agency.
A9.3. (Added) Site Operations. Sites may perform unscheduled equipment maintenance during
vulnerability periods but must maintain a 30-minute recovery capability. Check the range
schedule prior to these maintenance sessions and notify the scheduling office stating current
status. Coordinate non-routine maintenance activities at least 1 week prior if a 30-minute
recovery capability cannot be maintained. The ROO must approve maintenance downtime in
coordination with the site QAE.
   A9.3.1. (Added) Wings should provide the site with all necessary information prior to the
   activity. Aircrews should relay information at initial contact to identify activity when run
   information is not previously provided.
   A9.3.2. (Added) Maintain all operations-related publications and directives. This includes
   updating operations read files, ensuring standardized aids are current, and ensuring directives
   are readily available to personnel. Recommend sites maintain a static call sign listing of all
   ACC wings (normally furnished by the Command Post or Base Operations).
   A9.3.3. (Added) Site management will perform a quality review of all activity. Operations
   personnel shall provide justification to site management and the QAE if requested activity is
   not provided.
A9.4. (Added) Communications Procedures. Communications between the site and aircraft is
necessary but must be kept to an absolute minimum. When aircraft operate under the control of
Ground Control Intercept , follow AFI 11-214, Air Operations and Procedures, guidelines for
air-to-ground communications.
   A9.4.1. (Added) Complete the Local Work Cards on UHF/VHF communications
   equipment prior to beginning the operations period. The work cards verify frequencies,
   receiver squelch levels, and front panel meter readings of UHF radios.
   A9.4.2. (Added) Monitor the communications recorder during readability checks to ensure
   it is recording satisfactorily. Make voice actuated recordings on at least one channel
   throughout the scheduled vulnerability period. Accomplish the initial check for the scoring
   shift prior to the start of shift operations period.
   A9.4.3. (Added) Verify all applicable clocks are set to the correct time. Monitor clock
   accuracy throughout the vulnerability period.
36                                                    AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


  A9.4.4. (Added) Perform radio check with aircrew during initial check-in or when radio
  status is in question.
  A9.4.5. (Added) Ensure the inter-site communications system properly operates at all
  positions/stations. Sites that have an FAA line verify that the FAA phone is operational by
  listening for a dial tone and contacting the local FAA center.
  A9.4.6. (Added) Monitor aircraft communications. Sites DO NOT HAVE AIR TRAFFIC
  CONTROL AUTHORITY. DO NOT issue, change, or cancel any Area Control Center
  clearances. Sites may relay information between Area Control Center and aircrews, on
  request. When communicating with aircrews, ESSs will identify the site by the assigned
  name and the term Electronic Scoring Site.
  A9.4.7. (Added) Verify aircraft call signs for wing identification using the static call sign
  listing provided by command post or base operations. Verify unlisted call signs with the
  aircrew.
     A9.4.7.1. (Added) Immediately advise aircrews of the altitude and approximate position
     of all other aircraft on the range. Advise them of route closures, severe weather
     advisories, and loss of capability by activity with an estimated time of return to
     operational status.
     A9.4.7.2. (Added) If more than one aircraft is scheduled at the same time through an
     ESS, using the same IP and assigned flight level, immediately advise both aircrews and
     request they contact the Area Control Center immediately.
 A9.4.8. (Added) Sites should obtain run information prior to mission start. Relay applicable
 run information to the EC crew. If aircraft reach IP and no run information has been
 provided, request only data necessary to support the run initially. EXAMPLE: Electronic
 Countermeasures (ECM) request.
     A9.4.8.1. (Added) Confirm run information with all threat operators prior to the
     mission. Inform threat operators of any changes as soon as possible after notification.
     A9.4.8.2. (Added) Reconfirm run information with the aircrew only when the data is in
     doubt; however, do not hesitate to obtain necessary information. Do not pass minor
     equipment difficulties to the aircrew.
  A9.4.9. (Added) Assist radar operators in acquiring the aircraft; request acquisition
  information from the aircrew, as needed.
     A9.4.9.1. (Added) Communicators may ask aircrews for Mode 3 IFF code settings to
     identify the correct aircraft, the site may ask aircraft to go "STANDBY" in Mode 1 only.
     After aircraft identification, tell the aircrew they may go to "OPERATE." THE
     FOLLOWING REQUESTS ARE STRICTLY FORBIDDEN:
         A9.4.9.1.1. (Added) Change Mode 3 code settings
         A9.4.9.1.2. (Added) Go to "STANDBY" in Mode 3
         A9.4.9.1.3. (Added) Change the Mode 1 code setting
     A9.4.9.2. (Added) Request aircraft position to acquire or reacquire the aircraft. Ask an
     aircrew for present position from the target or main site, as applicable.
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                                                              37


   A9.4.10. (Added) Advise the aircrew of known hazards in the immediate vicinity or along
   the aircraft's track, such as other aircraft, weather, etc.
   A9.4.11. (Added) Transmit "Giant Zero" when requested by MUTES.
   A9.4.12. (Added) Pass "CEASE BUZZER" requests to threat operators.
   A9.4.13. (Added) Query aircrews for any weak or undetected signals.
A9.5. (Added) Operations. Operate equipment IAW technical orders, operator’s manuals,
ACCI 10-707 and/or this supplement, as required.
   A9.5.1. (Added) Perform necessary equipment calibration and pre-operational checks prior
   to each vulnerability period. Turn equipment on in sufficient time to allow stable operation
   prior to performing equipment checks. When time constraints prevent a thorough pre-ops
   check at shift changeover, do pre-ops checks between aircraft. Consider MUTES and Mini-
   MUTES signals RED if:
      A9.5.1.1. (Added) The scan pattern is incorrect.
      A9.5.1.2. (Added) The pulse width is incorrect.
      A9.5.1.3. (Added) The pulse repetition interval is incorrect.
      A9.5.1.4. (Added) ERP is below T.O. specifications.
      A9.5.1.5. (Added) A signal cannot be tuned to its representative threat frequency.
      A9.5.1.6. (Added) A signal cannot be radiated due to frequency restrictions. (Consider
      these signals red for scenario loss purposes/considerations only, not for maintenance
      purposes.)
      A9.5.1.7. (Added) A signal does not operate for at least half of an engagement.
   A9.5.2. (Added) ECM Run Types. ACCI 10-707 provides general descriptions of different
   run types that correspond to MUTES/Mini-MUTES scenarios.
   A9.5.3. (Added) Scenarios. Aircrews generally request a specific scenario or scenario type.
   Select the Mini-MUTES scenario that complements requested MUTES scenario. Refer to the
   98 OG webpage on the AF Portal to check RIIS/ITAS and EW scenario status.
38                                  AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


                   Attachment 10 (Added)
     SAMPLE QUARTERLY FISCAL YEAR SPENDING REPORTS
AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010                        39


                          Attachment 11 (Added)
             SAMPLE RANGE RESIDUE DISPOSAL DOCUMENT
 40                                                   AFI13-212_ACCSUP 29 APRIL 2010


                                  Attachment 12 (Added)
                        SAMPLE EOD BRIEFING STATEMENT

Date of Briefing
The following individuals were briefed on the munitions that may be encountered on the
_____Pecos________ Range. I placed specific emphasis on identification, hazards and proper
safety precautions associated with each item. The individuals were instructed not to touch or
handle munitions on which they are not trained and to notify EOD personnel when they find such
items. I instructed them on the safe handling and temporary storage of practice ammunition.
Munitions and/or munitions types briefed were:
_____BDU-33________                ____________________            ____________________
_____MK 82_________                ____________________            ____________________
____________________               ____________________            ____________________
____________________               ____________________            ____________________
____________________               ____________________            ____________________
____________________________
Signature Block of Briefer
Joseph R. Smith, MSgt
25 CES/CED
DSN 555-5555
I have received the briefing listed above:
Name (Last, First, MI)             Rank       Unit                 Signature
__Dean, Ralph C_________           _A1C_      ___25 OSS/OSR_       ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
_______________________            _____      _____________        ________________________
