BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1801
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          1 SEPTEMBER 1997
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 27 JANUARY 2009
                                                                                        Operations

                                                    FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT
                                                       LANDINGS AT UNITED STATES AIR
                                                               FORCE INSTALLATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IAD (Mr. Stephen C. Stubbs)                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
                                                                          (Lt Gen John P. Jumper)
                                                                                          Pages: 9



This instruction implements AFPD 10-18, Policy on Foreign Governmental Aircraft Use of
United States Air Force Airfields. It provides guidance and procedures for foreign governmental
aircraft landings at United States Air Force installations. It applies to all personnel involved in
coordinating, approving, and supporting foreign governmental aircraft landings at US Air Force
installations, use of US Air Force support facilities at foreign airfields and use of US Air Force
ramps at civil airports hosting Air National Guard and United States Air Force Reserve units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements FY2008 NDAA, Sec 1031, and establishes new guidelines that
define "Routine Airport Services" which are authorized to be provided to military and other state
aircraft of a foreign country at no cost to a foreign country. It also permits individual bases to
provide other services without charge provided there is no additional cost to the Air Force. In
addition, this interim change updates AFI 10-1801 to reflect the change of OPR from SAF/IAD
to AF/A3O-AYO and Implementation of NATO STANAG 3113 Ed 7 dated 12 Oct 2005. A
margin bar indicates newly revised material.


1. Scope. US Air Force airfields are available for use by foreign governmental aircraft so far as
such use does not interfere with military operations and does not jeopardize the military utility of
the installation. Access will be granted on an equitable basis. US Air Force requirements will
take precedence over authorized foreign governmental aircraft use. Exceptions to this instruction
2                                                           AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997


are not authorized without prior approval from the Operations, Employment, and Force
Development Division, Directorate of Air Operations (AF/A3O-AYO), 1500 Wilson Blvd, Suite
300, Arlington, VA 22209. Proposed exceptions and waivers are evaluated as to current and
future impact on US Air Force policy and operations.
2. Responsibilities and Authorities.
    2.1. The US Air Force:
       2.1.1. Determines whether foreign governmental aircraft use of US Air Force airfields or
       US Air Force support facilities at foreign airfields or civil airports is compatible with
       current and planned military activities.
       2.1.2. Authorizes foreign governmental aircraft use of US Air Force airfields and support
       facilities only in support of officially state-sponsored activity.
       2.1.3. Acts as clearing authority for foreign governmental aircraft use of US Air Force
       airfields and support facilities, subject to the laws and regulations of the United States,
       and to applicable international agreements with the country in which the US Air Force
       installation or support facility is located.
       2.1.4. Reserves the right to suspend any operation that is inconsistent with US national
       defense interests or deemed not in the best interests of the US Air Force.
       2.1.5. Will terminate authority to use a US Air Force airfield or support facility if the
       user lands for other than the approved purpose or is otherwise in violation of this
       instruction.
    2.2. Foreign governmental aircraft operators must:
       2.2.1. Have an approved aircraft landing authorization number (ALAN), before
       operating at US Air Force airfields, except for emergency use.
       2.2.2. Ensure that pavement load-bearing capacity will support the aircraft to be operated
       at the US Air Force airfield.
       2.2.3. Ensure that aircraft to be operated at US Air Force airfields are equipped with an
       operating two-way radio capable of communicating with the air traffic control tower.
       2.2.4. Obtain final approval for landing from the installation commander or a designated
       representative (normally base operations) at least 24 hours prior to arrival.
       2.2.5. Not assume that the landing clearance granted by an air traffic control tower
       facility is a substitute for either the approved ALAN or approval from the installation
       commander or a designated representative.
       2.2.6. Obtain required diplomatic and overflight clearances from the Department of State
       and the Host Government of any US Air Force installation or support facility located on
       foreign soil.
       2.2.7. Pay applicable costs and fees.
       2.2.8. File a flight plan for each leg of the flight in accordance with International Civil
       Aviation Organization or Federal Aviation Administration procedures.
    2.3. The installation commander or designated representative:
AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997                                                                  3


     2.3.1. Exercises administrative and security control over the aircraft, crew and
     passengers while on the installation.
     2.3.2. May require foreign governmental users to delay, reschedule, or reroute aircraft
     arrivals or departures to preclude interference with military activities.
     2.3.3. Cooperates with customs, immigration, health, and other public authorities in
     connection with foreign governmental aircraft arrival and departure.
  2.4. Decision Authority. The authority to grant foreign governmental aircraft use of US Air
  Force airfields is vested in:
     2.4.1. Operations, Employment, and Force Development Division (AF/A3O-AYO).
     AF/A3O- AYO may act on any request for foreign governmental aircraft use of a US Air
     Force airfield or support facility. Decision authority will not be delegated below
     AF/A3O- AYO except as designated in paragraphs 2.4.2. through 2.4.6.
     2.4.2. Commander, US Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). The Commander, USAFE or a
     designated representative may approve use of USAFE installations by NATO aircraft or
     governmental aircraft from any NATO country.
     2.4.3. Commander, Air Combat Command (ACC). The Commander, ACC or a
     designated representative may approve use of Howard AFB by any governmental aircraft
     from North, Central, or South America, and Caribbean nations except Cuba.
     2.4.4. US Air Force Installation Commanders for US Air Force Installations on Foreign
     Soil. Installation commanders or designated representatives for US Air Force installations
     on foreign soil may approve use of the airfield under their cognizance by governmental
     aircraft from the Host Nation.
     2.4.5. US Air Force Installation Commanders for US Air Force Installations in the
     United States. Installation commanders or designated representatives for US Air Force
     installations in the United States may approve use of the airfield under their cognizance
     by governmental aircraft from Canada except:
           Groups consisting of more than three medium or heavy aircraft or six small aircraft.
           Aircraft carrying munitions or other hazardous cargo.
           Aircraft for which the adequacy of the ground facilities of the USAF installation is
           in doubt.
           Aircraft that entail political or significant policy issues, such as reconnaissance,
           combat, and other military operations flights not authorized by US National
           Command Authority, flights enroute to politically sensitive destinations, and
           aircraft carrying foreign heads of state or Minister/Secretary level officials.
     2.4.6. US Air Force Installation Commanders for US Installations Worldwide.
     Installation commanders or designated representatives for US Air Force installations
     worldwide may approve use of the airfield under their cognizance by governmental
     aircraft from the United Kingdom except:
           Aircraft for which the adequacy of the ground facilities of the USAF installation is
           in doubt.
4                                                            AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997


             Aircraft that entail political or significant policy issues, such as reconnaissance,
             combat, and other military operations flights not authorized by US National
             Command Authority, flights enroute to politically sensitive destinations, and
             aircraft carrying foreign heads of state or Minister/Secretary level officials.
3. Conditions for Use of US Air Force Airfields and Support Facilities. The US Air Force
authorizes use of its airfields and support facilities for a specific purpose by a specific foreign
government. The authorization cannot be transferred and does not extend to use for other
purposes. An approved ALAN does not obligate the US Air Force to provide supplies,
equipment, or facilities other than the landing, taxiing, and parking areas and crew transportation
(normally base taxi service) to and from quarters. The aircraft crew and passengers are only
authorized activities at the installation directly related to the purpose for which use is granted.
All foreign governmental users are expected to submit their request at least 5 days before
intended use and, except for use as a weather alternate or emergency landing site, must contact
the appropriate installation commander or designated representative at least 24 hours before
arrival. Failure to comply with either time limit may be used as justification to deny landing
rights.
4. Request Procedures. All foreign governmental aircraft must have authorization before using
US Air Force installations. The foreign government must formally request permission for its
aircraft to land at US Air Force installations.
    4.1. Except as indicated in paragraphs 2.4.2. through 2.4.6., requests will be submitted in
    writing, normally through the foreign government's air attaché in Washington DC, to
    AF/A3O- AYO, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1480, at least five
    working days prior to the beginning of the flight. See attachment 1 for instructions and
    format.
    4.2. Permission to land at US Air Force installations in the US or foreign countries does not
    constitute nor take the place of diplomatic clearance or other overflight clearance
    requirements. The foreign government is responsible for submitting a request to the
    Department of State for diplomatic clearance of overflight and landing in the United Sates as
    well as to each foreign country which will be overflown or in which a landing is to be made.
5. Processing a Request for Landing Authorization. When a request is received the
approving authority will determine the availability of the installation and its ability to
accommodate the request. The approving authority will also determine that the foreign
government has a valid requirement to use US Air Force facilities. Approval will be granted
only if there will be no compromise of operations, security, readiness, safety, environment, and
quality of life. An aircraft landing authorization number (ALAN) will be assigned to each
request approved for landing of foreign governmental aircraft. The approving authority will
provide appropriate billing instructions and flight information in a landing authorization
message.
6. Unauthorized Landings.
    6.1. Unauthorized Landing Procedures. The installation commander or designated
    representative will identify an unauthorized landing involving foreign governmental aircraft
    as either an emergency landing, an inadvertent landing, or an intentional landing. An
    unauthorized landing may be designated as inadvertent or intentional whether or not the
AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997                                                                      5


  operator has knowledge of the provisions of this instruction and whether or not the operator
  has filed a flight plan identifying the installation as a destination. On all unauthorized
  landings the aircraft should be limited to minimum ground time. The installation commander
  or designated representative shall also:
     6.1.1. Brief the operator on the requirements of AFI 10-1801.
     6.1.2. Advise the operator that the incident will be reported to the FAA and the operator's
     government.
     6.1.3. Direct the operator to depart the installation.
     6.1.4. In the US or its possessions, notify the nearest FAA general aviation district office.
     6.1.5. Request the appropriate US Defense AttachÈ Office in the country of aircraft
     origin to notify the government of the incident.
     6.1.6. Prepare a report of the landing and submit it to AF/A3O- AYO.
  6.2. Emergency Landings. Any aircraft operator who experiences an inflight emergency may
  land at any US Air Force installation without prior authorization. An inflight emergency is
  defined as a situation which makes continued flight hazardous.
     6.2.1. The US Air Force will use any method or means to clear an aircraft or wreckage
     from the runway to preclude interference with essential military operations. Removal
     efforts should minimize damage to the aircraft and wreckage; however, military or other
     operational considerations are overriding.
     6.2.2. A user making an emergency landing pays all costs for labor, material, parts, use
     of equipment, tools, etc., for activities supporting the emergency landing such as:
           Spreading foam on the runway.
           Damage to runway, lighting and navigation aids.
           Rescue, crash, and fire control services.
           Movement and storage of aircraft.
           Maintenance and repair of aircraft.
           Fuel or oil.
     6.2.3. The installation commander or designated representative is responsible for:
         6.2.3.1. Documenting the total cost incurred by the US Government.
         6.2.3.2. Collecting payment of all charges incurred or arranging billing for charges.
         6.2.3.3. Preparing an emergency landing report if there is no survivor to prepare a
         circumstantial landing report.
  6.3. Inadvertent Landings. The installation commander may determine a landing to be
  inadvertent if the aircraft operator landed due to flight disorientation or mistook the US Air
  Force installation for a civil airport.
  6.4. Intentional Landings. The installation commander may determine a landing to be
  intentional when substantial evidence demonstrates that the pilot of the foreign governmental
  aircraft knew the landing was unauthorized or the aircraft landed without an approved
6                                                            AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997


    ALAN. In addition, the landing may be determined to be intentional even if an approved
    ALAN is on file under any of the following circumstances:
             The landing is for an unauthorized purpose, not reflected on the ALAN request.
             The aircraft is a different model than reflected on the ALAN request.
             The operator did not request or obtain the required final clearance from the
             installation commander or a designated representative at least 24 hours in advance.
             The pilot did not obtain landing clearance from the air traffic control tower.
             The operator obtained the ALAN through fraudulent methods.
             The operator requested permission to land from any US Air Force authority,
             including the control tower, and was denied.
    6.5. Detaining an Aircraft. The pilot, aircrew, and passengers aboard a foreign aircraft that
    made an unauthorized landing will not be detained longer than necessary for identification
    and obtaining information required by this instruction. They may be permitted to remain in a
    lounge or waiting area on the base for this purpose. No person will be detained involuntarily
    without coordination from the appropriate US attorney, the MAJCOM, and AF/A3O- AYO.
7. Support to Foreign Governmental Aircraft.
    7.1. The foreign government is responsible for identifying support requirements as part of its
    request for aircraft landing authorization. The Air Force is under no obligation to provide
    services not indicated in the formal request, not approved by the approving authority, or not
    within the capabilities and priorities of the Air Force installation.
    7.2. Billeting. Billeting of foreign aircrews is authorized on a space-available basis only.
    The crews will be instructed to be prepared to stay on the economy. Installations should
    provide the same level of service they would provide to a USAF aircrew in transit, such as
    base taxi service to quarters.
    7.3. Cargo. Foreign aircraft crew or freight forwarders are responsible for providing cargo
    pallets and tie down material to facilitate loading.
    7.4. Base Exchange and Commissary. Absent an agreement that provides otherwise, Base
    Exchange and Commissary privileges are the prerogative of the installation commander.
    There is no obligation to provide such privileges to foreign aircrews.
8. Fees and Charges.
    8.1. Routine Airport Services. Routine airport services, as described below, will be
    provided on a non-reimbursable basis for military and state aircraft of foreign countries if
    there is an agreement with the foreign country that provides for reciprocal services (all
    NATO aircraft are covered under such an agreement), or if such services are provided by Air
    Force personnel and equipment without direct cost to the Air Force. For foreign countries
    not covered under a specific agreement, these services will be provided on a reimbursable
    basis (with no transfer of funds) provided similar services are provided to military and other
    state aircraft of the United States.
       8.1.1. Unless specifically identified as not providing reciprocal services, all foreign
       countries are assumed to be under an agreement for the exchange of these services or be
AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997                                                                   7


     providing similar services to the United States, therefore, ALL foreign countries should
     be provided these routine airport services without cost.
     8.1.2. Routine Airport Services Included:
         8.1.2.1. Use of runways and taxiways and air traffic services.
         8.1.2.2. Aircraft parking, ground servicing to include "follow me" vehicles,
         marshalling, and wheel chocking, and power carts.
         8.1.2.3. Crew and passenger, baggage on/off loading, screening, and transportation
         to/from the aircraft, terminal, and base operations.
         8.1.2.4. Additional routine services may be provided on a non-reimbursable basis at
         the discretion of the installation commander, provided there is no additional cost to
         the Air Force to do so.
  8.2. Reimbursable Charges. Fuel, supplies, and services furnished to a foreign
  governmental aircraft that result in additional cost to the Air Force will be charged to the
  foreign government. All supplies and services will be charged under appropriate
  arrangements, e.g., foreign military sales (FMS) case, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing
  Agreement (ACSA), authorized credit card for fuel purchases, or billed directly to the foreign
  government.
     8.2.1. For Base Finance (FM) Only: If routine airport services are provided by a
     working-capital fund activity of the Air Force and such activity is not reimbursed directly
     for the costs incurred in providing such services, the working-capital funds activity shall
     be reimbursed for such costs out of funds currently available to the Air Force for
     operations and maintenance. For specific billing and accounting procedures see AFI 65-
     610, Volume 1.
  8.3. (DELETED).
     8.3.1. (DELETED).
     8.3.2. (DELETED).
     8.3.3. (DELETED).




                                           JOHN J. JUMPER,
                                           Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS/Air & Space Operations
8                                                              AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997


                                           Attachment 1
    FORMAT FOR FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT LANDING REQUEST

                                                                              ____________________
                                                                                                  (date)


SAF/IAD
1010 Air Force Pentagon, Room 4A1088K
Washington, DC 20330-1010


1. The government of _______________ requests aircraft landing authorization at United States
Air Force installation(s) for the following flight(s):
       a. Type of aircraft:
       b. Tail Number:
       c. Call Sign:
       d. Aircraft commander:
       e. Total number of crew:
       f. Purpose of flight:
2. The itinerary for the flight is as follows (all estimated times of arrival and departure are
Greenwich Mean (Zulu) Time):


Date                 ETA                   ETD                   Location              Requirements
(Day/Mo)                                   (Time)                (Home base)           (Fuel/RON/Custo
                                                                                       ms/etc.)
(Day/Mo)             (Time)                (Time)                (1st stop)            (Fuel/RON/Custo
                                                                                       ms/etc.)
(Day/Mo)             (Time)                (Time)                (Additional           (Fuel/RON/Custo
                                                                 stop(s))              ms/etc.)
(Day/Mo)             (Time)                                      (Home base)




3. Servicing requirements:
       a. Fuel: (Identify type and quantity)
       b. Other requirements: (Identify as necessary)
AFI10-1801 1 SEPTEMBER 1997                                                                           9


4. Very Important Persons (VIPs)/Passengers:
       a. VIPs: (Identify by name, rank and position)
       b. Passengers: (Provide total number, if any. Indicate if any passengers are non-
       military.)
5. Hazardous cargo:
       a. Type of cargo: (Identify cargo by proper United Nations shipping name)
       b. UN Hazard Class and Division: (Indicate any cargo which falls into the following
       classes: 1.1--Mass-Detonating; 1.2--Nonmass Detonating, Fragment Producing;
       1.3--Mass Fire; or 1.4--Moderate Fire, No Blast)
       c. Net Explosive Weight (NEW): (List the net explosive weight of the cargo)
6. Other requirements: (List any special protocol, security, administrative or other
requirements).
7. Action is being taken to obtain diplomatic clearance to overfly the United States and other
countries where United States Air Force installations listed in the itinerary are located. Separate
action is being taken to obtain aircraft landing authorization from the United States Army/Navy
for any of their installations listed on the itinerary.
8. We understand that we may communicate directly with the United States Air Force
installation(s) after receipt of the aircraft landing authorization number (ALAN) from your office
and that this ALAN must be cited in all communications concerning this mission. We also
understand that billeting is on a space available basis and that crew members and passengers
should be prepared to seek commercial accommodations off base.




                                                                                    (SIGNATURE)
                                                                      (Name and title of requester)
