BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-2801
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           23 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                    Operations

                                                      FORCE DEVELOPMENT CONCEPTS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A5XS                                                             Certified by: AF/A5X
                                                                       (Brig Gen Timothy Fay)
                                                                                      Pages: 19
Supersedes: AFI 10-2801, 24 October 2005


This publication implements portions of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-28, Air Force
Concept Development and Experimentation, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Instruction (CJCSI) 3010.02D, Guidance for Development and Implementation of Joint
Concepts. It covers force development concepts written by Headquarters Air Force (HAF) 2-
digit organizations, Major Command (MAJCOM) headquarters, and the Air National Guard
Readiness Center (ANGRC). It also covers AF support to concept development activities of the
Joint Staff, combatant commands (CCMDs), sister Services, and other organizations external to
the Department of the Air Force (DAF). It applies to regular and reserve component AF
organizations above the wing level that are involved in the force development concept activities
described herein. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly
implement this instruction must be routed to AF/A5XS for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Submit waiver requests for non-tiered compliance items to AF/A5XS. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Fore Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to AF/A5XS using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                                         AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Force Development (FD) concept description, concept life cycle, development flow, and
transition; revised HAF 2-digit and MAJCOM/ANGRC responsibilities; concept elements and
expanded concept development guidance; and termination of the term Air Force Concept of
Operations (AF CONOPS) as codified by the previous AFI 10-2801. This directive supersedes
and renames AFI 10-2801, 24 October 2005, titled Air Force Concept of Operations
Development.


        1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    2
        2.     Force Development Concepts. ...............................................................................                  3
Figure 1.      Concept Life Cycle ................................................................................................          4
Figure 2.      Concept Development Flowchart ..........................................................................                     5
        3.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             11

Attachment 2—CONCEPT ELEMENTS AND FORMAT                                                                                                   16

Attachment 3—CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                           18


1. Overview. The AF uses force development concepts (hereafter referred to as “concepts”) to
present new ideas for employing airpower to achieve Global Vigilance, Global Reach and Global
Power. These concepts help guide how the AF organizes, trains, and equips its forces. The other
Services and various joint organizations use concepts similarly, and these efforts often require
input from the AF. This instruction:
     1.1. Describes the role concepts play in AF force development, to include translating AF
     strategy into requirements development and for focusing science and technology (S&T)
     efforts.
     1.2. Describes how AF concept development is initiated.
     1.3. Provides guidance for writing, implementing and archiving AF concepts.
     1.4. Assigns responsibilities for concept development activities sponsored by the AF, the
     Joint Staff, CCMDs, sister Services, or other organizations external to DAF.
     1.5. Does not apply to concepts developed entirely within the AF Development Planning
     (DP) process. AF Materiel Command and AF Space Command employ Early Systems
     Engineering (Early SE) to develop prospective materiel solutions (“concepts”) against
     validated Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) capability needs
     leading to a Materiel Development Decision (MDD). See glossary and AFI 63-101/20-101,
     Integrated Life Cycle Management, for additional information on DP and Early SE.
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    3


   1.6. Does not cover the development of CONOPS, nor does it codify any use of the term
   CONOPS beyond the context of Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Department of Defense
   Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, and JP 5-0, Joint Operation Planning. JP 1-02
   defines CONOPS as “a verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what
   the joint force commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available
   resources.” JP 5-0 describes the role of CONOPS within joint operations planning.
2. Force Development Concepts.
   2.1. These concepts link strategic guidance to the creation and employment of AF
   capabilities in the current or future environment. They provide a mechanism for
   documenting, sharing and evaluating new ideas about the employment or integration of AF
   and joint capabilities. This allows AF senior leaders to guide the development of new and/or
   improved capabilities. Force development concept elements and format are presented in
   Attachment 2.
   2.2. Concepts can serve as one of the first steps for solving or mitigating a military need
   (problem or capability gap), or for exploiting a new opportunity. Future concepts achieve
   their highest utility when completed before system research or development work begins.
   Once approved, concepts inform the development/prioritization of requirements and focus
   S&T planning efforts that in turn drive fiscally informed programming, acquisition, and
   sustainment activities.
   2.3. Concepts can influence strategic planning and/or be used to modify the CONOPS used
   for strategic analysis and risk assessments.
   2.4. Tenets.
      2.4.1. Historical consistency. Concepts should be grounded in doctrinal practice unless
      intentionally proposing a revolutionary departure from historical patterns. Such
      departures must be clearly identified and justified. Even concepts that propose new and
      innovative approaches to operations require solid grounding in the history of airpower
      and military operations. As such, doctrine and lessons learned provide superb starting
      points for new concept development. Concepts should use accepted doctrinal terminology
      to the maximum extent practical.
      2.4.2. Cost awareness versus creativity. Since the ultimate goal of concepts is capability
      development, the ideas they present must be bounded by reasonable expectations about
      affordability. In cases where applicable cost data/analysis is available, it should be
      considered and cited by type/source/date, as appropriate. However, concept writers will
      not let the lack of available cost information constrain the creativity and innovation
      essential for concept development.
      2.4.3. Technological feasibility. Concepts developed according to this instruction should
      be based on technologies expected to be available by the concept’s stated time frame.
   2.5. Categories. Concepts shall be written and retained only as needed to guide the
   development, experimentation, or analysis of proposed improvements to operations or
   proposed capability solutions. They will not be developed or maintained to populate a pre-
   established hierarchical structure. Concepts must always be named in a manner that
   succinctly conveys their content and will always include a clear and complete explanation of
 4                                                             AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


     the sponsor's purpose for writing the document. This instruction establishes three broad
     categories that cover the vast majority of AF concepts:
        2.5.1. Operating concepts. These concepts explain how AF capabilities translate into
        operational outcomes. They can be used to identify/describe interdependencies within AF
        forces or within the joint force. (Example: Air-Sea Battle, 9 May 2012.) Operating
        concepts broadly describe the employment of AF forces:
            2.5.1.1. Within a specific type of joint/multinational operation within the Range of
            Military Operations (e.g., major operations and campaigns, crisis response and
            limited contingencies, and military engagement, security cooperation and deterrence).
            See AF Doctrine Annex 3-0, Operations and Planning, for a complete listing of types
            of military operations.
            2.5.1.2. Within a specific operational mission area.
            2.5.1.3. In a specific future time frame.
            2.5.1.4. In operating environments that differ from those anticipated in current
            doctrine/plans.
        2.5.2. Functional concepts. These concepts inform the AF strategic planning processes
        and capability development/investments within one or more functional areas. They can be
        oriented on either one of the AF core functions or on one of the joint functions.
        Functional concepts broadly describe how:
            2.5.2.1. An individual function will be accomplished in one or more specific
            operational contexts and/or time frames.
            2.5.2.2. Two or more functions will be integrated together for a specific mission or
            operation.
        2.5.3. Systems concepts. These concepts describe how a specific system (existing or
        new) will be employed for a specific function/mission in one or more types of joint,
        multinational operations, or environments.
     2.6. Life Cycle. Unless terminated early by the sponsor, AF concepts are considered active
     from the time of their initiation, throughout development, and until transition is completed.
     Following transition, concepts should be archived as implementation actions proceed. Figure
     1 illustrates these phases of a typical AF concept’s life cycle.

Figure 1. Concept Life Cycle




        2.6.1. Initiation. The initiation of a new concept is driven by a current or
        future/envisioned military need, to include a documented capability gap, expected
        problem, or a potential opportunity. Strategic guidance, senior leader direction, existing
        analytical processes (joint urgent operational needs, threat assessments, wargames,
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     5


      lessons learned, capabilities-based assessments, etc.), other concepts, emerging
      technologies, or economic, political, or societal developments can identify a military need
      or opportunity. The concept should be written to describe a problem solution or means of
      exploiting an opportunity. Designation of a sponsor (organization responsible for
      development), the identification of the official/officials who will ultimately approve the
      finished concept, and a timeline for completing development are also part of concept
      initiation.
      2.6.2. Development. Concept development must follow a disciplined, iterative process
      that facilitates sharing, understanding, evaluation and eventual implementation of new
      ideas across HAF, MAJCOMs and ANGRC. Writers will necessarily tailor their efforts to
      each individual situation, but concept development will generally follow the flow in
      Figure 2 and Attachment 3. The version naming convention (v.1, v.3, etc.) mirrors CJCSI
      3010.02D. MAJCOM supplements to this AFI should preserve this standardization to the
      maximum extent practical. Concept development ends when the concept is approved.

Figure 2. Concept Development Flowchart




         2.6.2.1. Writing Teams.
             2.6.2.1.1. The writing team size will depend on the purpose and scope of the
             concept. It may consist of a single author, a core writing team within a single
             command/staff, or a larger effort that includes stakeholders from multiple
             commands/staffs.
             2.6.2.1.2. Determine team membership based on expertise and/or significant
             concept equity. The larger the writing team providing creative inputs, the more
             important it is to limit editorial responsibilities to a few individuals. Expand the
             writing team as new stakeholders are identified, or as needed to gather more
             feedback or to socialize the concept more broadly prior to initial coordination at
             the HAF 3-digit and MAJCOM/ANGRC 2-digit level.
6                                                         AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


       2.6.2.2. Termination. Sponsors should terminate a concept at any stage of
       development if it becomes apparent the concept will not achieve its intended purpose.
       Such critical decision-making is essential to preserve scarce concept development and
       transition resources.
    2.6.3. Transition. After the appropriate senior leader approves a concept, it enters the
    transition phase. Transition activities may include further testing/evaluation and
    assessment prior to the actual transition of the concept to a formal implementation
    process. The transition phase ends when all applicable transition documents are approved
    or accepted. These documents replace the concept itself as the primary driver of new
    capability development, allowing the concept to be archived.
       2.6.3.1. Testing and Evaluation. Some approved concepts will require either further
       testing or evaluation to refine how to operationalize required capabilities.
       2.6.3.2. Assessment. Wargames and exercises or similar activities may be used to
       further assess the feasibility/utility of the concept. These activities may help
       determine whether a non-materiel solution is the appropriate way ahead. A
       Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA) may also be used to identify potential gaps in
       capabilities required to implement the concept. A CBA helps determine whether a
       materiel solution, non-materiel solution, or both are needed to close the identified
       gaps.
       2.6.3.3. Transition pathways. There are two basic pathways to transition from
       concept development to concept implementation: a Doctrine, Organization, Training,
       Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy (DOTMLPF-P)
       change for non-materiel solutions, or the Initial Capabilities Document (ICD) for
       materiel, non-materiel, or both solutions. Either of these pathways will result in the
       establishment of Offices of Primary Responsibility (OPRs) for concept
       implementation.
           2.6.3.3.1. DOTMLPF-P Change. If a CBA or similar detailed analysis determines
           that only a non-materiel solution is needed to wholly address a gap, then either a
           joint or an AF DCR is the appropriate transition document. (Refer to AFI 10-601,
           Operational Capability Requirements Development, for additional detail.) An AF
           non-materiel solution can also be implemented through a program action
           directive, a program plan, a program guidance letter or similar execution
           document. (Refer to AFI 10-501, Program Action Directive (PAD) and
           Programming Plans (PPLAN), for additional detail.)
           2.6.3.3.2. ICD. In cases where it is unclear whether the capability requirement
           should be satisfied through a non-materiel approach, materiel approach, or both,
           then an ICD is the appropriate transition document. (Refer to AFI 10-601 for
           additional detail.)
       2.6.3.4. Revalidation/Revision. If DCRs/ICDs (or other transition documents) will
       not be completed within three years of a concept’s initial approval, the sponsor may
       revalidate or revise a concept to keep it active in the transition phase.
           2.6.3.4.1. Revalidation signifies that the concept sponsor remains committed to
           implementation, and that the concept’s basic elements do not require revision.
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    7


              The revalidation process does not require coordination outside of the sponsoring
              organization, and is complete when the appropriate senior leader approves the
              concept’s revalidation. Revalidation may be accomplished at the discretion of the
              sponsoring organization, but must be completed within three years of the
              concept’s last approval/revalidation/revision.
              2.6.3.4.2. Concept revisions should be the exception to the rule, but may be
              necessary if changes in strategic guidance, intelligence estimates, technology or
              other factors prevent the concept from being revalidated as originally written.
              Concept revision can follow an abbreviated/accelerated development process, at
              the discretion of the sponsor.
          2.6.3.5. Archiving. Concept sponsors will archive concepts when they complete the
          transition phase. Archiving will be automatic on the third anniversary of a concept’s
          approval if the concept has not been revalidated or revised. Archived concepts remain
          available for research or reference, but no further resources will be expended to
          assess, maintain, or revise them.
       2.6.4. Implementation. Concept transition documents will specify implementation
       actions and OPRs. Functional process owners or acquisition authorities assigned as OPRs
       in the transition documents are responsible for overseeing the implementation of
       recommended capabilities until they have been fielded, replaced, and/or terminated.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will:
       3.1.1. Provide policy, guidance, and oversight for the HAF and MAJCOM/ANGRC level
       concept development process IAW AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development and
       Experimentation.
       3.1.2. Coordinate with other HAF 2-digit directorates and MAJCOMs/ANGRC, as
       required, for:
          3.1.2.1. AF participation in, and support to, joint concept development, as described
          in CJCS directives and other applicable guidance.
          3.1.2.2. AF participation in, and support to, sister-Service concept development.
       3.1.3. Provide guidance for innovative and high-priority concepts for exploration and
       operational applicability for development by HAF 2-digits, MAJCOM/Commanders
       (CCs), or NGB/CF.
       3.1.4. Review and coordinate on concepts developed by other DCS/HAF 2-digits,
       MAJCOM/CCs, and NGB/CF that have AF-wide or joint force impact.
       3.1.5. Ensure concepts support requirements development and provide focus for science
       and technology planning efforts.
       3.1.6. Link AF concept development to AF requirements and planning/programming
       processes.
   3.2. The Director of Operational Planning, Policy & Strategy (AF/A5X) will:
       3.2.1. Coordinate with HAF and MAJCOMs/ANGRC, as required, to:
8                                                            AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


          3.2.1.1. Disseminate AF/A3/5 concept development guidance through established
          documents.
          3.2.1.2. Collect information to enable AF/A3/5 concept oversight.
          3.2.1.3. Support joint and sister-Service concept development.
       3.2.2. Provide general officer representation as required for joint concept development
       governance activities.
    3.3. The Chief, Concepts, Strategy and Wargaming Division (AF/A5XS) will:
       3.3.1. Implement and maintain an electronic concept library for HAF 2-digit concepts
       and for AF-wide sharing of concept development status and related information to:
          3.3.1.1. Track major HAF, MAJCOM, ANGRC, and joint concept development
          activities.
          3.3.1.2. Improve awareness of concept development across the AF.
       3.3.2. Coordinate directly with other HAF organizations, MAJCOMs and ANGRC to
       execute AF/A3/5 concept development responsibilities.
       3.3.3. Validate, prioritize, and track (as required) all external requests (including
       coordination on) for AF support to national level, Department of Defense, Joint Staff, or
       sister-Service sponsored concept development activities.
       3.3.4. Participate in planning conferences/workshops and governance meetings
       associated with joint and sister-Service concept development, as appropriate.
       3.3.5. Review and coordinate on joint and sister-Service concepts, as appropriate.
       3.3.6. Promulgate CJCS concept development guidance, as appropriate, to AF
       stakeholders.
       3.3.7. When requested by CJCS, solicit inputs and develop prioritized joint concept
       development proposals or other related products for Chief of Staff of the U. S. Air Force
       (CSAF) approval.
       3.3.8. Assist AF concept sponsors, as required, in sourcing support from HAF,
       MAJCOM, ANGRC, the Joint Staff, CCMDs, sister-Services, and other organizations
       external to the sponsor’s organization.
       3.3.9. Identify relevant concepts to AF/A8XC for consideration in the biennial Title 10
       AF Future Capabilities Game.
    3.4. HAF 2-digits, MAJCOM/CCs and NGB/CF will (may be delegate to directorate level):
       3.4.1. Accomplish the following for concepts they sponsor:
          3.4.1.1. Prioritize, assign and resource new concept development/revision work.
          3.4.1.2. Select a development/revision approach (writing team selection, use of
          wargaming or experimentation, classified/unclassified, etc.) and a timeline for
          completion.
          3.4.1.3. Conduct periodic reviews of concepts in development or revision.
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    9


         3.4.1.4. Approve or obtain approval for new/revised concepts, when complete.
         3.4.1.5. Terminate a concept in development, if appropriate.
         3.4.1.6. Develop and execute plans for concept implementation.
         3.4.1.7. Archive concepts that are no longer active.
         3.4.1.8. Make available current electronic copies of all concepts they produce within
         the scope of this AFI to AF/A5XS.
         3.4.1.9. Provide prioritized joint concept development proposals to AF/A5X, in
         support of CSAF’s input to CJCS tasking, as required.
         3.4.1.10. Inform AF/A3/5 (via AF/A5XS) when developing a new concept or when
         revalidating, revising, or archiving an existing concept.
         3.4.1.11. Maintain consolidated electronic concept libraries for active, under
         revision, and archived concepts. (MAJCOM/CC and NGB/CF only.)
     3.4.2. Provide personnel/expertise, subject to resource availability, to support AF, Joint,
     or another Service’s concept development activities when requested by AF/A3/5,
     AF/A5X, or AF/A5XS.
     3.4.3. Coordinate with AF/A5XS on all requests for concept development support
     received from organizations external to the AF. Requests from a parent CCMD to
     subordinate AF service components are exempt from this coordination requirement, but
     AF/A5XS should be informed of any such requests.
  3.5. MAJCOM/CCs with service core function lead responsibilities must determine if a
  requirement exists to maintain and keep current conceptual guidance required for strategic
  planning for each assigned service core function.
  3.6. Air Force Component/CCs will:
  3.6.1. Advocate, as appropriate, concept capability gaps through their combatant command
  headquarters for inclusion in their respective integrated priority lists submitted for the
  Chairman’s Joint Assessment and used in the follow-on Capability Gap Assessment.
     3.6.2. Identify concept capability gaps from the operational assessment of the
     Component steady-state campaign support plan, and documented for functional
     MAJCOMs and core function leads through the annual assessment of the USAF
     campaign support plan.
  3.7. LeMay Center Director for Strategy and Concepts will:
     3.7.1. Coordinate resources across a network of academic and civilian industry experts to
     support AF concept development.
10                                                     AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014



     3.7.2. Act as the focal point coordinator for Air University support of AF concept
     development.




                                       BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                       DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCS J5 Information Paper, Risk Assessment Process and Methodology for the 2014 Chairman’s
Risk Assessment (CRA), 5 June 2013
CJCSI 3010.02D, Guidance for Development and Implementation of Joint Concepts, 22
November 2013
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
CJCSM 3500.04F, Universal Joint Task Manual, 1 June 2011
Joint Operating Environment 2010, 18 February 2010
Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms,
15 March 2013
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, 11 August 2011
Joint Publication 5-0, Joint Operation Planning, 11 August 2011
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development and Experimentation, 17 April 2012
AFI 10-2801, Air Force Concept of Operations Development, 24 October 2005
AFI 10-501, Program Action Directive (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPLAN), 5 January
1994
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AF Doctrine ANNEX 3-0 Operations and Planning, 9 November 2012
AF Strategic Environmental Assessment 2010-2030, 11 March 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANGRC—Air National Guard Readiness Center
CBA—Capabilities-Based Assessment(s)
CCMD—Combatant Command(s)
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
 12                                                          AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCR—DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation(s)
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DOTMLPF-P– Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education,
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy
DP—Development Planning
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IPR—In-Progress Review
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDD—Materiel Development Decision
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAD—Program Action Directive
PGL—Program Guidance Letter
PPLAN—Programming Plan

Terms
Capability— The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions
through combinations of means and ways to perform a set of tasks. (CJCSM 3500.04F)
Capability Solution— A materiel solution or non-materiel solution to satisfy one or more
capability requirements (or needs) and reduce or eliminate one or more capability gaps. (CJCSI
3170.01H)
Capabilities—Based Assessment— The CBA is the JCIDS analysis process. It answers several
key questions for the validation authority prior to their approval: define the mission; identify
capabilities required; determine the attributes/standards of the capabilities; identify
gaps/shortfalls; assess operational risk associated with the gaps/shortfalls; prioritize the
gaps/shortfalls; identify and assess potential non-materiel solutions; provide recommendations
for addressing the gaps/shortfalls. (AFI 10-601)
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        13


Concept Implementation— Developing materiel concept solutions from their respective ICD
into fielded systems and/or the process of institutionally incorporating a DCR or other approved
DOTMLPF-P implementing documents.
Concept Transition— The process of incorporating the required capabilities to implement a
concept into an ICD for materiel solutions and/or incorporating the capabilities needed to
implement the concept into a DCR or other DOTMLPF-P approved implementing documents
that are then approved for institutionally fielding non-materiel solutions.
Development Planning (DP)— Development Planning (DP) encompasses the engineering
analysis and technical planning activities that provide the foundation for informed investment
decisions on the fundamental path a materiel development will follow to effectively and
affordably meet operational needs. (AFI 10-601)
Force Development Concept— Links strategic guidance to the development and employment
of future force capabilities and serves as "engines for transformation" that may ultimately lead to
doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities, and
policy (DOTMLPF-P) changes.
Gap (Capability Gap)— The inability to execute a specified course of action. The gap may be
the result of no existing capability, lack of proficiency or sufficiency in an existing capability
solution, or the need to replace an existing capability solution to prevent a future gap. (CJCSI
3170.01H)
Initial Capabilities Document— Summarizes the CBA and recommends a materiel approach or
a combination of materiel and non-materiel approaches to satisfy specific capability
gaps/shortfalls. It defines the capability gap(s) in terms of the functional area, the relevant range
of military operations, desired effects, time, and DOTmLPF-P and policy implications and
constraints. The ICD summarizes the results of the DOTmLPF-P analysis and the DOTmLPF-P
approaches (materiel and non-materiel) that may deliver the required capability. The outcome of
an ICD could be one or more Joint DOTmLPF-P change recommendations or capability
development documents and/or capability production documents. (AFI 10-601)
Institutional Risk— The ability to use resources effectively. Resource effectiveness may be
limited by business practices, industrial capacity, doctrine or policy that restricts our ability to
employ required resources.
Joint Concept— A document that links strategic guidance to the development and employment
of future joint force capabilities and serve as "engines for transformation" that may ultimately
lead to doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and
facilities, and policy (DOTMLPF-P) changes. (CJCSI 3010.02D)
Joint Functions— Functions that are common to joint operations at all levels of war fall into six
basic groups: command and control, intelligence, fires, movement and maneuver, protection, and
sustainment. The joint functions reinforce and complement one another, and integration across
the functions is essential to mission accomplishment (JP 3-0)
Future Environment— An anticipated set of political, social, economic, military, and threat
conditions derived from strategic planning documents such as the Joint Operating Environment,
the AF Strategic Environment Assessment, or other vetted sources.
 14                                                               AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


Materiel Solution— A new item (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, etc.,
and related spares, repair parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations,
and utilities) developed or purchased to satisfy one or more capability requirements (or needs)
and reduce or eliminate one or more capability gaps. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Military Need— A current or future problem, gap, or unexploited opportunity.
Need (capability requirement)— A capability required to meet an organization’s roles,
functions, and missions in current or future operations. To the greatest extent possible, needs
(capability requirements) are described in relation to tasks, standards, and conditions IAW the
Universal Joint Task List or equivalent Department of Defense Component Task List. If a need
(capability requirement) is not satisfied by a capability solution, then there is also an associated
capability gap which carries a certain amount of risk until eliminated. A requirement is
considered to be ‘draft’ or ‘proposed’ until validated by the appropriate authority. (CJCSI
3170.01H)
Non-Materiel Solution— Changes in doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and
education, personnel, facilities, or policy (including all human systems integration domains) to
satisfy identified functional capabilities. The materiel portion is restricted to commercial or non-
developmental items that may be purchased commercially or by purchasing more systems from
an existing materiel program. The acquisition of the materiel portion must comply with all
acquisition policies. (AFI 10-601)
Operational— Pertaining to “operations,” as that term is defined by U.S. joint doctrine: A
sequence of tactical actions with a common purpose or unifying theme. (JP 1); A military action
or the carrying out of a strategic, operational, tactical, service, training, or administrative military
mission. (JP3-0)
Program Action Directive (PAD)— A formal planning document that helps accomplish a
major action such as the reorganization or formation of a MAJCOM, organization, unit, or
function. Examples include establishing Air Education and Training Command, normalizing Air
Force Intelligence, or carrying out directions from the Defense Base Closure and Realignment
Commission. The PAD is also used to direct programs on new acquisitions and modifications. It
states the objective of the program, assigns specific tasks to OPRs and OCRs, and establishes
milestones. (AFI 10-501)
Program Guidance Letter (PGL)— A formal planning document that establishes direction,
assigns tasks, and provides guidance (for example, Morale, Welfare, and Recreation/Services
integration or Civil Air Patrol reorganization). (AFI 10-501)
Programming Plan (PPLAN)— A formal planning document written below HQ USAF-level
that helps accomplish and record major actions. (AFI 10-501)
Military Risk— Considers combatant command “risk to mission” and Service “risk to force” in
determining the impact to mission objectives caused by the difference between required and
available capability, capacity, readiness, plans, and authorities.
Risk to Mission— The risk to the joint force commander’s ability to execute his mission at
acceptable human, material, financial, and strategic costs.
Risk to Force— The risk to the AF’s ability to recruit, maintain, train, equip, and sustain the
force to meet strategic objectives.
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                         15


Sponsor— The individual that initiates, tasks, and provides the required resources for
developing, assessing, and transitioning a concept.
 16                                                           AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                         Attachment 2
                          CONCEPT ELEMENTS AND FORMAT

A2.1. Executive Summary. A concise summary for senior leaders who do not need the full
details of the concept. The writing team will determine what to include in the Executive
Summary, but risks are normally excluded.
A2.2. Purpose. Every concept must include a purpose statement/paragraph that clearly
articulates the sponsor’s intent in writing the concept, not just the general purpose of the
concept’s subject.
A2.3. Background. If used, this section should include a brief summary of historical
events/documentation the writing team finds necessary for understanding the context for concept
development.
A2.4. Future Environment. A brief description of the envisioned future environment, as
applicable to the concept and its timeframe, is provided as context for the military need. While
important to the concept, this section should be written concisely. Reference to authoritative
documents like the Joint Operating Environment 2010, the AF Strategic Environmental
Assessment 2010-2030, or other vetted sources will facilitate brevity and provide a recognized
foundation for the concept. Only in the rare instances where no relevant AF, CJCS, DOD or
USG outlook or assessment exists should the concept present completely new ideas about
strategic/operational conditions.
A2.5. Concept Time Frame/Scope. Clearly identify the time frame for the concept’s
application and delineate its relationship to other concepts like Service/joint doctrine, CFMPs,
etc. The scope establishes what is and what is not addressed in the concept. FD concepts should
be scoped as narrowly as possible to facilitate assessments and follow-on transition.
A2.6. Military Need Statement. Describe the need that was the starting point for concept
development. Include additional knowledge about of the gap, problem or opportunity that was
discovered in the course of concept development. This description must be provided independent
of the proposed solution. When combined with the preceding elements, the military need
provides the context within which the concept applies.
A2.7. Central Idea. A broad description of the solution or means of exploiting the opportunity
identified as the military need. The central idea should be articulated in the most fundamental
and widest terms possible while retaining practical meaning. This constitutes the basic "success
mechanism" for a problem-solution concept. Alternatively, it could also propose a deliberate
deviation from existing doctrine, plans, TTPs, or other concepts to create a new advantage.
Supporting themes to the central idea may be briefly addressed, but details should be left for the
Capabilities section.
A2.8. Capabilities. This section describes in detail how the writers envision using proposed
capabilities (means and ways) to solve or mitigate the postulated military need. Capabilities are
usually described in qualitative vice quantitative terms. Organization of this section will vary
based on the concept’s purpose.
A2.9. Risks. This section identifies specific risks or vulnerabilities that may result from the
successful implementation of the concept. Any assumptions made in writing the concept
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        17


constitute implicit risks and should also be addressed in this section. The inclusion of risks in the
concept document will help guide the design of any wargaming, experimentation, or other
studies undertaken to evaluate or assess the concept. Use the following framework derived from
CJCS J5 Information Paper, Risk Assessment Process and Methodology for the 2014 Chairman’s
Risk Assessment (CRA), 5 Jun, 2013, for characterizing risks that will result from concept
implementation:
   A2.9.1. Risk to Mission. The risk to the joint force commander’s ability to execute his
   mission at acceptable human, material, financial, and strategic costs. Risk to mission requires
   assessing the ability of AF forces to execute current, planned, and contingency operations in
   the assessed timeframe and the force’s ability to hedge against shocks.
   A2.9.2. Risk to Force. The risk to the AF’s ability to recruit, maintain, train, equip, and
   sustain the force to meet objectives. Risk to force requires examination of the ability to
   provide trained and ready personnel across the DOTMLPF spectrum.
   A2.9.3. Institutional Risk. Risks would be assessed based on the limitations that business
   practices impose on our ability to employ required resources. Measures of industrial capacity,
   doctrine or policy imposed limitations or other business practices may contribute to the
   assessment of this criterion.
A2.10. Summary. A concise paragraph that brings the readers back to what is most important
to remember.
A2.11. Appendices. Include detailed information that supports the concept, but may detract
from the readability of the concept if included in the main body. Appendices may include the
references, list of acronyms, glossary, vignettes, other reference material that is too large to
footnote and is not readily available to the reader. Examples include:
A2.11.1. References. Cite the information sources used for the concept. It can also provide
sources of information for readers who desire additional information.

A2.11.2. Vignettes. These are short scenario-based descriptions of the employment of the
primary capabilities presented in the concept.

A2.11.3. Experimentation Results. Provide analysis, reports, etc. produced during any
experimentation activities supporting the concept’s development.
 18                                                            AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014


                                          Attachment 3
                                 CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT

A3.1. Initial Research. Initial research requires evaluating applicable strategy/guidance,
directives, joint and service doctrine, lessons-learned reports, academic writings, etc. Research
may also include reviewing mature/maturing technologies as to redundancy, feasibility, and
interoperability to support the concept. Thorough document research will prevent development
of concepts that simply restate what is already addressed in existing doctrine, TTPs or other
documents. Research information may also help develop a performance baseline against which
success might be measured. Finally, initial research provides historical information that helps the
writers to refine the military need.
A3.2. Initial Outline (Version . 1). After performing initial research, the writing team will
develop a presentation of the concept that includes a refined purpose, military need statement,
scope, proposed development approach and timeline to include any experimentation or
assessments, and who is represented on the writing team.
A3.3. Leadership In-Progress-Review (IPR) (v. 1). The v.1 draft is developed in a briefing
format and presented to the sponsoring senior leader to obtain updated guidance for further
development.
A3.4. Initial Draft (v. 3). After receiving guidance from the v.1 IPR, the writing team develops
the initial draft. This may require workshops to obtain expertise not resident within the writing
team or sponsor's organization. The initial draft should address all appropriate elements in
Attachment 2.
A3.5. External Review. An external review exposes the concept to an audience not involved in
the actual writing to identify potential failure points or possible adversary countermeasures, and
to evaluate overall logic. If used, the external review will be accomplished prior to developing
v.5. The make-up of a review team is dependent on the concept’s purpose. It could include
selected senior leaders, technical subject matter experts, academia, or a combination of both.
A3.6. Revise Concept (v. 5). The writing team will assess the external review inputs and
modify the concept as appropriate. It is not necessary for all external inputs to be incorporated
into v.5.
A3.7. Initial Coordination and Adjudication. Organizations will coordinate v.5 concepts with
AF-wide or multi-command impact at the HAF 3-digit and MAJCOM/ANGRC 2-digit level.
Organizations developing concepts without AF-wide/multi-command applicability will
determine the appropriate offices for initial coordination. Include a way-ahead plan for transition
with the initial coordination package.
A3.8. Experimentation/Assessment. The writing team must determine if a concept requires
rigorous examination/assessment of capabilities and/or approaches before it can be considered
for approval. The goal should be to substantiate, confirm, and verify the concept’s approach and
premise, or disprove its utility, adequacy, or feasibility. Examination/assessment may be
accomplished via experimentation, wargaming, exercises or other suitable means. Any planned
activities should be included in the concept’s development plan.
AFI10-2801 23 OCTOBER 2014                                                                    19


A3.9. Refine Concept (v. 7). Using knowledge gained from the initial coordination and any
experimentation/assessment data available, the writing team develops v.7 for final coordination.
A3.10. Final Coordination and Adjudication. Organizations will coordinate v.7 concepts that
have AF-wide or multi-command impact at the HAF 2-digit and MAJCOM CV, and NGB/CF
level. Organizations developing concepts without AF-wide/multi-command applicability will
determine the appropriate offices for initial coordination. Include an updated way-ahead plan for
transition with the final coordination package.
A3.11. Final Signature Draft (v. 9). After final coordination is completed, v.9 is developed
and provided to the designated senior leader for approval.
A3.12. Approval (v1. 0). After the senior leader approval, the concept is made available to all
stakeholders and added to the respective organization’s consolidated concept electronic library.
