                             Template modified:    27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-222
AIR FORCE                                                                                6 JUNE 1994

                                                                                    Flying Operations

                                                                TANKER ACTIVITY REPORT (RCS:
                                                                              HAF-XO(W)9375)


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AMC/XOOO                                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/XOOO
     (Maj Alton L. Self)                                                (Lt Col Rickman J. Ragsdale)
                                                                                             Pages: 9
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Flight Rules and Procedures. It establishes procedures for pre-
paring and submitting the Operations Tanker Activity Report (TKACT). It applies to all KC-135 and
KC-10 air refueling units and Tanker Task Forces (TTF). This report carries the designation of emer-
gency status code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, priority. Continue reporting
during MINIMIZE.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This issuance aligns the instruction with AFPD 11-2. No substantive changes occurred when this instruc-
tion revised SACR 55-59, June 15, 1990, although references now reflect current office symbols.
                                                Chapter 1

                                 THE TANKER ACTIVITY REPORT

1.1. Objectives. To provide:
   1.1.1. An audit trail of tanker airframe sorties, air refueling (AR) user events, and flying hour expen-
   ditures.
   1.1.2. A data base for more efficient planning and forecasting of KC-135 and KC-10 active flying
   hour needs.
   1.1.3. All information used to bill Foreign Military Sales (FMS) foreign government users.

1.2. Responsibilities. This instruction establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   1.2.1. HQ AMC/XOO. Develops and maintains this instruction. HQ AMC/XOO consolidates all
   inputs from TACC/DOOT, major commands (MAJCOM), HQ ANG, HQ AFRES, and tailors them to
   meet the needs of HQ USAF.
   1.2.2. HQ AMC TACC/DOOT. Consolidates weekly AF Form 3578, Tanker Activity Report
   (TKACT) from active KC-135 and KC-10 units, ANG and AFRES units, and Permanent TTFs.
   1.2.3. Unit and Permanent TTF Operations Group Commanders. Unit OPRs for this regulation
   and responsible for ensuring compliance.
   1.2.4. Unit and Permanent TTF Scheduling Branches. The central agencies through which the Air
   Force coordinates all mission data. Responsible for the following:
       • Ensures annotation of the weekly flying schedule in accordance with paragraph 2.2.5.
       • Ensures coordination of short notice unscheduled missions with the aircraft commander to
          provide data required in paragraph 2.2.5.
       •   Submits the AF Form 3578, TKACT Report in accordance with Chapter 2.
       •   Attends the daily mission review panel meeting to ensure the AF Form 781 and AF Form
           3578 flying times and airframe sorties agree.
       •   Maintains a log of all missing or erroneous data reported on AF Forms 3578 and promptly
           reports the corrections.
       •   Retains all completed AF Forms 3578 and TDY TKACT reports for 1 year.
       1.2.4.1. Permanent TTF (active duty KC-135 only). Mildenhall (ETTF), Saudi (STTF) and
       Kadena (PTTF) are the only permanent TTFs for Tanker Activity Reporting. In addition to the
       responsibilities outlined in paragraph 1.2.4., within 1 workday of an incoming TTF aircrew's
       arrival, the permanent TTF scheduling branch representative will:
           • Obtain completed AF Forms 3578 for all active duty KC-135 missions flown from home
                station until arrival at a permanent TTF base.
           • Ensure entries are complete.
           • Consolidate all activity into a single locally developed TDY TKACT report. Transmit the
                report to the aircrew's home unit scheduling branch with info to HQ AMC TACC/DOOT.
                The parent tanker unit will include this data in their weekly TKACT report.

                                                 2
       1.2.4.2. Home unit scheduling branch personnel must institute local procedures to obtain end of
       fiscal year flying time expenditures from TDY enroute aircrews.
       1.2.4.3. All scheduling branches will designate in writing a central point of contact for this
       instructions and its issues and identify the individual to HQ AMC TACC/DOOT.
   1.2.5. Aircraft Commanders. Active duty KC-135 and KC-10 aircraft commanders must prepare an
   AF Form 3578 for each mission. This report must agree with other post mission reports to include any
   changes or additions to scheduled activity.
       • Home Station Round Robin Sorties. Submit the report with other post mission paperwork.
       • TDY Operations to Other Than Permanent TTFs. Retain all completed forms until return
          to home station.
       • Permanent Tanker Task Force. KC-10 and ANG/AFRES KC-135 base of possession does
          not transfer; therefore, the aircraft commander will retain all mission data until return to home
          station. KC-135 aircraft commanders will turn in all deployment and tanker task force AF
          Forms 3578 to TTF scheduling branch.
       • Redeployment. Submit data upon arrival at home station.

1.3. Data Consolidation. Active duty units or TTFs possessing KC-135 or KC-10 aircraft will consoli-
date all AF Form 3578 reports and TDY TKACT reports for submission. ANG/AFRES units will consol-
idate data from locally approved forms. Designated scheduling personnel will review all data prior to
weekly submission.

1.4. Period of Report. All active, ANG, and AFRES KC-135 and KC-10 units will report tanker activity
weekly. Include all activity flown from 0001Z Monday through 2400Z Sunday. If the last week of the
fiscal quarter does not end on a Sunday, report activity flown through 2400Z of the last day of the fiscal
quarter. Include the remainder of that week's activity in the first weekly report for the next fiscal quarter.
Reports must be input NLT close of business on the Wednesday following the report period.

1.5. Transmittal Instructions. Military Airspace Management System (MASMS) is the primary
method for submission. Unit scheduling branches are responsible for obtaining access to a microcom-
puter, modem, communications protocol software, and current Defense Data Network (DDN) account
required to interface with MASMS.
   1.5.1. The local Telecommunications Center is the alternate method of transmittal. ANG/AFRES
   units may also use Nyteline.




                                                  3
                                               Chapter 2

                     AF FORM 3578, TANKER ACTIVITY REPORT (TKACT)

2.1. General. This chapter defines required AF Form 3578 entries for active duty KC-135 and KC-10
missions. ANG and AFRES tanker units may use locally approved forms to obtain required data. For
scheduled activity, unit or TTF scheduling branches must provide all asterisked (*) prelaunch data listed
in paragraph 2.2.5. to the aircraft commander, as well as passenger and cargo information. Inflight mis-
sion changes are the aircraft commander’s responsibility.

2.2. Required Entries:
   2.2.1. Date of Flight. Enter same ZULU date as on AF Form 781, AFORMS Aircrew/Mission
   Flight Data Document.
   2.2.2. Aircraft Commander/Aircraft Tail Number. Self-explanatory.
   2.2.3. ICAO Identifier of Reporting Base. Enter ICAO identifier for current base of aircraft posses-
   sion. Active KC-135 base of possession does not transfer until arrival at or redeployment from a per-
   manent TTF base. KC-10 and ANG or AFRES KC-135 base of possession does not transfer.
   2.2.4. Report Control Symbol (RCS). The symbol is RCS: HAF-XO(W)9375, The Tanker Activity
   Report .
   2.2.5.   Section I--Air Refueling Support:
       •    * User Code. Enter appropriate user code.
       •    ACC Air Combat Command
       •    AET Air Education Training Command
       •    AFE United States Air Force in Europe
       •    AFMC Air Force Material Command
       •    AFT Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center
       •    AMC Air Mobility Command
       •    CLF US Navy CINCLANTFLT
       •    CNE US Navy CINCUSNAVEUR
       •    CPF US Navy CINCPACFLT
       •    FMS Foreign Military Sales
       •    FRG Foreign Government
       •    MAR US Marine Corps
       •    PAC Pacific Air Force
       •    SOC Special Operations Command
       •    * Mission Code. Enter only if Code 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
       •    Code 1. AR support which satisfies receiver 51-series training activity (AFI 11-221 Category
            A air refuelings).


                                                4
•   Code 2. AR support for receiver formal course training, exercises, predeployment air refuel-
    ing, deployments, redeployments, rotations, tests, 2nd Air Delivery Group, AMC or ACC
    deployments, ORIs, or Dual Role support (AFI 11-221 Categories B1, B2, or B3 air refuel-
    ings). Specify type in remarks.
•   Code 3. AR support for JCS directed operations and contingencies, limited and general war
    activity, or special operations. (AFI 11-221 Category C air refuelings). Specify type in
    remarks. These missions have priority over Code 1, 2, and 5 missions.
•   Code 4. KC-135/KC-10 flying hours expended staging to or from a temporary tanker task
    force location for dedicated AR user support (e.g., Business Effort, Coronets). Remark
    required. Report dual role staging under this code. Include the appropriate remark followed
    by the statement "Dual Role". (e.g., Red Flag Dual Role).
•   Code 5. Tanker unit requested AR training. Log only if Code 1, 2, or 3 support is not
    required.
•   Code 10. Flying hours expended deploying to and from a Mini Tanker Task Force location.
    (e.g., SWA, Howard). Remark required.
•   Code 11. Flying hours expended deploying to and from the European Tanker Task Force
    (ETTF).
•   Code 12. Flying hours expended deploying to and from the Pacific Tanker Task Force
    (PTTF).
•   Code 14. Tanker Crew Non-AR Training. Includes high altitude navigation, receiver training
    (for air refuelable KC-135s and KC-10s), instrument training, and pilot proficiency activity.
•   Code 15. Designated staff instructor or basic pilot or navigator non-AR training.
•   Code 16. Qualification and upgrade training.
•   Code 17. Flying hours expended for Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) input or out-
    put. If air refueling enroute, charge the receiver 0.7 hours plus boom time, or the time for
    direct routing, whichever is greater.
•   Code 19. Airlift/Non-AR Activity. Includes flying hours expended for approved Command-
    ers Distinguished Visitor (CDV) flights, air shows or static displays, competitions and off-sta-
    tion training flights. Include the appropriate remark, total number of passengers, and cargo
    weight.
•   Codes 31-35. These codes apply to activity in support of the AMC airlift mission.
•   Code 31. Airlift Staging. Flying hours expended in staging to and from JA/ATT or AMC
    Channel Missions. When performing a pure SAAM mission, use this mission code to report
    staging time. Include the appropriate remark.
•   Code 32. AMC Channel Cargo Support Missions. Flying hours expended for AMC Channel
    operations. Report the number of passengers, pallets and cargo weight in the space provided.
    If performing AMC Channel support while simultaneously staging to TTF operations, include
    the location deploying to in the remarks section. ( EXAMPLE: 42 pax, 10 pallets, 20.0M,
    Saudi TTF). Remarks required.
•   Code 33. Joint Airborne/Air Transportability Training (JA/ATT). Flying hours expended for
    JA/ATT operations. Report the number of passengers, pallets, and cargo weight in the space
    provided. Remarks required.

                                         5
•   Code 34. Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM). Flying hours expended in support of
    SAAM operations. Report the number of passengers, pallets, cargo weight, and SAAM num-
    ber in the space provided. Remarks required.
•   Code 35. Dual Role. Used to report dual role airframe sorties, number of passengers, pallets,
    and cargo weight. Hours will be charged to the user command under the appropriate AR mis-
    sion code. Remarks required.
•   * Events. Log an event for command or agency supported.
•   * Flying Hours:
•   When two or more AR users benefit from a single tanker mission, charge an equal share of the
    total AR flying hours to each user. ( EXCEPTION: See "Remarks" below at second bullet.)
•   When AR support is provided as a by-product of non-AR activity, charge the AR user a mini-
    mum of 40 min. (0.7) plus boom time or actual flying time over and above direct routing of
    non-AR activity, whichever is greater.
•   When a single tanker can satisfy a receiver requirement (offload/station time), and additional
    tankers are flown for tanker crew training, only one tanker will charge AR user events and
    hours to the user. Additional tankers will charge only actual boom time to the user under Mis-
    sion Code 5. Charge the remaining flying time to non-AR training activity.
•   Do not charge receivers canceling prior to tanker launch for flying hours or for an AR user
    event if the tanker subsequently launches for non-AR training.
•   Charge receivers canceling after a tanker launches the actual or estimated flying hours
    expended from takeoff to notification of cancellation, plus time expended to return to the des-
    tination base, reduce to landing gross weight (if required), penetrate and land. Also charge the
    scheduled user for an AR user event. Enter "Receiver Cancel" in the remarks.
•   Do not charge AR users for flying hours or AR user events if AR is canceled prior to start of
    AR due to tanker system malfunction or weather in track. Charge these flying hours to
    non-AR activity.
•   * Type Receiver. Make a separate entry for each aircraft type. Do not space or use dashes(-),
    and do not record aircraft series (e.g., B-52G). (Examples: B-52, F-4, C-5, RF-4, MC-130).
•   * Number of Receivers. Count a single receiver with multiple ARCTs as one receiver. Oth-
    erwise, count receivers individually.
•   * Offload. Round total offload for each entry to the nearest 100 pounds.
•   * Remarks. For Mission Codes 2, 3, 4, 19 and 31 through 35, enter exercise designation,
    mission nickname, or activity. For FMS, enter the activity supported and case number (e.g.,
    CE 101, KS-D-SFA).
•   For Coronet moves in conjunction with a tanker deployment, charge the foreign government
    40 minutes (0.7) plus boom time. If the tanker has been tasked solely to move the receivers
    and the mission is not in conjunction with a tanker deployment, charge the receiver for the
    entire mission.
•   For in-theater support, FMS fighters normally are scheduled to refuel in conjunction with
    other USAF aircraft. In such cases, charge the FMS user only for boom time. If there are
    multiple FMS countries involved, charge each FMS user a proportional share of the AR sup-
    port. If the FMS user is the only receiver, charge them for the entire mission.

                                         6
    •    The AF Form 3578 must include the activity supported (e.g., CE 101), FMS case number, fly-
         ing time, and fuel offloaded, validated by the aircraft commander.
2.2.6.Section II--Non Air Refueling Support:
    • User Code. Enter the tanker's MAJCOM of assignment. Also see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
    • Mission Code. Preprinted. Also see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
    • Sorties. Enter total AF Form 781 airframe sorties flown during mission. All actual airframe
      sorties will be charged to non-AR activity.
    • Flying Hours. Enter actual total hours flown for each non-AR activity. Leave blank if all
      hours were charged to an AR user command or agency. Also, see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
2.2.7. Section III--Airlift Support:
    • User Code. Preprinted. Also see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
    • Mission Code. Preprinted. Also see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
    •    Sorties. Enter total airlift sorties flown during mission. The combined airframe sorties (mis-
         sion codes 10 through 19 and 31 through 35) must equal the AF Form 781 sorties logged for
         the mission.
    •    Flying Hours. Enter actual total hours flown in each airlift activity. The combined AR and
         non-AR flying hours logged in Sections I, II and III must equal the total AF Form 781 flying
         hours. Also see paragraph 2.2.5. above.
    •    Mission Narrative. There are no required entries. Aircraft commanders may enter informa-
         tion as deemed applicable (e.g., explanations of mission deviations).
    •    Signature of Aircraft Commander. Self-explanatory.
    •    Reviewing Official. Name and rank of responsible scheduling branch reviewing official.




                                       BUSTER C. GLOSSON, Lt General, USAF
                                       DCS/Plans and Operations




                                             7
                                             Attachment 1

                GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AR—Air Refueling
CDV—Commanders Distinguished Visitor
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
MASMS—Military Airspace Management System
PAC—Pacific Air Force
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
RCS—Report Control Symbol
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
SOC—Special Operations Command
TTF—Tanker Task Forces
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe

Terms
Air Refueling (AR) User Events—A user event is not the same as an AF Form 781 airframe sortie. An
aircrew can log one airframe sortie and several events. Each user command or agency receiving AR
support on a single tanker sortie will be charged an event. ( EXAMPLE: a tanker sortie refuels an AMC
C-5 and an ACC F-15. Log two events and split the flying time appropriately between the two). If a
tanker refuels more than one aircraft type assigned to the same user (e.g., an ACC F-15 and an ACC B-1),
log a single event but report the additional aircraft types separately. Split the flying hour charge
appropriately between all types of receivers and charge the event to the receiver with whom the most time
was spent.
Dual Role—Dual role missions are designed to provide air refueling for a unit move while
simultaneously transporting the unit’s organic cargo and support personnel. Report all air refueling
support accomplished on dual role missions under mission codes 2 or 3. Include the appropriate remark
followed by the statement "Dual Role." Report the number of passengers, pallets, and cargo weight
under Mission Code 35. ( EXAMPLE: Red FlagDual Role, 42 pax, 4 pallets, 20.0M). These missions
have priority over Codes 1 and 5 missions.
Flying Hours—Base hours charged to an air refueling user on actual or estimated time to fly (by the most
direct route) to the ARCP, orbit, refuel, return directly to destination base, penetrate and land.
Force Extender—Tankers refueling a KC-10 who ultimately refuels aircraft from other commands or
services will charge the air refueling support to mission code 2 or 3 as appropriate. Remarks will include
the mission nickname and the term "KC-10 Force Extender." ( EXAMPLE: two KC-135s are each

                                                8
scheduled to offload 70M to a dual role KC-10 that is deploying six ACC F-15’s from Base A in the
CONUS to Base B overseas on Coronet Boxcar. The KC-135s would report in section one of the AF
Form 3578 as: User Code ACC, Mission Code 2, Receiver Type KC-10, Remarks: Coronet Boxcar,
Force Extender).
Foreign Government Support (FRG)—Use FRG when supporting foreign governments under joint
agreements or concepts of operations outside of established foreign military sales cases. The AF Form
3578 must include fuel offloaded, validated by the aircraft commander, and the receiver country of origin.
Under FRG, bill the foreign government only for fuel offloaded.
Foreign Military Sales (FMS)—Use FMS air refueling support when delivering aircraft to foreign
governments and for theater AR continuation training under established FMS cases. Higher Headquarters
will task FMS air refueling support, and the tasking order or weekly flying schedule will list an FMS case
number.
Mission Code—A numbering system to facilitate analysis of current flying hour and sortie utilization.
User—Any command or agency that derives benefit from the utilization of KC-135 or KC-10 flying
hours.
User Code—A unique three letter identifier for each MAJCOM or agency supported by KC-135 or
KC-10 resources.




                                                9
