BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 15-114
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          7 DECEMBER 2001

                                                                                                 Weather

                                                       FUNCTIONAL RESOURCE AND WEATHER
                                                      TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOWP (Maj Ted Melton)                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/XOW
                                                                        (Brig General David L. Johnson)
Supersedes AFI 15-114, 19 January 1994.                                                       Pages: 14
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support. It provides
guidance and procedures for measuring and evaluating the operational effectiveness and technical perfor-
mance of atmospheric and space environmental support, collectively termed weather support. It applies to
all Air Force organizations that provide or receive weather support. Check the appropriate Air Force Mas-
ter Catalog to determine currency of cited publications. Send comments, suggested changes, or improve-
ments through channels, to HQ USAF/XOWP, 1490 Air Force Pentagon, 20330-1490 for coordination.
Major commands (MAJCOMs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs)
send one copy of supplements to HQ USAF/XOWP. Other commands send one copy of supplements to
the next higher headquarters for coordination. Maintain and dispose of all records created as a result of
prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN 33-139, Vol. 4, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision adds functional resource evaluation requirements in order to evaluate the total readiness of
the entire Air Force Weather (AFW) support system. This publication prescribes AF Form 3810, Weather
Warning and Weather Advisory Data. It assigns HQ USAF/XOWP as OPR for the instruction. It spec-
ifies the goal to employ automated standard Air Force and AFW systems to collect, analyze, and report
the status of technical performance and functional resources. It specifies HQ USAF/XOW staff element
and Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency (HQ AFWA) roles and responsibilities for evaluating the
resource and technical readiness of AFW units worldwide and assigns responsibilities for developing a
phased plan to automate the evaluation process. It further specifies that HQ USAF/XOW and HQ AFWA
shall use Air Force resource readiness thresholds outlined in Air Force-level guidance and directives.
2                                                                      AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


1. Weather Support Effectiveness Overview: Evaluating the health of the Air Force Weather (AFW)
support system requires an understanding of the impact and effectiveness of weather information pro-
vided at each level of military operations. In general, weather support is provided at the tactical level by
combat weather teams, at the operational level by operational weather squadrons, and the strategic level
by the Air Force Weather Agency. At each level, weather support must be assessed in the following cate-
gories: (1) forecast impact on mission execution through Operational Verification (OPVER); (2) forecast
accuracy by Aerodrome Forecast Verification (TAFVER); and (3) resource protection effectiveness
through Warning/Advisory Verification (WARNVER). Each of these metrics is impacted, underpinned,
and enabled by AFW’s readiness and training status. Therefore, in addition to performance metrics, AFW
will monitor and assess readiness and training metrics by tracking resources (personnel and equipment)
required to create and deliver products and services both in-garrison and deployed. At the unit level, met-
rics should drive improvements in products and services through more focused training, techniques, and
procedures. At the headquarters level, metrics should focus efforts to develop and enhance policy and to
field systems that enable continuous improvements at the unit level. The ultimate goal of focused AFW
metrics is to improve the effectiveness of weather service to warfighters and other customers.
    1.1. Combat Weather Teams (CWTs). OPVER of the Mission Execution Forecast (MEF) is the sin-
    gle most important mission-oriented, operational effectiveness assessment requirement for CWTs.
    CWTs assess OPVER using AFW and customer-derived thresholds and performance measurements
    consistent with AFW core competencies defined in AFMAN 15-135, Combat Weather Team Opera-
    tions. CWTs develop OPVER criteria through close coordination with operators. CWTs then collect
    verification data by debriefing customers and/or analyzing observed versus forecast conditions to
    determine forecast impact on tactical-level mission effectiveness. Although CWTs are not directly
    responsible for their location’s TAF, warnings, or advisories, they are integral to TAFVER/WARN-
    VER programs. CWTs are the “eyes forward”, responsible for relaying critical real-time information
    back to the Operational Weather Squadron (OWS) both before and after a forecast, warning, or advi-
    sory is issued. As the “eyes forward,” the CWT works with their OWS to assess technical perfor-
    mance using TAFVER/WARNVER performance metrics. To improve technical performance, CWTs
    may adjust local procedures, request technical assistance from their OWS or parent Major Command
    (MAJCOM), or request new products and services from their OWS. CWTs will assess and report
    readiness based on the availability and operational status of their authorized and assigned resources
    (personnel, supplies, equipment, and training). Standard Air Force systems and required reports will
    be used to identify resource requirements, shortfalls, outages, and personnel training status to their
    parent MAJCOM.
    1.2. Operational Weather Squadrons (OWSs). OWSs share the CWT’s operational effectiveness
    and technical performance focus, but at the operational or theater level. When an OWS provides direct
    mission support at the operational/theater level, steps must be taken to assess operational effective-
    ness. OWSs will track OPVER using AFW and customer-derived thresholds and performance mea-
    surements consistent with AFW core competencies defined in AFMAN 15-129, Aerospace Weather
    Operations--Processes and Procedures. The OWS may employ direct debriefing methods or collect
    data that verify specific mission critical parameters for computing accurate OPVER metrics. OWSs
    may also compute OPVER using data collected by CWTs. Based on OPVER analysis, OWSs may
    modify or create new products and services, request technical assistance from their MAJCOM or
    Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency (HQ AFWA), and request new or modified strategic prod-
    ucts from HQ AFWA. OWSs will assess technical performance using TAFVER/WARNVER pro-
    grams utilizing data generated and archived in-house. TAFVER/WARNVER metrics are derived by
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                                               3


  comparing forecasts, warnings, and advisories issued by the OWS to conditions observed by the
  CWTs. The CWT’s “eyes forward” is integral to the end-to-end TAFVER/WARVER process. At the
  front end, the CWT must provide critical information prior to the OWS issuing forecasts, warnings, or
  advisories. On the back end, the OWS relies on data generated by the CWT to compute TAFVER/
  WARNVER metrics. Through continuous interaction and teamwork, forecast accuracy improves and
  resources remain protected. OWSs will assess and report readiness based on the availability and oper-
  ational status of their authorized and assigned resources (personnel, supplies, equipment, and train-
  ing). Standard Air Force systems and required reports will be used to identify resource requirements,
  shortfalls, outages, and personnel training status to their parent MAJCOM. Due to the specialized
  training mission, the OWS will compute and report specific training metrics. MAJCOMs and HQ
  USAF/XOW will use this data to accurately track the progress of 3-level initial skills course graduates
  with the goal of improving training techniques and procedures in AFW.
  1.3. Headquarters Air Force Weather Agency (HQ AFWA). HQ AFWA supports tactical, opera-
  tional, and strategic level operations and is therefore required to assess operational effectiveness and
  technical performance. HQ AFWA may employ direct debriefing or observation methods to collect
  data that verify specific mission critical parameters for computing accurate OPVER metrics when
  supporting tactical or operational level missions. For strategic level support to OWS operations, HQ
  AFWA will evaluate technical performance by collecting data measuring the accuracy of the products
  issued. For other products and services, HQ AFWA will employ verification metrics to assess and
  report technical health. Assessments will be used to modify or create new techniques, procedures,
  products, and services. HQ AFWA will assess and report readiness based on the availability and oper-
  ational status of their authorized and assigned resources (personnel, supplies, equipment, and train-
  ing). Standard Air Force systems and required reports will be used to identify resource requirements,
  shortfalls, outages, and personnel training status to HQ USAF/XOW.
  1.4. Major Commands (MAJCOMs). In general, MAJCOMs evaluate weather support to missions
  conducted and weapon systems employed by all AF wings and Army echelons within their supported
  commands. Specifically, MAJCOMs monitor, analyze, and evaluate operational effectiveness and
  technical performance of all weather support within their commands using CWT and OWS generated
  OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics. MAJCOMs must also monitor the readiness, resource,
  and training status of all weather units and units with weather support assets within their MAJCOM.
  Readiness and resource status is monitored through standard Air Force systems and reports but relies
  on accurate reporting by each OWS and CWT in the command. Using operational effectiveness and
  technical performance metrics, MAJCOMs create or modify MAJCOM-level techniques, policies,
  and procedures, or may request technical assistance and guidance from HQ AFWA or the HQ USAF/
  XOW. Through monitoring status of resources and training metrics, MAJCOMs configure new or
  modify existing weather capabilities, identify new mission needs to the HQ USAF/XOW and HQ
  AFWA, and may advocate for resources where shortfalls are evident.
  1.5. HQ USAF/XOW. In order to meet the organize, train, and equip role, HQ USAF/XOW, with
  assistance from HQ AFWA, evaluates weather support AF/ARMY-wide. This includes evaluating
  support to Joint missions and weapon systems. HQ USAF/XOW and HQ AFWA use MAJCOM
  reported OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics to formulate AFW-wide standards. Standards
  are then used to evaluate the operational effectiveness and technical health of the entire AFW support
  system. HQ AFWA also conducts individual unit evaluations and assessments through the AFW stan-
  dardization and evaluation program. Evaluations and assessments will account for levels of support
  provided, and the types of weapons systems and missions supported. In addition, HQ USAF/XOW
4                                                                      AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


    and HQ AFWA will use standard Air Force reporting systems to monitor and assess AFW-wide readi-
    ness (personnel, equipment, resources, and training) based on thresholds outlined in Air Force-level
    directives, policy, and guidance. Using the results of all evaluations and assessments, HQ USAF/
    XOW and HQ AFWA may modify the AFW strategic plan or program for resources to meet new
    requirements, create or modify training systems, techniques, policy or procedures, or direct MAJ-
    COMs to create or modify capabilities. The HQ USAF/XOW will specifically use OPVER to explain
    AFW capabilities and quantify the connection between operationally focused weather support and
    mission success to DoD and National senior leaders.

2. Automating Readiness and Technical Performance Metrics. The Air Force Weather Concept of
Operations for Automated Metrics calls for a system that automates all metrics, from data collection,
aggregation, to data quality control. The end-state will be an automated web-based system with the capa-
bility to provide ad hoc analyses and reports (assessments) for all levels of AFW support. Funding and
technology shortfalls and the lack of operational effectiveness databases require a phased approach in
order to achieve this vision.
    2.1. Phase 1: Automated Calculation, Manual Reporting of TAFVER. OWSs and non-reengi-
    neered units send TAFVER metrics information to their parent MAJCOMs. The MAJCOMs send
    TAFVER metrics information to HQ AFWA.
    2.2. Phase 2: Fully Automated TAFVER. Web-based, ad hoc analyses and reports are provided to
    all AFW units ending the requirement for manual TAFVER reporting.
    2.3. Phase 3: Automated WARNVER. In the near term, contractors are working on automating the
    existing WARNVER process. In the long term, HQ USAF/XOW will investigate utilizing the
    National Weather Service’s (NWS) extensive Storm Data database to better evaluate the effectiveness
    of CONUS and OCONUS warning and advisory support. Phase 3 includes: (1) web-based, ad hoc
    analyses and reports; (2) space weather warnings; and (3) the end of manual WARNVER reporting.
    2.4. Phase 4: Automated OPVER. Beyond gaining access to mission effectiveness databases, con-
    siderable work remains for AFW leaders and warfighters to operationally define “effective weather
    support.” Phase 4 includes: (1) web-based, ad hoc analyses and reports; (2) space weather OPVER;
    and (3) the end of manual OPVER reporting.
    2.5. Phase 5: Resource Metrics. Integrates functional resource metrics into the total automated met-
    rics capability. This phase links to standard Air Force systems and reports (see Section 3, Roles and
    Responsibilities, for further discussion on standard Air Force systems and reports).
    2.6. Phase 6: Automation of Graphical and Alpha-Numerical Products. The AFW support sys-
    tem generates a myriad of text and graphic, observational, climatological, and forecast products and
    services, including those for operations in space. In this phase, HQ AFWA and OWSs will use auto-
    mated statistical methods to evaluate the technical performance of these products and services at the
    global and operational levels, respectively.

3. Roles and Responsibilities. Until automated metric capabilities are fielded:
    3.1. CWTs will:
       3.1.1. Collect all data necessary to compute OPVER metrics. Pre-reengineered base weather sta-
       tions that maintain forecast, advisory, and warning responsibility must continue to collect all data
       necessary to compute TAFVER and WARNVER metrics.
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                                           5


     3.1.2. Process OPVER metrics using available forms and approved spreadsheet programs.
     Pre-reengineered base weather stations that maintain forecast, advisory, and warning responsibil-
     ity must continue to process TAFVER and WARNVER metrics using available forms and
     approved spreadsheet programs.
     3.1.3. Report OPVER metrics monthly or as directed by parent MAJCOM. Pre-reengineered base
     weather stations that maintain forecast, advisory, and warning responsibility must continue to
     report TAFVER and WARNVER metrics monthly or as directed by parent MAJCOM.
     3.1.4. Use Air Force Status of Resources and Training system (SORTS) and/or the AEF UTC
     Reporting Tool (ART) to report weather resource readiness and identify shortfalls and equipment
     status to parent MAJCOM. Report monthly or as required by parent MAJCOM.
     3.1.5. Collect and report training metrics to parent MAJCOM IAW AFMAN 15-129, Aerospace
     Weather Operations--Processes and Procedures.
  3.2. OWSs will:
     3.2.1. Compile and provide OWS generated OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics to
     CWTs located in the Area of Responsibility (AOR), the OWS parent MAJCOM, and MAJCOMs
     of all CWTs within the OWS AOR. Provide reports on a monthly basis or as directed by the MAJ-
     COM. Verification data compiled for regional graphics products will be crossfed to other MAJ-
     COMs.
     3.2.2. Use SORTS and/or the ART to report weather resource readiness and identify shortfalls and
     equipment status to parent MAJCOM. Report monthly or as required by parent MAJCOM.
     3.2.3. Collect and report training metrics to parent MAJCOM IAW AFMAN 15-129, Aerospace
     Weather Operations--Processes and Procedures.
  3.3. MAJCOMs will:
     3.3.1. Collate and analyze OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics for all CWTs and OWSs
     within their command.
     3.3.2. Report TAFVER, WARNVER, and OPVER information for their CWTs and OWSs to HQ
     AFWA/DN on a monthly basis.
     3.3.3. Use SORTS and/or the ART to monitor resource readiness. MAJCOMs must be aware of
     unit shortfalls, equipment status, and training levels of all weather assets within their MAJCOM.
  3.4. HQ AFWA/XO will:
     3.4.1. Determine requirements and then develop a method for automating readiness and technical
     performance metrics.
     3.4.2. Identify metrics for evaluating AFW equipment and systems comprising the AFW Weapon
     System.
     3.4.3. Use Air Force Status of Resources and Training system (SORTS) and/or the AEF UTC
     Reporting Tool (ART) to report resource readiness.
  3.5. HQ AFWA/XP will:
     3.5.1. Acquire and field automated metric capabilities.
6                                                                     AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


       3.5.2. Use Air Force standard systems and reports to evaluate AFW-wide resource readiness.
       3.5.3. Provide HQ USAF/XOWP annual assessments of resource readiness (Systems Executive
       Management Assessment) and monthly status summaries of systems, to include fixed and deploy-
       able equipment.
       3.5.4. Use established Air Force metrics, as applicable (e.g., mean time between failure, etc.), as
       well as HQ AFWA/XO developed metrics, to assess the AFW Weapon System.
    3.6. HQ AFWA/DN will:
       3.6.1. Analyze and evaluate AFW-wide OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics and provide
       quarterly assessments to HQ USAF/XOWP and MAJCOMs (see Section 6, Operational Effective-
       ness). (Note: automated metrics capabilities will not end this requirement).
       3.6.2. Develop and maintain an Air Force Weather publication(s), based on a survey of historical
       technical performance measurement documents (e.g., Air Weather Service Technical Note-81
       [AWS/TN-81, Forecasting Skill], and old AF Weather Wing publications), containing pertinent
       information on AFW-wide TAFVER and WARNVER metrics.
       3.6.3. Lead MAJCOM efforts to develop standardized data collection methods and OPVER met-
       rics.
    3.7. HQ USAF/XOWP will:
       3.7.1. Monitor and analyze readiness indicators utilizing standard Air Force reporting systems as
       well as AFW-wide OPVER, TAFVER, and WARNVER metrics provided by HQ AFWA/DN and
       XP.
       3.7.2. Use SORTS and/or ART to monitor resource readiness.
       3.7.3. Provide comprehensive AFW metric updates to HQ USAF/XOW on a monthly basis or as
       required.

4. Operational Effectiveness Procedures.
    4.1. Concepts. Operational effectiveness is the ultimate goal of Air Force weather support. OPVER
    describes a capability to measure that effectiveness. OPVER should objectively quantify AFW sup-
    port in operational/mission specific terms. Measuring operational effectiveness requires:
       4.1.1. A mutual understanding by warfighters and weather support providers of the effects of the
       atmosphere and space environment on military systems and on warfighter strategy, tactics, and
       operations.
       4.1.2. Identification of weather and space environmental criteria which are operationally signifi-
       cant to strategy, tactics, and operations.
       4.1.3. How well weather support processes and products support warfighter systems, strategy,
       tactics, and operations.
    4.2. OPVER Process. Data collection and analysis will vary by the missions and weapons systems
    supported. Guidelines to collect and analyze data must be formulated through a cooperative effort.
       4.2.1. Users of weather information and weather support providers together will, with MAJCOM
       coordination, operationally define what weather information parameters are important to the users’
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                                                7


      operations (e.g., low level, drop zone, air-refueling, precision bombing, satellite tracking, gridded
      weather data, etc.), and define specific thresholds for those weather parameters (e.g., clouds, visi-
      bility, precipitation, winds, temperature, turbulence, icing, thunderstorms, energetic proton levels,
      etc.).
      4.2.2. Users of weather information and weather support providers together will, with MAJCOM
      coordination, operationally define weather support effectiveness measures (metrics) and mecha-
      nisms to crossfeed these metrics to weather support providers in a timely manner--preferably auto-
      mated (reference AFMAN 15-135, Chapter 6). The following list suggests types of OPVER
      information CWTs may collect (Note: Security classifications may limit collection and reporting
      of some OPVER data):
          4.2.2.1. Total number of scheduled missions
          4.2.2.2. Total number of missions cancelled due to correct forecasts
          4.2.2.3. Total number of missions cancelled despite correct forecasts
          4.2.2.4. Total number of missions re-targeted, rearmed (different weapons), or rescheduled
          due to correct forecasts
          4.2.2.5. Total number of missions re-targeted, rearmed (different weapons), or rescheduled
          despite correct forecasts
          4.2.2.6. Total number of missions non-effective or partially effective due to actual weather
          conditions
          4.2.2.7. Total number of missions non-effective or partially effective due to incorrect fore-
          casts
          4.2.2.8. For missions that were non-effective or partially effective due to actual weather con-
          ditions or incorrect forecasts, identify the specific parts of the missions that were affected
      4.2.3. Weather support providers will use MEF reviews, studies and seminars (AFMAN 15-135,
      Chapter 6) to continuously improve operational effectiveness.
   4.3. MAJCOMs, FOA, and DRUs will:
      4.3.1. Determine a metric (or metrics) which indicates the effectiveness of weather support within
      their command (i.e., metrics should capture what is most important to or has the most impact on
      operations within the command).
      4.3.2. Develop procedures to measure the metric (or metrics).
      4.3.3. CWTs supporting other MAJCOM missions (example, AMC CWT supporting ACC
      A-10’s at Pope or ACC CWT supporting AMC C-130’s at Dyess) will report OPVER metrics to
      the other MAJCOM IAW the other MAJCOM’s supplement.

5. Technical Performance Evaluation Procedures.
   5.1. Concepts. Information on the past, present, and future states of the atmosphere and space envi-
   ronment, when effectively applied, enhance a commander’s ability to envision the battle-space, deter-
   mine when and where to apply specific weapon systems, and exploit combat opportunities. In this
   document, the term "weather" refers to conditions in the atmosphere and in the near-Earth space envi-
   ronment. "Weather support" refers to atmospheric and space environmental information provided by
8                                                                        AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


    the AFW support force. AFW must have a solid foundation of sound technical health to underpin
    effective mission support. Therefore, high levels of technical performance are required to enable
    effective mission support and ultimately enhance our ability to positively impact the success of mili-
    tary operations.
    5.2. Statistical Evaluation Methods. Until the advent of automated technical performance metrics,
    units will employ statistical techniques (control charts, spreadsheet tables, etc.) to evaluate their tech-
    nical skills and products against mission-critical weather parameters and HQ AFWA/MAJCOM
    directed weather criteria. Evaluations will include, as applicable, TAFVER and WARNVER.
       5.2.1. 1500/3 Manual TAFVER. Work centers issuing TAFs (and not possessing automated TAF-
       VER) will score forecasts of above/below 1500 feet ceiling and/or 3 statute mile (4800 meter) vis-
       ibility (AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules, requirement) and verify against persistence.
       Work centers will measure forecasting skill at the 4, 8, 12, and 24-hour points. Units having HQ
       USAF/XOW approval to implement 36- or 48-hour TAFs will measure forecasting skill at the 36-
       and 48-hour points in addition to the criteria specified above. Use the skill score as defined by
       (F-P)/(N-P), where “F” is the total number of correct TAF forecasts), “P” is the total number of
       correct persistence forecasts, and “N” is the total number of forecasts. When an OWS permanently
       assumes TAF support for a work center, the CWT is then relieved of the manual TAFVER report-
       ing requirement. In those cases, OWSs will compute TAFVER manually until automated systems
       are fielded.
       5.2.2. Manual WARNVER. Work centers issuing forecast weather warnings or advisories for tor-
       nadoes, hail, or winds, etc., will use the AF Form 3810, Weather Warning and Weather Advisory
       Data, to compile WARNVER statistics (see Attachment 2 and 3 for instructions for the AF Form
       3810). When an OWS permanently assumes warning and advisory support for a work center, the
       CWT is then relieved of the manual WARNVER reporting requirement. In those cases, OWSs will
       compute WARNVER manually until automated systems are fielded. HQ AFWA will also compute
       WARNVER for operations in space.

6. Operational Effectiveness and Technical Performance Reporting.
    6.1. Weather Support Evaluation Report (RCS: HAF-XOW (M) 9202). This report has been
    designated emergency status code C3. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, delayed pre-
    cedence. Report may be delayed to allow the submission of higher precedence reports or data.
       6.1.1. Tactical/Operational Level. OWSs and CWTs (as applicable) will send the: (1) preceding
       month's AF Form 3810 (see Attachment 2 and 3) to their parent MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU, by the
       15th of each month; and (2) operational effectiveness information, as directed by their parent
       MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU.
       6.1.2. Strategic Level. MAJCOMs, FOA, and DRUs will send a representative operational effec-
       tiveness metric for their command and AF Forms 3810 to HQ AFWA, Directorate of Air & Space
       Science (HQ AFWA/DN); 106 Peacekeeper Dr., Ste 2N3; Offutt AFB NE 68113-4039 by the 15th
       of the following month (i.e., one month after receiving unit inputs as listed in paragraph 8.1.1).
       6.1.3. HQ AFWA/DN will analyze the technical performance of the weather support system on a
       monthly basis and consolidate operational effectiveness information received from the MAJ-
       COMs, FOAs, and DRUs into the Air Force operational effectiveness metric. Provide the results
       to HQ USAF/XOWP, MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs within 60 days after the end of the seasonal
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                                                 9


      quarter. Seasons are defined as follows: winter: December through February; spring: March
      through May; summer: June through August; fall: September through November.
          6.1.3.1. HQ AFWA/DN will assist the MAJCOMs with the AF Form 3810, TAFVER (manual
          or automated), or other technical issues.

7. Functional Resource Readiness Reporting.
   7.1. Service Role. In accordance with (IAW) Joint Publication O-2, Unified Action Armed Forces
   (UNAAF), and AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support, Services organize, train,
   and equip forces to meet mission requirements. HQ USAF/XOW, MAJCOMs, OWSs, and Opera-
   tional Support Squadrons must work together to organize, train, and equip weather forces to ensure
   the warfighter receives timely, high quality weather support. In order to gauge the effectiveness of this
   support and provide assistance when required, these organizations need a common baseline of “readi-
   ness” data, including pertinent information regarding resources including personnel strength and
   equipment status, as well as level of training.
   7.2. Data Collection and Analysis. Functional resource evaluation requires utilizing a common
   information baseline to ensure reporting requirements and criteria are standardized. The common Air
   Force systems and reports that provide this baseline are:
      7.2.1. Status of Resources and Training Systems (SORTS); AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and
      Training System.
      7.2.2. Commander’s Situation Report (SITREP); AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting.
      7.2.3. Air Force Personnel Center’s (AFPC) Retrieval Applications Web Site (RAWS).
      7.2.4. AFPC’s Interactive Demographics Analysis System (IDEAS).
      7.2.5. Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO) databases; AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contin-
      gency Operations.
      7.2.6. The Air Force Wartime Utilization and Tasking Summary (AFWUS).
      7.2.7. The Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF) Center’s AEF Reporting Tool (ART).
      7.2.8. Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS); AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory,
      Status, and Utilization Reporting.
      7.2.9. Core Automated Maintenance System (CAMS); AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of
      Aircraft.
   7.3. Data Entry. The quality of standard Air Force systems and reports is dependent on each unit’s
   ability to input data in an accurate and timely manner.
   7.4. Resource Readiness Metrics. AFW will use Service-level metrics to the maximum extent pos-
   sible. For example, AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training Systems (SORTS) specifies readi-
   ness ratings based on personnel, equipment, resources, and training. Shortfalls that cause unit
   readiness ratings to go below C-2 (i.e., C-3 through C-5) are key metrics. AFPC monitors temporary
   duty assignments (TDY) to determine the number of people exceeding 120 days TDY in a 12-month
   period as well as those exceeding 179 days. Additionally, AFPC databases identify units manned
   below the worldwide average for a particular Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). The advent of the
   Expeditionary Aerospace Force (EAF) brings new and evolving metrics; for example, deploying oper-
10                                                                   AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


     ationally more than once in a 15-month Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF) cycle is a tracked met-
     ric. Operational Requirements Documents (ORDs) will identify key performance parameters (i.e., key
     metrics) for all future acquisitions.
     7.5. Training Readiness Metrics. Training has a direct impact on AFW readiness and our ability to
     provide mission support. Units will collect and report training metrics IAW AFMAN 15-129 and
     AFMAN 15-135.

8. Form Prescribed. AF Form 3810, Weather Warning and Weather Advisory Data.



                                                    CHARLES F. WALD, Lt General, USAF
                                                    Deputy Chief of Staff/Air & Space Operations
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                  11


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Joint Publication O-2, Unified Action Armed Forces (UNAAF)
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training Systems
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting
AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules
AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support
AFMAN 15-129, Aerospace Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures
AFMAN 15-135, Combat Weather Team Operations
AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
Air Weather Service Technical Note-81, Forecasting Skill
Air Force Weather Concept of Operations for Automated Metrics Capability

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AFCCC—Air Force Combat Climatology Center
AFCWC—Air Force Combat Weather Center
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFW—Air Force Weather
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWUS—Air Force Wartime Utilization and Tasking Summary
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AR—Air Refueling
ART—AEF Reporting Tool
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CWT—Combat Weather Team
12                                                                AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


DLT—Desired Lead Time
DOW—Director of Weather
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DZ—Drop Zone
EAF—Expeditionary Aerospace Force
EOTDA—Electro-Optical Tactical Decision Aid
FAARP—Forward Area Arming Refueling Point
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IDEAS—AFPC’s Interactive Demographics Analysis System
MAJCOM—Major Command, United States Air Force
MACOM—Major Command, United States Army
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPVER—Operational Verification
ORD—Operational Requirement Document
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
PERSTEMPO—AFPC’s Personnel TDY tracking system
RAWS—AFPC’s Retrieval Applications Web Site
SITREP—Situation Report
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training Systems
TDY—Temporary Duty
T/O—Takeoff
TAF—Aerodrome Forecast
TAFVER—TAF Verification
WARNVER—Warning/Advisory Verification
XOW—Director of Weather (Headquarters, United States Air Force)
AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001                                                                             13


                                             Attachment 2

            INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AF FORM 3810 OR COMPUTER
                              GENERATED FORM
(AF Form 3810 can be found at
http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/search.asp?keyword=af3810&Go.x=18&Go.y=5)

A2.1. General Instructions. Units may submit AF Form 3810 or a computer generated form provided
the computer product looks like a photocopy image of the existing form and the software name and ven-
dor or producer are placed at the bottom of the face page. For example, the form identification could be
"AF FORM 3810, MAR 92 (EF-V1) (Perform Pro)."

A2.2. Instructions for Completing AF Form 3810 or Computer Generated Form. Report technical
performance data for locally required weather warnings and weather advisories for tornadoes, hail, and/or
winds when verification data is available. Report the data when operating hours allow the opportunity to
achieve the desired lead-time.
   A2.2.1. Unit/MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU: Self-explanatory.
   A2.2.2. Location: Self-explanatory.
   A2.2.3. Period: Month and Year of data.
   A2.2.4. Column A, Criteria: List required forecast warning or advisory criteria for tornadoes, hail,
   and/or winds, etc. (see AFMAN 15-129, Aerospace Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures).
   Differentiate each wind criteria into two line entries, one marked "convective" and the other marked
   "non-convective." For example: You are required to issue a local warning for winds greater than or
   equal to 40 knots. If during a month you issue two warnings, one due to a strong winter front and the
   other due to a thunderstorm, then enter the verification information of the first warning on the line
   marked "non-convective winds greater than or equal to 40 knots" and the second warning on the line
   marked "convective winds greater than or equal to 40 knots." Even though your customer may not
   need to differentiate between the cause of the wind occurrence, the Air Force needs the information to
   evaluate the effect new systems, techniques, or training programs have on Air Force weather support
   abilities.
   A2.2.5. Column B, Desired Lead-Time (DLT): List in minutes (e.g., 060, 120, etc.) the notification
   lead time required by the customer.
   A2.2.6. Column C. Required: The number required is the sum of the following:
       A2.2.6.1. Number issued for which the event occurred.
       A2.2.6.2. Number of occurrences when a warning or advisory was not issued but was required.
   A2.2.7. Column D, Issued: Enter the number of warnings or advisories issued for each criterion. If
   the warning or advisory text contained more than one criterion (such as convective wind greater than
   or equal to 50 knots and hail), count each separately.
   A2.2.8. Column E, Met DLT: Enter the number of required warnings or advisories that meet the DLT.
   A2.2.9. Column F, lead time greater than 0: Enter the number of warnings or advisories with actual
   lead times that are greater than zero.
14                                                                AFI15-114 7 DECEMBER 2001


     A2.2.10. Column G, False Alarm: Enter the number of warnings or advisories issued but were not
     required.
