BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1701
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 5 MARCH 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                                      COMMAND AND CONTROL (C2) FOR
                                                           CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                      Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A3CS/A6CS                                                     Certified by: AF/A3C/A6C
                                                                     (Maj Gen Earl D. Matthews)
                                                                                       Pages: 15


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-17, Cyberspace Operations,
and provides guidance for command and control of activities covered in AFI 33-115, AF IT
Services and supporting Methods and Procedures Technical Orders (e.g., Vulnerability
Management MPTO, etc.). This AFI introduces the term AF Information Networks (AFIN) as a
replacement for the previously-used term AF-GIG. The AFIN is defined as the globally
interconnected, end-to-end set of Air Force information capabilities, and associated processes for
collecting, processing, storing, disseminating, and managing information on-demand to
warfighters, policy-makers, and support personnel, including owned, leased and contracted
communications and computing systems and services, software (including applications), data,
security services, other associated services, and national security systems. The terms AF
Network (AFNET) and AF Network-Secure (AFNET-S) are introduced to refer to the Air
Force’s underlying Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and Secure Internet
Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet). This publication applies to all military and civilian AF
personnel, members of the AF Reserve Command (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG), third-
party governmental employee and contractor support personnel in accordance with appropriate
provisions contained in memoranda support agreements and AF contracts. Violations shall serve
as a basis for denying individual’s access to the AFIN. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Requests for
waivers must be submitted through HQ AFSPC/A3 to the OPR listed above for consideration
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
 2                                                                                           AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must
be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the
AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).


        1.     General. .........................................................................................................    2
Figure 1.      The AF Cyber Orders Flow Process .................................................................                    4
        2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ..............................................................................            5
        3.     Authorized Service Interruptions (ASI). ...........................................................                   9
        4.     Periods of Non-Disruption (PONDs). ...............................................................                   10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      11


1. General.
     1.1. In accordance with AFPD 10-17, the Commander, AF Space Command (AFSPC/CC) is
     responsible for the overall command and control, security and defense of the AFIN.
     AFSPC/CC is responsible for the command, control, implementation, security, operation,
     maintenance, sustainment, configuration, and defense of the AFNET/AFNET-S. Cyber
     orders issued by AFSPC/CC or his/her delegated representative are military orders issued by
     order of the Secretary of the Air Force.
     1.2. The Unified Command Plan gives the Commander, U. S. Strategic Command
     (CDRUSSTRATCOM) responsibility to direct operations and defense of the Department of
     Defense (DoD) Information Networks (DoDIN). CDRUSSTRATCOM, either directly or via
     Commander, U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM), issues such orders as required to
     operate and defend the DoDIN and direct other cyberspace operations as required in support
     of requesting Combatant Commanders (CCDRs). 24 AF (AFCYBER) is the AF component
     to USCYBERCOM and, as such, is responsible for ensuring assigned/attached AF forces
     perform the missions and tasks assigned by USCYBERCOM.
     1.3. Command and Control, General.
        1.3.1. Classified processes governing C2 of AF offensive and defensive cyberspace
        operations conducted by AF Cyber Mission Forces are addressed in a classified CJCS
        Execute Order (title classified) issued on 21 Jun 13.
        1.3.2. When necessary to respond to a critical cyber event, as declared by
        CDRUSSTRATCOM or CDRUSCYBERCOM, AFSPC/CC, his/her delegated
        representative, or 24 AF/AFCYBER/CC may request applicable AF forces (e.g.,
        Communications Focal Point (CFP) personnel within a Communications Squadron, etc.)
        be attached for tactical control to 24 AF/AFCYBER for the duration of the event. Due to
        the immediate nature of most cyber events, approval of the attachment will likely be
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                        3


     granted/transmitted verbally or electronically with hard copy orders to follow, per
     guidance in AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization.
     1.3.3. All cyber orders must be complied with in the timeline directed. See section 2.2.2
     for temporary relief from orders.
  1.4. USSTRATCOM/USCYBERCOM issues orders via various fo rmats that include but are
  not limited to Tasking Orders (TASKORDs) and Operation Orders (OPORDs). Orders
  received from USCYBERCOM will be relayed promptly, where applicable, through
  AFCYBER/CC or from his/her delegated representative to the 624 Operations Center (OC)
  to the tasked units. The 624 OC will relay USCYBERCOM orders to the appropriate units
  utilizing Cyber Tasking Orders (CTOs), Cyber Control Orders (CCOs), Time Compliance
  Network Orders (TCNOs), Maintenance Tasking Orders (MTOs), or Special Ins tructions
  (SPINS); hereafter referred to as cyber orders. AFCYBER/CC, through the 624 OC, may add
  AF-specific tasks to an OPORD; however, the original OPORD must remain intact.
     1.4.1. Compliance with cyber orders is mandatory. Commanders shall ensure comp liance
     with orders issued pursuant to this instruction and hold personnel and organizations
     accountable for the consequences of non-compliance (T-2).
         1.4.1.1. Military personnel and civilian employees may be subject to administrative
         and/or judicial sanctions if they knowingly, willfully, or negligently compromise,
         damage, or place at risk information and information systems by failure to comply
         with cyber orders issued by AFSPC/CC or his/her delegated representative.
         1.4.1.2. Defense contractors are responsible for ensuring employees perform in
         accordance with the terms of the contracts and applicable directives, laws, and
         regulations. Violations by contractor personnel will be reported to contracting officers
         for disposition in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation and applicable
         contract provisions. Future contracts shall include terms that alert contractors that
         noncompliance may serve as the basis for revoking access to the AFIN for individual
         violators, and that noncompliance will be a factor considered in contract performance
         evaluations (T-2).
     1.4.2. Prior to the implementation of this AFI, orders affecting the AFIN were a function
     of Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPs). AFNETOPs orders issued prior to the
     issuance of this AFI remain valid, but orders issued after the date of this instruction will
     be issued by AFSPC/CC, his/her designated representative, or 24 AF/AFCYBER/CC.
  1.5. Types of Orders.
     1.5.1. AF CTO. AF CTOs are operational type orders issued to perform specific actions
     at specific time frames in support of AF and Joint requirements. AF CTOs are generally
     derived from USCYBERCOM orders and issued by AFCYBER via the 624 OC.
     AFSPC/CC or his/her delegated representative will issue AF CTOs directly (via 24 AF
     and the 624 OC) to direct the execution of cyberspace operations to protect and defend
     the AFIN.
     1.5.2. AF CCO. CCOs are used to build/shape the portion of cyberspace to be employed
     in support of a Combatant Command (CCMD) operation or in response to adversary
     actions.
 4                                                               AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


       1.5.3. AF TCNO. TCNOs are orders issued to direct the immediate patching of
       information systems to mitigate or eliminate exploitation vulnerabilities. These orders
       have a significant implication if not accomplished in a timely manner.
       1.5.4. AF MTOs. MTOs are routine tasks that enhance network security with a medium
       to low risk associated with the task.
       1.5.5. AF SPINS. SPINS provide amplifying instructions for planning, execution, and
       assessment of AF CTOs and CCOs.
       1.5.6. C4 NOTAMs. Command, Control, Communications, and Computers Notices to
       Airmen (C4 NOTAMs) are used to disseminate network information that does not direct
       specific action to be taken or compliance to be tracked.
1.6. AF Cyber Orders Flow Process. Figure 1 graphically depicts the flow of cyber orders.

Figure 1. The AF Cyber Orders Flow Process




       1.6.1. Cyber Orders Distribution. Applicable cyber orders are distributed by the 624 OC
       to major commands (MAJCOMs), field operating agencies (FOAs), direct reporting units
       (DRUs), MAJCOM Communications Coordination Centers (MCCCs), AF Component
       Commands and associated Air Operations Centers (AOCs) and AFFOR Communications
       Control Centers (ACCCs) for actions affecting assets (e.g., personnel, information
       systems, etc.) not under the direct control or ownership of 24 AF. For purposes of this
       Instruction, the term MCCC also includes organizational structures established at the
       discretion of a MAJCOM which perform the same functions as an MCCC.
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                      5


   1.7. Operational Reports (OPREP). All commanders are required to release OPREPS in
   accordance with AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting. Various cyber events/incidents,
   especially those impacting mission readiness/capability, will require an OPREP (T-2).
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Commander, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC). In accordance with AFPD 10-
   17, AFSPC/CC is responsible for the overall command and control, security and defense of
   the AFIN. AFSPC/CC is responsible for the command, control, implementation, security,
   operation, maintenance, sustainment, configuration, and defense of the AFNET/AFNET-S.
   These day-to-day authorities may be delegated.
   2.2. Commander, Twenty-Fourth Air Force (24 AF (AFCYBER)/CC). 24 AF is the Air
   Force component to USCYBERCOM. 24 AF/CC, when acting as AFCYBER/CC or when
   executing authorities delegated by AFSPC/CC, will:
       2.2.1. Issue cyber orders as needed for the operation, de fense, maintenance and control
       of the AFIN to Major Commands (MAJCOMs), wings, Integrated Network Operations
       and Support Centers (I-NOSCs), and CFPs via the 624 OC.
       2.2.2. Within established criteria, approve or deny requests from affected organizations
       for relief from execution of cyber orders if such orders might degrade or impact any
       unit’s ability to successfully complete assigned missions.
       2.2.3. Represent AF equities to USCYBERCOM/USSTRATCOM when direction for
       operation and defense of the AFIN would degrade or impact any AF unit’s ability to
       successfully complete assigned missions. 24 AF/CC (AFCYBER) will coordinate with
       USCYBERCOM/USSTRATCOM on behalf of affected organizations to resolve such
       issues.
       2.2.4. Coordinate with affected AF organizations and CCDRs DoDIN
       Operations/defensive cyberspace operations (DCO) organizations to resolve conflicts
       between USCYBERCOM/USSTRATCOM or AF direction and CCDR direction for
       AFIN resources supporting CCDR missions.
       2.2.5. Present forces to USCYBERCOM and other CCDRs as required in support of
       cyberspace operations as directed.
   2.3. 624th Operations Center (624 OC). The 624 OC is the 24 AF/AFCYBER operations
   center responsible for issuing cyber orders as directed by 24 AF/AFCYBER/CC. The 624 OC
   will:
       2.3.1. Manage an Air Force-wide tasking system for AF cyber orders as needed. As
       directed by AFSPC/CC, or if authority has been delegated, by 24 AF (AFCYBER)/CC,
       the 624 OC will relay USCYBERCOM orders as adopted AF cyber orders to all AF units
       (T-2).
       2.3.2. Relay Air Force and USCYBERCOM cyber orders to appropriate Air
       Force/AFCYBER units. 624 OC will generate applicable cyber orders to direct AF
       implementation; however, the original USCYBERCOM orders must remain intact. 624
       OC acknowledges receipt of USCYBERCOM orders on behalf of AFCYBER (T-2).
6                                                                AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


       2.3.3. Oversee compliance with AF and USCYBERCOM cyber orders and relay status
       of those orders to 24 AF/AFCYBER/CC and USCYBERCOM as directed (T-2).
       2.3.4. Process requests for relief from AF cyber orders and advise the releasing authority
       on whether to grant, deny or seek further guidance/direction from
       USSTRATCOM/USCYBERCOM or AFSPC/CC. If such relief is granted, the 624 OC
       will immediately and concurrently notify affected organizations (T-2).
    2.4. 83rd Network Operations Squadron (NOS), 561st NOS, and 299th Network Operations
    Security Squadron (NOSS). NOSs receive and disseminate cyber orders from the 624 OC.
    The NOS unit structure contains the Integrated Network Operations Support Center (I-
    NOSC) and Enterprise Service Unit (ESU) flights/missions.
       2.4.1. Relay, execute, and track cyber orders to affected MAJCOMs, MCCCs, ACCCs,
       and installation communications units. MAJCOMs, MCCCs and ACCCs pass applicable
       orders to their installation communications units at MAJCOM discretion or if not already
       received from the appropriate NOS (T-2).
       2.4.2. Coordinate with MAJCOMs, MCCCs, and ACCCs on operational impacts and
       Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) to mitigate risk to the AFIN when compliance
       with cyber orders cannot be achieved as directed (T-2).
       2.4.3. Advise MCCCs, ACCCs, and 624 OC on requests for relief. MCCCs/ACCCs will
       communicate with their subordinate installation communications units.
       2.4.4. The 299 NOSS interfaces with the 624 OC and performs I-NOSC functions for the
       ANG. In addition to I-NOSC responsibilities the 299 NOSS also acts as the Enterprise
       Services Unit (ESU), Enterprise Service Desk (ESD) and MCCC for the ANG. 299
       NOSS will continue to facilitate the integration of the ANG into the AFIN and work with
       ANG units to baseline and standardize their systems and equipment in accordance with
       AF/AFSPC/24 AF AFIN guidance. 299 NOS will:
          2.4.4.1. Relay, execute and track cyber orders to ANG CFPs (T-2).
          2.4.4.2. Report status of compliance with orders to the 624 OC (T-2).
          2.4.4.3. Coordinate with ANG CFPs on operational impacts and POA&M to mitigate
          risk to the AFIN when relief of orders is granted (T-2).
          2.4.4.4. Advise ANG CFPs and the 624 OC on requests for relief (T-2).
    2.5. MAJCOMs, MCCCs, ACCCs, Wings, CFPs, and Program Management Offices
    (PMOs).
       2.5.1. Organizational commanders will ensure cyber orders are disseminated to and
       executed by their subordinate units (T-2). Commanders or their designated
       representatives may request relief from cyber orders due to operational impacts via 24
       AF/AFCYBER-defined orders relief processes (T-2). However, the request does not
       relieve commanders from implementing cyber orders when capable. Wing Commanders
       (or equivalent) will keep their respective MAJCOM, MCCCs and ACCCs informed of
       such requests for relief and expected operational impact if relief is not granted. Wing
       Commanders over tenant units with operational impact to unique mission systems will
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                     7


     request relief through the owning MAJCOM/organization, keeping host base CFP
     informed (T-2).
     2.5.2. MAJCOMs and wings will not normally relay cyber orders to subordinate CFPs.
     MCCCs and CFPs will receive these orders simultaneously via the 624 OC and
     supporting I-NOSC. This is only to prevent redundant tasking to the CFPs and does not
     preclude any commander in the CFPs chain of command from exercising their inherent
     command authorities. MCCCs will receive cyber orders from the 624 OC and the
     appropriate I-NOSC and may send them to their installation communications units if not
     already received from the appropriate NOS.
     2.5.3. MAJCOM Communications Coordination Centers. MCCCs provide MAJCOM
     Commanders and the 624 OC with situational awareness of MAJCOM-unique functional
     system availability (if applicable) and of compliance with network taskings. In some
     cases, MCCCs maintain MAJCOM unique functional systems. MCCCs will:
        2.5.3.1. Track, assign, and monitor cyber orders issued through the 624 OC and I-
        NOSCs.
        2.5.3.2. Advise the MAJCOM CC on completion of cyber orders or inability to
        complete assigned tasks pertaining to AFNET, PMO, and MAJCOM-unique systems
        as required/directed by the MAJCOM/CC.
        2.5.3.3. Provide updates on MAJCOM unique network health/status and operational
        impact to the 624 OC.
        2.5.3.4. Advise MAJCOM/CCs, I-NOSC, and 624 OC, on operational impacts of
        cyber orders to component missions.
        2.5.3.5. Coordinate conflicting    guidance with I-NOSCs and           CCDR DCO
        organizations.
        2.5.3.6. Coordinate Plans of Action and Milestones (POA&M) with I-NOSCs and
        CCDR DoDIN Ops/DCO organizations to resolve operational impact issues when
        relief of orders is granted. Ensure POA&Ms are completed for any requests for relief
        and ensure POA&Ms remain updated and current until compliance with the orders is
        achieved.
        2.5.3.7. Provide situational reports (SITREPS) to their CCDR, MAJCOM and 624
        OC related to outage and other network events impacting the AFIN and/or the
        MAJCOM mission. This requirement does not replace any requirement for OPREP
        reporting outlined in AFI 10-206.
     2.5.4. AFFOR Communications Control Centers. ACCCs support numbered Air Forces
     (NAF) in their AF and Service component responsibilities. ACCCs provide a similar
     capability as MCCCs and will:
        2.5.4.1. Comply with cyber orders issued by the 624 OC and I-NOSCs.
        2.5.4.2. Report completion of cyber orders or inability to complete assigned tasks to
        the I-NOSCs and 624 OC and their respective MCCC and wing.
        2.5.4.3. Provide updates on component unique network activity, health/status, and
        operational impact to the 624 OC, if applicable.
8                                                           AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


       2.5.4.4. Advise commanders, MCCCs, and 624 OC, on operational impacts of cyber
       orders to component missions.
       2.5.4.5. Coordinate conflicting guidance with I-NOSCs and CCDR DoDIN
       Ops/DCO organizations.
       2.5.4.6. Coordinate POA&Ms with I-NOSCs and CCDR DoDIN Ops/DCO
       organizations to resolve operational impact issues when relief of orders is granted.
       Ensure POA&Ms are completed for any requests for relief and ensure POA&Ms
       remain updated and current until compliance with the orders is achieved.
       2.5.4.7. Provide SITREPs to their component and the 624 OC related to outage and
       other network events impacting the AFIN or the supported CCMD mission.
    2.5.5. Communication Focal Points. The base CFPs monitor performance of the local
    network and serve as the conduit for implementing cyber orders. CFPs will:
       2.5.5.1. Direct applicable personnel (e.g., Client System Support Technicians,
       Functional System Administrators, etc.) to implement cyber orders issued through the
       624 OC and I-NOSCs or through the MAJCOMs (e.g. MCCC or similar structure).
       Provide compliance tracking for all orders that cannot be monitored or tracked
       electronically (T-2).
       2.5.5.2. Report completion of cyber orders or inability to co mplete assigned tasks
       that are not electronically visible to their respective wing and MCCC/ACCC. The
       MCCC/ACCC will report through the appropriate I-NOSC to the 624 OC (T-2).
       2.5.5.3. Provide local commanders with situational awareness of their ability to
       support all required mission areas at their fixed base or deployed location.
       2.5.5.4. Coordinate with their parent wing and their respective MCCC/ACCC on
       operational impacts and POA&Ms to mitigate risk to the AFIN when relief of orders
       is granted. Ensure POA&Ms are completed for any requests for relief and ensure
       POA&Ms remain updated and current until compliance with the orders is achieved.
       2.5.5.5. CFPs will provide support to tenant organizations of other Services in
       accordance with the provisions of the applicable Host-Tenant Support Agreement (T-
       2).
    2.5.6. Program Management Offices (PMOs) or PMO-like entities. PMOs or PMO- like
    entities manage the acquisition and sustainment of information technology, including
    National Security Systems (NSS). PMO’s engineer and deliver platform information
    technology, automated information systems (AIS), and outsourced information
    technology (IT). These deliveries may be systems and/or applications based on
    commercial-off-the-shelf or government-off-the-shelf systems, or a hybrid of each.
    PMOs ensure compliance with all relative directives and orders. Due to
    operational/contractual issues, additional testing/validation of software and security
    updates for PMO systems may be required to ensure engineering, interoperability, and
    mission functionality is not jeopardized. PMOs will:
       2.5.6.1. Comply with cyber orders issued by 624 OC, via the parent
       MAJCOM/Wing, affecting program systems for which the PMO is responsible.
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                        9


          2.5.6.2. Request relief from cyber orders due to operational impacts, through the
          appropriate MAJCOM/MCCC to the 624 OC. Systems which cannot meet
          compliance within six months will be further evaluated for risk to the AFIN, impact
          to AF missions if quarantined or disconnected from the AFIN, and cost to implement
          the orders. Within established criteria, 24 AF/CC may accept the risk, require the
          PMO to implement additional risk mitigating actions and/or recommend to the
          AFSPC/CC, as the AF DAA, that the system be quarantined or disconnected from the
          AFIN. Recommendations for quarantine or disconnection due to unacceptable risk
          may result in a Denial of Authorization to Operate (DATO), per AFI 33-210, Air
          Force C&A Process.
          2.5.6.3. Report status of compliance with orders to the appropriate wing,
          MCCC/ACCC, and to 624 OC.
          2.5.6.4. Coordinate POA&Ms through the appropriate wing and/or MCCC/ACCC to
          the 624 OC on operational impacts and to mitigate risk to the AFIN if relief of orders
          is granted. Ensure POA&Ms are completed for any requests for relief and ensure
          POA&Ms remain updated and current until compliance with the orders is achieved.
          In any case, relief from orders will be governed by the provisions of paragraph 2.5.7.2
          above.
          2.5.6.5. Update program Technical Orders (TO) as required maintaining compliance
          with cyber orders. Issue Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs) independent of
          cyber orders when needed to update TOs in the field pending formal TO change
          releases.
          2.5.6.6. Provide SITREP to the MCCC/ACCC, wing and 624 OC related to outage
          and other network events impacting the AFIN and/or the MAJCOM mission.
3. Authorized Service Interruptions (ASI).
   3.1. ASI Definition. ASIs are scheduled periods of network, equipment, or syste m downtime
   required to perform preventive maintenance actions, software or equipment upgrades or
   replacement, system reboots, etc. There are three defined types of ASIs.
      3.1.1. Preventive Maintenance Inspection (PMI). PMI ASIs are required for any
      preventive maintenance actions accomplished on a recurring basis. Examples include
      routine maintenance of server equipment or server reboots required due to the application
      of TCTO/MTO-directed countermeasures.
      3.1.2. Routine. Routine ASIs are required for any network system changes that will
      require an interruption of service to complete. Examples include service interruptions
      required to perform system/software upgrade, or to repair/replace faulty equipment.
      3.1.3. Emergency. Emergency ASIs are for those ad ho c events which require an
      immediate service interruption to correct hazardous or degraded conditions where loss of
      human life or of Core Services (DCs, exchange, switches, routers) could occur through
      lack of immediate action. Examples of emergency outages include power problems,
      equipment malfunctions, imminent system failures, or any hazardous condition that
      requires immediate attention and cannot otherwise be scheduled as a routine service
      interruption.
 10                                                             AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


   3.2. Operational Reporting of Mission Impact. Organizations submit OPREPs related to
   outages IAW AFI 10-206.
   3.3. ASI Approval Authority.
      3.3.1. The AFSPC/CC or, when authority has been delegated, 24 AF/CC, is the approval
      authority for routine and emergency ASI requests associated with those AFIN links,
      nodes, functional systems, or services on the AFIN (1) directly supporting an active
      CCMD operation; (2) whose compromise or loss could affect national security; or (3)
      whose compromise or loss would degrade or disable critical C2 communications. The
      624 OC is the focal point for the coordination of ASIs that must be approved by both the
      affected installation commander and the 24 AF/CC.
      3.3.2. The installation commander is the approval authority for all PMI ASI requests that
      do not impact the AFNET/AFNET-S or meet the criteria specified in paragraph 3.3.1 (T-
      2).
   3.4. General ASI Coordination Guidance.
      3.4.1. Service interruptions will be scheduled at a time that will have the minimum
      impact on operations (T-2).
      3.4.2. Requesting organizations must complete applicable local level coordination (e.g.,
      major tenant unit commanders) on all ASIs prior to submitting the ASI request for
      approval.
4. Periods of Non-Disruption (PONDs).
   4.1. PONDs are directed by USCYBERCOM to halt all maintenance actions within either a
   geographic or functional Area of Responsibility (AOR), or for very specific systems and or
   assets crossing one or more AORs. PONDS are intended to ensure commanders have full
   availability of critical C2 capabilities.
   4.2. PONDs will only be issued to support real-world operations, crisis situations, and
   significant events that may negatively impact national security.
   4.3. Requests for PONDs will be channeled through the ASI coordination chain to
   USCYBERCOM for final approval/disapproval.




                                           BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS Operations, Plans & Requirements
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3121.01B, Standing Rules Of Engagement/Standing Rules For The Use Of Force For US
Forces, 13 June 2005 (Current as of 18 Jun 08)
CJCSI 6510.01F, Information Assurance (IA) and Support to Computer Network Defense (CND),
9 February 2011
CJCSM 6510.01A, Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND) Volume I
(Incident Handling Program), 24 Jun 09
CJCS Execute Order, Title Classified, 21 June 2013
DoDD O-8530.1-M, DoD Computer Network Defense (CND) Service Provider Certification and
Accreditation Process, January 8, 2001
DoDD 3600.01, Information Operations, August14, 2006, with Change 1, 23 May 2011
DoDI 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP),
28 November 2007
DoDD O-8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND), 8 January 2001
DoDI O-8530.2, Support to Computer Network Defense (CND), 9 March 2001
JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, As Amended Through 15 May 2011
JP 3-12, Cyberspace Operations (U), SECRET/REL USA, FVEY, 5 February 2013
AFDD 3-12, Cyberspace Operations, 15 July 2010, w/change 1, 30 November 2011
AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 10-701, Operations Security, 8 June 2011
AFI 10-710, Information Operations Condition (INFOCON), 10 August 2006
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, 30 November 2011
AFI 33-210, Air Force C&A Process, 28 Dec 2008
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 11
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
TO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
Requirements, 1 December 2012
TO 00-33A-1109, AF-GIG Vulnerability Management, 9 January 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 12                                                    AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


Abbreviations and Acronyms
24 AF/CC—Commander, Twenty-Fourth Air Force
624 OC—624th Operations Center
ACCC—AFFOR Communications Control Centers
ACT—AFNETOPS Compliance Tracker
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIN—Air Force Information Networks
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
C2—Command and Control
C4 NOTAM—Command, Control, Communications, and Computer Notice to Airmen
CC—Commander
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CCO—Cyberspace Control Order
CCS—Command & Control Squadron
CDRUSCYBERCOM—Commander, United States Cyber Command
CDRUSSTRATCOM—Commander, United States Strategic Command
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
C-MAJCOM—Component MAJCOM
C-NAF—Component NAF
CND—Computer Network Defense
CTO—Cyber Tasking Order
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDIN—Department of Defense Information Networks
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                   13


ESD—Enterprise Service Desk
ESU—Enterprise Services Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
I-NOSC—Integrated NOSC
IT—Information Technology
JFC—Joint Force Commander
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCCC—MAJCOM Communications Coordination Center
MTO—Maintenance Tasking Order
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NOS—Network Operations Squadron
NOSC—Network Operations & Security Center
NOSS—Network Operations and Security Squadron
OC—Operations Center
OPORD—Operation Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMO—Program Management Office
POA&M—Plan of Actions and Milestones
SPINS—Special Instructions
TCNO—Time Compliance Network Order
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TO—Technical Order
USCYBERCOM—United States Cyber Command
VMS—Vulnerability Management System

Terms
Air Force Forces (AFFOR)— United States Air Force component command assigned to a Joint
Force Commander (JFC) at the unified, sub unified, and Joint Task Force (JTF) level. AFFOR
includes the COMAFFOR-cyberspace operations, his/her staff, 624 OC, and all Air Force forces
and personnel assigned to attach to that Joint Force’s Air Force component.
Air Force Information Networks (AFIN)— The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of Air
Force information capabilities, and associated processes for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on-demand to warfighters, policy- makers, and support
personnel, including owned and leased communications and computing systems and services,
 14                                                                 AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014


software (including applications), data, security services, other associated ser vices, and national
security systems.
Air Force Network (AFNET)— The Air Force’s underlying Nonsecure Internet Protocol
Router Network (NIPRnet) that enables Air Force operational capabilities and lines of business,
consisting of physical medium and data transport services. Includes transmission mediums,
gateways, routers, switches, hubs and firewalls, and the functions required to support and enable
the environment such as command and control, management, maintenance, network
authentication, and defense. (AFSPC Commander’s Intent)
Air Force Network—Secure (AFNET-S) - The Air Force’s underlying Secure Internet Protocol
Router Network (SIPRnet) that enables Air Force operational capabilities and lines of business,
consisting of physical medium and data transport services. Includes transmission mediums,
gateways, routers, switches, hubs and firewalls, and the functions required to support and enable
the environment such as command and control, management, maintenance, network
authentication, and defense. (AFSPC Commander’s Intent)
Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)— Designated whenever US Air Force forces
are presented to a joint commander. In any operation, a COMAFFOR is designated from the US
Air Force and serves as the commander of US Air Force forces ass igned and attached to the Joint
Force Air Component. (AFDD 2).
Communications Focal Point (CFP)— The consolidation of help desk, telephone trouble
tickets and Maintenance Operations Center. This function tracks all communications
systems/equipment outages and resides with the Client Service Center (CSC) work center.
Computer Network Defense (CND)— Actions taken to protect, monitor, analyze, detect, and
respond to unauthorized activity within Department of Defense information systems and
computer networks. (JP 6-0). This term is being replaced by Defensive Cyberspace Operations
(DCO).
Cybe r (adj.)— Of or pertaining to the cyberspace environment, capabilities, plans, or
operations. (AFPD 10-17)
Cybe r Tasking Order (CTO)— An operational type order issued to perform specific actions at
specific time frames in support of AF and Joint requirements.
Cybe r Orde rs— A general term used to refer to the various types of orders issued for network
operations and maintenance (CTOs, CCOs, SPINS, MTOs, etc).
Cybe rspace— A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers. (JP
1-02)
Cybe rspace Control Orde r (CCO)— Used to build/shape the portion of cyberspace to be
employed in support of a CCMD operation or in response to adversary actions.
Cybe rspace Operations— The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is
to achieve military objectives or effects in or through cyberspace. (AFPD 10-17)
AFI10-1701 5 MARCH 2014                                                                          15


Cybe rspace Support— Foundational, continuous or responsive operations in order to ensure
information integrity and availability in, through, or from Air Force-controlled infrastructure and
its interconnected analog and digital portion of the battlespace. (AFDD 3-12)
Department of Defense Information Networks (DoDIN)— The globally interconnected, end-
to-end set of information capabilities, and associated processes for collecting, processing,
storing, disseminating, and managing information on-demand to warfighters, policy makers, and
support personnel, including owned and leased communications and computing systems and
services, software (including applications), data, security services, other associated services, and
national security systems. (Joint Pub 3-12)
Department of Defense Information Networks Operations (DoDIN Ops)— Operations to
design, build, configure, secure, operate, maintain, and sustain Department of Defense networks
to create and preserve information assurance on the Department of Defense information
networks. (Joint Pub 3-12)
Information Operations (IO)— The integrated employment, during military operations, of
information-related capabilities in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt,
corrupt, or usurp the decision-making of adversaries and potential adversaries while protecting
our own. Also called IO. (JP 1-02)
Maintenance Tasking Order (MTO)— Routine tasks that enhance network security with a
medium to low risk associated with the task.
Ope ration Order (OPORD). A directive issued by a commander to s ubordinate
commanders for the purpose of effecting the coordinated execution of an operation. (JP 5—
0)
Special Instructions (SPINS)—. Provide amplifying instructions for planning, execution, and
assessment of AF CTOs and CCOs.
Time Compliance Network Orde r (TCNO)— A downward-directed operations, security or
configuration management-related order issued by USCYBERCOM in an Operational Order
(OPORD). TCNOs do not replace information conditions (INFOCONs), Operational
Event/Incident Reports (OPREPs), SITREPs or Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO).
The TCNO provides a standardized mechanism to issue an order.
