BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-244
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                   AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                               Supplement
                                                                           26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                     REPORTING STATUS OF AEROSPACE
                                                             EXPEDITIONARY FORCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A3OR                                                    Certified by: HQ ACC/A3O
                                                                            (Col Ted T. Uchida)
                                                                                       Pages: 6
Supersedes:   AFI 10-244_ACCSUP, 27
              August 2008


AFI 10-244, 15 June 2012, is supplemented as follows. This supplement provides procedures for
those areas listed in AFI 10-244 that require MAJCOM direction. It applies to all Air Combat
Command (ACC) units. Upon mobilization, this supplement also applies to ACC-gained Air
National Guard (ANG) units and members under USC Title 10 status. In addition, it applies to all
ACC-gained Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and members. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Contact supporting records managers as required. Reporting requirements in this supplement are
based on reports directed in the basic publication. Send comments and suggested improvements to
this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels, to
HQ ACC/A3O, 22 Rickenbacker Rd, BLDG 10 Langley AFB VA 23665-2789. See Attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has not been substantially changed. Changes consist of paragraphs being
renumbered to coincide with paragraph number changes to the parent AFI.
 2                                                AFI10-244_ACCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


2.6.1.5.1. (Added) FAMs will coordinate with and assist units, and others, in resolving
mismatched/incorrectly postured UTCs when discovered or reported as incorrectly postured by
the unit in ART.
              2.6.1.6.1. (Added) ACC FAMs will review their respective unit's ART reports
              monthly and shall have a working knowledge of AEF readiness reporting
              requirements as specified by AFI 10-244 and this supplement. This will ensure
              higher headquarters attention or action to help resolve readiness issues at the unit
              level.
          2.6.1.7. (Added) All functional area manager (FAM) correspondence regarding
          readiness reporting policy/procedures or processing of ART reports must be initiated
          by or coordinated with the Air Combat Command (ACC) Readiness Branch (HQ
          ACC A3OR).
              2.6.3.1.1. Designate a primary and alternate wing ART manager in writing by
              letter. The group/squadron commander will designate a primary and alternate
              group or squadron ART manager where groups or squadrons report directly to the
              numbered air force or are not aligned under a wing. Submit the letter to HQ
              ACC/A3OR. Each individual listed on the letter will apply for the ART role of
              subordinate administrator for their wing or equivalent UIC. The subordinate
              administrator role is reserved for those individuals that will grant write-access to
              subordinate unit ART POCs. A classified e-mail address must be included for
              write-access to the ART to be granted. If the user does not have their own
              account, they may provide an office or supervisor's email address.
              2.6.3.2.1. (Added) Commanders will establish procedures to review the reports
              or a summary of the reports for all wing units providing UTCs to the AEF to
              include enablers.
              2.6.3.2.2. (Added) Wing ART manager or equivalent will collect and compile
              unit reports into a suitable format for wing commander and key staff
              review/presentation.
              2.6.3.2.3. (Added) Wing ART managers will revoke subordinate unit ART
              monitor/approver roles in ART once the individual is no longer involved in unit
              ART reporting. The unit ART appointment letter will be used to determine
              individual eligibility for ART role approval.
          2.6.3.6. (Added) Wing commanders are responsible for publishing and maintaining
          a wing supplement to support local requirements for ART reporting and to provide
          continuity during personnel turnovers. Provide a copy of the wing supplement to
          ACC A3OR. The following outline will be used as a baseline for preparing the wing
          supplement:
              2.6.3.6.1. (Added) Supplements will include, but are not limited to: local
              procedures for briefing the wing commander on UTC readiness, the requirement
              for subordinate unit ART appointment letters, a comprehensive and continuing
              training program including the requirement to document completed training for all
              ART personnel, and examples of all locally devised forms, if any, that are being
              used by local units for gathering data. Prior to use, submit all locally devised data
AFI10-244_ACCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                         3


          collection tools or forms to the wing or equivalent records manager to determine
          appropriate records management and to ensure management of data does not
          adversely impact on the AF Records Management Program.
          2.6.3.6.2. (Added) Responsibilities. Clearly specify responsibilities for
          individuals (e.g. wing commander, group commander, unit commander, section
          chiefs, wing ART managers, etc.) involved in training personnel and
          preparing/ensuring the accuracy of unit ART reports.
          2.6.3.6.3. (Added) Training. Specify training requirements for ART POCs
          identifying mandatory criteria and time schedules. Personnel will be required as a
          minimum to review AFI 10-244, the training aids found under the help dropdown
          menu on the ART website and a review of chapter 1 though chapter 8 of the ART
          3.0 User’s Manual (which can also be found under the help menu).
          2.6.3.6.4. (Added) Reporting Procedures. Include step-by-step procedures
          accomplished in compiling and submitting ART reports. Wings should delegate
          the responsibility to rate UTCs in ART to the lowest organizational level
          responsible for the UTC (i.e., the squadron commander or equivalent of the unit
          the UTC is postured against) and ensure SIPRNET access.
       2.6.3.7. (Added) Wing ART manager or equivalent will disseminate MAJCOM
       ART POC correspondence of interest (i.e., ART policy messages, etc.) to unit
       commanders and unit ART POCs, as required, on a timely basis to ensure prompt
       response to HHQ requirements.
       2.6.3.8. (Added) Wing ART manager or equivalent will establish and maintain ART
       continuity folder(s) or binder(s) IAW the AF RDS to contain as a minimum the
       following documents:
          2.6.3.8.1. (Added) Copies of the appointment letters for wing and subordinate
          unit ART monitors.
          2.6.3.8.2. (Added) HHQ guidance, letters, messages, etc.
          2.6.3.8.3. (Added) Training program for wing and unit ART monitors complete
          with training materials, and documentation of completed training.
          2.6.4.2.1. (Added) Unit commanders will designate a primary and alternate unit
          ART POC in writing by letter. Submit the letter to the wing ART manager or
          equivalent. The letter is required for POCs who require write-access to ART
          under either the ART approver or ART monitor role. Letter must include names,
          ranks, organizations, DSN, and classified and unclassified e-mail addresses. A
          classified e-mail address must be included for write-access to the ART to be
          granted. If the user does not have their own account, they may provide an office
          or supervisor's email address.
          2.6.4.2.2. (Added) Unit ART POCs will establish and maintain ART continuity
          folder(s) or binder(s) IAW the AF RDS to contain the following documents:
             2.6.4.2.2.1. (Added) Current unit ART POC appointment letter.
             2.6.4.2.2.2. (Added) HHQ and wing guidance (letters, messages, etc.).
4                                           AFI10-244_ACCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


           2.6.4.2.2.3. (Added) Documentation of completed ART training.
       2.6.4.3.1. (Added) Unit commanders shall establish procedures to accurately
       gather, prepare, and validate the information used to rate unit UTCs in ART.
       Procedures should ensure all concerned offices coordinate on or provide the
       required data to the unit ART POC prior to the unit commander's approval to
       enter the UTC rating in ART.
       2.6.4.3.2. (Added) Unit commanders must be continually cognizant of current
       and projected resource status in order to provide accurate Get Well Date (GWD)
       projections when submitting ART assessments.
       2.6.4.3.3. (Added) Commanders shall approve all unit UTC assessments prior to
       the unit ART POC updating the ART database.
       2.6.4.7.1. (Added) The names, office symbols and phone numbers of ACC UTC
       FAMs responsible for creating and posturing UTCs against ACC units which are
       reflected in ART are listed in a roster on the HQ ACC/A3OR community of
       practice (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-OP-
       AC-35).
    3.4.5.1. (Added) Unit commanders may use all ACC resources within their unit or
    wing if those resources will be available to the unit for contingency use. Personnel are
    considered available if they are assigned to a unit, are physically present at home
    station, or can be present within the prescribed unit response time and are not
    restricted from deploying or employing with the unit. Resources belonging to another
    unit will not be counted in UTC ratings unless some type of agreement is documented
    IAW AF RDS prior to using the resources for reporting purposes. Resources used to
    assess one unit's capability may not be used for the same purpose by another unit.
    Double counting of personnel or equipment is prohibited.
       3.4.7.1.1. (Added) Personnel/equipment on temporary duty (TDY). Consider
       personnel and /or equipment who are TDY (as opposed to deployed under a
       tasking) available for UTC rating/tasking under the following conditions: if the
       personnel and/or equipment are expected to be able to return to the unit within the
       unit DOC response time or 72 hours if no response time is given, report as
       GREEN. However, the commander has the discretion to report personnel and/or
       equipment as YELLOW if there is a concern the TDY personnel may not be able
       to return within the DOC response time or 72 hours. Commanders should not
       report TDY personnel and equipment as RED unless they are positive the
       employed resources will not be able to return as directed. In this case, place a
       GWD estimate in ART of when they will return to the unit. In remarks, indicate
       where they are TDY, name of operation, and any other details known.
       3.4.7.1.2. (Added) When a unit temporarily transfers (lends) personnel to
       another unit, the supplying unit will continue to measure and report the personnel
       unless otherwise directed by the MAJCOM. Likewise, a unit receiving personnel
       from another unit will not measure or count those personnel unless otherwise
       directed by the MAJCOM. Temporary assignment of personnel will not be
       justification for improved readiness levels.
AFI10-244_ACCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            5


          3.4.7.1.3. (Added) It would be illogical to count each and every item on the
          Logistics Detail (LOGDET), until further notice, equipment and supplies are
          defined as those mobility coded (use code A) items listed in the Allowance
          Standards (AS). Note: Shortages of some non-"A" coded items may affect
          mission accomplishment and should be considered in the assessment.
       3.5.4.1. (Added) A common error is rating a UTC incorrectly postured when no
       individual is assigned. Funded authorizations from the unit manning document are
       used to create UTCs. If there is no individual assigned to the authorization it does not
       mean the UTC is incorrectly postured. In this instance rating the UTC red or yellow
       and using the “vacant” personnel deficiency category would be appropriate.
       3.7.2.1. (Added) Identify exactly why the UTC is RED or YELLOW. If it is short
       of personnel, list how many short of each AFSC, what is the impact and what you are
       doing to get more personnel (e.g., short two 2G071s can’t accomplish logistics
       support for beddown of 12 PAA; working with HQ ACC FAM for more manpower.
       GWD: 5 March 2002).
       3.7.2.2. (Added) If training is needed, identify what AFSCs needs what training.
       Identify how and when your commander is going to fix it (e.g., two 3E051 need
       Silver Flag training. Without training, the individuals are not prepared to provide bare
       base electrical support. Individuals scheduled for class on 30 November 2008.).
       3.7.2.3. (Added) If the UTC is short on equipment or supplies, identify exactly what
       equipment is short or not in a condition to deploy e.g., short two 60-kw generators.
       Without the generator the kitchen tent will not have power. We are working with the
       FAM for funding to order replacement generators.




                                         GILMARY M. HOSTAGE, General, USAF
                                         Commander
 6                                           AFI10-244_ACCSUP 26 FEBRUARY 2013


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
ART 3.0 Users Manual, June 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
GWD—Get Well Date
HQ ACC/A3OR—ACC Readiness Branch
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
