BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-2FT,
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             Volume 1

                                                                        20 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                    Incorporating Change 1, 19 AUGUST 2013

                                                               EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                   6 MAY 2014

                                                                             Flying Operations

                                                       FLIGHT TEST AIRCREW TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMC/A3V                                                          Certified by: AF/A3O-A
                                                                     (Col James W. Crowhurst)
                                                                                     Pages: 208
Supersedes:AFI11-2FTV1, 18 April 2007
                                (EDWARDSAFB)
OPR: 412 OG/OGV                                                       Certified by: 412 TW/OG
                                                                       (Col Rodney F. Todaro)
                                                                                       Pages:32
Supersedes:   AFI 11-2FT Vol1/AFFTC
              Sup1, 18 July 2012


This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures; AFPD 11-4, Aviation
Service; and AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training. It applies to all AFMC units, AFRC units under
AFMC OPCON, and AFMC gained units and personnel conducting flying operations. It does not
apply to the Air National Guard. Attachments to this instruction prescribe Mission Design Series
(MDS) specific operating procedures. Units will maintain all applicable attachments for
assigned/possessed aircraft. Field units below MAJCOM level will forward copies of their
proposed supplements to this publication to AFMC/A3V for review and approval. Keep
supplements current by complying with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. See
paragraph 1.3 of this instruction for guidance on submitting comments and suggesting
improvements to this publication. The Privacy Act of 1974 affects this instruction. The Privacy
Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management Systems (ARMS) covers
 2                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


required information. The authority for maintenance of the system is Title 37 U.S.C. 301a
(Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriations Act for 1973), Public Laws 93-
570 (Appropriations Act for 1974), 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974), and
Executive Order 9397 as amended. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(EDWARDSAFB) This publication supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 112FT Volume 1,
Flight Test Aircrew Training. It establishes minimum requirements for training and qualifying
Edwards AFB aircrew. It applies to all Edwards Air Force Base units, AFRC units under
Edwards Air Force Base OPCON, and Edwards Air Force Base gained units and personnel
conducting flying operations. This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or the
US Air Force Reserve units and members except those under Edwards Air Force Base OPCON.
This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended. This supplement
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The applicable Privacy Act System of Records Notice, F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource
Management          System        (ARMS)          applies     and        is     available     at
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/component/airforce/index.html. The authority for
maintenance of the system is Title 37 U.S.C. 301a (Incentive Pay), Public Law 92-204, Section
715 (Appropriations Act for 1973), Public Laws 93-570 (Appropriations Act for 1974), 93-294
(Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974), and Executive Order 9397 as amended.Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This interim
change adds information for USAF School of Aerospace Medicine, Special Departure
Procedures, and Special Mission Aviator crew position for certain aircraft. Changes location
reference for AFMC training plans, AFMC approved simulators, ARMS event identifiers and
aircraft codes. Changes Aerial Photographer training from Phase I to Phase II training and adds
NRA Phase I qualification as a prerequisite. Clarifies local Phase I training exception, Flight
Engineer/Special Mission Aviator currency and proficiency requirements, FCF/ACF guidance,
NRA test equipment operation, and Hi AoA training. Incorporates NRA centrifuge training
requirements. Aligns recurring ground training events’ requirements with governing regulations
(Water Survival, Publications Check, Instrument Refresher Course and Flight Physical).
Authorizes currency credit for certain flight events in an AFMC approved simulator. Expands
sortie credit guidance for several aircraft. Updates Chase and Ordnance Release Test proficiency
requirements. Adds Formation and deletes NVG Go Around currency and proficiency
requirements for C-17. Reinstates authorization for C-130 to accomplish NDB in the simulator.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                                                                      3


Changes UH-1/TH-1 references to H-1 and adds conversion training guidance. Deletes AL-1
guidance and adds F-35 guidance. Establishes guidance for event currency transferability for
multi-qualified aircrew in manned and unmanned aircraft. See paragraph 1.4 of this instruction
for guidance on submitting waiver requests for requirements established by this publication.

(EDWARDSAFB) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed. Major changes include the recinding of Form 5489, OG/CC approval now required
for courses listed in paragraph 1.5.2.7., local area orientation instructor guidance updated, and
experienced NRA/OSF training requirements updated.


       1.     GENERAL INFORMATION. ...............................................................................                           5
Table 1.      Personnel Prerequisites for Flight on AFMC Aircraft. ..........................................                                8
       2.     PHASE I - AIRCRAFT QUALIFICATION TRAINING. ....................................                                               12
       3.     PHASE II - MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING. ......................................                                             18
Table 2.      Phase II Qualification Matrix. ................................................................................               20
Table 3.      Flying Hour Prerequisites for FCF Aircrew. .........................................................                          26
       4.     PHASE III - CONTINUATION TRAINING. .......................................................                                    43
Table 4.      Aircrew Position Identifiers. ..................................................................................              43
Table 5.      Recurring Aircrew Requirements Summary. .........................................................                             44
Table 5.      (EDWARDSAFB) Recurring Aircrew Requirements Summary ...........................                                               46
Table 6.      Phase I & II Currency/Recurrency Restriction Matrix. .........................................                                47
Table 7.      Basic Event Currency Requirements. ....................................................................                       50
Table 7.      (EDWARDSAFB) Basic Event Currency Requirements ......................................                                         53
Table 8.      Semiannual Basic Event Proficiency Training Requirements. ..............................                                      54
Table 9.      DELETED. ............................................................................................................         70
Table 10.     Basic Proficiency Proration Chart. ........................................................................                   71
       5.     UPGRADE QUALIFICATION TRAINING. .......................................................                                       73
Table 11.     Flying Hour Prerequisites for First Pilot Qualification. .........................................                            74
Table 12.     Instructor Upgrade Flying Time Prerequisites. ......................................................                          75
       6.     TRAINING RESTRICTIONS. ..............................................................................                         77
       7.     ADDITIONAL TRAINING. .................................................................................                        77
       8.     COMMAND TRAINING PLANS PRESCRIBED. ..............................................                                             77
Table 13.     Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 67, Ground Training Record. ..............                                              80
Table 14.     Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 68, Flying Training Record. ................                                            81
Table 14.     (EDWARDSAFB) Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 68, Flying Training
              Record ....................................................................................................................   82
 4                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Table 15.   Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 69, Flying Training Comments. ..........    83

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                85

Attachment 2—DELETED                                                                         106

Attachment 2—(EDWARDSAFB) EDWARDSAFB ARMS EVENT IDENTIFIERS                                  107

Attachment 3—A-10 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        110

Attachment 4—B-1 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                         111

Attachment 5—B-2 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                         114

Attachment 6—B-52 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        115

Attachment 7—B707/E-3/E-8 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                117

Attachment 8—C-5 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                         121

Attachment 9—C-12 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        123

Attachment 10—C-17 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       125

Attachment 11—C-130 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      128

Attachment 12—C-135 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      139

Attachment 13—*F-35 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      146

Attachment 14—F-4 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        149

Attachment 15—F-15 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       151

Attachment 16—F-16 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       154

Attachment 17—KC-46 TRAINING GUIDLINES                                                       159

Attachment 18—T-38 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       160

Attachment 19—KC-10 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      161

Attachment 20—U-2 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        167

Attachment 21—H-1 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                        169

Attachment 22—F-22 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       175

Attachment 23—RQ-4 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       184

Attachment 24—HH-60 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      188

Attachment 25—CSAR-X TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                     189

Attachment 26—V-22 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                       190

Attachment 27—MQ-1/MQ-9 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                  196
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                          5


Attachment 28—DELETED                                                                          201

Attachment 29—DHC-8-Q200 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                   202

Attachment 30—PC-12/U-28 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                   203

Attachment 31—C-20 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                         204

Attachment 32—C/RC-26 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                      205

Attachment 33—FALCON 20 TRAINING GUIDELINES                                                    206

Attachment 34—NON-USAF AIRCRAFT TRAINING GUIDELINES                                            207

Attachment 35—OTHER AIRCRAFT                                                                   208


1. GENERAL INFORMATION.
  1.1. Purpose. The AFMC aircrew training program objective is to ensure aircrews are
  trained appropriately to execute AFMC’s flight test mission safely and effectively. Ground
  and flying training requirements established in AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Sup 1, and this
  instruction apply to all AFMC aircrew members and AFMC-gained units and personnel
  conducting flying operations. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or
  US Air Force Reserve units and members except those under AFMC OPCON.
  1.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Manpower requirements are based only on higher headquarters
  directives (MAJCOM or above) and not on local instructions or supplements.
     1.1.1. AFMC publishes a three-volume set of Flight Test (FT) instructions containing
     attachments for each weapon system flown in AFMC. These instructions are numbered
     AFI 11- 2FT Volume 1, 2, and 3, and will contain the training, evaluation criteria, and
     operations procedures, respectively, for each weapon system. AFMC uses these
     instructions in lieu of AFI 11-2 MD-Specific volumes for flying operations. In the
     absence of published guidance AFMC units will coordinate with AFMC/A3V for
     approval of locally developed guidelines. These guidelines should be consistent with
     similar guidance specified in the appropriate AFI 11-2 MD-Specific volumes. In
     addition, aircraft on loan to AFMC undergoing short-term flight test programs will be
     flown according to the lead MAJCOM guidance if no AFMC guidance exists.
  1.2. Supplements. The flying unit will supplement this instruction if required to include:
     1.2.1. Training for aircraft and/or crew positions not specifically covered in this
     instruction.
     1.2.2. Ground and flying training requirements needed to qualify aircrews for the unit's
     mission.
     1.2.3. Ground and flying training requirements needed for conversion and difference
     training.
     1.2.4. Local Area Operating procedures.
6                                        AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


       1.2.5. The unit may direct additional required training not covered in this instruction in
       order to meet any unit specific requirements. The unit commander will publish any unit
       specific training requirements in a supplement to this instruction. All original and any
       permanent changes to the content of the supplement must be approved by AFMC/A3V
       using the AFMC Form 73 process. For training plans associated with unit supplements,
       changes will also be submitted to AFMC/A3V using the AFMC Form 73 process or
       through MAJCOM approved software.
       1.2.6. Unit supplements will be sent to AFMC/A3V, Eglin AFB, FL via email to
       AFMC/A3V Workflow for review and approval prior to publication.          Include
       AFMC/A3V and AFMC/A3O on the distribution list for approved supplements.
       1.2.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Refer to the 412th Operations Group Training &
       Stan/Eval Guide and OGV Process Guide for a description of all training processes and
       helpful examples.
    1.3. Changes. Send recommended changes on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
    of Publication, to AFMC/A3V, Eglin AFB, FL via e-mail to the AFMC/A3V Workflow.
    AF/A3/5 is the approval authority for interim changes (IC) and revisions to this instruction.
    1.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Submit suggested improvements on an AF Form 847,
    Recommendation for Change of Publication, through 412 OG/OGV stan/eval channels.
    1.4. Waivers. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, HQ AFMC/A3V is the waiver
    authority for this instruction. All waivers will be routed through appropriate channels to
    flying unit commanders, and OG/CCs prior to submission to AFMC/A3V for processing. Use
    an AFMC Form 73, AFMC Flight Operations Waiver Request, to process the waiver. Send
    waiver requests to AFMC/A3V, Eglin AFB, FL via e-mail to the following global address:
    afmc.a3v@eglin.af.mil.
    1.4. (EDWARDSAFB) Submit training waivers to 412 OG/OGV for 412 OG/CC review.
    The 412 OG/CC is the waiver authority for the contents of this supplement.
    1.5. Responsibilities.
       1.5.1. Flying unit commanders and supervisors at all levels must monitor the progress of
       crewmember training to ensure timely progression through the appropriate training
       phases and to identify areas in which an aircrew member needs more training.
       1.5.2. The squadron training office will:
           1.5.2.1. Develop and implement programs to carry out required aircrew training.
           1.5.2.2. Ensure compliance with training directives specified in paragraph 1.1
           1.5.2.3. Ensure all Education Training Course Announcement (ETCA) formal course
           prerequisites are completed before requesting formal training or entering a
           crewmember into any phase of training.
           1.5.2.4. Track Phase I and II training progress (entry and training completion dates as
           a minimum) via a locally developed process.
           1.5.2.5. Maintain aircrew training folders by electronic means using MAJCOM
           approved training software or, if no such means available, by using paper copies for
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                          7


        all assigned/attached flyers. As a minimum, conduct end of half reviews of active
        training folders and a final review before a training folder becomes inactive. See
        chapter 8 for training folder administrative procedures.
            1.5.2.5.1. Maintain a tracking system that records the date of folder reviews.
        1.5.2.6. Maintain an Aircrew Letter of Certification (Letter of Xs) by electronic
        means using MAJCOM approved training software or, if no such means available, by
        using paper copies. This letter documents all aircrew mission qualifications and
        certifications. The Letter of Xs must be updated monthly and certified by the
        OG/CC, flying squadron commander, or operations officer. The Letter of Xs in
        conjunction with the AFMC Form 68, Flight Training Record, signed at the
        conclusion of training serve to document each crewmembers mission certifications.
            1.5.2.6.1. If a training program only requires an AFMC Form 67, Ground
            Training Record (e.g. Evaluator Training), the certification will be documented
            on the AF Form 1381, USAF Certification of Aircrew Training.
            1.5.2.6.2. The Letter of Xs must be updated and made available upon request to
            AFMC/A3V at the end of each semi-annual training cycle (30 September and 31
            March).
        1.5.2.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Training Requests.                   Request 412 OG/CC
        approval through 412 OG/OGV for the following rated (N/A flight surgeon) and CEA
        aircrew training: initial qualification training, formal courses, requalification training
        for aircrew unqualified for more than two years, instructor upgrade (N/A mission
        instructor upgrades), ACBT and FCF training.
  1.6. Training Guidelines.
     1.6.1. Requirements established in this instruction may be more restrictive than AFI 11-
     202 Volume 1, Aircrew Training, and the associated AFMC supplement. If so, the
     requirement in this instruction takes precedence.          Requirements established in
     attachments to this instruction take precedence over requirements/restrictions in the basic
     portion of this instruction.
     1.6.2. Table 1 list prerequisites and AFI 48-123, AFMC Sup 1 lists physical and
     physiological training requirements for personnel flying on AFMC aircraft
 8                                          AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table 1. Personnel Prerequisites for Flight on AFMC Aircraft.
Personnel                                         Prerequisites
Category
                   Active    Physiological       Flight     Egress       Initial    AF Form 8
                   AO, or      Training         Physical   Training       Qual        Qual
                  Equivalent                                            Training

                     AFI            AFI           AFI         AFI                   AFI 11-202
                    11-401         11-403        48-123     11-301,                   Vol. 2
                                                            AFMC
                                                             Sup 1
Crewmembers            X               X              X        X             X             X
(rated, non-
rated, CEA)
Indoctrination                         X              X       Note 7
Fliers
Ops Support            X               X              X         X         Note 2
Fliers
(ASC 9C)
Maintenance          Note 6         Note 1         Note 1       X
Engineering
Support
Personnel
(MESP)
Incentive,                          Note 3         Note 4       X
Orientation, or
Familiarization
Fliers
Mission                             Note 5         Note 5     Note 5
Essential
Personnel
(MEP)
Notes:
1. AFI 48-123, AFMC Sup 1 lists medical recommendation/clearance to fly and physiological
training requirements for MESPs. AFMC/SG is the office of primary responsibility for AFI
48-123, AFMC Sup 1.
2. Follow non-rated aircrew training procedures.
3. Incentive, orientation, or familiarization fliers may not require physiological training. See
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, for a complete listing of
requirements.
4. Qualified Medical Personnel must clear incentive, orientation, or familiarization flyers
prior to flying IAW AFI 48-123, AFMC Sup 1. Flight Surgeon will specify the clearance
expiration date.
5. MEPs are a category of passenger (see AFI 11-401 for further guidance).
6. Military and civilian MESPs will be authorized to perform in-flight duties via non-
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                            9


interference Aeronautical Order (AO) AF Form 1887. Contractor MESPs will be authorized
IAW DCMA Inst 8210.1.
7. Appropriate Egress Training and Emergency Parachute Training for the aircraft to be
flown.
      1.6.3. Unit Developed Training Plans. The MD-specific attachments to this instruction
      prescribe lesson plans for most aircraft, missions, and aircrew members in AFMC.
      AFMC flying units will publish ground and flying training programs for those aircraft,
      missions, and aircrew positions (to include mission crewmembers) that are not included
      in this instruction. Training plans should include all ground and flying training
      requirements. Send locally developed training programs to AFMC/A3V for review and
      approval prior to publication in a unit supplement to this instruction. Unit specified
      training plans, after approval by AFMC/A3V, are maintained by each respective
      organization and will be made available on the unit’s MAJCOM approved software
      system.
      1.6.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Coordinate unit developed training plans through 412
      OG/OGV.
      1.6.4. Special Aircraft Training Requirements. Units will develop training plans and
      establish crewmember training requirements for those aircraft designated as
      developmental, experimental, pre-production, or prototype. Submit proposed plans to
      AFMC/A3V for approval. If the unit determines adequate crewmember flight currency
      and proficiency cannot be solely maintained in the test aircraft, then crewmembers will
      maintain currency and proficiency in an AFMC operational aircraft. This AFMC
      operational aircraft will be similar, in flight characteristics and handling qualities, to the
      specific test aircraft. If so designated by the unit, flying proficiency events accomplished
      in the test aircraft may be credited toward total training requirements.
      1.6.4. (EDWARDSAFB) Combined/Integrated Test Force (ITF/CTF)/Test Squadrons
      will develop a comprehensive aircrew training program and coordinate per paragraph
      1.6.3. The preferred method for developing aircrew training plans is by embedding them
      into the test plan.
          1.6.4.1. With prior AFMC/A3V approval (staffed on an AFMC Form 73), OG/CCs
          may request civilian FAA training IAW the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR),
          section 61 with the goal of being trained to the level of a type certificate and a flight
          evaluation by an FAA check airman. As a part of approved test program and on a
          case by case basis, the pilots may receive the extra training and qualifications that
          will allow the awarding of the Airline Transport Pilot rating which will allow a
          qualification in either pilot’s seat/position.
             1.6.4.1.1. Aircrews will maintain currency and proficiency IAW Chapter 4 of this
             AFI, its attachments, approved unit supplements, and existing waivers. Aircrew
             who operate additional aircraft not owned by the U.S. military will also adhere to
             the training and currency requirements as outlined in Title 14, Code of Federal
             Regulations (CFR), Part 61, Certification: Pilots, Flight Instructors, and Ground
             Instructors, current edition for the category and class aircraft they are qualified in
             unless guidance is included in this AFI or its attachments. Aircrews must be
             qualified in their primary USAF aircraft.
10                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            1.6.4.1.2. Aircrew will maintain an AF Form 8/8A, Certificate of Aircrew
            Qualification, in a USAF aircraft (preferably of a like Instrument Category (see
            AFI 11-202 Volume 2/AFMC S1 (added)). Additionally, the annual (17 month)
            flight evaluation conducted in the primary USAF aircraft can count as the
            biannual flight review (BFR), IAW the CFR, for the new aircraft.
            1.6.4.1.3. Aircrew receiving a FAA certification, IAW the provisions of
            paragraph 1.6.4.1., will maintain a Form 8/8A for each aircraft qualification.
            1.6.4.1.4. Aircrew will attend an annual systems refresher training for the
            additional aircraft which will include at a minimum simulator and computer-based
            training academics, if applicable.
            1.6.4.1.5. If the aircraft is equipped with a second seat with a set of flight
            controls, regardless of whether the aircraft is single pilot certified, aircrew will
            always fly with a safety pilot – IAW the CFR, this safety pilot must hold a
            certificate commensurate with the class aircraft in which the test is being flown
            (e.g., Multi-Engine Land for a Citation V flown below FL180 or with an
            Instrument Rating for flights above FL180).
     1.6.5. Accepting Qualifications. Flying unit commanders may accept an individual's
     basic aircraft qualification, mission, and upgrade training from non-AFMC sources or
     other AFMC units. Acceptance will be predicated on applicable validation such as the
     AF Form8/8a, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, AF Form 1381, USAF Certification
     of Aircrew Training, or other appropriate documentation. Use the AF Form 4348, USAF
     Aircrew Certifications, to document MDS qualification certification per AFI 11-202 Vol
     2. Document all accepted qualifications, other than MDS qualifications, on AF Form
     1381. Annotate acceptance by either 1) annotating “Qual” above the date (if known) in
     the date block for qualifications accepted or 2) annotating “(Accepted)” next to the
     accepted qualification. If another unit's qualification training is accepted, the flying unit
     commander will ensure AFMC-specific training items are covered in adequate detail. If
     additional training is required, document training via Memo for Record in the
     individual’s aircrew training folder.
        1.6.5.1. GFRs will approve contractor aircrew qualifications and training in
        accordance with DCMA INST 8210.1 and service guidance.
     1.6.6. If a training event listed in AFI 11-202, Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, or this
     instruction has no AFMC or flight manual guidance, units will coordinate with
     AFMC/A3V for approval of locally developed guidelines. These guidelines should be
     consistent with similar lead MAJCOM guidance specified in the appropriate AFI 11-2
     MD-specific Volumes. Events/maneuvers without established AFMC, flight manual, or
     lead MAJCOM guidance are prohibited unless they are flown as part of an approved test
     plan.
     1.6.7. The USAF Test Pilot School (TPS) will conduct training for students as directed in
     the USAF TPS syllabus.
     1.6.8. Training Phase Sequencing and Duration Limitations.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         11


        1.6.8.1. Crewmembers will not be entered into concurrent Phase I training programs.
        Pilot Phase I training and flight evaluation must be completed prior to beginning
        Phase II training. The following exceptions apply:
            1.6.8.1.1. Use Table 2 for training items that may be conducted during Phase I
            training. Additional exceptions will be indicated in MD-specific attachments to
            this instruction. Comply with training duration restrictions outlined in paragraph
            1.6.8.3 of this instruction.
            1.6.8.1.2. Pilots may complete Phase I conversion/difference training and Phase
            II training concurrently. Pilots may complete Phase I conversion/difference
            training and Phase I initial checkout concurrently with OG/CC approval. Comply
            with training duration restrictions outlined in paragraph 1.6.8.3 of this instruction.
            See paragraph 2.5 for conversion/difference training examples.
            1.6.8.1.3. Pilots may start Phase II training prior to completing the Phase I night
            landing/night checkout sortie requirements.
        1.6.8.2. AFMC flying units may conduct non-pilot aircrew Phase I initial
        qualification, requalification, conversion, or difference training and Phase II mission
        qualification training concurrently. Comply with training duration restrictions
        outlined in paragraph 1.6.8.3 of this instruction.
        1.6.8.3. Required Phase I flying training (qualification, re-qual, or instructor to
        include a flight evaluation, as applicable) will be completed within six months of the
        first qualification training event, ground or flight. Phase II required flying training
        will be completed within six months of the first mission training event, ground or
        flight. A flight evaluation that ends in a restricted Form 8 which qualifies a pilot as
        an FP completes this requirement. If training is not complete within the
        corresponding duration restrictions, the trainee will be removed from training.
     1.6.9. Instructor Requirements.
        1.6.9.1. An instructor that is fully qualified in the specific system (MD aircraft) and
        task (Phase I or Phase II event) to be instructed (i.e., pilots instructing pilots) will
        conduct training. The following exception applies:
            1.6.9.1.1. Crew positions that have systems in common may be instructed by
            unlike crew positions (i.e., WSOs instructing pilots or pilots instructing WSOs), if
            the tasks are similar in nature. Training may also be conducted by unlike crew
            specialties if outlined in an HQ AFMC/A3V approved lesson plan. In-flight, the
            instructor must be in a position to correct or override the student if an action
            performed is inappropriate.
            1.6.9.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) If there are no Edwards AFB
            current/qualified instructors in an approved EAFB mission, the following methods
            will be used (listed in priority order); request assistance from another unit (AFMC
            or other MAJCOMs), request training from a formal school IAW paragraph
            1.5.2.3 or submit a requalification/recurrency training plan for AFMC/A3V
            review/approval. Units should consider using a build up approach to initially
            qualify only the minimum number of instructors required to form an “initial
12                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            cadre.” Once qualified these initial cadre instructors will train other aircrew.
     1.6.10. The USAF School of Aerospace Medicine (SAM) will conduct training for
     students as directed in USAF SAM syllabi.
  1.7. Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS). ARMS, IAW AFIs 11-202
  Volume 1 and 11-401 AFMC Supplement 1, will be used to track and manage recurring
  crewmember training. Flying units will use prescribed USAF ARMS event identifiers listed
  in AFI 11-202, Volume 1 and the AFMC ARMS event identifiers located on the AFMC/A3V
  Sharepoints website at: https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx.
  Maintain end-of-half ITS and Individual Training Reports IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 1, AFMC
  Sup.
  1.7. (EDWARDSAFB) Units will coordinate with the 412 OSS/OSOR (HARM) before
  developing ARMS-Events and Identifiers.
2. PHASE I - AIRCRAFT QUALIFICATION TRAINING.
  2.1. General. This section outlines training needed to qualify an aircrew member for basic
  aircrew duties in an assigned position for a specific aircraft. In addition to the training
  guidance outlined in AFI 11-202, Volume 1 as supplemented, use this instruction when
  completing qualification training in AFMC. Phase I training includes Initial Qualification,
  Requalification, Transition, Senior Officer/Test Pilot, and Conversion/Difference training.
     2.1.1. All AFMC specified Phase I training plans can be found on the Edwards Center
     Ops Online (COOL) server. The forms located there are the only ones authorized to
     execute the Phase I training. EXCEPTION: Unit specific Phase I training forms may be
     maintained locally after approval by AFMC/A3V. To ensure use of the most current
     training program, the training office should download the current training form just prior
     to starting each Phase I qualification.
     2.1.2. Formal Qualification Training. Phase I training will be accomplished at the
     appropriate ETCA formal training course or an AFMC approved contractor run facility.
     In the event the ETCA training is not available or does not exist, qualification training
     may be accomplished locally IAW provisions of AFI 11-202, Volume 1, AFMC
     Supplement 1 and this instruction.
     2.1.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Squadron commanders/CTF directors or operations officers
     will make requests for quotas in formal aircrew training courses to 412 OG/OGV semi-
     annually. Formal training requests will be submitted no later than two months prior
     (four months desired) to training start date.
         2.1.2.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) If formal training conducted does not include
         specific training documentation (academics, simulators, contractor facility training,
         etc.), the flying unit training officer will make an appropriate MFR annotation in the
         training folder.
     2.1.3. Local Qualification Training. Local qualification training will be conducted IAW
     AFI 11-202 Volume 1. Requests to AFMC/A3V to conduct local qualification training
     will include the following: Justification for the local training in lieu of formal course
     training; a summary of the individual’s flying experience; the proposed training syllabus
     and schedule to include training start date and planned completion date; and training
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        13


     program differences from the ETCA formal course or, if applicable, the MAJCOM
     authorized program. Courseware need not be converted to standard command formats. In
     the circumstance that a formal course at a FTU is not completed with an AF Form 8
     evaluation, the training officer will annotate in a MFR that all AFMC training
     requirements were met. If training is incomplete, the MFR will state what training will be
     accomplished to complete the syllabus. The MFR will be placed on top of the FTU
     training documentation or in section 5 of the training folder.
  2.2. Training Prerequisites. Before entering qualification training, each crewmember will
  meet the requirements outlined in AFI 11-202 Volume 1, Chapter 2. Individual course
  prerequisites will be IAW the appropriate formal course syllabi and the USAF ETCA.
     2.2.1. Centrifuge Training. All crewmembers and flight surgeons assigned to high G
     aircraft as defined by AFI 11-404, Centrifuge Training for High-G Aircrew, will
     complete centrifuge training IAW 11-404. Waivers to this requirement will be very
     limited, and must be routed through AFMC/A3V for approval by HQ AFMC/A3 or
     higher authority as prescribed by AFI 11-404.
     2.2.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Unit training sections responsible for fighter, fighter trainer
     (T-38), or attack aircraft will coordinate to obtain centrifuge-training slots in accordance
     with AFI 11-404.
         2.2.1.1. All AFMC and DCMA assigned and attached Military and government civil
         service Non-Rated aircrew (to include Flight Test Engineers and Aerial
         Photographers), Operations Support Flyers and Maintenance Engineering Support
         Personnel (MESP), as well as, Navigators, Electronic Warfare Operators and Weapon
         System Operators qualified in T-38/F-16 aircraft will also complete centrifuge
         training IAW AFI 11-404 as a prerequisite to start flying training. The profiles, per
         AFI 11-404, used for Qualification or Refresher training will be based on the F-16
         (AFMC's primary support aircraft).
  2.3. Simulator Training. Simulator training will be used to augment local qualification
  training to the maximum extent possible. If required by the MD-specific attachments,
  simulator training will be completed before beginning flying training. If a simulator training
  requirement is specified but not practical, the OG/CC may approve an instructor supervised
  cockpit familiarization that stresses all normal and emergency procedures to include unique
  procedures normally accomplished in the aircraft. Authorized simulators can be found on the
  AFMC/A3V                          Sharepoints                  website                      at:
  https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx.
  2.4. Requalification. Requalification training requirements are outlined in AFI 11-202
  Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, and the MD-specific attachments of this instruction.
  2.5. Conversion/Difference Qualification. Difference training is required when
  transitioning within (or between) series of the same mission/design aircraft (e.g. KC-135R
  (Block 30) to KC-135R (Block 40); F-16C (PW Engines) to F-16C (GE Engines)).
  Conversion training is required when dissimilarities within (or between) series of the same
  MD aircraft (KC-135R to NKC-135E; F-15A-D to F-15E; T-38A to T-38C) are significant
  enough to warrant more in-depth training, usually including flight training. See the applicable
14                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  MD attachment to this instruction for MD-specific guidance. Unit Commanders will
  determine the need for open/closed book testing for conversion training.
     2.5.1. If characteristics between series of the same MD aircraft are significant enough to
     warrant conversion training units will conduct this training using AFMC prescribed
     conversion training. If conversion training is not required in AFI 11-2FT Volume 1, MD-
     specific attachments and the unit deems conversion training necessary, submit a training
     plan to AFMC/A3V for approval.
     2.5.2. Phase II qualified crewmembers completing conversion/difference training
     between series of the same mission/design aircraft do not need to re-accomplish Phase II
     training, in the additional series, unless required by unit supplements to this instruction.
     2.5.3. Instructors and flight examiners completing conversion/difference training
     between series of the same mission/design aircraft may be designated instructors and
     flight examiners in the new series unless restricted by unit directives.
     2.5.4. In the absence of guidance in the MD attachments, when conducting Conversion
     training, open book testing will be completed. OG/CCs will determine the requirement
     for closed book testing.
  2.6. Multiple Qualification. Aircrew may be qualified in more than one MD aircraft IAW
  AFI 11-202 Volume 2 and the AFMC supplement.
  2.7. AFMC Specialized Training.
     2.7.1. Qualitative and Short-Term Evaluations. Test pilots, test WSOs, test navigators,
     flight test engineers, and Test Pilot School students may perform qualitative and short-
     term evaluations of aircraft without completing AFI 11-202 series Phase I qualification
     training. These missions may be to enhance test aviator career experiences or to
     accomplish specific test mission requirements. These missions may be accomplished on
     any operations, test, test support, or training mission per AFI 11-401 flight authorization
     processes. Logging and crediting flying time must be in accordance with AFI 11-401 and
     the AFMC Supp. The OG/CC is the approval authority for these flights and the
     following criteria must be met:
        2.7.1.1. Test aircrew may evaluate dual-controlled aircraft if a qualified instructor
        pilot is at the other set of controls.
        2.7.1.2. Test pilots may fly single-place aircraft if a dual controlled model is not
        available and they are current in a similar type of aircraft (as described in AFI 11-
        202V2/ AFMC Sup 1). An instructor pilot current in the aircraft being evaluated must
        be in a chase aircraft. Within 30 days before the flight, the evaluating test pilot will
        complete the following: qualification open and closed book written tests; appropriate
        phase I ground training (OG/CC’s may determine the extent of training given on local
        area procedures and on aircraft systems that will not be used on the flight(s)); a
        simulator training course or at least one hour of supervised cockpit time if the
        simulator training is not available; and a preflight briefing that includes an oral
        evaluation of the normal and emergency procedures for the aircraft.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        15


        2.7.1.3. Flying unit commanders will review the flight profiles of single-place
        aircraft and ensure sound safety principles are followed. Flying unit commanders will
        ensure all flights are thoroughly planned, flown as briefed, and monitored.
        2.7.1.4. Flight test navigators, WSOs, EWOs, CSOs and Flight Test engineers may
        conduct qualitative and short-term evaluations in an aircraft if they complete ground
        training for non-qualified personnel IAW paragraph 4.13 and a qualified pilot flies
        the aircraft.
        2.7.1.5. USAFTPS students may perform aircraft qualitative and short-term
        evaluations according to the school curriculum. Test Pilot School student pilots may
        make takeoffs and landings and occupy either seat when performing qualitative or
        short-term evaluation flights in AFMC helicopters. A qualified helicopter instructor
        pilot will be in command and be in a seat with a set of flight controls.
     2.7.2. Limited Qualification Status. Limited qualification status is for crewmembers that
     cannot meet the training requirements of this instruction and MD-specific attachments
     because of mission requirements or aircraft limitations. The following rules apply to this
     qualification status:
        2.7.2.1. Use of this status is restricted to crewmembers in particular test programs, to
        crewmembers in units without assigned aircraft, to multiple qualified pilots (who
        must maintain full qualification in their primary aircraft), and to USAF TPS
        instructors. OG/CCs must ensure sufficient capability is retained to fly unit aircraft
        during contingencies or unusual circumstances. Do not use this status to solve
        problems caused by a temporary shortage of aircraft or flying hours. Personnel in
        limited qualification status must take care to perform in-flight duties only under
        conditions for which they are trained and current (for example; day only, VMC only).
        2.7.2.2. Personnel in this status will fly the aircraft on the assigned mission only.
        Only mission- essential personnel will be on the aircraft.
        2.7.2.3. All training will be conducted IAW this instruction and the applicable MD-
        specific attachments with the following exception:
            2.7.2.3.1. Limited qualification may be acquired by completing training in the
            areas aircrew will exercise in the accomplishment of the mission. For example, a
            pilot who has a limited qualification in the F-16 and is restricted to non-formation,
            day, and VMC would only need the familiarization sorties during initial
            qualification training. Continuation training and currency would consist of sorties
            and landings only.
        2.7.2.4. Full qualification may be acquired by completing all the training
        requirements of this instruction and applicable MD-specific attachments. Do not use
        limited qualification as an intermediate qualification level leading to initial
        qualification.
  2.8. Pilot Training. The MAJCOM directed Phase I training plans for pilots can be found
  on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
16                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


     2.8.1. For the purpose of this instruction, the term “single-pilot aircraft” refers to aircraft
     with one mandatory crew position, regardless of whether a second seat exists in the
     aircraft. All existing F-15 and F-16 aircraft, for example, are “single-pilot aircraft”.
     2.8.2. Single-pilot aircraft ground training requirements. Pilots will complete closed
     book written qualification and critical action procedures/boldface examinations before
     the first flight IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 2. Instrument (if applicable) and open book
     exams must be completed before the qualification flight evaluation.
     2.8.3. Flight Training Requirements.
        2.8.3.1. First Flight in a single-pilot aircraft. When the first training flight is carried
        out in a single-pilot aircraft, an instructor pilot (IP) qualified in the same aircraft must
        fly in and instruct from a second seat in the same aircraft or chase aircraft.
        Alternatively, an IP (qualified in the same aircraft and in radio contact with the
        student) must observe landings from a position appropriate for observing the
        approach and landing. When an instructor is not available for ground observation, the
        most qualified available pilot (current in the same aircraft) must be used.
        2.8.3.2. If an IP cannot be on board the aircraft with the trainee, all Phase I training
        will be flown in VMC conditions until the instrument evaluation is complete.
        2.8.3.3. Night qualification requirements. Night qualification for pilots is optional at
        the discretion of the OG/CC. The OG/CC may determine the number of night
        qualified aircrew members necessary to execute the unit(s) mission.
        2.8.3.3. (EDWARDSAFB) The OG/CC delegates to flying unit commanders/CTF
        directors the responsibility to determine the required number of night qualified
        crewmembers.
            2.8.3.3.1. Night qualification sortie. A night qualification sortie is flown prior to
            the qualification flight evaluation, except for single-place aircraft. Pilots of such
            aircraft will not accomplish required night qualification events until after the
            Phase I flight evaluation. An IP, in radio contact with the trainee, will observe
            landings from a chase aircraft or a position appropriate for observing the approach
            and landing. When observing landings from a chase aircraft, only execute
            straight-in or instrument approaches. Overhead patterns are prohibited for the
            purpose of observing night landings from a chase aircraft. IP pattern chase at
            night is not advisable.
            2.8.3.3.2. Unit qualification roster (letter of X’s) will reflect the individual’s “day
            only restriction” until night qualification sortie is complete. If the individual is to
            be designated “day only qualified” the AF Form 8 should also reflect this
            restriction as per AFI 11-202 Vol 2 and AFI 11-2FT Vol 2.
        2.8.3.4. Touch-and-Go Landing Training. Conduct Phase I touch-and-go training
        IAW chapter 3 guidance.
  2.9. NAV/WSO/EWO Training.
     2.9.1. The MAJCOM directed Phase I training plans for NAV/WSO/EWO aircrew can
     be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                    17


     2.9.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO Qualification for C-12, F-16, and T-38. Qualification is
     gained by completion of qualification evaluation which consists of MQF closed book
     exam only, IRC, an instrument exam, boldface/CAPS, emergency procedures evaluation
     (EPE), and flight evaluation. The closed book exam is from the full “pilot” MQF
     (applicable blocks/MDS flight qualification). Open book exam requirements are at unit
     discretion. The boldface/CAPS are for the rear cockpit only station (F-16/T-38). The
     IRC exam is necessary because the cockpit duty station provides access to flight
     instruments. The EPE will emphasize notes, warnings, and cautions, associated with
     normal and emergency procedures found in Sections 2, 3, and 5 of the flight manual.
  2.10. Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) Training. The MAJCOM directed Phase I training
  plans can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
  2.11. Flight Surgeons Qualification. Flight surgeons will comply with requirements in AFI
  11-202 Volume 1. Units will designate one MD aircraft as primary for Flight Surgeons who
  fly on more than one of the unit’s assigned aircraft. Flight surgeons qualified in COMBAT
  EDGE equipped aircraft will receive a briefing on limitations, normal/emergency operations,
  and failure modes/appropriate corrections. Unit commanders may designate trained aircrew
  (pilots/WSOs), who have flown with the COMBAT EDGE ensemble, as trainers to facilitate
  future COMBAT EDGE training requirements. Prior to the qualification or requalification
  flight, the flight surgeon will accomplish the following:
  2.11. (EDWARDSAFB) The MAJCOM directed Phase I training plans can be found on the
  Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
     2.11.1. Bomber, Cargo, or Helicopter.     A written egress examination and ship-side
     egress.
     2.11.2. Fighter or Trainer. A written examination encompassing cockpit familiarization
     and egress knowledge, ship-side egress training, and a cockpit familiarization briefing
     given by a qualified pilot at the aircraft.
  2.12. DELETED.
     2.12.1. DELETED.
         2.12.1.1. DELETED.
         2.12.1.2. DELETED.
         2.12.1.3. DELETED.
         2.12.1.4. DELETED.
         2.12.1.5. DELETED.
         2.12.1.6. DELETED.
     2.12.2. DELETED.
         2.12.2.1. DELETED.
         2.12.2.2. DELETED.
         2.12.2.3. DELETED.
     2.12.3. DELETED.
18                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  2.13. Non Rated Aircrew (NRA) Training. Each unit that operates with non-rated aircrew
  (e.g., flight test engineers (FTE), in-flight maintenance technicians (IMT)) will use approved
  NRA training program for Phase I qualifications. As a minimum the training will include
  basic aircraft systems knowledge, emergency procedures, test equipment orientation and a 20
  question MQF Closed Book examination for each aircraft qualification. When implemented,
  document qualification certification on an AF Form 8a. A NRA qualification must be
  obtained for each MD aircraft. An instructor qualified in the MD will conduct training. Phase
  II mission NRA training programs will be published in a unit supplement to this instruction.
     2.13.1. Ground Training Requirements. Complete ground training prior to the first
     flying sortie. If a representative aircraft is unavailable, a cockpit trainer may be
     substituted. Training will include the following areas as a minimum.
         2.13.1.1. Cockpit/flight deck familiarization. Cockpit familiarization will include
         explanation of aircraft controls, gauges, switches, and checklist preflight items.
         2.13.1.2. Aircrew Flight Equipment. Aircrew Flight equipment training will include
         familiarization with flight equipment location, preflight, limitations, and use.
         2.13.1.3. Normal Procedures. Normal procedures training should include crew
         coordination terminology and checklist (if applicable) use.
         2.13.1.4. Emergency Procedures. Emergency procedures training should include
         ground egress, bailout, ejection procedures, and BOLDFACE/CAPS as applicable.
         2.13.1.5. NRA qualified in COMBAT EDGE equipped aircraft will receive a briefing
         on limitations, normal/emergency operations, and failure modes/appropriate
         corrections. Unit commanders may designate trained aircrew (pilots/WSOs), who
         have flown with the COMBAT EDGE ensemble, as trainers to facilitate future
         COMBAT EDGE training requirements.
     2.13.2. Flying Training Requirements. Flying training should simulate a typical profile
     the crewmember will be allowed to fly. Document training on the NRA qualification
     flight training grade sheet. Training will include the following areas as a minimum;
     primary MD familiarization training. NRA should receive a familiarization flight before
     each of their additional MD qualifications. Familiarization flights on the specific
     additional qualification MD may be waived by the OG/CC in favor of a sortie on a
     similar aircraft type if the specific MD is not available prior to the commencement of the
     flight test for which the NRA is required.
3. PHASE II - MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING.
  3.1. General. In addition to the training guidance outlined in AFI 11-202, Volume 1 as
  supplemented, use this instruction when completing mission qualification training in AFMC.
  Units will establish mission ground and flying training requirements for those aircraft,
  missions, and crewmembers (to include mission and operational support crew) not addressed
  in this instruction. Upon AFMC/A3V approval, document this training in unit supplements.
  Simulator requirements, based on availability and applicability, will be included in the unit
  developed programs. Use AFMC Forms 67/68/69 to document simulator training. When
  structuring programs, flying units will ensure that mission operational and training areas are
  compatible.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       19


  3.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Approval of unit established training plans requires coordination
  through 412 OG/OGV, the OG/CC and HQ AFMC/A3V. Non-rated Aircrew training
  guidance applies to operational support fliers.
     3.1.1. All AFMC-specified Phase II training plans can be found on the Edwards Center
     Ops Online (COOL) server. The forms posted are the only ones authorized to execute
     Command Specified Phase II mission qualification training. To ensure use of the most
     current training syllabus, the training office should download the current training form
     just prior to starting each Phase II mission qualification. EXCEPTION: Unit specific
     Phase II training forms may be referenced on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL)
     server and maintained locally after approval by AFMC/A3V.
     3.1.2. If an individual remains non-current in a phase II event for a period exceeding six
     months, qualification in that event will be lost. Unqualified up to 2 years: Complete
     requalification training. Use the requalification training column on the AFMC Form 68
     training plan(s). Unqualified over 2 years: Complete QUAL training, Use the QUAL
     training column of the AFMC Form 68 training plan(s). The duration of the unqualified
     time is from the date the aircrew member became unqualified until the specific retraining
     start date.
     3.1.3. For multi-qualified aircrew maintaining phase II qualifications in two or more
     aircraft, phase II training is required for each aircraft. Phase II qualifications that are
     exceptions to this direction are indicated in phase II mission training paragraphs in this
     chapter.
     3.1.4. NAVs/WSOs/EWOs on F-16, T-38, or C-12. No additional training is required in
     any Phase II “mission” in which the Aircraft Commander is current and qualified.
     3.1.5. Unless otherwise specified, all training limits for tilt-rotor aircraft in airplane
     (APLN) mode equal those cited for fixed wing aircraft. Tilt-rotor aircraft operating in
     conversion (CONV) or vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) mode are equal to those
     cited for helicopters.
  3.2. Common Mission Qualification Training.
 20                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table 2. Phase II Qualification Matrix.
                                            AFMC        Dual       Concurrent
                                           Specified    Qual       Phase I, II
                                             Plan       Trans       Training
                                                                    allowed
 Vol 1     Phase II                        (Note 1)    ( Note 2)    (Note 3)
 Para      Qualification                    (Y/N)        (Y/N)       (Y/N)
 3.1       General
           Common Mission
 3.2       Qualifications
 3.2.1     Local Area Orientation (LAO)       N           Y            Y
           ILS Precision Runway
 3.2.2     Monitoring (ILS PRM)               Y           Y            Y
 3.2.3     Theater Indoctrination             N           Y            Y
 3.2.4     Touch and Go Landings              Y           N            Y
 3.2.5     Special Departure Procedures       Y           Y            Y
           Tactical and Systems Mission
 3.3       Qualifications
 3.3.1     Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker        Y           N            Y
 3.3.2     Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver      Y           N            Y
           Functional and Acceptance
 3.3.3     Check Flight (FCF/ACF)             Y           N            N
           Advanced Handling
           Characteristics/
           Advanced Handling Maneuvers
 3.3.4     (AHC/AHM)                          Y           N            Y
           Fighter/Trainer Formation-
 3.3.5     Flight Lead                        Y           Y            Y
 3.3.6     Targeting Pod (TGP)
 3.3.6.1   TGP > 2k                           N           N            Y
 3.3.6.2   TGP =< 2k                          N           N            N
 3.3.7     Navigation Pod (Fighter Only)      N           N            Y
 3.3.8     Night Vision Goggles (NVGs)
           NVG Medium Altitude
 3.3.8.1   (>= MSA)                           Y           N        Y (Note 4)
 3.3.8.2   NVG Low Altitude (< MSA)           Y           N            N
           Helmet-Mounted Cueing
 3.3.9     System (HMCS)                      Y           Y            Y
 3.4       Air-to-Air Qualifications
 3.4.1     Intercept                          Y           Y            Y
           Basic Fighter Maneuvers
 3.4.2     (BFM)
 3.4.2.1   BFM Wingman                        Y           N            N
 3.4.2.2   BFM Flight Lead                    Y           Y            N
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                              21


3.4.2.3  BFM Instructor                      Y            N               N
3.4.3    Air Combat Training (ACBT)
3.4.3.1  ACBT Wingman                        Y            Y               N
3.4.3.2  ACBT Flight Lead                    Y            Y               N
3.4.3.3  ACBT Instructor                     Y            Y               N
         Air-to-Surface Weapon
         Delivery, Air Drop and/or
3.5      Low Altitude Qualifications
         Air-to-Surface Weapon
3.5.1    Delivery                            Y            N               N
3.5.2    Air Drop                            Y            N               N
3.5.3    Low Level Navigation                Y            Y               Y
         Low Altitude Step Down
3.5.4    Training (LASDT)                    Y            N               N
         Terrain Following/
3.5.5    Terrain Avoidance (TF/TA)           Y            N               N
         Flight Test Mission
3.6      Qualifications
3.6.1    Flight Test Orientation             Y            Y               Y
3.6.2    Target                              N            Y               Y
3.6.3    Chase                               Y            Y               N
3.6.4    Ordnance Release Test               N            Y               N
3.6.5    High Angle of Attack (Hi AoA)
3.6.5.1 Hi AoA Familiarization IP            N            N               N
3.6.5.2 Hi AoA Test                          N            N               N
3.6.5.3 High AoA Test IP                     N            N               N
         Compatibility Flight Profile
3.6.6    (CFP)                               Y            N               N
3.6.7    Loads                               N            N               N
3.6.8    Flutter                             N            N               N
         Airstart
3.6.9    (Single-Engine Aircraft)            N            N               N
         Test Pilot School (TPS)
3.6.10 Curriculum                            N            N               N
         Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker
3.6.11 Test                                  N            N               N
3.6.12 Airdrop Test                          Y            N               N
3.7      Aerial Photographer                 Y            N               N
NOTES: Information displayed in Table 2 is further elaborated upon in
following paragraphs.

1. A “Y” in this column indicates that the corresponding qualification training
plan is specified by the MAJCOM. An “N” indicates the qualification training
plan is specified by the individual flying unit (some units may determine certain
events in Table 2 do not apply to their mission).
22                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



2. A “Y” in this column indicates that the qualification is transferable across MD
platforms for multi-qualified aircrew.

3. A “Y” in this column indicates whether the qualification training can be
conducted concurrently with Phase 1 training. Note: Portions of Phase II plans
allowed during Phase I may have events that are not allowed during Phase I
training.

4. Fighter aircraft only.
      3.2.1. Local Area Orientation (LAO).
          3.2.1.1. Definition. LAO training qualifies pilots and navigators to perform flying
          operations in their particular local area. These aircrew will not perform aircrew
          duties, except under the supervision of an instructor, until they complete this training.
          3.2.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
          3.2.1.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
          flying training requirements. This qualification is transferable for multi-qualified
          aircrew.
          3.2.1.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum local IFR and VFR procedures,
          restrictions, navigation aids, alternate and emergency airfields and unit aircraft
          differences will be addressed. It is highly desired that the pilot be exposed to a local
          alternate airfield. Newly assigned pilots and navigators will not perform aircrew
          duties, except under the supervision of an instructor, until they complete this training.
          3.2.1.4. (EDWARDSAFB) For pilots, navigators (N, WSO, EWO, DSO, etc.) and
          UAS operators (RP, RSO) Edwards Local Area Orientation (LAO) will consist of the
          ground and flight training items listed in the approved training plan. LAO will
          consist of ground training only for CEAs and Non-Rated aircrew. If an individual has
          received a local area orientation in another aircraft, the unit training officer will
          annotate the USAF Certification of Aircrew Training (AF Form 1381) with the
          aircraft in which the local area orientation was completed (such as, Local Area
          Orientation - F-16). If the individual is a recent graduate of the USAF Test Pilot
          School (USAFTPS), LAO training can be accepted; however, a statement on the AF
          Form 1381 is required (such as, LAO-TPS).
              3.2.1.4.1. Ground training will include, as a minimum, a briefing on the local
              area instrument flight rules (IFR) and visual flight rules (VFR) procedures,
              restrictions, navigation aids, and unit aircraft differences (i.e. test
              instrumentation). LAO training will also include an introduction to AFMC
              command specific rules and directives if the crewmember is new to AFMC.
          3.2.1.5. LAO flying training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II
          training.
          3.2.1.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Conduct Local Area Orientation in accordance
          with the LAO training plan. The instructor need not be qualified in the same MDS as
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        23


        the student, except for MDS-specific items. Instructor weapons systems officers
        (IWSOs) or Instructor Navigators may conduct LAO training for pilots. See aircraft
        specific appendix for authorization of instructor weapons systems officers (IWSOs)
        or Instructor Navigators to conduct training for pilots.
     3.2.2. Instrument Landing System Precision Runway Monitoring (ILS PRM).
        3.2.2.1. Definition. ILS PRM training qualifies aircrew to fly ILS approaches at
        airfields where multiple simultaneous ILS approaches violate minimum FAR
        separation requirements.       ILS PRM approach systems permits simultaneous
        approaches to dual runways with centerlines separated by less than 4,300 feet but at
        least 3400 ft for parallel approach courses, and at least 3000 ft if one ILS if offset by
        2.5 to 3.0 degrees.
        3.2.2.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.2.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.2.2.4. Training Requirements. All AFMC pilots and Navigators are required ILS
        PRM training prior to flying ILS PRM approaches. The initial ILS PRM training
        course can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.2.2.5. ILS PRM training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II
        training.
     3.2.3. Theater Indoctrination.
        3.2.3.1. Definition. Theater indoctrination training qualifies aircrew to operate
        within a specific theater of operations with particular flight requirements and
        restrictions.
        3.2.3.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.2.3.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew.
        3.2.3.4. Training Requirements. This training may be accomplished in conjunction
        with normal pre-mission planning. As a minimum, this training will include a
        thorough review of ICAO instrument procedures, theater unique instrument
        requirements and procedures, the use of non-DOD/NOAA instrument approach
        procedures, required instrumentation for specific approaches, theater weather
        conditions, local area procedures, host nations agreements, specific theater
        NOTAMS, and Foreign Clearance Guide.
        3.2.3.5. Theatre Indoctrination training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I
        or Phase II training.
     3.2.4. Touch and Go Landings.
        3.2.4.1. Definition. Touch and go landing training qualifies pilots to perform touch
        and go landings at designated airfields.
        3.2.4.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
24                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        3.2.4.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.2.4.4. Training Requirements. If the unit allows co-pilot and or mission/first pilots
        to perform touch-and-go landings, the unit will establish appropriate local
        qualification training requirements, training restrictions, and designate selected
        airfields for mission/first pilot touch-and-go landings. For approved test programs
        requiring touch-and-go landings, the aircraft commander must be touch-and-go
        current and qualified, however, airfields need not be designated by the unit if
        designated in an approved test plan. Co-pilots, first pilots, and mission pilots (not
        qualified as instructors) may accomplish touch-and-go landings once training is
        completed and proficiency is demonstrated to an instructor pilot, subject to operating
        procedures and restrictions contained in AFI 11-2FT, Volume 3. This training may
        be accomplished anytime as a part of phase I or phase II training.
        3.2.4.4. (EDWARDSAFB) The OG/CC authorizes flying unit commanders/CTF
        directors to establish mission pilot (MP) touchandgo landing qualification training
        requirements. OG/CC approved airfields for MP/FP touchandgo landings are listed in
        AFI 11-2FTv3/EAFB Sup 1. In addition to AF Form 1381, USAF Certification of
        Aircrew Training, documentation, flying units will include MP touchandgo
        qualifications on unit qualification summaries (LetterofX’s). If touch-and-go
        qualification is included as part of an approved aircraft qualification/re-
        qualification/instructor upgrade training plan, units are not required to include MP
        touch-and-go qualifications on the unit qualification summaries (Letter of X’s).
            3.2.4.4.1. Touch and Go training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or
            Phase II training.
     3.2.5. Special Departure Procedures (SDP).
        3.2.5.1. Definition. SDP training qualifies aircrew to fly published and approved
        Special Departure Procedures in accordance with AFI 11-202V3.
        3.2.5.2. Prerequisites: None. Required previous experience: None.
        3.2.5.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.2.5.4. Training Requirements. All AFMC Pilots, Navigators/Combat Systems
        Officers/WSOs, Flight Engineers and Special Mission Aviators will complete SDP
        training prior to flying SDPs. The SDP training plan can be found on the Edwards
        Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.2.5.5. SDP training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II
        training.
  3.3. Tactical and Systems Mission Qualifications.
     3.3.1. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker.
        3.3.1.1. Definition. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker training qualifies tanker aircrew to
        transfer fuel to receivers.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      25


        3.3.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.3.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.3.1.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.3.1.5. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker training may be conducted concurrently with
        Phase I or Phase II training.
     3.3.2. Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver.
        3.3.2.1. Definition. Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver training qualifies aircrew to
        receive fuel from tankers.
        3.3.2.2. Prerequisites: none. Previous experience: none.
        3.3.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.3.2.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.3.2.5. Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver training may be conducted with a KC-135 or
        KC-10 aircraft. Proficiency in day refueling and contacts will be demonstrated before
        night contacts are attempted. Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver training may be
        conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II training.
        3.3.2.5. (EDWARDSAFB) If a new instructor has never accomplished a back/right
        seat refueling, he/she must complete a successful hookup from the back/right seat
        under the supervision of an air refueling qualified IP before giving air-refueling
        instruction from that position. For fighter type aircraft, the supervising IP may be in
        another aircraft if the student has refueled before in the same MD and must be a
        current instructor in the type of aircraft being flown by the student.
            3.3.2.5.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) A stabilized hook up is required for a
            grade of “P” on the applicable AFMC Form 68. A stabilized hook up is defined
            as 1 minute on the boom for fighter/trainer aircraft and 5 minutes on the boom for
            heavy aircraft with no inadvertent disconnects.
            3.3.2.5.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Qualification for tandem cockpit aircraft
            will be completed from the front seat. (Exception: pilots upgrading to instructor
            and not previously RCP air refueling qualified in aircraft type may receive their
            initial air refueling qualification in the rear seat).
            3.3.2.5.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Receiver qualification for side-by-side
            seating aircraft may be conducted from either seat.
     3.3.3. Functional Check Flight/Acceptance Check Flight (FCF/ACF).
        3.3.3.1. Definition. FCF and ACF training qualifies aircrew to perform FCFs and
        ACFs in accordance with the appropriate -6 T.O or ACF approved checklist.
 26                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


           3.3.3.2. Prerequisites.       Crewmembers possessing the most qualified
           experience/expertise, as determined by the OG/CC will accomplish check flights. To
           become a functional check flight/acceptance check flight aircrew member, comply
           with the flying time minimums in Table 3
           3.3.3.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Submit an EAFB 5110, Training Request, for FCF
           upgrade. The candidate will receive a briefing from Maintenance Quality Control
           Division to include FCF procedures, FCF profiles (using the -6CF checklist), and
           local FCF documentation procedures. The ground training for specific aircraft will be
           accomplished by an FCF qualified instructor in that aircraft to include preflight items
           and profile accomplishment.

Table 3. Flying Hour Prerequisites for FCF Aircrew.
  AIRCRAFT          CREW POSITION             MINIMUM TOTAL                HOURS IN MODEL
                                               FLYING HOURS             DESIGN(MD) AIRCRAFT
                                                                            (Notes 1,2,3,4,5)
Fighter/Trainer   MP                      750 (fighter/trainer)        200
                  MN/MW                   750 (fighter/trainer)        100
Bomber/Cargo/ MP                          1000                         200
Reconnaissance/ MN/MW/MR(4)               1000                         100
Tanker            MB                      1000                         200
                  ML                      1000                         200
                  MF                      1000                         200
                  MA                      100                          100
U-2               MP                      1000                         300
Helicopter        MP/MF                   500                          300
Tiltrotor         MF/MF                   750                          200
RPA               RP/RSO                  500                          100
NOTES:
1. Only primary and secondary time is applicable towards “HOURS IN MODEL DESIGN
AIRCRAFT” category.

2. Refers to aircraft groups in applicable MD-specific volumes, i.e., B707 (E-3,E-8), CV-22, and
MV-22 are considered the same MD aircraft.

3. For navigators and flight engineers: C-135, B-707, E-3, and E-8 are considered same MD aircraft.

4. Flying time requirements may be waived by the OG/CC up to 50% if added risk is determined
acceptable. Document this waiver in section five of the training folder.

5. MA crew position applies when required for mission requirements and minimum crew compliment
in accordance with T.O. 1-1-300.
           3.3.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
           qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
           for each MD qualification.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      27


        3.3.3.4. Training Requirements. The individual must demonstrate basic competency
        in all phases of the FCF mission prior to conducting an initial FCF. Basic competency
        will be accomplished in-flight in an airworthy aircraft. An AFMC approved
        simulator     located     on      the   AFMC/A3V         Sharepoints    website     at:
        https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx., may be used to
        demonstrate this competency for dual-controlled aircraft. The phrase "has
        demonstrated basic competency in FCF procedures." will be documented in Block 6
        of the AFMC Form 69. Additional flights required for mission qualification must be
        accomplished under the supervision of a mission-qualified instructor of like specialty.
        For single-seat aircraft, all training will be briefed, chased, and debriefed with an
        FCF-qualified instructor pilot current in the same type aircraft. AFMC waives the
        T.O.1-1-300 requirement that all crewmembers be FCF qualified in their assigned
        crew positions if the provisions in this paragraph are met. The MD specific
        MAJCOM training plans can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL)
        server.
        3.3.3.5. FCF/ACF training may not begin until satisfactory completion of Phase I
        flight evaluation or acceptance of Phase I qualification. Other Phase II training may
        not be conducted on actual (O-8E) FCF/ACF missions, EXCEPTION: LAO.
     3.3.4. Advanced    Handling     Characteristics    /Advanced     Handling     Maneuvers
     (AHC/AHM).
        3.3.4.1. Definition. AHC/AHM training qualifies fighter aircrew to perform MD
        specific maneuvers to explore the aircraft’s flight envelope and reinforce awareness
        of aircraft performance.
        3.3.4.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.3.4.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.3.4.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
        found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.3.4.5. AHC/AHM training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II
        training.
     3.3.5. Fighter/Trainer-Formation Flight Lead (all F-series, A-series, T-6, and T-38
     pilots).
        3.3.5.1. Definition. Fighter/Trainer Formation Flight Lead training qualifies pilots to
        lead fighter/trainer formations. It does not qualify a pilot to lead BFM, ACBT, or any
        other event with specific flight lead training requirements.
        3.3.5.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.3.5.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.3.5.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
28                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            3.3.5.4.1. At the discretion of the OG/CC, pilots with previous fighter/trainer
            flight lead experience may be considered qualified if the formation portions of the
            command sponsored Phase I training plan were accomplished during Phase I
            training. This consideration will be documented in an MFR and placed in the
            individual training folder. Alternatively, the Fighter/Trainer - Formation Flight
            Lead training plan can be accomplished.
        3.3.5.5. Fighter/Trainer - Formation Flight Lead training may be conducted
        concurrently with Phase I or Phase II training.
     3.3.6. Targeting Pod (TGP) Pilot. There are 2 certifications within this qualification:
     Above 2000 ft and At or Below 2000 ft.
        3.3.6.1. TGP Above 2000 ft (TGP > 2000 ft AGL).
            3.3.6.1.1. Definition. TGP Above 2000 ft training qualifies aircrew to operate
            specific targeting pods strictly above 2000 ft AGL.
            3.3.6.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
            3.3.6.1.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground
            and flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-
            qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.3.6.1.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, this training will include
            ground training. Flight training is at the discretion of the unit.
            3.3.6.1.5. TGP Above 2000 ft training may be conducted concurrently with Phase
            I or Phase II training.
        3.3.6.2. TGP At or Below 2000 ft (TGP <= 2000 ft AGL).
            3.3.6.2.1. Definition. TGP At or Below 2000 ft training qualifies aircrew to
            operate specific targeting pods at or below 2000 ft AGL.
            3.3.6.2.2. Prerequisites: TGP above 2000 ft qualification, Low Level Navigation
            qualification. Required previous experience: none.
            3.3.6.2.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground
            and flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-
            qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.3.6.2.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, TGP At or Below 2000 ft
            training will include ground and flight training.
            3.3.6.2.5. TGP At or Below 2000 ft training may not be conducted concurrently
            with Phase I training.
     3.3.7. Navigation Pod (Fighter Only).
        3.3.7.1. Definition. Navigation pod training qualifies fighter pilots to operate
        specific navigation pods while conducting flight operations.
        3.3.7.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none
        3.3.7.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will determine if this training
        is required and if so, will establish ground and flying training requirements. This
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     29


        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
            3.3.7.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Navigation Pod training will
            include ground and flight training.
            3.3.7.5. Navigation Pod training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I
            training.
     3.3.8. Night Vision Goggles (NVGs). There are 2 qualifications: Medium Altitude at or
     above MSA (>=MSA) and Low Altitude less than the MSA (<MSA).
        3.3.8.1. NVG Medium Altitude (>=MSA).
            3.3.8.1.1. Definition. NVG Medium Altitude training qualifies aircrews to
            conduct night flight operations using NVGs at or above the Minimum Safe
            Altitude (MSA).
            3.3.8.1.2. Prerequisites: None.  Required previous experience: Minimum
            experience required for NVG qualification/upgrade is specified in MD-specific
            attachments.
            3.3.8.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be
            accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.3.8.1.4. Training Requirements. The MD specific MAJCOM training plans can
            be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
               3.3.8.1.4.1. Ground Training. All NVG ground training will reference the
               NVG courseware developed by the Night Operations Center of Excellence.
               Each Operations Group or unit that conducts NVG operations will have at
               least one academic instructor certified IAW AFI 11-202V1 para 1.3.2.4.3.
               Crewmembers must receive NVG academic training prior to their initial flight
               with NVGs by certified instructors. If NVG academic training is conducted
               locally, the NVG academic instructor should be assisted by a flight surgeon or
               aerospace physiologist familiar with the physiological limitations of NVGs or
               night flying.
               3.3.8.1.4.2. Flying Training. Flying training will be accomplished within 60
               days of the NVG ground training. If more than 60 days elapse prior to the
               NVG-1 flying training, pilots must review the Night Operations Center of
               Excellence NVG academics. If more than 180 days elapse between
               completion of NVG ground training and the NVG-1 flying training, pilots will
               re-accomplish all NVG ground training. Training programs will incorporate
               the step-down process where altitudes and illumination requirements are
               commensurate with the experience level of the trainee.
                 3.3.8.1.4.2.1. Qual/Requal - NVG qualification for fighter aircrew at
                 medium altitude will consist of one dual sortie with an NVG qualified
                 instructor in the rear cockpit.
                 3.3.8.1.4.2.2. IP Qual/Requal - Medium Altitude instructor upgrade sorties
30                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                 will be flown in the rear cockpit with an NVG qualified instructor in the
                 front cockpit.
           3.3.8.1.5. NVG Medium Altitude training may not be conducted concurrently
           with Phase I training. EXCEPTION: Fighter aircraft may conduct NVG Medium
           Altitude training concurrently with Phase I training.
        3.3.8.2. NVG at Low Altitude (<MSA).
           3.3.8.2.1. Definition. NVG Low Altitude training qualifies aircrews to conduct
           night flying operations using NVGs below MSA.
           3.3.8.2.2. Prerequisites: NVG Medium Altitude qualification, Low Level
           Navigation qualification. Required previous experience: Minimum experience
           required for NVG qualification/upgrade is specified in MD-specific attachments
           as applicable.
           3.3.8.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
           qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be
           accomplished for each MD qualification.
           3.3.8.2.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans
           can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
               3.3.8.2.4.1. Ground Training. All NVG ground training will reference the
               NVG courseware developed by the Night Operations Center of Excellence.
               Each Operations Group or unit that conducts NVG operations will have at
               least one academic instructor certified IAW AFI 11-202V1 para 1.3.2.4.3.
               3.3.8.2.4.2. Flying Training. Training programs will incorporate the step-
               down process where altitudes and illumination requirements are
               commensurate with the experience level of the trainee.
                 3.3.8.2.4.2.1. Qual - NVG qualification training for aircrew at low altitude
                 will consist of a second dual sortie in addition to the NVG Medium training
                 under the direct supervision of a NVG Low Altitude qualified instructor.
                 3.3.8.2.4.2.2. IP Qual/Requal - Instructors require a minimum of five low
                 altitude NVG sorties and for fighter aircrew must be a medium altitude
                 NVG instructor prior to Low Altitude NVG instructor upgrade. Low
                 altitude instructor upgrade sorties will be flown in the rear cockpit with a
                 Low Altitude NVG qualified instructor in the front cockpit.
           3.3.8.2.5. NVG Low Altitude training may not be conducted concurrently with
           Phase I training.
     3.3.9. Helmet-Mounted Cueing System (HMCS).
        3.3.9.1. Definition. HMCS training qualifies aircrew to perform HMCS operations
        while conducting flight operations.
        3.3.9.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.3.9.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        31


         3.3.9.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
         Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
         3.3.9.5. HMCS training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and Phase II
         training.
  3.4. Air-to-Air Training.
     3.4.1. Intercept.
         3.4.1.1. Definition. Intercept training qualifies pilots to perform the series of
         maneuvers (up to and including air-to-air limited maneuvering training rules) from
         beyond visual range which places the aircraft in a position relative to another aircraft
         to employ ordnance, make a VID, or to initiate a visual engagement.
         3.4.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
         3.4.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
         qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
         3.4.1.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
         Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.            Aircrew conducting test sorties
         involving the employment or simulated employment of air-to-air ordnance against an
         airborne target must be, as a minimum, Intercept qualified.
         3.4.1.5. Intercept training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I or Phase II
         training.
     3.4.2. Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM). There are three qualifications: Wingman, Flight
     Lead and Instructor.
         3.4.2.1. BFM Wingman.
            3.4.2.1.1. Definition. BFM Wingman training qualifies aircrew to apply aircraft
            handling skills to recognize and solve range, closure, aspect, angle off, and
            turning room problems in relation to another aircraft with the goal of employing
            ordnance 1v1 IAW unlimited air-to-air training rules as defined in AFI 11-2FT
            Vol 3.
            3.4.2.1.2. Prerequisites: Intercept qualification. Required previous experience:
            Previous fighter BFM experience.
            3.4.2.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be
            accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.4.2.1.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans
            can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.2.1.5. BFM Wingman training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase
            I training.
         3.4.2.2. BFM Flight Lead.
            3.4.2.2.1. Definition. BFM Flight Lead training qualifies pilots to lead BFM
            sorties.
32                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            3.4.2.2.2. Prerequisites: BFM Wingman qualification.           Required previous
            experience: Previous fighter BFM experience.
            3.4.2.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
            3.4.2.2.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans
            can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.2.2.5. BFM Flight Lead training may not be conducted concurrently with
            Phase I training.
        3.4.2.3. BFM Instructor.
            3.4.2.3.1. Definition. BFM Instructor training qualifies pilots to instruct BFM
            trainees.
            3.4.2.3.2. Prerequisites: Basic Instructor, BFM Flight Lead Qualification.
            Required previous experience: Previous fighter BFM experience.
            3.4.2.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be
            accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.4.2.3.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans
            can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.2.3.5. BFM Instructor training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase
            I training.
     3.4.3. Air Combat Training (ACBT). There are 3 qualifications: Wingman, Flight Lead,
     and Instructor. OG/CCs should select aircrew for ACBT qualification from the most
     experienced aircrew based on mission needs. ACBT qualification training qualifies
     aircrew to participate in Air-to-Air engagements of three or more aircraft using unlimited
     training rules as defined in AFI 11-2FT Vol 3.
        3.4.3.1. ACBT Wingman.
        3.4.3.1.1. Definition. ACBT Wingman training qualifies aircrew to perform Air
        Combat Maneuvering and Air Combat Tactics from the wing position.
            3.4.3.1.2. Prerequisites: BFM Wingman qualification.           Required previous
            experience: Previous fighter ACBT experience.
            3.4.3.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
            3.4.3.1.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on
            the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.3.1.5. ACBT Wingman training may not be conducted concurrently with
            Phase I training.
        3.4.3.2. ACBT Flight Lead.
            3.4.3.2.1. Definition. ACBT Flight Lead training qualifies pilots to lead ACBT
            sorties.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      33


            3.4.3.2.2. Prerequisites: ACBT Wingman qualification.           Required previous
            experience: Previous fighter ACBT experience.
            3.4.3.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
            3.4.3.2.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on
            the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.3.2.5. ACBT Flight Lead training may not be conducted concurrently with
            Phase I training.
        3.4.3.3. ACBT Instructor.
            3.4.3.3.1. Definition. ACBT instructor training qualifies pilots to instruct ACBT
            trainees.
            3.4.3.3.2. Prerequisites: ACBT Flight Lead qualification.       Required previous
            experience: previous fighter ACBT experience.
            3.4.3.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
            qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
            3.4.3.3.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on
            the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
            3.4.3.3.5. ACBT Instructor training may not be conducted concurrently with
            Phase I training.
  3.5. Air-to-Surface Weapons Delivery, Air Drop and/or Low Altitude Qualifications.
     3.5.1. Air-to-Surface Weapons Delivery (WD).
        3.5.1.1. Definition. Air-to-Surface WD training qualifies aircrew to perform release
        of stores for continuation training. It is designed to familiarize aircrew with air-to-
        surface weapon release and employment considerations. Conversely, Ordnance
        Release Test qualification is typically required to release ordnance as part of a test
        program. However, if no abnormal procedures or special equipment is used for
        delivering ordnance, the Air-to-Surface WD qualification is adequate if OG/CC-
        approved.
        3.5.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.5.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.5.1.4. Training requirements.      Aircraft symbology, release criteria, range
        procedures, and range safety will be covered. The MDS specific MAJCOM training
        plans can be found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. An instructor
        will supervise the first sortie from the rear cockpit, if applicable. Flying unit
        commander may authorize instructors to supervise from a chase aircraft. Aircrew
        conducting test sorties involving release or simulated release of air-to-surface
        ordnance are required to be current in WD and qualified in Ordnance release test as
        applicable.
34                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        3.5.1.5. Air-to-Surface WD training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I.
     3.5.2. Airdrop.
        3.5.2.1. Airdrop training qualifies aircrew in the aerial delivery of personnel,
        supplies, or equipment from an aircraft in-flight for continuation training. Cargo
        aircraft such as the C-130 (and variants) or the C-17 are examples of aircraft capable
        of conducting airdrop operations.
        3.5.2.2. Prerequisites. C-130/C-17 Loadmasters must be personnel airdrop qualified
        prior to completing Dummy Drop, Dummy Retrieval, or Tow Test. See MD
        attachment. Required previous experience: none.
        3.5.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification with the following exception: C-130 and C-17 LM Dummy
        Drop, Dummy Retrieval, and Tow Test. If qualified for personnel airdrop in both the
        C-17 and C-130, completion of these training plans is applicable to both aircraft and
        need not be re-accomplished on the second aircraft. For test programs involving
        airdrops, an Airdrop Test qualification is required.
        3.5.2.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
        found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.5.2.5. Airdrop training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.5.3. Low Level Navigation.
        3.5.3.1. Definition. Low Level Navigation training qualifies aircrew to conduct
        operations at or below 2000 feet AGL but at or above 500 feet AGL. Exception: C-
        17, C-130, CV-22 and Helicopter Low Level navigation training qualifies aircrew to
        at or above 300 feet AGL.
        3.5.3.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.5.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.5.3.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. This training does not apply to, or
        restrict, takeoff and landings, or flight test techniques, such as tower flybys performed
        within Edwards AFB class D airspace. This training will take place on military
        training routes or other special use airspace that allows low altitude operations.
        Proficiency in day low level must be demonstrated before accomplishing night
        training.
        3.5.3.5. Low Level Navigation training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I
        and Phase II training.
     3.5.4. Low Altitude Step- Down Training (LASDT).
        3.5.4.1. Definition. LASDT qualifies aircrew for navigational flight below 500 feet
        AGL and at or above 200 feet AGL without terrain following radar. Exception:
        LASDT training does not apply to CV-22 or Helicopter aircraft, see MDS attachment.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       35


         3.5.4.2. Prerequisites: Low Level Navigation qualification.         Required previous
         experience: none.
         3.5.4.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
         qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
         for each MD qualification.
         3.5.4.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
         found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. In-flight instruction will
         consist of a minimum of one dedicated (front seat for fighter) sortie with a LASDT
         instructor (in the rear cockpit or in a chase aircraft for fighter as applicable).
         Minimum altitude for LASDT mission training events without terrain following radar
         (TFR) is 200 feet AGL. Minimum altitude for LASDT mission training events using
         TFR is 200 feet AGL or system limitations, whichever is higher. Initial training is not
         allowed without a functional radar altimeter. For LASDT-qualified aircrew
         upgrading to instructor, the upgrade training will be conducted with the upgrading
         instructor conducting the ground training and instructing from the rear seat, chase
         aircraft, or instructor position as appropriate. Exception: (weapon delivery minimum
         recovery altitudes below 500ft AGL are authorized without being LASDT qualified).
         LASDT is required to support test missions requiring low altitude operations below
         500 feet AGL
         3.5.4.5. LASDT may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.5.5. Terrain Following/Terrain Avoidance (TF/TA).
         3.5.5.1. Definition. TF/TA training qualifies aircrew to operate automated aircraft
         systems for the express purpose of avoiding terrain while flying in the low altitude
         environment (below 2000 feet AGL).
         3.5.5.2. Prerequisites:   Low Level Navigation qualification. Required previous
         experience: none.
         3.5.5.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
         qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
         for each MD qualification. Training qualifies aircrew for TF/TA systems operations
         under any flight condition (day/night, IMC/VMC)
         3.5.5.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
         found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
         3.5.5.5. TF/TA training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
  3.6. Flight Test Mission Qualifications.
     3.6.1. Flight Test Orientation (FTO).
         3.6.1.1. Definition. FTO training qualifies aircrew to perform airborne flight test
         duties. It outlines test center, group or wing specific test procedures, equipment,
         support facilities, decision criteria, and specific test mission requirements.
         3.6.1.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
36                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        3.6.1.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.6.1.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plan can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. All AFMC crewmembers must receive
        Flight Test Orientation Training before performing airborne flight test operations
        once per PCS or change in group or wing.
            3.6.1.4.1. Ground Training. The training outlines the required minimum reviews
            required for documentation, test equipment, test support, test execution, and
            decision criteria. Some units may augment this training plan with additional items
            specific to their test mission. Applicable units will specify such augmentation in
            their supplements to this instruction.
            3.6.1.4.2. Flight Training. Flight training, if unit specified, may be published in
            MD attachments or unit supplements to this instruction.
        3.6.1.5. FTO training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and Phase II
        training.
     3.6.2. Target.
        3.6.2.1. Definition. Target training qualifies aircrew to perform airborne direct
        support missions that involve radar or visual presentations and do not involve chase
        events. Previous fighter experienced aircrew may be qualified via ground training
        only.
        3.6.2.2. Prerequisites: None. Required previous experience: none.
        3.6.2.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew.
        3.6.2.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plans can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.6.2.5. Target training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and Phase II
        training.
     3.6.3. Chase.
        3.6.3.1. Definition. Chase training qualifies aircrew to perform airborne missions
        that provide test aircraft with mutual support, such as clearing, test point verification,
        radio relay, etc. See AFI 11-2FT Vol 3 for specific chase roles and duties.
        3.6.3.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        3.6.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
        3.6.3.4. Training Requirements. The MAJCOM training plans can be found on the
        Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. All AFMC assigned or attached pilots
        conducting chase test support missions on an approved test plan must possess a Chase
        qualification.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         37


            3.6.3.4.1. Ground Training. This training outlines the general responsibilities and
            duties to include all chase responsibilities (area chase, photo chase, etc. as defined
            in AFI 11-2FT Vol 3).
            3.6.3.4.2. Flight Training. The intent is to show the pilot various chase missions
            and different aspects of each particular chase mission. The events will be flown
            as two-ship formations with the student as the wingman. A specific MD/unit may
            determine certain maneuvers are not applicable and can delete them with ops
            officer approval and documentation. For weapons chase events, the test aircraft
            will act as the simulated weapon/test article and fly a representative profile,
            adhering to real-world abort altitudes, airspeeds, and dive angle limits.
        3.6.3.5. Chase training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I.
     3.6.4. Ordnance Release Flight Test.
        3.6.4.1. Definition. Ordinance Release Flight Test training qualifies aircrew to
        release stores (weapons, fuel tanks, etc) as part of a test program.
        3.6.4.2. Prerequisites: Air-to-Surface WD qualification (all aircraft) and Intercept
        qualification (fighters). Required previous experience: none.
        3.6.4.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew.
        3.6.4.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Ordnance Release Flight Test
        training will include ground Weapon release, separation, jettison, environmental
        considerations, range safety, aircraft instrumentation, range and test control
        procedures.
        3.6.4.5. Ordnance Release Flight Test training may not be conducted concurrently
        with Phase I training.
     3.6.5. High Angle of Attack (Hi AoA): There are 3 Hi AoA qualifications: Hi AoA
     Familiarization IP, Hi AoA Test and Hi AoA Test IP.
        3.6.5.1. Hi AoA Familiarization IP.
            3.6.5.1.1. Definition. Hi AoA Familiarization IP training qualifies pilots to
            operate an aircraft in AoA regions beyond normal aircraft operations and instruct
            the Hi AoA Familiarization sortie.
            3.6.5.1.2. Prerequisites: None. Required previous experience: TPS graduate.
            3.6.5.1.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground
            and flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-
            qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.6.5.1.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Hi AoA Familiarization
            training will include spin area, engine stall and simulated flameout procedures.
            3.6.5.1.5. Hi AoA Familiarization training may not be conducted concurrently
            with Phase I training.
38                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        3.6.5.2. High AoA Test.
            3.6.5.2.1. Definition. High AoA Test training qualifies aircrew to conduct test in
            AoA regions beyond normal aircraft operations.
            3.6.5.2.2. Prerequisites: High AoA Familiarization sortie.      Required previous
            experience: TPS graduate.
            3.6.5.2.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground
            and flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-
            qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.6.5.2.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Hi AoA Test training will
            include spin area, engine stall, simulated flameout and control room procedures.
            3.6.5.2.5. Hi AoA Test training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
            training.
        3.6.5.3. High AoA Test IP.
            3.6.5.3.1. Definition. High AoA Test training qualifies aircrew to instruct Hi-
            AoA Test training beyond normal aircraft operations, and provide specific TPS
            curriculum instruction.
            3.6.5.3.2. Prerequisites: High AoA Test qualification. Required previous
            experience: TPS graduate.
            3.6.5.3.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground
            and flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-
            qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
            3.6.5.3.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Hi AoA Test IP training will
            include spin area, engine stall, simulated flameout and control room procedures.
            3.6.5.3.5. Hi AoA Test IP training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase
            I training.
     3.6.6. Compatibility Flight Profile (CFP).
        3.6.6.1. Definition. CFP training qualifies aircrew to conduct test on new aircraft-
        stores combinations, via a set of flight test techniques, performed at various airspeed,
        altitude and load factor combinations, designed to expand the aircraft/store operating
        envelope.
        3.6.6.2. Prerequisites: Flight Test Orientation qualification.      Required previous
        experience: TPS graduate.
        3.6.6.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification.
        3.6.6.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
        found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.6.6.5. CFP training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.6.7. Loads.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        39


        3.6.7.1. Definition. Loads training qualifies aircrew to conduct test on new or
        modified aircraft, via a set of flight test techniques, performed at various airspeed,
        altitude and load factor combinations, designed to expand the aircraft operating
        envelope
        3.6.7.2. Prerequisites: CFP qualification.      Required previous experience: TPS
        graduate.
        3.6.7.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
        3.6.7.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Loads training will include control
        room procedures.
        3.6.7.5. Loads training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.6.8. Flutter.
        3.6.8.1. Definition. Flutter training qualifies aircrew to perform testing which
        investigates new, modified aircraft, or new aircraft configuration’s Aero-Servo-
        Elastic (ASE) phenomena.
        3.6.8.2. Prerequisites: Flight Test Orientation qualification.      Required previous
        experience: TPS graduate.
        3.6.8.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
        3.6.8.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Flutter training will include control
        room procedures.
        3.6.8.5. Flutter training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.6.9. Airstart (Single-Engine Aircraft).
        3.6.9.1. Definition. Airstart training qualifies aircrew of single engine aircraft to
        conduct testing that involves in-flight engine shutdown and restart.
        3.6.9.2. Prerequisites: Flight Test Orientation qualification.      Required previous
        experience: none
        3.6.9.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew.
        3.6.9.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Airstart training will include spin
        area, engine stall, simulated flameout and control room procedures.
        3.6.9.5. Airstart training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.6.10. Test Pilot School (TPS) Curriculum Sortie.
        3.6.10.1. Definition. TPS curriculum sortie training qualifies non-TPS assigned or
        attached aircrew to instruct various TPS curriculum sorties. Typical sorties include,
        but are not limited to F-15 Asymmetry, Flutter, or CFP sorties.
40                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        3.6.10.2. Prerequisites: Flight Test Orientation qualification.     Required previous
        experience: TPS graduate.
        3.6.10.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
        3.6.10.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, TPS curriculum sortie training will
        include control room procedures and TPS syllabus requirements.
        3.6.10.5. TPS curriculum sortie training may not be conducted concurrently with
        Phase I training.
     3.6.11. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test.
        3.6.11.1. Definition. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test training qualifies tanker
        aircrew to refuel new or modified aircraft.
        3.6.11.2. Prerequisites: Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker qualification, Flight Test
        Orientation qualification. Required previous experience: none.
        3.6.11.3. Training Classification Individual flying units will establish ground and
        flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified
        aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
        3.6.11.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test
        training will include boom limit procedures.
        3.6.11.5. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test training may not be conducted
        concurrently with Phase I training.
     3.6.12. Airdrop Test.
        3.6.12.1. Definition. Airdrop Test training qualifies aircrew in the aerial delivery of
        personnel, supplies, or equipment from an aircraft in-flight. Cargo aircraft such as the
        C-130 (and variants) or the C-17 are examples of aircraft capable of conducting
        airdrop operations.
        3.6.12.2. Prerequisites. Airdrop qualification, Flight Test Orientation qualification.
        C-130/C-17 Loadmasters must be personnel airdrop qualified prior to completing
        Dummy Drop, Dummy Retrieval, or Tow Test. See MD attachment. Required
        previous experience: none.
        3.6.12.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished
        for each MD qualification with the following exception: C-130 and C-17 LM Dummy
        Drop, Dummy Retrieval, and Tow Test. If qualified for personnel airdrop in both the
        C-17 and C-130, completion of these training plans is applicable to both aircraft and
        need not be re-accomplished on the second aircraft.
        3.6.12.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
        found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.6.12.5. Airdrop Test training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
        training.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        41


     3.6.13. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System (JHMCS).
     Use AFMC/A3V approved JHMCS training plan.
     3.6.14. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Tower Fly By (TFB).                    Use the AFMC
     A3V approved TFB training plan for this qualification. Unit commanders may accept
     qualification for pilots who have completed the USAF TPS TFB Flight Test Technique.
  3.7. Aerial Photographer Qualification.
     3.7.1. Unit commanders may authorize aerial photographers to perform airborne
     photographic duties in support of unit missions. This section outlines the minimum
     training required for military personnel in the 3V0XX Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC),
     Government Service personnel, and contractors to perform airborne photographic duties
     aboard ejection seat (rear cockpit) and non-ejection seat aircraft. Aerial photographers are
     classified IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management.
     3.7.2. Prerequisites: Non Rated Aircrew (NRA) Phase I training culminating with a
     qualification certification on an AF Form 8a is a prerequisite to Aerial Photographer
     training and qualification for each MD. Note: Combat Camera personnel are classified
     as operational support flyers only and are not considered Non-rated Aircrew and/or
     Aerial Photographers until respective training and qualification certification is complete.
     3.7.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. There are two
     categories of Phase II training; ejection and non-ejection seat. Once Aerial Photographer
     ground and flight training is completed in any one ejection seat MD, subsequent Phase II
     Aerial Photographer training in another MD is limited to ground training only.
     3.7.4. Training Requirements. The MD specific MAJCOM training plans can be found
     on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        3.7.4.1. Ground Training Requirements. An instructor pilot qualified in the
        respective aircraft will conduct this ground training. If a representative aircraft is
        unavailable a cockpit trainer may be substituted. Trainee will wear all applicable
        flight gear and have a representative camera system for use in this training. In
        addition to training specified by MD-specific attachments, aerial photographer
        training will include, as a minimum, the following:
            3.7.4.1.1. Cockpit familiarization. This familiarization will include demonstration
            of equipment stowage; and discussion of any restrictions associated with aerial
            photography in the applicable aircraft (e.g., limited space in a fighter cockpit).
            3.7.4.1.2. Emergency procedures. Emergency procedures training should include
            ground egress, bailout, ejection procedures with equipment in cockpit, and BOLD
            FACE/CAPS as applicable.
            3.7.4.1.3. Normal Procedures. Normal procedures training should include chase
            positioning and crew coordination terminology (e.g., up-down-forward-aft-in-
            out). Crew duties take priority over photographer duties. Include photographer
            specific training to include the importance of sun angles, canopy reflections and
            problems associated with a zoom lens.
            3.7.4.1.4. Mission requirements associated with photo chase sortie (e.g., weapons
            separation, CFP, Loads and Flutter, Public Relations support). Review past chase
42                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        mission footage and proof sheets with trainee. Make sure trainee fully understands
        the indispensable data they are responsible for on photo chase missions. Cover
        the requirements of a "photo desired," versus a "photo required" mission.
        3.7.4.1.5. Equipment training will include practicing photography shooting skills
        on ground with each camera to ensure thorough familiarization prior to first flight
        with a camera.
        3.7.4.1.6. Document completion of ground training on the applicable portion of
        the Aerial Photographer Qualification ground training syllabus.
     3.7.4.2. Flying Training Requirements. Aerial photography flight training qualifies
     the photographer to carry cameras and associated equipment. Only cameras and
     associated gear that have been approved IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 3, may be used on
     board aircraft. Flying training is required only for ejection seat aircraft. This training
     should simulate a typical profile the crewmember will be required to fly. It will be
     flown as a dedicated two-ship under day VMC to the maximum extent possible. A
     Photo/Safety Chase qualified instructor pilot will conduct all flying training.
     Document training on the Aerial Photographer Qualification flight training grade-
     sheet.
        3.7.4.2.1. The instructor pilot signature on the Aerial Photographer Qualification
        Ground Training Syllabus signifies that the chief photographer has approved the
        individual to begin flying training. A minimum of one flight will be accomplished
        prior to beginning Aerial Photographer qualification training listed below. This
        flight is strictly a familiarization flight with no camera system. Use the Non-
        Rated Aircrew Training Plan to train to, and document this familiarization flight.
        3.7.4.2.2. Due to limited space and safety considerations, do not take more than
        two camera systems in fighter/trainer aircraft without prior approval from the unit
        commander. In addition, photographers may not carry more than one camera until
        the photographer is familiar and comfortable operating in the flying environment.
        Document this on the Aerial Photographer Qualification flight training grade
        sheet and associated AFMC Form 69. Annotate any restrictions on the applicable
        qualification roster (Letter of Xs).
        3.7.4.2.3. Flying training should begin using simplest camera system and should
        include a representative sample of missions requiring photographic support.
        Ensure that crews perform inter-cockpit communication, radio calls and
        equipment management as would be completed during an actual test mission.
        Ensure mission data is reviewed after each mission and give the trainee feedback.
        3.7.4.2.4. Once competency is demonstrated during an airborne training mission
        the aerial photographer will be cleared for "photo desired" missions only.
        Training officers will clear the aerial photographer for “photo required” missions
        based on proficiency, experience and instructor pilot/chief photographer
        concurrence. Document this on the flight training grade sheet and associated
        AFMC Form 69. Annotate any restrictions on the applicable qualification roster
        (Letter of Xs).
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           43


4. PHASE III - CONTINUATION TRAINING.
    4.1. General. In addition to the continuation training guidance outlined in AFI 11-202
    Volume 1 as supplemented, follow the guidance outlined in this instruction when qualified in
    AFMC aircraft.
    4.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Unit commanders/CTF directors will establish test mission
    continuation training requirements not specified in this supplement or associated aircraft
    training manuals. These requirements will be specified in a unit operating instruction and
    coordinated with 412 OG/OGV for review.
       4.1.1. Applicable aircrew training (e.g. air refueling contacts, rendezvous, etc.)
       accomplished during in-unit training establishes currency due dates for subsequent
       continuation training. Use the date of the flight that results in certification (i.e. flight
       evaluation or training completion sortie) as the currency initiation date.

Table 4. Aircrew Position Identifiers.

A      Other Aircrew Member (Non-rated)           N        Navigator
B      Boom Operator                              O        Air Battle Manager
C      Copilot                                    P        Pilot
D      Parachutist                                R        Navigator-Bombardier
E      Electronic Warfare Officer or DSO          S        Flight Surgeon
F      Flight Engineer                            T        Flight Attendant
H      Flight Nurse                               U        Unmanned Aerial System Pilot
J      Pararescue Member                          V        Sensor Operator
K      Communications System Operator             W        Weapon System Officer
L      Loadmaster                                 Z        Operational Support or Battle Staff
    4.2. Minimum Aircrew Requirements. Table 5 is provided as a management aid in
    consolidating a list of recurring aircrew requirements. The applicable directive highlighted in
    parentheses takes precedence over Table 5 and must be consulted for further information
    concerning requirements and applicability. Table 5 doesn't relieve aircrew members from
    accomplishing additional training required by referenced or other directives. These are the
    minimum ground training requirements for unit ARMS products. The (G) denotes grounding
    items.
    4.2. (EDWARDSAFB) An individual who instructs a class receives credit for that
    academic training requirement (e.g., IRC, CRM, Systems Refresher Training, etc.). All Non-
    Rated Aircrew and Operational Support Fliers who have maintained uninterrupted
    qualifications in ejection seat aircraft for 2 years or less will accomplish egress, equipment
    familiarization and hanging harness training every six months. If the Non-Rated Aircrew
    member or Operational Support Flier have reached 2 years or greater of uninterrupted
    qualifications maintained in ejection seat aircraft, Non-Rated Aircrew and Operational
 44                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   Support Fliers may accomplish egress, equipment familiarization and hanging harness
   training every 12 months thereafter.

Table 5. Recurring Aircrew Requirements Summary.
Event Description                                                  Aircrew Position ID
                                                                   (Note 1)
Every 5 Years
 USAF Physiological Training (G) (AFI 11-403, AFI 11-202
                                                                   All except U
V1)

Every 3 Years
                                                                   All except U (Note 7)
Water Survival Training (AFI 16-1301)
                                                                   (Note 8)
Non-Combat Survival Training (AFI 16-1301)                         All except U (Note 8)
CRM Academics (AFI 11-290)                                         All (Note 2)
Emergency Parachuting Training (G), (non-ejection seat aircraft)   All except U (Note 4)
(AFI 11-301 V1, AFI 16-1301) (Prior to first flight)               (Note 8)

Every 17 Months
Written Instrument Exam (AFI 11-202 Volume 2)                       P, N, R, W (Note 5)
Written Qualification Exam Closed Book (AFI 11-202 V2)             All except D,H,J,Z
                                                                   All except A,D,H,J,S,Z
Written Qualification Exam Open Book (AFI 11-202 V2)
                                                                   (Note 9)
Emergency Procedures Evaluation (AFI 11-202 V2)                    All
Night Vision Goggle Refresher (AFI 11-202 V1)                      If Qualified
Instrument Refresher Course (AFI 11-202 V2, AFMAN 11-210)          P,C,R,N W,U (Note 6)


Every 12 Months

Flight Physical Examination (AFI 48-123) (G)                       All (Note 12)
Flight Records Review (AFI 11-401)                                 All
Anti-hijack Training (AFI 13-207)                                  All (Note 3)
CRM Exercise (AFI 11-290)                                          All (Note 2)
Emergency Egress Training (AFI 11-301 V1) (G) (Prior to first
                                                                   All except U
flight)
Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFI 11-301 V1)                           All except U
Emergency Parachuting Training (ejection seat aircraft) (AFI 11-
                                                                   ALL (Note 4) (Note 8)
301V1, AFI 16-1301) (Prior to first flight) (G)
Aircraft Sim Refresher Training (AFI 11-2FT V1, Paragraph
                                                                   P, C, F, N, R, W
4.6.1.)
G-Awareness Assessment (AFI 11-2FT V1, Paragraph 4.16)             P, W (Note 11)
Publications Check (AFI 11-215, AFI 11-202 V2)                     All
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           45


Each Semiannual Training Period
Aircraft Systems Refresher Training (Paragraph 4.6.3.)                 All except A,D,H,J,S,Z

Upon PCS Inbound
Aircraft Portable and Fixed Fire Extinguisher Training
                                                                      All
(AFOSH Std 127-56) (Within 90 days of arrival)
Aircraft Marshaling Exam (AFI 11-218) (Prior to first flight)         P, B, C, F, L, N, W
Local Area Survival Training (Prior to first flight) (AFI 16-1301) All except U
Aircrew Flight Equipment Familiarization (Prior to first flight)
                                                                      All except U
(AFI 11-301V1)
On Scene Commander Training                                           All
NOTES:
1. In conjunction with Table 4, units will use standard aircrew position identifiers listed in
AFI 11-401 Table A2.3.

2. Test Parachutists are exempt.

3. All crewmembers whose aircraft frequently carry passengers.

4. All crewmembers that frequently perform duties on parachute equipped aircraft or perform
missions requiring parachutes.

5. Required only for navigators/WSOs who have navigational instrument equipment or flight
controls at their stations.

6. IRC must be completed before the end of every fourth quarter. See AFMAN 11-210 for
details.

7. Personnel arriving from permanent change of station (PCS) or temporary duty (TDY) during
a period when combat survival or water survival training is not available (i.e., winter months,
pool unavailable) or required (staff assignments) are automatically granted a waiver to this
requirement until 60 days following the first available training date. However, individuals will
attend the academic portions of training prior to the first flight.

8. AFMC crewmembers will follow guidance outlined in AFI 11-202 Volume 1, this
instruction, AFI 11-301 Volume 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment and AFI 16-1301, Survival,
Evasion, Resistance, Escape Program. Contact AFMC/A3V for resolution of any perceived
conflicts between these publications.

9. Open book exam requirements are at unit commander discretion for F-16, T-38, and C-12
NAVs/WSOs/EWOs.

10. On scene Commander Training is located on the AFMC/A3V Sharepoints website at:
https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx..

11. Fighter/Trainer units only.
46                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



12. Flight Physical expiration is 455 days following examination IAW AFI 48-123 and
AFI 44-170. Every effort should be made to complete recurring examinations within 12
months.

Table 5. (EDWARDSAFB) Recurring Aircrew Requirements Summary
Event Description                                                       Aircrew Position ID
                                                                        (Note 1)
Upon PCS Inbound
Aircraft Marshaling Exam (AFI 11-218) (complete within 30 days of
EAFB arrival)
  4.3. Continuation Training Management: Aircrew members’ continuation and additional
  training requirements will be managed IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 1 and this instruction using
  MAJCOM approved software
  4.4. Currency and Proficiency Requirements. Specific restrictions involving currencies
  and proficiencies for Phase I and II qualifications are indicated in Table 6 below.
  Crewmembers will maintain flying currency and proficiency in their assigned aircraft and
  crew position by accomplishing the requirements outlined in Table 7 and Table 8. Each
  currency only applies to aircrew who are qualified in the event. The OG/CC or unit
  commander has the authority to determine which aircrew will maintain qualification in the
  listed events. Additional currencies may be specified in MD attachments and/or unit
  supplements to this instruction.
  4.4. (EDWARDSAFB) NASA aircrew who fly with EAFB units may credit currency and
  proficiency requirements accumulated at NASA towards the requirements of this AFI
  provided the NASA and EAFB aircraft are the same (e.g., Beach 200/C-12), and the events
  are identical such as landing, instrument approach, etc.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                  47



Table 6. Phase I & II Currency/Recurrency Restriction Matrix.
                                                    Multi-        Cross MD       Multi-
             Phase I                                Qualification Recurrency     Event
 Paragraph
             Qualification                          Currency                     Credit
                                                    (Note 1)      (Note 2)       (Note 3)
             Currency/Proficiency Events &
 4.5
             Req.
 4.5.1       Sortie                                 N               N            N
 4.5.2       Takeoff                                N               N            N
 4.5.3       Formation Takeoff                      N               N            N
 4.5.4       Formation Landing                      N               N            N
 4.5.5       Landing                                N               N            N
 4.5.6       Night Landing                          N               N            N
 4.5.7       Right or Rear Seat Landing (IP only)   N               N            N
 4.5.8       Instrument Approach                    Y               Y            N
 4.5.9       Circling Approach                      N               N            N
 4.5.10      Simulated Engine Out Approach          N               N            N
 4.5.11      Conversion Sortie                      N               N            N
 4.5.12      Touch and Go Landing                   N               N            N
                                                    Multi-          Cross MD     Multi-
             Phase II                               Qualification   Recurrency   Event
 Paragraph
             Qualification                          Currency                     Credit
                                                    (Note 1)        (Note 2)     (Note 3)
             Currency/Proficiency Events &
 4.5
             Req.
             Common Mission Qualifications
 N/A         LAO                                    N/A             N/A          N/A
 N/A         ILS PRM                                N/A             N/A          N/A
 N/A         Theater Indoctrination                 N/A             N/A          N/A
             Tactical and Systems Mission
             Qualifications
 4.5.13      Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker            Y               N            N
 4.5.14      Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver          N               Y            N
 4.5.15      FCF/ACF                                N               N            N
 4.5.16      AHC/AHM                                N               N            N
             Fighter /Trainer Formation-Flight
 N/A                                                N/A             N/A          N/A
             Lead
             Targeting Pod (TGP) (Pilot)
 4.5.17      TGP > 2k                               N/A             N/A          N/A
 4.5.18      TGP =< 2k                              N/A             N/A          N/A
 4.5.19      Navigation Pod (Fighter Only)          N/A             N/A          N/A
 4.5.20      NVG Medium Altitude (>= MSA)           Y               Y            N
 4.5.21      NVG Low Altitude (< MSA)               N               N            Y
 4.5.22      Helmet-Mounted Cuing System            N/A             N/A          N/A
48                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


               (HMCS)
4.5.23         Placeholder for future growth          N/A             N/A            N/A
               Air-to-Air Training Qualifications
4.5.24         Intercept                              Y               Y              N
4.5.25         Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM)          Y               Y              N
4.5.26         Air Combat Training (ACBT)             Y               Y              Y
               Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery
               and Low Altitude Training
               Qualifications
4.5.27         Air-to-Surface WD                      Y               Y              N
4.5.28         Low Level Navigation                   Y               Y              N
4.5.29         LASDT                                  N               Y              Y
4.5.30         TF/TA                                  N               N              Y
               Flight Test Mission Training
N/A            Flight Test Orientation                   N/A           N/A             N/A
N/A            Target                                    N/A           N/A             N/A
4.5.31         Chase                                     Y             Y               N
4.5.32         Ordnance Release Test                     Y             Y               N
4.5.33         Hi AoA Familiarization                    N             N               N
4.5.34         Hi AoA Test                               N             N               Y
4.5.35         CFP                                       N             N               N
4.5.36         Loads                                     N             N               N
4.5.37         Flutter                                   N             N               N
4.5.38         Airstart (Single-Engine Aircraft)         N             N               N
4.5.39         Test Pilot School Curriculum              N             N               N
4.5.40         Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test          N             N               N
4.5.41         Airdrop                                   N             N               N
NOTES:
1. Multi-Qualification Currency. A “Y” in this column indicates that the accomplishment of
this event updates currency in all aircraft in which the crewmember is qualified.
EXCEPTION for aircrew who are multi-qualified in a combination of manned and unmanned
aircraft (i.e., MQ-1/9 and C-12): If event is accomplished in a manned aircraft, aircrew may
update currency in all manned and unmanned aircraft in which they are qualified. However, if
event is accomplished in an unmanned aircraft, currency may only be updated in other
unmanned aircraft.

2. Cross MD Recurrency. A “Y” in this column indicates that an IP from another MD can
provide in-flight instruction to update this currency, provided that IP possesses this
qualification in their respective MD.

3. Multi Event Credit. A “Y” in this column indicates that a currency update of this
qualification may update the currency of other qualification(s). See individual paragraphs for
more details.
         4.4.1. Currency/proficiency due for all events listed in Table 7 and Table 8 is
         established upon successful completion of an Air Force Form 8 evaluation or the
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       49


     applicable Phase II training plan. Currency/proficiency requirements begin the day of the
     successful flight evaluation or after the final upgrade sortie is completed.
     4.4.1. (EDWARDSAFB) When not specifically addressed in AFI 11-2FTv1 aircraft
     MDS specific attachments, Aircrew, Non-rated Aircrew and Operational Support Fliers
     who are non-current for any mission currency event listed in the aircraft MDS specific
     attachments, will not perform the non-current event unless under the supervision of an
     instructor.
     4.4.2. Currency. Table 7 outlines AFMC basic currency requirements by crew position.
     Crewmembers non-current for requirements listed with an asterisk (*) will not perform
     any aircrew duties unless under the supervision of an instructor. For non-asterisk events,
     crewmembers will not perform those particular events until currency is regained.
     4.4.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Non-Rated Aircrew who become non-current for a sortie will
     fly with a rated or CEA instructor. Non-Rated Aircrew who become unqualified will
     complete initial qualification or requalification training.
        4.4.2.1. The currency period ends when the aircrew member fails to accomplish the
        required events in the applicable time periods; (e.g., the currency period for pilot
        landings ends 45 days after the last landing event). Aircrew will regain currency by
        accomplishing delinquent items under the supervision of an instructor.
        4.4.2.2. Some MD attachments contain the phrase “Loss of currency exceeding “x”
        months requires the applicable training.” Applicable training is defined as the training
        event ground and flight requalification training for that qualification.
 50                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table 7. Basic Event Currency Requirements.
Position                    Training Item                         Number/Frequency
                            Sortie*                               1/45
                            Formation Takeoff (Fighter/Trainer)   1/180
                            Formation Landing (Fighter/Trainer)   1/180
                            Landing*                              1/45 (Notes 7 & 8)
Pilot (Except RPA Pilots)
                            Night Landing                         1/180 (Notes 1, 7 & 8)
Phase I Event Currency.
                            Instrument Approach*                  1/45 (Note 7)
                                                                  1/90 (1/60 F-16)
                            Simulated Engine Out Approach*
                                                                  (Notes 2 & 7)
                            Conversion Sortie                     1/180 (Note 7)
                            Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker           1/180
                            Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver         1/180 (Notes 7 & 8)
                            FCF/ACF                               1/180 (Notes 7 & 9)
                            AHC/AHM (F-15 & F-22 only)            1/120
                            TGP                                   (Note 6)
                            Navigation Pod Operations             (Note 6)
                            NVG (Med Altitude)                    1/180 (Note 7)
                            NVG (Low Altitude)                    1/90 (Notes 4 & 7)
                            HMCS                                  (Note 6)
                            HARM Targeting System                 (Note 6)
                            Intercept (Fighter/Trainer)           1/180 (Note 7)
                            BFM (Fighter/Trainer)                 1/90
                            ACBT (Fighter/Trainer)                1/60
Pilot (Except RPA Pilots)   Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery        1/180 (Note 7)
Phase II Event Currency.    Low Level Navigation                  1/180 (Notes 7 & 11)
                            LASDT                                 1/90
                            TF/TA (Night IMC/VMC or Day
                                                                  1/90 (Notes 7 & 12)
                            IMC)
                            Chase                                 1/180
                            High AoA Familiarization              (Note 6)
                            High AoA Test                         (Note 6)
                            CFP                                   1/90
                            Loads                                 (Note 6)
                            Flutter                               (Note 6)
                            Airstart                              (Note 6)
                            Airdrop                               (Note 6)
RPA Pilot                   Phase 1 and phase 2 events            (Note 6)
Weapon System Operator
                            Sortie*                               1/45 (Note 5)
Phase I Currency
                            Air-to-Air Refueling RDZ (B-1 only)   1/180 (Note 7)
Weapon System Operator
                            FCF/ACF                               1/180 (Notes 7 & 9)
Phase II currency
                            NVG (Med Altitude)                    1/180 (Note 7)
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         51


                              NVG (Low Altitude)                        1/90 (Note 4)
                              Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery            1/180 (Note 7)
                              Low Level Navigation                      1/180 (Notes 7 & 11)
                              LASDT                                     1/120
                              TF/TA (Night IMC/VMC or Day
                                                                        1/90 (Notes 7 & 12)
                              IMC)
                              Intercept (Fighter/Trainer)               1/180 (Note 7)
                              BFM (Fighter/Trainer)                     1/180
                              ACBT (Fighter/Trainer)                    1/90
                              Sortie *                                  1/60 (Note 5)
Navigator Phase I Currency
                              Conversion Sortie                         1/180 (Note 7)
                              Air Refueling RDZ                         1/180 (Note 7)
                              Airdrop                                   (Note 6)
Navigator Phase II            FCF/ACF                                   1/180 (Notes 7 & 9)
Currency                      Low Level Navigation                      1/180 (Notes 7 & 11)
                              LASDT                                     1/120
                              Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery            1/180 (Note 7)
Electronic Warfare Officer    Sortie*                                   1/60 (Note 5)
Air Battle Manager            Sortie*                                   1/90
Remote Sensor Operator        Phase 1 and Phase 2 Events                (Note 6)
                              Sortie*                                   1/60
                              Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker
                                                                        1/60 (Note 7)
                              (Boom Operator contact)
                              Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver
Career Enlisted Aviator
                              (Flight Engineer, Special Mission         1/180 (Notes 7 & 8)
                              Aviator)
                              Airdrop (Loadmaster)                      (Note 6)
                              FCF/ACF                                   1/180 (Notes 7 & 9)
Flight Surgeon                Sortie*                                   1/60
Non-Rated Aircrew or
Active Operational Support
                           Sortie*                                      1/60 (Note 3)
Crewmembers (ejection seat
aircraft)
Non-Rated Aircrew or
Active Operational Support
                           Sortie*                                      1/90 (Note 3)
Crewmembers (non-ejection
seat aircraft)
NOTES:

(*) Crewmembers non-current for requirements listed with an asterisk (*) will not perform any
aircrew duties unless under the supervision of an instructor. For non-asterisk events,
crewmembers will not perform those particular events until currency is regained.

1. Maintaining a cadre of night qualified aircrew members is at the discretion of the OG/CC. If
a night qualification is maintained, the night currency requirements in Table 7 apply. The night
52                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


qualification will be maintained on the letter of Xs. Lack of a night qualification will be
annotated on the AF Form 8 as “Day Only” restriction, even if the restriction will be lifted at a
later date. Pilots may credit a night landing for currency for landings accomplished at night as
defined in AFI 11-202 Vol 3.

2. Applies to each MD that performs airborne simulated engine out patterns as outlined in
specific MD attachments. Simulator credit is allowed for Multi-Engine aircraft only (see Note
7). EXCEPTION: Reference Attachment 13, for F-35 Training Guidelines and SFO currency
in simulators.

3. For operational support crewmembers, currency requirements do not mandate flying or
approved man-months. Man-months of approved hazardous duty pay must be pre-approved.

4. Applies to aircrew members who accomplish NVG flight below MSA (including landings)
without the aid of TF/TA systems. See MD attachments for additional NVG currencies.
Simulator credit is allowed for C-Design aircraft only (see Note 7).
type

5. WSO/NAV/EWO positions for F-16 and T-38 aircraft have a sortie currency requirement of
1/45 days. The equivalent position in C-12 aircraft has a sortie currency requirement of 1/60
days.

6. No currency requirement encompassing all MDs exists for this qualification. See MD
attachments for more specific requirements.

7. Event may be accomplished for credit in an AFMC approved flight simulator (with motion
active) if accomplished while flight current; before flight currency expiration. Multiple
simulator currency updates for the same event may be performed for credit within the flight
currency period; however, once the flight currency period expires, events performed in the
simulator may not be credited for currency extension. If event currency is lost by going beyond
flight currency expiration date without a simulator duration extension, regaining currency is per
standard AFI 11-2FTv1 processes, such as flying (not simulator) with an instructor supervising
the accomplishment of the non-current event to a proficient level.
Example: Flight currency for an event with a 45 day duration expires 30 Jun. Event is
performed in the simulator on 15 Jun (before flight expiration). Event currency is extended to
30 July (45 days from 15 Jun sim date). If event is performed again in the simulator on 30 Jun,
event currency would then be extended to 14 Aug (45 days from 30 Jun sim date). To extend
the currency beyond 14 Aug would require accomplishing the event in flight.

8. Simulator credit for C & E-Design aircraft only.

9. For Simulator credit, accomplish complete -6CF profile, within simulator capability and/or
crew construct.

10. Simulator credit allowed only for Distributed Mission Operations (DMO)/Mission Training
Center (MTC), or equivalent.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         53



11. Simulator must have Terrain visual presentation.

12. Simulator conditions must be Night and/or IMC.

Table 7. (EDWARDSAFB) Basic Event Currency Requirements
Position                          Training Item                    Number/Frequency
Pilot                             Tower Fly By                     1/365
           4.4.2.3. Conversion/Difference Requirements. Unless otherwise directed by the
           applicable    MD-specific      attachment    or    associated     unit   supplements,
           conversion/difference training is current as long as qualification is held for the
           mission/design aircraft in which training was accomplished. Conversion/difference
           training must be re-accomplished when crewmember’s become unqualified as per
           AFI 11-202 Vol 1. Training events accomplished during conversion/difference
           training can be credited toward basic currency/proficiency flying requirements.
      4.4.3. Proficiency. Table 8 lists the AFMC proficiency requirements to be accomplished
      semi-annually (1 Oct- 31 Mar and 1 Apr-30 Sep) by crew position. Events accomplished
      during Phase I initial qualification or requalification training will not be credited toward
      these requirements except those accomplished on a successful AF Form 8 evaluation.
      Training events accomplished during conversion/difference training can be credited
      toward basic proficiency flying requirements. After successful completion of Phase I
      qualification, training events accomplished during Phase II training may be credited
      toward Phase 1 currency and proficiency requirements. Flying units will establish
      procedures so commanders and supervisors can monitor crewmember progress toward
      accomplishing an approximately proportionate share of proficiency requirements.
      Proficiency requirements, to the maximum extent possible, should be accomplished
      uniformly throughout the semiannual training period.
      4.4.3. (EDWARDSAFB) When not specifically addressed in AFI 11-2FTv1 aircraft
      MDS specific attachments, Aircrew, Non-rated Aircrew and Operational Support Fliers
      who are overdue for any flying mission proficiency event will not perform the event
      unless under the supervision of an instructor. 412 OG/CC is waiver authority for
      permitting flight without instructor supervision.
           4.4.3.1. Each proficiency requirement only applies to aircrews that are qualified in
           the event. The OG/CC or unit commander has the authority to determine which
           aircrews are qualified in the listed events. Additional proficiency requirements may
           be specified in MD attachments and/or unit supplements to this instruction.
           4.4.3.2. At the conclusion of each semi-annual training period the training office will
           provide the commander a list (in the form of an End of Half (EOH) report) of those
           personnel that did not meet proficiency requirements. The OG/CC will determine the
           corrective action. Corrective action may range from no action required to mission
           requalification. Forward a copy of the EOH report with corrective actions to
           AFMC/A3V.
 54                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Table 8. Semiannual Basic Event Proficiency Training Requirements.
Line   Position     Aircraft     Training Item                     Months Available
                                                                   6 5 4 3 2 1
                                                                   Number Required
1      Pilot        Bomber       Sorties: API-1                    15 13 11 9 6 3
                    Cargo                 API 6/8 (Note 6)         12 10 8 6 4 2
                    Recon
                    Tanker       Precision Approaches              6    5   4    3    2    1
                    Tiltrotor    (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Non-precision Approaches          6    5   4    3    2    1
                                 (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Total Landings                    12 10    8    6    4    2
                                 Takeoffs (either seat) (Note 2)   6 5      4    3    2    1
                                 (Tiltrotor)                       (12 10    8    6    4    2)
                                 Circling Approach                 1 1      1    1    1    1
                                 Touch and Go Landings (Note 4)    4 4      3    2    1    1
                                 (N/A for Tiltrotor)
                    Fighter      Sorties: API-1                    45 38 30 22 15 7
                    Trainer                API-6/8 (Note 6)        30 25 20 15 10 5
                                 Precision Approaches              6 5 4 3 2 1
                                 (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Non-precision Approaches          6    5   4    3    2    1
                                 (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Total Landings                    15   13 10 8       5    3
                                 Circling Approach                 1     1 1 1        1    1
                                 Touch and Go Landings (Note 4)    4     4 3 2        1    1
                                 Right or Rear Seat Landings       4     4 3 2        1    1
                                 (IP only)
                                 Chase                             3 3 2 2            1    1
                    Helicopter   Sortie                            18 15 12 9         6    3
                                 Precision Approaches              6 5 4 3            2    1
                                 (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Non-precision Approaches          6    5   4    3    2    1
                                 (Notes 1 & 2)
                                 Total Landings                    18   15 12 9 6          3
                                 Takeoffs (either seat) (Note 2)   18   15 12 9 6          3
                                 Circling Approach                 1     1 1 1 1           1
2      WSO          Fighter      Sorties                           30   25 20 15 10        5
                    Trainer      (F-16, T-38, C-12, see Note 5)
                    Bomber       Sorties                           6    5   4    3 2 1
3      Navigator    Cargo        Sorties                           6    5   4    3 2 1
       EWO          Recon        (F-16, T-38, C-12, see Note 5)
       Air Battle   Tanker
       Manager      Tiltrotor
                    Bomber
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                            55


4        Career       Helicopter      Sorties                               18 15 12 9        6   3
         Enlisted
         Aviator
                      All other       Sorties                               6    5    4   3   2   1
                      aircraft
5        RP           RPA             See MD Specific Attachment
         RSO

6        Flight       All Aircraft    Sorties                               6    5    4   3   2   1
         Surgeon

                                      Night sortie (Note 3)                 1    1    1   1   1   1
NOTES:
Each proficiency requirement only applies to aircrews that are qualified in the event. The
OG/CC or unit commander has the authority to determine which aircrews are qualified in the
listed events. Additional proficiency requirements may be specified in MD attachments and/or
unit Supplements to this Instruction.

1. In order to log an instrument approach, primary instrument or primary simulated instrument
time must be logged on the AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document.

2. Up to 50 percent of this requirement may be logged in a AFMC/A3V approved simulator.
The most current list of AFMC approved simulators is located on the AFMC/A3V Sharepoints
website at: https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx.

3. Flight surgeons may credit a night sortie for sorties that meet requirements IAW AFI 11-401
accomplished at night as defined in AFI 11-202 Vol 3.

4. A Touch and Go Landing can be credited as both a takeoff event and a landing event. The
Touch and Go Landing requirement for MP/FPs applies only to pilots trained and certified to
perform touch & go landings.

5. WSO/NAV/EWO positions for F-16, T-38 require 30 sorties per half and C-12 aircraft
require 6 sorties per half

6. Contractor pilots will be considered API 6, for the purpose of proficiency requirements,
regardless of level of assignment/attachment.
    4.5. Currency/Proficiency Events and Requirements. In order to update event currency
    or credit proficiency (as applicable) aircrew must perform events as described in the
    following paragraphs. In addition, MD attachments to this instruction identify specific
    ground and flying continuation training requirements necessary to ensure mission readiness.
    In the absence of guidance, the unit OG/CC will determine which training is needed for
    aircrew members to regain mission currency/proficiency when established mission
    requirements are not met. If all qualified instructors have lost currency in a mission event, the
    flying unit commander will request support of a current instructor from another AFMC unit
56                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  or the lead command. In the absence of such support, the OG/CC will submit a training plan
  to AFMC/A3V for approval that allows select instructors to regain currency without
  supervision.
     4.5.1. Sortie.
         4.5.1.1. Pilot Sortie Requirements. Pilot sortie currency may be updated and
         proficiency may be credited when the following minimums are met:
            4.5.1.1.1. Unless otherwise specified in a specific MD attachment, an authorized
            Mission pilot must perform two of the events listed in Table 7 or Table 8 or MD
            attachment currency or proficiency events list. EXCEPTION: Pilots flying a
            single-piloted aircraft may receive sortie credit if they perform authorized flight
            test events in conjunction with an approved test plan and log at least .5 hours of
            primary flight time.
            4.5.1.1.2. An authorized Instructor pilot may perform two of the events listed in
            Table 7 or Table 8, or perform one event and instruct one event listed in Table 7,
            Table 8 or appropriate attachment. Exception: A USAF TPS IP/EP on a USAF
            TPS student curriculum sortie may perform a single event of Table 7 or Table 8
            for sortie credit. This event may be credited when a crew position is occupied and
            instructor time is logged.
            4.5.1.1.3. An authorized Evaluator pilot may complete the Mission pilot criteria,
            Instructor pilot criteria or evaluate two events listed in Table 7 or Table 8 This
            event may be credited when evaluator time is logged.
            4.5.1.1.4. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD aircraft IP.
            4.5.1.1.5. Proficiency requirements- this event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
         4.5.1.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO/CSO Sortie Requirements. Sortie currency may be
         updated and proficiency may be credited when a crew position is occupied and the
         duties associated with that position are performed or when evaluating/instructing if
         evaluator or instructor time is logged. If mission requirements require OCONUS
         flight, flying units must ensure continuation training supports over-water navigator
         proficiency training.
            4.5.1.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
            instructor.
            4.5.1.2.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across
            multiple MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
         4.5.1.3. Air Battle Manager (ABM) Sortie Requirements. ABMs may update sortie
         currency by occupying a mandatory crew position and perform the duties associated
         with that position or when evaluating or instructing if they log evaluator or instructor
         time.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        57


          4.5.1.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
          MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
          instructor.
          4.5.1.3.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
          MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
       4.5.1.4. Career Enlisted Aviator Sortie Requirements.
          4.5.1.4.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
          MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
          instructor.
          4.5.1.4.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across
          multiple MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
       4.5.1.5. Flight Engineer and Special Mission Aviator Sortie Requirements.
          4.5.1.5.1. Currency requirements. The individual must perform “primary” flight
          engineer or Special Mission Aviator duties to include accomplishment of the
          preflight and all normal checklists, as applicable, to log a currency sortie. The
          “primary” flight engineer is defined as the single individual that occupies the
          flight engineer station. Additional flight engineers or Special Mission Aviators
          required for mission accomplishment are not considered “primary” flight
          engineers/Special Mission Aviators for crediting a currency sortie.
          4.5.1.5.2. Proficiency requirements. This sortie requirement may be met by
          accomplishing any of the following: 1) Accomplishment of a currency sortie. 2)
          Accomplishment of the duties required of additional flight engineers (scanner
          crew position) on aircraft requiring two flight engineers (minimum crew as
          defined in the applicable flight manual). Duties must include preflight and
          accomplishment of procedures as specified in the flight manual. 3)
          Accomplishment of duties as the “primary” flight engineer or Special Mission
          Aviator when the flight begins with an engine running crew change (ERCC). 4)
          Accomplishment as an instructor/evaluator when instructing/evaluating an
          individual at the primary flight engineer or Special Mission Aviator position
          (Instructing an individual in scanner duties does not meet this requirement).
       4.5.1.6. Loadmaster Sortie Requirements.
          4.5.1.6.1. Currency requirements. The individual must perform the flight manual
          required preflight, flight, and post flight, as well as accomplish those duties
          required for aircraft on/off loading or aerial delivery of cargo or personnel.
          4.5.1.6.2. Proficiency requirements. This sortie requirement may be met by: 1)
          Accomplishment of a currency sortie. 2) Completion of flight manual required
          loadmaster duties in flight. 3) Instructing or evaluating an individual conducting
          loadmaster duties in flight. If the mission requires two loadmasters (i.e. airdrop)
          then both may credit sorties.
       4.5.1.7. Boom Operator Sortie Requirements. The individual must accomplish,
       instruct, or evaluate the flight manual required preflight, flight and post flight duties.
58                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            4.5.1.7.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
            instructor.
            4.5.1.7.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across
            multiple MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
        4.5.1.8. All other CEAs (Gunners, Flight Attendants, Communication System
        Operators, Sensor Operators, Linguists) Sortie Requirements. The individual must
        accomplish, instruct, or evaluate the flight manual required preflight, flight and post
        flight duties.
            4.5.1.8.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
            instructor.
            4.5.1.8.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
        4.5.1.9. Flight Surgeon Sortie Requirements. Any airborne event constitutes a sortie.
            4.5.1.9.1. Currency requirements. Currency may be updated in any aircraft in
            which they are qualified. This event is transferable across multiple MDs, does not
            count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an instructor.
            4.5.1.9.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit. Flight surgeon training
            requirements will be completed IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 1 and this paragraph.
            At least 50 percent of their semi-annual training requirements will be
            accomplished in their primary aircraft.
        4.5.1.10. Non-rated Aircrew Sortie Requirements. Any airborne event constitutes a
        sortie. Units may define additional sortie requirements for non-rated aircrew in their
        supplements to this AFI.
            4.5.1.10.1. Currency Requirements. Non-rated crew members will meet the
            Basic Event Currency Requirements in Table 7 for each category aircraft (i.e.,
            ejection seat vs. non-ejection seat) in which they are qualified. Example: NRA
            qualified in both an ejection seat aircraft (F-16) and a non-ejection seat aircraft
            (C-130) are required to complete an ejection seat sortie 1/60 days, and a non-
            ejection seat sortie 1/90 days – or sortie currency will be lost. To regain currency,
            a sortie must be accomplished with an MDS instructor on-board.
            4.5.1.10.2. Proficiency Requirements. None.
     4.5.2. Takeoff. To log this event, accomplish a takeoff in accordance with flight manual
     procedures.
        4.5.2.1. Currency requirements. There is no currency requirement associated with
        this specific event.
        4.5.2.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
        MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in a
        different MD.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        59


     4.5.3. Formation Takeoff. To log this event, accomplish a formation takeoff from the
     lead or wing position.
        4.5.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an IP.
        4.5.3.1. (EDWARDSAFB) A grade of "P" on the applicable AFMC Form 68 is
        sufficient to qualify aircrew in this event. The unit-training officer may use these
        performance dates to establish initial currency in ARMS. Regain currency under the
        supervision of an instructor occupying the right seat/rear cockpit of the student’s
        aircraft or from an element aircraft. A pilot upgrading to instructor who is current
        will be current as an instructor. In those aircraft training manuals where formation
        takeoffs are not required in Phase I Training, a satisfactory wing takeoff under the
        supervision of a current instructor will qualify the individual. If there is no formation
        take off Form 68 in the aircraft specific supplement document this training on any
        Phase II AFMC Form 68.
        4.5.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.4. Formation Landing. To log this event, accomplish a formation landing from the
     lead or wing position.
        4.5.4.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an IP.
        4.5.4.1. (EDWARDSAFB) A grade of "P" on the applicable AFMC Form 68 is
        sufficient to qualify aircrew in this event. The unit-training officer may use these
        performance dates to establish initial currency in ARMS. Regain currency under the
        supervision of an instructor occupying the right seat/rear cockpit of the student’s
        aircraft or from an element aircraft. A pilot upgrading to instructor who is current
        will be current as an instructor. In those aircraft training manuals where formation
        landings are not required in Phase I Training, a satisfactory wing landing under the
        supervision of a current instructor will qualify the individual. If there is no formation
        landing Form 68 in the aircraft specific supplement document this training on any
        Phase II AFMC Form 68.
        4.5.4.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.5. Landing. To log this event, accomplish a full stop, stop and go, or touch and go
     landing.
        4.5.5.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an appropriate MD
        aircraft IP.
        4.5.5.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
        MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
     4.5.6. Night Landing. To log this event, accomplish a night (as defined in AFI 11-202
     Vol 3) full stop, stop and go or touch and go landing.
60                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        4.5.6.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does credit night landing and total landing currency and must be regained with an
        appropriate MD aircraft IP.
        4.5.6.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.7. Right or Rear Seat Landing (IP only). To log this event, accomplish a right or rear
     seat touch and go, stop and go, or full stop landing.
        4.5.7.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across MDs, does not
        count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an appropriate MD aircraft
        IP.
        4.5.7.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across MDs, does
        not count for multiple event credit.
     4.5.8. Instrument Approach. To log this event, accomplish a non-precision or precision
     approach from the final approach fix to a missed approach, touch and go, stop and go, or
     full stop landing.
        4.5.8.1. Currency requirements.         This event is transferable across MDs.
        EXCEPTION for aircrew who are multi-qualified in a combination of manned and
        unmanned aircraft (i.e., MQ-1/9 and C-12): If event is accomplished in a manned
        aircraft, aircrew may update currency in all manned and unmanned aircraft in which
        they are qualified. However, if event is accomplished in an unmanned aircraft,
        currency may only be updated in other unmanned aircraft. This event does not count
        for multiple event credit and must be regained with an appropriate MD aircraft IP.
        4.5.8.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is transferable across MDs, does not
        count for multiple event credit.
     4.5.9. Circling approach. To log this event, accomplish a circling approach to a missed
     approach, touch and go, stop and go, or full stop landing.
        4.5.9.1. Currency requirements. There is no currency requirement associated with
        this specific event.
        4.5.9.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
        MDs, does not count for multiple event credit.
     4.5.10. Simulated Engine Out Approach. To log this event, accomplish a simulated
     engine-out approach in accordance with flight manual procedures, to a go around, touch
     and go, stop and go, or full stop landing.
        4.5.10.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an appropriate MD
        aircraft IP.
        4.5.10.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across MDs, does
        not count for multiple event credit. See MD attachment for specific guidance.
     4.5.11. Conversion Sortie.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     61


        4.5.11.1. Pilot Conversion Sortie. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of 2
        events as specified in Table 6 for the aircraft to which the pilot has completed
        conversion training.
            4.5.11.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD aircraft IP.
            4.5.11.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.11.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO/CSO Conversion Sortie. To log this event, the
        crewmember must perform duties in a mandatory crew position while accomplishing
        a sortie as defined above in the aircraft to which the individual has completed
        conversion training.
            4.5.11.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD aircraft instructor.
            4.5.11.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.11.3. CEA Conversion Sortie. To log this event, accomplish a sortie as defined
        above in the aircraft to which the individual has completed conversion training.
            4.5.11.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD aircraft instructor.
            4.5.11.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.12. Touch and Go Landing. To log this event, accomplish a Touch and Go Landing
     in accordance with flight manual procedures.
        4.5.12.1. Currency requirements. There is no currency requirement associated with
        this specific event.
        4.5.12.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
        MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in a
        different MD.
     4.5.13. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker.
        4.5.13.1. Pilot Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker. To log this event, the pilot must perform
        duties in a mandatory crew position while a receiver is in the contact position.
            4.5.13.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD aircraft instructor.
            4.5.13.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.13.2. Boom Operator Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker. To log this event, operate the
        tanker boom for one contact with a receiver aircraft.
            4.5.13.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
62                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            appropriate MD aircraft instructor.
            4.5.13.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.14. Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver.
        4.5.14.1. Pilot Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver. To log this event, pilot the receiver
        aircraft in the contact position. Refueling from any flight control equipped seat may
        be utilized to accomplish this event.
            4.5.14.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD IP. Each receiver pilot scheduled to fly a preplanned overseas
            deployment, which includes air refueling, will accomplish a refueling event
            within the 90-day period before the scheduled deployment date. This refueling
            should be done at night if there is any planned night refueling.
            4.5.14.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.14.2. Navigator/WSO /CSO Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver Rendezvous. To log
        this event, accomplish a rendezvous per flight manual and ATP-56(B) procedures.
            4.5.14.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with a same
            MD aircraft instructor.
            4.5.14.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.14.3. CEA (Flight Engineer, Special Mission Aviator) Air-to-Air Refueling
        Receiver. To log this event, accomplish duties per flight manual procedures.
            4.5.14.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an
            appropriate MD instructor.
            4.5.14.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.15. FCF/ACF.
     4.5.15. (EDWARDSAFB) Qualified FCF crewmembers will log an FCF sortie on any
     O-8 sortie. In addition, qualified crewmembers may log an FCF sortie when
     accomplishing the required events using the appropriate T.O. –6CL-1/2/3/4/5 checklists
     as applicable.      For fighter/trainer aircraft, when conducting FCF qualification or
     proficiency training on non-FCF sorties, all crewmembers are required to be FCF
     qualified. For heavy aircraft, only those crewmembers who are FCF qualified will
     accomplish or instruct the events. In all cases, individuals who are FCF qualified and
     noncurrent will be supervised by an FCF qualified/current instructor. Exception: If a
     specific event is restricted to “FCF only”, then all crewmembers are required to be FCF
     current and qualified or under the supervision of an FCF qualified instructor.
        4.5.15.1. Pilot FCF/ACF. To log this event, accomplish the following events as a
        minimum: Any one preflight event (check) and at least three in-flight events (system
        operations checks) from the pilot procedures in T.O. 1X-1X-6CF-1. Aircrew may
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                    63


        update FCF/ACF currency by completing only part of the FCF or ACF profile if the
        minimum required events as specified in the unit supplement are accomplished.
            4.5.15.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in
            a different MD.
            4.5.15.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.15.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO FCF/ACF. To log this event, accomplish any three
        in-flight events (total) from the WSO/EWO procedures in T.O. 1X-1X-6CF-1.
        Aircrew may update FCF/ACF currency by completing only part of the FCF or ACF
        if the minimum required events as specified in the unit supplement are accomplished.
            4.5.15.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in
            a different MD.
            4.5.15.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.15.3. CEA FCF/ACF. To log this event, accomplish any three in-flight events
        (total) from the CEA procedures in T.O. 1X-1X-6CF-1. Aircrew may update
        FCF/ACF currency by completing only part of the FCF or ACF if the minimum
        required events as specified in the unit supplement are accomplished.
            4.5.15.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an
            Instructor qualified in a different MD.
            4.5.15.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.16. Advanced Handling Characteristics/Advanced Handling Maneuvers. To log this
     event, accomplish at least two advanced handling maneuvers.
        4.5.16.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.16.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.17. TGP Above 2000 ft.
        4.5.17.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.17.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.18. TGP at or Below 2000 ft.
        4.5.18.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.18.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.19. Navigation Pod Operations.
        4.5.19.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.19.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.20. NVG Medium Altitude (>= MSA).
64                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        4.5.20.1. Pilot NVG Medium Altitude. To log this event, accomplish a sortie at night
        with at least 10 minutes of NVG usage above the MSA.
            4.5.20.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
            different MD.
            4.5.20.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.20.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO NVG Medium Altitude. To log this event,
        accomplish a night sortie with at least 10 minutes of NVG usage above the MSA.
            4.5.20.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
            different MD.
            4.5.20.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.21. NVG Low Altitude (< MSA).
        4.5.21.1. Pilot NVG Low Altitude. To log this event, accomplish a night sortie with
        at least 15 minutes of NVG usage below the MSA.
            4.5.21.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (low Level) for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with
            an IP in a different MD.
            4.5.21.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.21.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO NVG Low Altitude. To log this event, accomplish a
        night sortie with at least 15 minutes of NVG usage below the MSA.
            4.5.21.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (low Level) for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
            IP in a different MD.
            4.5.21.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.22. Helmet-Mounted Cuing System (HMCS).
        4.5.22.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.22.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.23. Placeholder.
        4.5.23.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.23.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.24. Intercept.
        4.5.24.1. Pilot Intercept. To log this event, accomplish at least one Beyond Visual
        Range (BVR) engagement using current tactics and conclude in terminal
        maneuvering by briefing and flying an intercept event as blue air or training aid/target
        that exercises at least limited air-to-air training rules.
            4.5.24.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       65


           MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
           different MD.
           4.5.24.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.24.2. Navigator/WSO Intercept. To log this event, accomplish at least one
        Beyond Visual Range (BVR) engagement to Within Visual Range (WVR) terminal
        maneuvering by briefing and flying an intercept event as blue air or training aid/target
        that exercises at least limited air-to-air training rules.
           4.5.24.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
           MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
           different MD.
           4.5.24.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.25. Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM).
        4.5.25.1. Pilot BFM. To log this event, accomplish at least two BFM engagements.
           4.5.25.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
           MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
           different MD.
           4.5.25.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.25.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO BFM. To log this event, accomplish at least two
        BFM engagements.
           4.5.25.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
           MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
           different MD.
           4.5.25.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.26. Air Combat Training (ACBT).
        4.5.26.1. Pilot ACBT. To log this event, accomplish at least 2 engagements, as blue
        air or training aid/target, with three or more aircraft, implementing unlimited air-to-
        air training rules as defined in AFI 11-2FT Vol 3.
           4.5.26.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
           MDs, may count (BFM, Intercept) for multiple event credit and can be updated
           with an IP in a different MD.
           4.5.26.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.26.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO ACBT. To log this event, accomplish at least 2
        engagements, as blue air or training aid/target, with three or more aircraft,
        implementing unlimited air-to-air training rules as defined in AFI 11-2FT Vol 3.
           4.5.26.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
           MDs, may count (BFM, Intercept) for multiple event credit and can be updated
           with an IP in a different MD.
           4.5.26.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
66                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


     4.5.27. Air to Surface WD.
        4.5.27.1. Pilot Air-to-Surface WD. To log this event, accomplish a simulated, or an
        actual air-to-surface weapon release. MD-specific procedures and restrictions for
        weapons delivery are outlined in the applicable MD attachment to this instruction.
        Actual or simulated A/A weapon employment does not update Air-to-Surface WD
        currency.
            4.5.27.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit, and can be updated with an IP in a
            different MD.
            4.5.27.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.27.2. Navigator/WSO Air-to Surface WD. To log this event, accomplish a
        simulated, or an actual weapon release. MD-specific procedures and restrictions for
        weapons delivery are outlined in the applicable attachment to this instruction. Actual
        or simulated A/A weapon employment does not update WD currency.
            4.5.27.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in
            a different MD.
            4.5.27.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.28. Low Level Navigation.
        4.5.28.1. Pilot Low Level Navigation. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of
        10 minutes at an altitude below 2000 ft AGL and at or above 500 ft AGL (300 ft for
        H-1, C-130 and C-17; CV-22 see MD-specific attachment).
            4.5.28.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
            different MD.
            4.5.28.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.28.2. Navigator/WSO Low Level Navigation. To log this event, Accomplish a
        minimum of 10 minutes at an altitude below 2000 ft AGL and at or above 500 ft AGL
        (300 ft for C-130).
            4.5.28.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a
            different MD.
            4.5.28.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None
     4.5.29. LASDT.
        4.5.29.1. Pilot LASDT. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of 10 minutes of
        flight below 500’ AGL. The 10 minutes need not be continuous but should allow
        sufficient time to experience and operate in the low altitude environment. This flight
        should be conducted along a pre-planned route/flyby line in restricted airspace.
        (Does not apply to C-130, C-17, CV-22 or H-1).
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     67


            4.5.29.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (Low Level) for multiple event credit and can be updated with
            an IP in a different MD unless the event is being performed in a bomber, in which
            case the currency cannot be updated from a different MD.
            4.5.29.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.29.2. Navigator/WSO LASDT. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of 10
        minutes of flight below 500’ AGL. The 10 minutes need not be continuous but should
        allow sufficient time to experience and operate in the low altitude environment. This
        flight should be conducted along a pre-planned route/flyby line in restricted airspace
        (does not apply to C-130, C-17, or helicopter).
            4.5.29.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (low Level) for multiple event credit and can be updated with an
            IP in a different MD unless the event is being performed in a bomber, in which
            case the currency cannot be updated from a different MD.
            4.5.29.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.30. TF/TA (Night IMC/VMC or Day IMC).
        4.5.30.1. Pilot TF/TA. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of 10 minutes of
        flight below the altitudes specified in para 3.5.5. using the TF/TA system, day or
        night, IMC or VMC. There is no Day VMC currency or proficiency requirement.
            4.5.30.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (low Level) for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with
            an IP in a different MD.
            4.5.30.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
        4.5.30.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO TF/TA. To log this event, accomplish a minimum of
        10 minutes of flight below the altitudes specified in para 3.5.5. using the TF/TA
        system, day or night, IMC or VMC. There is no Day VMC currency or proficiency
        requirement.
            4.5.30.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does count (low Level) for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with
            an IP in a different MD.
            4.5.30.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.31. Chase. To log this event, perform photo, safety or IP/SEFE chase of one event in
     Table 7 or Table 8.
        4.5.31.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a different
        MD.
        4.5.31.2. Proficiency requirements. Three sorties.
     4.5.32. Ordnance Release Test. To log this event, perform an actual or simulated release
     of air-to-air or air-to-ground ordnance or suspension equipment.
68                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        4.5.32.1. Currency requirements. This event is transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and can be updated with an IP in a different
        MD.
        4.5.32.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.33. High AoA Familiarization.
        4.5.33.1. Currency requirement. See MD attachment.
        4.5.33.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.34. High AOA Test.
        4.5.34.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.34.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.35. CFP. To log this event, accomplish at least two sets of CFP flight test techniques
     (wind up turns, loaded and unloaded rolls, and balanced symmetric pushovers) and speed
     soak.
        4.5.35.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
        does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in a
        different MD.
        4.5.35.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
     4.5.36. Loads. To log this event, accomplish at least two sets of loads flight test
     techniques (wind up turns, loaded and unloaded rolls, and balanced symmetric pushovers,
     stick raps, sideslips, etc.).
        4.5.36.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.36.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.37. Flutter. To log this event, accomplish at least two sets of flutter flight test
     techniques (see MD attachment).
        4.5.37.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.37.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.38. Airstart (Single-Engine Aircraft).
        4.5.38.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.38.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.39. Test Pilot School Curriculum.
        4.5.39.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.39.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
     4.5.40. Air-to-Air Refueling Tanker Test.
        4.5.40.1. Currency requirements. See MD attachment.
        4.5.40.2. Proficiency requirements. See MD attachment.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       69


     4.5.41. Airdrop.
         4.5.41.1. Pilot Airdrop. To log this event, accomplish a successful airdrop (must land
         within 300 meters of the aim point). An off drop zone drop is not a successful drop.
         Pilots can also update currency with all actual or standard airdrop training bundle
         (SATB) airdrops. If circumstances prevent the drop release, the currency may be
         credited provided all applicable checklists are completed.
            4.5.41.1.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in
            a different MD.
            4.5.41.1.2. Proficiency requirements. None
         4.5.41.2. Navigator/WSO/EWO Airdrop. To log this event, accomplish a successful
         airdrop (must land within 300 meters of the aim point). An off drop zone drop is not a
         successful drop. Navigators can also update currency with all actual or standard
         airdrop training bundle (SATB) airdrops. Navigators must determine a computed air
         release point or a high altitude release point to update the currency. If circumstances
         beyond the control of the aircrew prevent the drop release after the 1-Minute warning,
         the currency may be credited provided all applicable checklists are completed.
            4.5.41.2.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in
            a different MD.
            4.5.41.2.2. Proficiency requirements. None
         4.5.41.3. CEA (Loadmaster) Airdrop. To log this event, accomplish a successful
         actual airdrop. An off drop zone drop is not a successful drop.
            4.5.41.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple
            MDs, does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an
            Instructor qualified in a different MD.
            4.5.41.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None
            4.5.41.3.3. CEA (Other)        See MD attachment for other crew position
            requirements.
     4.5.42. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Tower Fly By. To log this event, accomplish a TFB
     event.
         4.5.42.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) To regain currency, aircrew will perform a
         TFB under the supervision of a TFB qualified IP. If no MDS qualified IPs are
         available, unit commanders may utilize any TFB IP for recurrency requirements.
         4.5.42.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Proficiency requirements. None
  4.6. Ground Training. The training office will document ground training accomplished and
  maintain records for the current and previous semiannual training period. Retain the ARMS
  individual training summary to meet this requirement.
     4.6.1. Aircraft Simulator Refresher Training. Pilots, flight engineers, Special Mission
     Aviators, and navigators (if the simulator has a navigator position) must attend aircraft
70                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


     simulator refresher training at least once every 12 months. For Annual Simulator
     refresher training, an AFMC approved simulator is one that, as a minimum, can simulate
     instrument and emergency instrument patterns at an Instructor’s direction.
     4.6.1. (EDWARDSAFB) F-16 pilots must accomplish this training every semi-annual
     training period. If a pilot has accomplished the EP sim in a simulator in the last year,
     training may be accomplished via a table-top EP training session.
        4.6.1.1. If there is no simulator support, formal or contractor supported, for a
        particular MDS aircraft, simulator training is not required. If a crewmember is
        qualified in several series of the same mission design aircraft, simulator training is
        required in only one series.
        4.6.1.2. If the OG/CC considers other MAJCOM lesson plans inappropriate for
        Annual Simulator Refresher Training, AFMC flying units will develop simulator
        lesson plans that complement their local missions. In constructing simulator lesson
        plans, emphasis should be placed on aircraft systems, emergency procedures training,
        and cockpit/crew resource management.
        4.6.1.3. Failure to complete required simulator refresher training in the prescribed
        period is not grounding. Notify the unit commander in writing with specific details
        including when simulator refresher training went overdue and the projected
        completion date. Notification will be routed through the appropriate training channels
        to the flying unit commander and intermediate level training offices.
        4.6.1.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Place the notification in the MFR section of the training
        folder.
     4.6.2. Proficiency Events Logged in Simulator. In order to log any currency or
     proficiency events from Table 7 or Table 8 in a simulator, an AFMC approved simulator
     must be used. The most current list of AFMC approved simulators is located on the
     AFMC/A3V                        Sharepoints                  website                  at:
     https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/HQAFMCA3/a3v/default.aspx. Event currency may
     only be updated in a simulator for certain specified events listed in Table 7, with some
     additional constraints. For B-757 operations, HQ AFMC allows the use of a “D-level”
     simulator to update all currency and proficiency events (up to 50% of the semiannual
     proficiency requirements). See MD attachments for additional simulator currency and
     proficiency requirements.

Table 9. DELETED.


     4.6.3. Systems Refresher Training. Flying units will develop a training program that
     ensures crewmembers maintain familiarity with aircraft systems. As a minimum, this
     training will include aircraft systems, subsystems, components, and critical and non-
     critical emergency procedures. Crewmembers will complete a minimum of three training
     sessions throughout the semiannual training period. Annual aircraft simulator refresher
     training may be credited as one event toward this requirement.
     4.6.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Flying units will             provide   monthly    ground    training
     opportunities for each assigned aircraft type.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           71


   4.7. Proration of Training. When determining training requirements, prorate an aircrew
   member not available for flying duties IAW AFI 11-202 Volume 1 and this paragraph. The
   following guidance applies:
      4.7.1. All aircrew must complete a proportionate share of training requirements outlined
      in Table 8 starting with the first day of the month after the qualification flight evaluation.
      4.7.2. Crewmembers are not considered available for training if they are absent for more
      than 15 consecutive days because of one of the following or a combination of the
      following: PCS move, non-flying TDY, duty not involving flying (DNIF), Phase 1
      training, or emergency leave.
      4.7.3. Flying units may reduce requirements when the cumulative total of periods that
      exceed 15 consecutive days of non-availability results in changing the months available
      according to the following table:

Table 10. Basic Proficiency Proration Chart.

Days Available                       Months Available
166 through remaining days           6
136 through 165                      5
106 through 135                      4
76 through 105                       3
46 through 75                        2
16 through 45                        1
0 through 15                         0
      4.7.4. Units may prorate training of PCS inbound personnel who come from commands
      with different semi-annual training periods.
   4.8. Failure to Complete Continuation Training Requirements. Comply with guidance
   outlined in AFI 11-202 Volume 1. Waiver authority for this paragraph is AFMC/A3V.
   4.8. (EDWARDSAFB) Refer to the 412 OG/OGV Training & Stan/Eval Guide for the end
   of half process description. Individuals who do not meet their end of half requirements for
   any event will fly with an instructor while performing those events until the OG/CC approves
   the end of half “get well” plan for that individual. Supervised events accomplished during
   the letter review/approval process may be credited towards the OG/CC corrective actions.
   Once the electronic approval is made, unit training offices will follow up to see that items are
   completed.
   4.9. Requirements Before PCS or TDY Members on Active Flying Status. Comply with
   guidance in AFI 11-202 Volume 1 when determining training requirements for flying
   personnel departing PCS from their previous station or TDY from their permanent station.
   4.10. Requirements Before Removal From Active Flying. Comply with guidance in AFI
   11-202 Volume 1 when determining training requirements for flying personnel being retired,
   separated, placed in inactive status, or reassigned to non-flying positions.
72                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  4.11. Requirements While in Inactive Flying Status. Comply with guidance in AFI 11-
  202 Volume 1 when determining training requirements for flying personnel being placed in
  inactive status.
  4.12. Retraining. Flying personnel retraining in another mission/design aircraft will incur
  and ADSC IAW with AFI 11-202 Volume 1 and AFI 36-2107.
  4.13. Aircrews Flying in Non-US Air Force Aircraft and with Non-US Air Force
  Units. When determining training requirements for aircrews flying in Non-US Air Force
  Aircraft or with Non-US Air Force units comply with guidance in AFI 11-202 Volume 1 and
  AFI 11-401.
  4.14. Non-qualified Personnel Requirements.
     4.14.1. Personnel who fly in an AFMC aircraft, in which they are not qualified, at a crew
     position with a set of flight controls will complete the Ground Training for Nonqualified
     Personnel form found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. This
     requirement does not apply to crewmembers in initial qualification or requalification
     training. A trainee signature is not necessary on the form when training is given to
     nonqualified VIP personnel. If an instructor is unavailable to accomplish syllabus items
     2, 3, 4, and 5, then the aircrew member primarily responsible for the position being
     occupied may accomplish and sign off this training. Qualified helicopter flight engineers
     or Special Mission Aviators occupying the left seat need not accomplish this training.
     4.14.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Brief all non-qualified personnel from Unit Briefing Guide,
     III: Special Mission Briefing for Non-Qualified Aircrew. This deletes the requirement for
     Nonqualified Personnel training, for those who occupy a crew position with a set of flight
     controls. If an approved EAFB briefing guide is not available, use the Nonqualified
     Personnel training plan, (Available in electronic media on the AFMC/A3V SharePoint
     page).
     4.14.2. Training is valid for 30 days if all prerequisites on the AFMC Ground Training
     for Nonqualified Personnel form are current. File the record of completed training with
     the appropriate flight authorization.
  4.15. Multiple Qualification Requirements.
     4.15.1. See AFI 11-202 Volume 2/AFMCS 1 for AFMC multiple qualification policy.
     4.15.1. (EDWARDSAFB) The unit to which the crewmember is assigned will notify
     412 OSS/OSOR and 412 OG/OGV if an aircrew member's primary aircraft has been
     changed. AFMC Form 80 changes will be made by 412 OG/OGV with approval from
     the OG.
     4.15.2. Currency Requirements. Requirements in Table 7 will be performed in each
     aircraft in which the crewmember is qualified. The following exception applies:
         4.15.2.1. Mission Requirements. Mission currency will be maintained in each aircraft
         in which currency is maintained unless specified in this instruction or unit
         supplements to this instruction. Units may invoke the 50 percent rule outlined in
         paragraph 4.15.3 to accomplish mission proficiency requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        73


         4.15.2.2. The instrument approach required of pilots every 45 days may be
         performed in any similar aircraft, as specified in AFI 11-202 Volume 2, AFMC
         Supplement 1, in which the pilot is qualified.
     4.15.3. Proficiency Requirements. At least 50 percent of the proficiency flying
     requirements in Table 8 must be performed in each aircraft in which an individual is
     qualified. However, the total basic proficiency flying event requirements must not be less
     than aircraft qualification requiring the most sorties. The total basic proficiency flying
     event requirements must be at least equal to the highest requirement of all the aircraft in
     which the aircrew is qualified. For example, if API-1 qualified in a bomber and a fighter
     (15 and 45 sortie requirement), then a total sortie requirement of 45 exists.
  4.16. G-Awareness Assessment (Fighter/Trainer). Flying units will develop a program to
  ensure in-flight AGSM is reviewed for BFM and/or ACBT qualified aircrew at least once
  every 12 months by the squadron Flight Surgeon, Aerospace Physiologist, or squadron
  supervisor (SQ/CC, SQ/DO, SQ/ADO, Flt/CC). Emphasis will also be placed on briefing,
  debriefing, and assessing the proper AGSM during flight debriefs. The assessment should be
  done as a normal part of video review after every flight.
     4.16.1. Aircrew identified as having poor AGSM technique or low G-tolerance will be
     identified to the appropriate SQ supervisor. SQ supervision will determine what action is
     required to improve the aircrew's G-tolerance. The SQ/CC will determine if Commander-
     Directed Acceleration Training is required IAW AFI 11-404, Centrifuge Training for
     High-G Aircrew.
5. UPGRADE QUALIFICATION TRAINING.
  5.1. General. In addition to the training guidance outlined in AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC
  Supplement 1, use this instruction when completing upgrade qualification training in AFMC.
  All instructor upgrades will complete appropriate training as outlined in this paragraph and
  the MD-specific attachments.
  5.2. Copilot to First Pilot (Aircraft Commander) Upgrade. Table 11 outlines first pilot
  flying hour requirements for specified aircraft. The prerequisite flying time experience levels
  required for upgrade are based on the copilot having gained the knowledge and judgment
  required to effectively accomplish the unit's mission. This training will be accomplished via
  formal course or in-unit unless otherwise directed by MD-specific attachments. Use formal
  courseware for in-unit upgrade training.
 74                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table 11. Flying Hour Prerequisites for First Pilot Qualification.

AIRCRAFT                 MINIMUM TOTAL                 MINIMUM HOURS IN BASIC DESIGN
                         FLYING HOURS                  AIRCRAFT (Note 1)

Bomber/Cargo             1500                          None
Reconnaissance            750                          100
Tanker
                         Less Than 750                 Not upgrade eligible.
                         1000                          100
TILT ROTOR               750                           200
                         300                           300
HELICOPTER              300                         300
NOTES:
1. Only primary and secondary time is applicable towards “HOURS IN BASIC DESIGN AIRCRAFT”
category.
   5.3. Instructor Upgrade. The squadron commander selects instructors based on the
   crewmember's experience, judgment, flying skill, technical knowledge, and airmanship.
   Minimum flying time experience requirements for upgrade to instructor for all aircrew
   specialties are outlined in Table 12 Flying time requirements may be waived by the OG/CC
   on a case by case basis.
       5.3.1. Formal Training. Aircrew members who have never been instructor qualified in
       any aircraft will attend the lead MAJCOM instructor upgrade school. Aircrew members
       who have been instructor qualified in another type aircraft should attend the aircraft's lead
       MAJCOM formal school but may be upgraded locally with OG/CC’s approval. OG/CCs
       may authorize instructor upgrade training in conjunction with requalification training.
       When concurrent instructor/requalification is accomplished, concurrent phase I and Phase
       II training is authorized. Accomplish training in at least one primary unit mission area so
       that the upgrading instructor can demonstrate that instructional area during the
       requalification instructor evaluation. Document OG/CC approvals in section X of the
       individual's training folder.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                          75




Table 12. Instructor Upgrade Flying Time Prerequisites.
         AIRCRAFT                  CREW POSITION            MINIMUM TOTAL     MINIMUM
                                                             FLYING HOURS HOURS IN BASIC
                                                                               DESIGN
                                                                          AIRCRAFT (Notes
                                                                                1,2,4)
                                Pilot                      500 (Note 5)   100
FIGHTER/TRAINER
                                WSO                        500            100
                                Pilot                      1500           200
                                - or-                      750            300
BOMBER/CARGO (Note 3)
                                Nav, OSO, DSO, EWO,
                                                           500                     200
                                CSO, FE, BO, LM
                                Other Aircrew              300                     200
TILT ROTOR                      Pilot                      1500                    200
                                Flight Engineer, SPMA      500                     300
                                Pilot                      500                     200
HELICOPTER
                                Flight Engineer, SPMA      500                     100
U-2                             Pilot                      500                     300 (Note 6)
RPA                             Pilot/Sensor Operator      500                     100
NOTES:
1. Only primary and secondary time is applicable towards “HOURS IN BASIC DESIGN AIRCRAFT”
category.

2. There is no “HOURS IN BASIC DESIGN AIRCRAFT” requirement for new and experimental
aircraft in AFMC. The OG/CC will designate an “initial cadre” of instructors and follow documentation
guidance in AFI 11-202 Volume 2, AFMC Sup 1.

3. USAF TPS staff instructors require only 50 hours “HOURS IN BASIC DESIGN AIRCRAFT” to
upgrade to instructor in the C-12 aircraft.

4. Flying time requirements may be waived by the OG/CC up to 50% if added risk is determined
acceptable. Document this waiver in section five of the training folder.

5. For fighter/trainer instructor upgrade, 200 hours of the 500 required will be in high performance
fighter type aircraft.

6. For U-2 Instructor pilot upgrade, 300 hours in the U-2R/S is required.
       5.3.2. Ground Training. Prospective Instructors must have knowledge of aircraft
       systems, procedures, unit primary missions, and other areas in which instructional duties
       apply. Instructor ground training is mandatory and will include, as a minimum, Instructor
       Upgrade Ground Training. AFI 11-2FT Volume 1 MD-specific attachments may include
       additional instructor upgrade ground training.
76                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        5.3.2.1. Prospective instructors will be familiar with the proper forms and procedures
        for documenting student training, including the prerequisites and ground training for
        nonqualified personnel outlined on the Non-qualified Personnel Ground Training
        syllabus.
        5.3.2.2. When accepting instructor status from another MAJCOM, the Instructor
        Upgrade Ground Training lesson plan must be accomplished to familiarize the
        crewmember with AFMC policy, instructions and regulations. The lesson plan will be
        completed prior to instructor certification and filed in section three of the
        crewmember's training folder. Upon completion of AFMC instructor training an
        individual is a basic instructor and will not instruct Phase II missions until qualified.
     5.3.3. Flying Training. Conduct instructor upgrade training in the crew position from
     which instruction will normally be performed. Instructor lessons will consist of
     demonstrations and practice of procedures and techniques used in accomplishing
     instructor duties. In addition to accomplishing the individual items on the instructor grade
     sheet during the course of the upgrade, the upgrading instructor will brief/instruct/debrief
     elements of the unit’s primary mission. One or more of these mission elements will be
     evaluated during the instructor evaluation.
     5.3.4. Instructor Certification. An instructor candidate will receive an instructor upgrade
     flight evaluation according to AFI 11-202 Volume 2/AFMCS 1. The instructor flight
     evaluation may be accomplished prior to completion of night training events but the
     individual will not perform instructor duties at night until completion of these events.
     5.3.5. Instructor Requalification. When an instructor loses aircraft qualification for 2
     years or less, the flying unit commander will determine what instructor requalification
     training is required. When concurrent instructor/requalification is accomplished, the
     limitation of not conducting Phase II training during Phase I training is not in effect.
     When an instructor loses aircraft qualification for greater than two years, the instructor
     training syllabus, as established in AFI 11-2FT Volume 1 MD-specific attachments, must
     be accomplished. In either case, an instructor requalification evaluation must be
     accomplished which includes all instructor evaluation requirements.
        5.3.5.1. When completing concurrent requalification and Instructor training place the
        Forms 67, 68, and 69 in Section I of the training folder. The requalification quantity
        of events required by the syllabus takes precedence over the quantity of required
        Instructor events. When proficient as an instructor in a training event, annotate the
        number in the events accomplished column(s).
     5.3.6. Mission Instructor. An instructor qualified in the aircraft, crew position and
     mission will conduct mission training, unless otherwise directed by MD-specific
     attachments. Instructors and flight examiners completing mission training may be
     designated/considered mission instructors upon completion of mission training unless
     restricted by MD-specific attachments.
        5.3.6.1. Upon qualification as an instructor, aircrew members will be considered
        instructor qualified in all mission types in which they are currently qualified unless a
        specific instructor training plan exists for a specific mission (e.g. ACBT instructors
        must specifically accomplish ACBT instructor requalification training).
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                            77


   5.4. Flight Examiner Certification. Squadron commanders will select and designate flight
   examiners as prescribed in AFI 11-202 Volume 2, AFMC Sup 1. Flight Examiner Upgrade
   Ground Training will be accomplished by the upgrade candidate with a flight examiner
   qualified crewmember prior to designation as a flight examiner. When accepting flight
   examiner status from another MAJCOM, the Flight Examiner Upgrade Ground Training
   lesson plan must be accomplished to familiarize the aircrew member with AFMC policy,
   instructions, and regulations. The lesson plan will be completed prior to accomplishing
   examiner duties and filed in section three of the crewmember's training folder.
6. TRAINING RESTRICTIONS. Training restrictions are incorporated throughout this
volume and attachments. AFMC operating procedures and restrictions are located in AFI 11-2FT
Volume 3.
7. ADDITIONAL TRAINING. MD-specific attachments will specify any additional training
not considered aircraft, mission, upgrade, or continuation training.
8. COMMAND TRAINING PLANS PRESCRIBED. AFMC prescribed training forms and
the overprints maintained on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server will be used by all
flying units as directed in this instruction. Training plans tailored to specific aircraft, crew
position, and/or mission are contained in the MD-specific attachments of this instruction.
   8.1. The training folder is used to organize and track training. It also serves to document
   completed training. Training folders will thoroughly document how aircrew received
   qualifications through acceptance of qualification paperwork, formal course documentation
   or completed training plans. Units will maintain training folders electronically using
   MAJCOM approved software, if possible. Otherwise, they are authorized to maintain
   training folders manually (in paper format). Electronic signatures on training forms are
   authorized. Construct and maintain folders IAW paragraph 8.5
   8.2. Training folders are required to document training for all crewmembers performing
   inflight duties aboard aircraft. For multi-qualified aircrew (rated, career enlisted aviators,
   and non-rated aircrew (NRA), flight surgeons, and operational support aircrew) training
   folders may contain multiple aircraft training documentation. If hardcopy training folders are
   maintained instead of using MAJCOM-approved software, comply with paragraph 8.5
   requirements.
   8.3. Access to electronic training folders will be restricted via a password or other means.
   Active training folders will be readily accessible to instructors and trainers, supervisory
   personnel, and the individual crewmembers in training. Instructors and trainees will review
   training folders for each specific training session. Upon completion of the session, the
   appropriate training folder documentation must be promptly completed.
   8.4. Unit training managers may file completed training folders in an inactive status as long
   as an individual is assigned to the unit. If the individual changes units, the training office
   will ensure the training folder (in electronic and/or paper format) is forwarded to the gaining
   unit. If an individual separates/retires from the USAF or is assigned to a non-flying position,
   the unit will give the training folder (in electronic and/or paper format) to the individual.
   8.5. Organize training folders as follows:
       8.5.1. Title the training folder with the trainee's name, grade, aircraft, and crew position.
78                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


     8.5.2. Divide the folder into six separate sections as described below. Use training plans
     as documentation in these sections. File completed training plans as a set (applicable
     AFMC Forms 67, 68, and 69) with the most recent set on top. The set should be ordered
     with the AFMC Form 67 on top, the AFMC Form 68 in the middle, and the AFMC
     Forms 69 last.
         8.5.2.1. Summary - Maintain a current AFMC Form 1381(on the inside cover if in
         paper form). Multiple qualified aircrew members must have an AFMC Form 1381 in
         both training folders. Annotate all completed Phase I and Phase II training
         completion items. Also annotate acceptance of non-AFMC qualification(s), AFMC
         qualifications, and other than MDS qualifications, IAW paragraph 1.6.4
         8.5.2.2. Section One (Phase 1-Basic Aircraft Qualification) - Contains ground and
         flying training documentation for Phase I training including: initial qualification,
         requalification, conversion, and difference training (to include documentation
         provided through formal course instruction).
         8.5.2.3. Section Two (Phase 2-Mission Qualification) - Contains ground and flying
         training documentation for Phase II mission qualification or mission requalification
         training. When conducting multiple, simultaneous qualifications the instructor is only
         required to complete one AFMC Form 69. A photocopy of the Form 69 should be
         placed with each ongoing qualification. Alternatively, a blank AFMC Form 69 may
         be placed with each qualification that references the “primary” Form 69.
         8.5.2.4. Section Three (AC/IP/EP qualification) - Contains ground and flying training
         upgrade documentation for copilot to first pilot (aircraft commander), instructor
         (phase 1 and phase 2), and flight examiner upgrade training.
         8.5.2.5. DELETED.
         8.5.2.6. Section Four (Other) - Contains training plans not considered part of sections
         1, 2, or 3.
         8.5.2.7. Section Five (Training/MFR Documentation) - Contains all training
         correspondence to include entry into training letters, commander
         approvals/authorization, waiver approvals, email coordination, acceptance of aircraft,
         mission, and/or upgrade qualifications, and memorandums for record. Memos for
         Record (MFRs) and associated attachments may be kept in the specific Sections of
         the training folder to which they apply in order to clarify and document qualifications.
             8.5.2.7.1. Entry into Training. Prior to beginning each phase I or phase II
             qualification, the flying unit commander or operations officer must authorize the
             training. The training may be authorized on the Letter of Xs or with an Entry into
             Training letter maintained in Section five of the training folder. In either case the
             training office must track training start and completion due dates.
  8.6. Training Plans:
     8.6.1. AFMC/A3V specified training plans used to document all AFMC aircrew training
     are provided in electronic format on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
     AFMC Forms 67, 68, and 69 are the only authorized training plans. If the training plan
     for a unique mission is not specified by AFMC/A3V, units may develop a unique training
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        79


     plan for AFMC/A3V approval. After approval, the plan must be referenced in a unit
     supplement to this instruction. Unit supplements should also include appropriate
     continuation training requirements for the unique qualification. Units will maintain
     electronic training plans using MAJCOM approved software, if possible.
     8.6.2. Training Plan Usage. To ensure the most current syllabus is used, training officers
     should only download the forms when phase I or phase II training is initiated as training
     forms frequently change and previous editions of training forms are obsolete. Training
     plans will be identified by name, approval date, and version number level, aircraft, phase,
     aircrew position, and version number.
     8.6.3. Training Plan Update Cycle. Phase I training forms will be updated in April of
     each year. Phase II training forms will be updated in September of each year.
        8.6.3.1. Mid-cycle update of a training plan. Occasionally training forms will be
        updated in-between annual reviews/updates. If that is the case, the updated form will
        be annotated with the date of the change at the bottom the form. AFMC/A3V will
        notify the affected units via email.
     8.6.4. The AFMC Form 67, Ground Training Record, is used to record all ground
     training required before the trainee's first flight. This form provides for the overprint of
     required ground training tasks. Any additional ground training (simulators, cockpit
     procedural trainers, etc.) accomplished during the flying training phase will be
     documented on the AFMC Form 68. Table 13 provides detailed instructions for
     completing the AFMC Form 67.
 80                                         AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014




Table 13. Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 67, Ground Training Record.



     A                B                                             C
    Item      Description                                        Entry
1          Name/Rank         Self-explanatory.
2          Aircraft          Specific MDS of aircraft for which training is being accomplished.
3          Crew Position     The crew position to which the individual is upgrading. For example, if
                             training is for upgrade to IP, list IP in this item.
4          Type of Training Enter the exact type of training being performed IAW HQ AFMC standard
                            nomenclature: (Unit, Phase 1 or 2 qual, Event). For instance, the AFMC
                            command specified F-16 BFM wing training plan would be titled (AFMC,
                            Phase 2, BFM wing)
5          Training Events   The left column will list the tasks and subtasks requiring specific trainee
                             knowledge. In the right columns, the instructor conducting the training will
                             print his name and date that the specific training event was completed.
6          Trainee’s         The trainee will sign and date when the last training item is completed.
           Signature/Date
7          Instructor’s      The instructor completing the last required training item on the form will
           Signature/Date    sign and date. The instructor’s signature certifies that the all required ground
                             training events have been accomplished.
8          Remarks           Record any pertinent comments or direction regarding specific training.
           8.6.5. The AFMC Form 68, Flying Training Record, is used to record all flying training.
           This form provides for the overprint of required training tasks and end-of-course
           proficiency levels for each ground/flying training task. It also records the number of
           events accomplished and proficiency level attained by the trainee. AFMC Form 68
           lesson plans establish the minimum required training events to be completed for initial
           qualification (QUAL), requalification (REQUAL), and instructor upgrade (INST). The
           AFMC Form 68 is the official certifying document for each Phase II qualification. Table
           14 provides detailed instructions for completing the AFMC Form 68.
              8.6.5.1. Grading and grade definitions. Each AFMC syllabus training event must be
              graded. Unless noted otherwise (with a “D” in the events required column) all
              training events on the AFMC Form 68 must be accomplished until Proficiency, “P”,
              is achieved. The AFMC Form 68 indicates the required events and grades for each
              training event. A grade of “P”, Proficient, “T”, Training Required, or “D”, Discussed
              will be given at the instructor’s discretion using the following definitions:
                  8.6.5.1.1. -(P) Proficient. The student demonstrated the knowledge and skill
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           81


               necessary to successfully complete the event without instructor intervention and,
               in the instructor’s opinion, will be able to repeat the event successfully in the
               future.
               8.6.5.1.2. -(T) Training required. The student did not demonstrate the knowledge
               and skill necessary to successfully complete the event. The student must continue
               training in that event until a grade of “P” is achieved.
               8.6.5.1.3. -(D) Discussed. The event requires instructor discussion only. A “P”
               or “T” grade is not assigned. Not every event may be satisfied with a “D”.

Table 14. Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 68, Flying Training Record.



    A              B                                               C
Item    Description           Entry
1       Name/Rank             Self-explanatory.
2       Aircraft              Specific MDS of aircraft for which training is being accomplished.
3       Crew Position         The crew position to which the individual is upgrading. For example, if
                              training is for upgrade to IP, list IP in this item.
4       Type of Training      Enter the exact type of training being performed IAW HQ AFMC
                              standard nomenclature: (Unit, Phase 1 or 2 qual, Event). For instance,
                              the AFMC command specified F-16 BFM wing training plan would be
                              titled (AFMC, Phase 2, BFM wing)
5       Training Events       The left column will list the tasks and subtasks requiring a specific trainee
                              proficiency standard. All listed events require a proficiency level “P” or
                              must be identified with a “D”. Break the tasks out by general areas (i.e.,
                              discussion topics, ground operations, emergency procedures, etc.). The
                              right 6 columns (excluding the far right, total events) correspond to the
                              sorties accomplished. Record in each of these columns the number of
                              events accomplished and proficiency level attained (#/P, #/T, or #/D)
                              during the sortie. The training events required have been established or
                              approved by AFMC/A3V. The trainee must attain a proficiency level of
                              "P" on the accomplishment of the last event; otherwise he or she remains
                              in a training status until proficiency is attained. If two lesson plans are
                              conducted concurrently, i.e., requalification training and instructor
                              upgrade, and similar events are required on both; the highest minimum
                              requirement listed will be accomplished. Indicate the type of training to
                              be accomplished by circling it or highlighting the appropriate column.
        Qual                  Minimum number of events per task required to complete this lesson plan.
        Requal                Minimum number of events per task required to complete this lesson plan.
        Inst                  Minimum number of events per task required to complete this lesson plan.
 82                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


6        Flight Evaluation/ Date flight evaluation or training completion is due. See paragraph
         Training Due Date 1.6.8.3. for time limits.
7        Reviewing/           Printed name, signature, and date of OG/CC, squadron commander, or
         Certifying Officer   operations officer signifying completion of training prior to administering
         and Date             flight evaluation. If flight evaluation is not required, the signature
                              certifies all training is complete and individual is certified to perform the
                              particular mission for which training was accomplished.
8        Instructor/Date      Date and signature of instructor upon completion of specific sorties.
9        Remarks              Record any pertinent comments or direction regarding specific training.

Table 14. (EDWARDSAFB) Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 68, Flying
Training Record
  A               B                                             C
Item     Description           Entry
5        Training Events       If the training situation makes an item not applicable and there
                               is specific allowance in the plan, select “N/A” on the AFMC
                               Form 68. Document the reason(s) the item(s) was/were “N/A”,
                               where appropriate, in the Training Comments portion of the
                               AFMC Form 69.
7        Reviewing/            Flying unit commanders/CTF directors may authorize (in
         Certifying Officer    writing) their detachment commanders or detachment
         and Date              operations officers reviewing/certifying officer authority.
          8.6.5.2. Proficiency Advancement. If the student demonstrates proficiency in at least
          50 percent of the minimum required events, the instructor, with training officer
          concurrence, may proficiency advance that item. For example: if the minimum
          number of required air refueling contacts was 4 and the student is proficient for at
          least two contacts, then the instructor may recommend advancing that training item.
          Comments on the associated AFMC Form 69 will describe which items were
          advanced. Training officer/NCO initials/ signature in Block 9 serves as concurrence
          for proficiency advancement. If training is complete, the number of required sorties
          may also be reduced using these same guidelines. If the student reaches proficiency
          and then regresses, proficiency must be regained before training is complete.
          8.6.5.3. Training events listed may be completed in any order. The instructor will be
          responsible for constructing a profile for each training flight based on the student's
          proficiency and the minimum number of events to be completed.
       8.6.6. The AFMC Form 69, Flying Training Comments, is used to document flying
       training. This form is used in conjunction with AFMC Form 68, or can be used
       independently to document training (e.g. re-currency training). It provides for narrative
       descriptions of the trainee's progress and a means for documenting the training office
       review. Maintain with AFMC Form 68 in the appropriate section of the training folder.
       A separate AFMC Form 69 should accompany each type of flight training received (i.e.
       each AFMC Form 68). The instructor will document any significant problems the
       student has in completing a training event in enough detail so that subsequent instructors
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         83


        can provide appropriate training. Table 15 provides detailed instructions for completing
        the AFMC Form 69.

Table 15. Instructions for Completing AFMC Form 69, Flying Training Comments.



    A             B                                               C
Item     Description        Entry
1        Name/Rank          Self-explanatory.
2        Type Of Training Enter the exact type of training being performed. (i.e., F-15A to F-15E
                          conversion training.
3        Flight Number      Consecutive sortie number to agree with corresponding sortie number on
                            AFMC Form 68. Units may consider a preflight/ground abort a sortie if
                            any training is accomplished (may not credit a sortie for currency or
                            proficiency). Units may also use an abbreviation such as LAO 1, as long
                            as the same designation is used on the AFMC Form 68.
4        Date               Date of the specific sortie.
5        MDS                Mission, design and series of aircraft in which training was accomplished.
6        Comments           MISSION OVERVIEW: Describe the mission scenario, including mission
                            profile, and any events that impacted the mission (i.e., tanker MX cancel,
                            weather, etc.).
                            STRENGTH: Comments should elaborate on trainee’s strengths and
                            indicate student progress.
                            AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT: Describe the trainee’s weaknesses,
                            identify problem areas, and areas requiring student self study, and record
                            unusual circumstances.
                            RECOMMENDATIONS: Recommendations should include tasks
                            requiring further training and the type of training required. Local
                            overprints are authorized. If more space is needed, use the next blank
                            section. Upon completion of all training requirements, a statement such as
                            “Recommended for evaluation” or “All training requirements for weapons
                            delivery completed” are appropriate. However, a statement such as
                            “cleared for weapons delivery mission” is not appropriate as only OG/CC,
                            squadron commander, or operations officer may certify an individual for a
                            mission.
7        Instructor         Instructor will sign at completion of sortie.
8        Student/Date       Trainee will sign and date at completion of sortie.
9        Training Office    The training officer/NCO, or individual in the trainee’s chain of command,
         Review/Date        will review the comments before the next training sortie. He or she should
84                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                         highlight any comments that are pertinent to follow-on training. Annotate
                         this review by initials of training officer/NCO conducting review and date
                         of review. When conditions preclude a timely review, the instructor will
                         explain in remarks.
     8.6.7. The AF Form 1381, Certification of Aircrew Training, is used to document Phase
     1qualifications, Phase 2 qualifications and other than MDS qualifications (SOF, SUP,
     ODO, etc.). It may be signed by the OG/CC, unit commander, operations officer
     (electronic “signatures” are permitted). Units may document any other special
     certifications other than MDS qualifications that are tracked on the qualification roster
     (Letter of Xs). For multiple qualified aircrew members, document training received in
     one aircraft, which qualifies him/her in additional aircraft (i.e. LAO) by annotating the
     specific training being credited and the aircraft in which the training was completed. The
     AF Form 1381 is filed in the summary section of the training folder.
     8.6.7. (EDWARDSAFB) The qualification roster (Letter of Xs) will not include aircraft
     qualifications not documented on the AF Form(s) 1381.
        8.6.7.1. AF Form 1381 Documentation.
            8.6.7.1.1. The AF Form 1381 may be maintained electronically and updated as
            qualifications are attained.
            8.6.7.1.2. For Phase I training, the date of the successful Form 8 evaluation will
            be placed in the “Date Completed” block. For Phase II training, the date the
            training was completed (last sortie or last ground training class if only ground
            training is required) will be placed in the “Date Completed” block.




                                          HERBERT J. CARLISLE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                          (EDWARDSAFB)

                                          MICHAEL T. BREWER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                               85


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 Oct 2006
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, 1 May 1998
AFI 10-220 (I), Contractor’s Flight and Ground Operations, 1 Mar 2007
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures, 14 Jan 2005
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 01 Sep 2004
AFI 11-2FT-Volume 2, Flight Test Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, Pending
AFI 11-2FT- Volume 3, Flight Test Operations Procedures, Pending
AFMCI 11-201, Supervision of Flight Operations, 1 Aug 2007
AFI 11-202V1, Aircrew Training, 22 Nov 2010
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) AFI 11-2FT-Volume 1, Flight Test Aircrew Training, 20 September
2011, IC1 19 August 2013
AFI 11-202V2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 Sep 2010
AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules, 22 Oct 2010
AFH 11-203V1, Weather for Aircrews, 1 Mar 1997
AFI 11-205, Aircraft Cockpit and Formation Flight Signals, 19 May 1994
AFI 11-207, Combat Aircraft Delivery, 24 Oct 2007
AFI 11-209, Aerial Event Policy and Procedures, 4 May 2006
AFMAN 11-210, Instrument Refresher Course (IRC) Program, 3 Feb 2005
AFI 11-214, Air Operations Rules and Procedures, 22 Dec 2005
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 Dec 2008
AFPAM 11-216, Air Navigation, 1 Mar 2001
AFI 11-218, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 11 May 05
AFMAN 11-217V1, Instrument Flight Procedures, 22 Oct 2010
AFMAN 11-217V2, Instrument Flight Procedures, 22 Oct 2010
AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures, 30 Mar 2010
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Training Program, 11 Apr 2001
AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program, 25 Feb 2009
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 Dec 2010
 86                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


AFI 11-402, Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation Badges, 13
Dec 2010
AFI 11-403, Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
AFI 11-404, Centrifuge Training for High-G Aircrew, 28 Oct 2005
AFI 11-405, The Pilot-Physician Program, 2 Oct 2000
AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations, 4 Aug 2008
AFI 11-412, Aircrew Management, 10 Dec 2009
AFI 11-418, Operations Supervision, 21 Oct 2005
AFPAM 11-419, G-Awareness for Aircrew, 1 Dec 1999
AFI 11-421, Aviation Resource Management, 1 Nov 2004
AFI 13-201, Airspace Management, 1 Dec 2006
AFI 13-202, Overdue Aircraft, 11 Mar 2010
AFI 13-212, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, 8 Apr 2010
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 Sep 2006
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 Nov 1993
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 27 Oct 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 36-2201, Volume 1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation, 1 Oct 2002
AFI 36-2251, Management of Air Force Training Systems, 20 Mar 2003
AFI 44-170, Preventive Health Assessment, 10 Dec 2009
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 Sep 2009
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 Feb 1994
DCMA INST 8210.1, Contractor Flight and Ground Operations, 1 Mar 2007
DOD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations (FMRs), Volume
7A, Military Pay Policy and Procedures – Active Duty and Reserve Pay, 5 Sep 2010
DODI 7730.57, Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974 and Required Annual Report, 18 Jul 2003
Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 61, Certification: Pilots, Flight Instructors, and
Ground Instructors, current edition
NOTES:
1. The entire AFTTP3-1 and 3-3 series of instructions contains useful reference information for
areas not specifically covered in the instruction and may be used to enhance safe operations.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       87


2. Guidance in aircraft Flight Manuals, performance manuals, weapons delivery manuals, air
refueling manuals and Technical Orders are the primary references for operation of the
corresponding aircraft.
Prescribed Forms
AFMC Form 67, Ground Training Record. Mar 99
AFMC Form 68, Flying Training Record, 31 May 2007
AFMC Form 69, Flying Training Comments, 12 Jan 2004
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) EDWARDSAFB Form 5110, Training Request
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 1381, USAF Certification of Aircrew Training, 01 Mar 1976
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) AF Form(s) 1381, USAF Certification Of Air Crew Training
AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification, 08 Dec 2006
AF Form 8A, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification (Multiple Aircraft), 08 Dec 2006
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) AFMC Form 68, Flying Training Record
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) AFMC Form 69, Flying Training Comments
(Added-EDWARDSAFB) AFMC Form 80, Multiple Qualification Request and Authorization
AF Form 4348 USAF Aircrew Certifications, 08 Dec 2006
AFTO 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document, 11 Sep 2008
AFMC Form 73, AFMC Flight Operations Waiver Request, 07 Nov 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/A—Air to Air
AAC—Air Armament Center
AAI—Air to Air Intercept
AB—Afterburner
AC—Aircraft Commander
ACF—Acceptance Check Flight
ACBT—Air Combat Training
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCI—Air Combat Command Instruction
ACCMAN—Air Combat Command Manual
ACCR—Air Combat Command Regulation
 88                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


AC2ISRC—Aerospace Command and Control & Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Center
ADI—Attitude Director Indicator
ADS—Aerial Delivery System/Support
AFAC—Air Forward Air Controller
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFFTC—Air Force Flight Test Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFM—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFMSS—Air Force Mission Support System
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSATCOM—Air Force Satellite Communication
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
AGL—Above Ground Level
AGM—Air to Ground Missile
AHC—Aircraft Handling Characteristics
AHRS—Attitude Heading Reference System
AIM—Air Intercept Missile
AIRMET—Airman’s Meteorological Information
ALCM—Air Launched Cruise Missile
ALTRV—Altitude Reservation
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AOA—Angle of Attack
API—Aircrew Position Indicator
APU—Auxiliary Power Unit
AR—Air Refueling
ARA—Airborne Radar Approach
ARCP—Air Refueling Control Point
ARCT—Air Refueling Control Time
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014          89


ARDA—Airborne Radar Directed Approach
ARIP—Air Refueling Initial Point
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ARTCC—Air Route Traffic Control Center
ASL—Above Sea Level
ASR—Airport Surveillance Report
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATD—Aircrew Training Device
AVTR—Aircraft Video Tape Recorder
AWACS—Airborne Warning and Control System
BASH—Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard
BFM—Basic Fighter Maneuver
BIT—Built-in Test
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BRA—Bomb Rack Assembly/Bearing-Range-Altitude
BRL—Bomb Release Line
BW—Bomb Wing
BQ—Basic Qualified
CADC—Central Air data Computer
CAPS—Critical Action Procedures
CATM—Captive Air Training Missile
CARA—Combined Altitude Radar Altimeter
CBI—Computer Based Instruction
CC—Commander
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CCP—Command Chief Pilot
CDS—Container Delivery System
CE—Combat Edge
CEA—Career Enlisted Aviator
CFIC—Central Flight Instructor Course
CFL—Critical Field Length
CFP—Compatibility Flight Profile
 90                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


CFPS—Combat Flight Planning System
CFT—Cockpit Familiarization Trainer
CFTR—Combined Force Training
CG—Center of Gravity
CHUM—Chart Update Manual
COMSEC—Communications Security
CPT—Cockpit Procedures Trainer
CRM—Crew Resource Management
CSS—Control Stick Steering
CT—Continuation Training
CTP—Companion Trainer Program
CW—Chemical Warfare
DACBT—Dissimilar Air Combat Training
DACT—Dissimilar Air Combat Tactics
DAFIF—Digital Aeronautical Flight Information File
DCPPI—Displaced Center Plan Position Indicator
DFO—Director of Flight Operations
DH—Decision Height
DMPI—Designated Mean Point of Impact
DNIF—Duty Not Involving Flying
DO—Director of Operations
DOD—Department of Defense
DR—Dead Reckoning
DSO—Defensive Systems Officer
DTC—Data Transfer Cartridge
DTUC—Data Transfer Unit Cartridge
DTU—Data Transfer Unit
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
DZ—Drop Zone
EA—Electronic Attack
EADI—Electronic Altitude Director Indicator
EC—Electronic Combat
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                           91


ECM—Electronic Countermeasures
EEFI—Essential Elements of Friendly Information
EMCON—Emission Control
EO—Electro-Optical
EMI—Electromagnetic Interference
EOD—Explosive Ordinance Disposal
EOR—End of Runway
EP—Evaluator Pilot/Emergency Procedure
EPE—Emergency Procedures Evaluation
EPR—Exhaust Pressure Ratio
EPU—Emergency Power Unit
ERCC—Engine Running Crew Change
ESA—Emergency Safe Altitude
ETA—Expected Time of Arrival
ETCA—Education Training Course Announcement
EVS—Electro-Optical Viewing System
EWO—Electronic Warfare Officer
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAAH—Federal Aviation Administration Handbook
FAF—Final Approach Fix
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
FENCE—Fuel, Emissions, Navigation, Communications, Expendables
FEO—Flight Equipment Officer
FCD—Flight Characteristic Demonstration
FCF—Functional Check Flight
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FCS—Flight Control System
FE—Flight Engineer
FEB—Flight Evaluation Board
FIC—Flight Instructor Course
FIE—Fighter Inceptor Exercise
FL—Flight Level; Flight Lead
 92                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


FLIP—Flight Information Publications
FLIR—Forward Looking Infrared
FM—Field Manual/Frequency Modulation
FOD—Foreign Object Damage/Debris
FQIS—Fuel Quantity Indicating System
FRL—Fuselage Reference Line
FSS—Flight Service Station
FTU—Formal Training Unit
FTT—Flight Test Technique
FVR—Flight Vector Reference
FWS—Fighter Weapons School
GCAS—Ground Collision Avoidance System
GCC—Graduated Combat Capability
GCI—Ground Control Intercept
GFAC—Ground Forward Air Controller
GFR—Government Flight Representative
GPS—Global Positioning System
GS—Ground Station (LRE or MCE)
GSS—Gyro Stabilization System
GRM—Gate Release Mechanism
HA—Absolute Altitude
HAA—Height Above Aerodrome
HAHO—High Altitude High Opening Technique
HALO—High Altitude Low Opening Technique
HAT—Height Above Touchdown
HDBK—Handbook
HF—High Frequency
HHD—Higher Headquarters Directed
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ—Headquarters
HUD—Heads-up Display
IAF—Initial Approach Fix
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                             93


IAW—In Accordance With
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
ID—Identification
IF—Instructor Aerial Photographer
IFF—Identification Friend or Foe
IFR—Instrument Flight Rules
ILS—Instrument Landing System
IMC—Instrument Meteorological Conditions
INS—Inertial Navigation System
INU—Initial Navigation Unit
IOS—Instructor Operator Station
IP—Instructor Pilot or Initial Point
IQC—Initial Qualification Course
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IR—IFR Military Training Route
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
JDAM—Joint Direct Attack Munition
JOAP—Joint Oil Analysis Program
KCAS—Knots Calibrated Airspeed
KGS—Knots Ground Speed
KIAS—Knots Indicated Airspeed
KTAS—Knots True Airspeed
LAAF—LANTIRN Altitude Advisory Function
LANTIRN—Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night
LASDT—Low Altitude Step Down
LASTE—Low Altitude Safety and Targeting Enhancement
LAWS—Low Altitude Warning System
LOWAT—Low Altitude Training Below 5000 Ft
LASTE—Low Altitude Safety and Targeting Enhancement
LC—Lost Communications
LG—Logistics Group
LIS—Line in the Sky
 94                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


LAO—Local Area Orientation
LPU—Life Preserver Units
LRE—Launch and Recovery Element
LZ—Landing Zone
MAC—Mean Aerodynamic Chord
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Missed Approach Point
MARSA—Military Assumes Responsibility for Separation of Aircraft
MAU—Miscellaneous Armament Unit
MC—Mission Capable/Mission Commander
MCE—Mission Control Element
MCH—Multi-Command Handbook
MCM—Multi-Command Manual
MCOPR—MAJCOM Office of Primary Responsibility
MCR—Multi-Command Regulation
MD—Mission Design
MDS—Mission Design Series
MDA—Minimum Descent Altitude
MEA—Minimum Enroute Altitude
MEL—Minimum Equipment List
MEP—Mission Essential Personnel
MESP—Maintenance Engineering Support Personnel
MFD—Multi-Functional Display
MIL—Military
MITO—Minimum Interval Takeoff
ML—Mission Lead
MLG—Main Landing Gear
MOA—Military Operating Area
MP—Mission Pilot
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MRR—Minimum Runway Required
MS—Mission Support
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                  95


MSA—Minimum Safe Altitude
MSL—Mean Sea Level
MT—Mission Trainer
MTR—Military Training Route
MP—Mission Pilot
MPS—Mission Planning Software/Mission Planning System
MVR—Maneuver
N/A—Not Applicable
NDI—Non-Destructive Inspection
NM—Nautical Miles
NMR—Non Mission Ready
NORDO—No Radio
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NSS—Navigation System
NVG—Night Vision Goggles
NVIS—Night Vision Imaging System
OAS—Offensive Avionics System
OFP—Operational Flight Program
OG—Operations Group
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OMR—Optical Mark Reader
ONC—Operational Navigation Charts
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSEC—Operations Security
OSO—Offensive Systems Officer
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
OWS—Overload Warning System
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
PAR—Precision Approach Radar
PIC—Pilot in Command
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PDS—Parachute Deployment System
 96                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


PECP—Primary Entry Control Point
PF—Pilot Flying
PFD—Primary Flight Display
PFPS—Portable Flight Planning Software
PIC—Pilot in Command
PIREP—Pilot Report (Weather)
PMSV—Pilot to Metro Service
PNF—Pilot Not Flying
POC—Point of Contact
PPI—Plan Position Indicator
PTA—Planned Time of Arrival
PTAIP—Primary Terrain Avoidance Initiation Point
RAA—Route Abort Altitude
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
RCO—Range Control Officer
RCR—Runway Conditions Reading
RCS—Radar Cross Section
RDT&E—Research Developmental Test and Evaluation
RIA—Recovery Initiation Altitude
RLA—Rotary Launcher Assembly
RNAV—Enroute Area Navigation
ROE—Rules of Engagement
RP—Remote Pilot
RPI—Rated Position Identifier
RPM—Revolutions Per Minute
RSO—Remote Sensor Operator
RTB—Return to Base
RVR—Runway Visual Range
RQC—Requalification Course
RWR—Radar Warning Receiver
RZ—Rendezvous
SA—Situational Awareness or Surface Attack
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014              97


SAR—Search and Rescue or Synthetic Aperture Radar
SARCAP—Search and Rescue Combat Air Patrol
SAT—Surface Attack Tactics
SCA—Self Contained Approach
SD—Spatial Disorientation
SEFE—Stan/Eval Flight Examiner
SELO—Stan/Eval Liaison Officer
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
SFO—Simulated Flame Out
SIF—Selective Identification Feature
SIGMET—Significant Meteorological Information
SILS—Synthetic Instrument Landing System
SKE—Station Keeping Equipment
SMA—Start Maneuver Area
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
SPINS—Special Instructions
SPD—System Program Director
SPR—Single Point Refueling
SQ—Squadron
SRB—Safety Review Board
SSE—Simulated Single Engine
SSM—System Support Manager
STAN/EVAL—Standardization & Evaluation
STV—Steerable Television
SUU—Bomb Suspension and Release Unit
TA—Terrain Avoidance
TACAN—Tactical Air Navigation
TAL—Transfer Alignment
TAS—True Air Speed
TBD—To Be Determined/Developed
TDY—Temporary Duty
TDZ—Touch Down Zone
 98                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


TERPS—Terminal Instrument Procedures
TF—Terrain Following
TFR—Terrain Following Radar
TOLD—Take Off Landing Data
TOT—Time Over Target
TPC—Tactical Pilotage Chart
TPS—Test Pilot School
TR—Transit Route
TRB—Technical Review Board
TSO—Target Study Officer
TTR—Tactics and Training Range
UAS—Unmanned Aerial System
UDLM—Unscheduled Depot Level Maintenance
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USAF—Unit States Air Force
USAFTPS—United States Air Force Test Pilot School
UTD—Unit Training Device
VASI—Visual Approach Slope Indicator
VDP—Visual Descent Point
VOR—VHF Omni Range
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
VHF—Very High Frequency
VLD—Visual Level Delivery
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
VR—VFR Military Training Route
VRD—Vision Restricting Device
VTR—Video Tape Recorder
WD—Weapons Delivery
WSO—Weapons Systems Officer
WST—Weapons Systems Trainer
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           99


Terms
Additional Crew Member (ACM)—Mobility aircrew members and authorized flight examiners
possessing valid aeronautical orders who are authorized to accompany the normal crew
complement required for that mission.
Airlift—Aircraft is considered to be performing airlift when manifested passengers or cargo are
carried.
Allowable Cabin Load (ACL)—The maximum payload that can be carried on a individual
sortie.
Alternate Entry Control Point (Alternate Entry Fix)—The route point(s) upon which a
control time for an alternate entry into the route is based.
Assault Landing Zone (ALZ)—A paved or semi-prepared (unpaved) airfield used to conduct
operations in an airfield environment similar to forward operating locations. ALZ runways are
typically shorter and narrower than standard runways.
Augmented Crew—Basic aircrew supplemented by additional qualified aircrew members to
permit in-flight rest periods.
Bingo Fuel—The computed fuel remaining at a point in flight that will allow safe return to the
point of intended landing with required fuel reserve.
Block Time—Time determined by the scheduling agency responsible for mission
accomplishment for the aircraft to arrive at (block in) or depart from (block out) the parking spot.
Category I Route—Any route that does not meet the requirements of a category II route,
including tactical navigation and over-water routes.
Category II Route—Any route on which the position of the aircraft can be accurately
determined by the overhead crossing of a radio aid (NDB, VOR, TACAN) at least once each
hour with the positive course guidance between such radio aids.
Circular Error Average (CEA)—Indicator of the accuracy of an airdrop operation. It is the
radius of a circle within which half of the air-dropped personnel and items or material have
fallen.
Combat Control Team (CCT)—A small task-organized team of Air Force parachute and
combat diver qualified personnel trained and equipped to rapidly establish and control drop,
landing, and extraction zone air traffic in austere or hostile conditions. They survey and establish
terminal airheads as well as provide guidance to aircraft for airlift operation. They provide
command and control, and conduct reconnaissance, surveillance, and survey assessments of
potential objective airfields or assault zones. They also can perform limited weather
observations and removal of obstacles or unexploded ordinance with demolitions. Also called
CCT.
Command Chief Pilot—An aircrew assigned to AFMC/A3V or an appointee that assists the HQ
Stan/Eval team and conducts flight evaluations on behalf of the headquarters.
Command Specified—Created, authored and approved by AFMC/A3V. Configuration control
rests with AFMC/A3V.
 100                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Conference HOTEL—Communication conference available to help aircrews solve in-flight
problems that require additional expertise.
Continuation requirements—Those pertaining to currency and proficiency requirements.
Critical Phase of Flight—Takeoff, low level (below MSA), airdrop, weapon delivery, air
refueling, approach, and landing.
Deadhead Time—Duty time for crewmembers positioning or de-positioning for a mission or
mission support function and not performing crew duties.
Deviation—A deviation occurs when takeoff time is not within –20/+14 minutes of scheduled
takeoff time.
Difference (conversion) Evaluation—An evaluation administered to an aircrew qualified in a
variant of a particular aircraft. For example, variants of the B-707 airframe, different series of a
particular M/D, or different block versions. Difference training is considered Phase I (initial
qualification) training.
Direct Instructor Supervision—Supervision by an instructor of like specialty with immediate
access to controls (for pilots, the instructor must occupy either the pilot or copilot seat).
Drop Zone (DZ)—A specified area upon which airborne troops, equipment, or supplies are air-
dropped.
Due Regard—Operational situations that do not lend themselves to International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) flight procedures, such as military contingencies, classified missions,
politically sensitive missions, or training activities. Flight under “Due Regard” obligates the
military aircraft commander to be his or her own air traffic control (ATC) agency and to separate
his or her aircraft from all other air traffic. (See FLIP General Planning, section 7)
DZ Entry Point—A fixed point on DZ run-in course where an aircraft or formation or aircraft
may safely begin descent from IFR en route altitude to IFR drop altitude. The DZ entry point is a
maximum of 40 NM prior to the DZ exit point according to Federal Aviation Administration
FAR exemption 4371C. Formation descent will not begin until the last aircraft in formation is at
or past the DZ entry point.
DZ Exit Point—A fixed point on the DZ escape flight path centerline, established during pre-
mission planning, at which the formation will be at the minimum IFR en route altitude. Calculate
the exit point based upon three-engine performance at airdrop gross weight. This point will be
planned no less than four NM track distance beyond the DZ trailing edge.
Earliest Descent Point (EDP)—Earliest point in the DZ run-in course where the lead aircraft
may begin IFR descent to IFR drop altitude and be assured of terrain clearance for the entire
formation. Compute EDP by subtracting formation length from the computed DZ entry point.
Equal Time Point—Point along a route at which an aircraft may either proceed to destination or
first suitable airport or return to departure base or last suitable airport in the same amount of time
based on all engines operating.
End Maneuver Area (EMA)—A control point terminating the bomb run area.
Entry Control Time—The scheduled time over the Primary/Alternate Entry Control Point.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         101


Entry Track—A track, usually associated with a bomber IR and beginning at the Primary or
alternate Entry Point, along which descent is made to the low altitude portion of the route.
Estimated Time In Commission (ETIC)—Estimated time required to complete required
maintenance.
Evaluation Form—Worksheet used to document any evaluation to prepare the AF Form 8.
Execution—Command-level approval for initiation of a mission or portion thereof after due
consideration of all pertinent factors. Execution authority is restricted to designated command
authority.
Familiar Field—An airport in the local flying area at which unit assigned aircraft routinely
perform transition training. Each operations group commander will designate familiar fields
within their local flying area.
Fix—A position determined from terrestrial, electronic, or astronomical data.
Fuel:—
Normal Fuel—Fuel state on initial or at the final approach fix such that the aircraft can land
with the fuel reserves specified in 11-202 Vol. 3.
Minimum Fuel—Fuel state, where, upon reaching the destination, the aircraft can accept little or
no delay. This is not an emergency situation but merely indicates an emergency situation is
possible should any undue delay occur.
Emergency Fuel—Fuel state requires immediate traffic priority to safely recover the aircraft. An
emergency will be declared and the aircraft immediately recovered at the nearest suitable field.
Ground Collision Avoidance System (GCAS)—Automated system which actively or semi-
actively warns aircrew of impending ground collision.
Global Decision Support System (GDSS)—AMC primary execution command and control
system. GDSS is used to manage the execution of AMC airlift and tanker missions.
Hazardous Cargo or Materials (HAZMAT)—Articles or substances that are capable of posing
significant risk to health, safety, or property when transported by air and classified as explosive
(class 1), compressed gas (class 2), flammable liquid (class 3), flammable solid (class 4) oxidizer
and organic peroxide (class 5), poison and infectious substances (class 6), radioactive material
(class 7), corrosive material (class 8), or miscellaneous dangerous goods (class 9). Classes may
be subdivided into divisions to further identify hazard (i.e., 1.1, 2.3, 6.1, etc.).
Initial Cadre—Those personnel assigned to conduct flight testing of experimental,
developmental, or new aircraft for which there are no established formal training programs nor
standardized evaluation criteria. Initial Cadre designations are appropriate through Initial
Operational Capability.
Instructor Supervision—Supervision by an instructor of like specialty (see also Direct
Instructor Supervision).
Inter-fly—The exchange and/or substitution of aircrews and aircraft between Mobility Air
Forces (MAF) including crewmembers and/or aircraft from AETC, ACC, PACAF, USAFE,
AMC, ANG and AFRC forces not gained by AFMC.
 102                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Jumpmaster—The assigned airborne qualified individual who controls parachutists from the
time they enter the aircraft until they exit.
Knock-it-Off—A term any crewmember may call to terminate a training maneuver. Upon
hearing “knock-it-off” the crew should establish a safe altitude, airspeed and return the aircraft
power and flight controls to a normal configuration.
Landing Zone (LZ)—An area of sufficient size to allow discharge or pickup of passengers or
cargo by touchdown or low hover.
Low Altitude Safety Targeting Enhancement (LASTE)—A-10 avionics system.
Latest Descent Point—Latest planned point on the DZ run-in course where the formation plans
to initiate descent to drop altitude. This is planned to ensure all aircraft in the formation are
stabilized (on altitude and airspeed) prior to the drop.
Lead Crew—A crew consisting of a lead qualified aircraft commander and a lead qualified
navigator.
Letter of “X”s—A document used in AFMC, signed by an appropriate authority, that lists each
assigned/ attached aircrew’s aircraft designation, crew position, and mission qualifications.
Local Training Mission—A mission scheduled to originate and terminate at home station (or an
off-station training mission), generated for training or evaluation and executed at the local level.
Low Altitude Navigation Leg—The route segments of a bomber IR between the TA Initiation
Point and TA Termination Point. For non-bomber IR, the low altitude navigation leg is that
portion of the route designed primarily for low altitude flight; does not include segments
intended for descent into and climb-out from the route.
Maintenance Status—
Code 1—No maintenance required.
Code 2 (Plus Noun)—Minor maintenance required, but not serious enough to cause delay. Add
nouns that identify the affected units or systems, i.e. hydraulic, ultra high frequency (UHF) radio,
radar, engine, fuel control, generator, etc. Attempt to describe the nature of the system
malfunction to the extent that appropriate maintenance personnel will be available to meet the
aircraft. When possible, identify system as mission essential (ME) or mission contributing (MC).
Code 3 (Plus Noun)—Major maintenance. Delay is anticipated. Affected units or systems are to
be identified as in Code 2 status above.
Manmade Obstructions—Structures which present a hazard to flight. Structure height is
measured from the ground-base.
Mark—The time when an aircraft passes over the landing zone or ground party.
Mission—1. The task, together with the purpose, that clearly indicates the action to be taken and
the reason therefore. 2. In common usage, especially when applied to lower military units, a duty
assigned to an individual or unit; a task. 3. The dispatching of one or more aircraft to accomplish
one particular task.
Mission Contributing (MC)—Any degraded component, system, or subsystem which is
desired, but not essential to mission accomplishment.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        103


Mission Essential (ME)—An degraded component, system, or subsystem which is essential for
safe aircraft operation or mission completion.
Modified Contour—Flight in reference to base altitude above the terrain with momentary
deviations above and below the base altitude for terrain depressions and obstructions to permit a
smooth flight profile.
Off Station Training Flight—A training flight that originates or terminates at other than home
station that is specifically generated to provide the aircrew experience in operating away from
home station. Off station trainers will not be generated solely to transport passengers, cargo, or
position/deposition crewmembers.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)—A logic-based common sense approach to making
calculated decisions on human, material, and environmental factors before, during, and after Air
Force operations. It enables commanders, functional managers and supervisors to maximize
operational capabilities while minimizing risks by applying a simple systematic process
appropriated for all personnel and Air Force functions.
Operational Site—An LZ that has (1) been surveyed by an instructor pilot (IP) experienced in
remote operations to ensure no hazards exist, (2) a photograph available for aircrews to study the
site prior to landing and (3) approval from the DFO to be designated an operational site.
Whenever practical, operational sites should have permanently installed and properly maintained
wind indicators (wind sock, streamer, etc.).
Opportune Airlift—Transportation of personnel, cargo, or both aboard aircraft with no
expenditure of additional flying hours to support the airlift.
Originating Station—Base from which an aircraft starts on an assigned mission. May or may
not be the home station of the aircraft.
Over Water Flight—Any flight that exceeds power off gliding distance from land.
Phase I Training—For primary crewmembers includes qualification, requalification, and
instructor training.
Phase II Training—Includes mission training outside the scope of basic qualification training.
Examples include: ACBT, air refueling, chase, low level, and LASDT.
Phase III Training—Includes training mission/event currency and proficiency to maintain
qualifications obtained in Phase I and Phase II Training.
Primary /Alternate Exit Point—The final way-point published in FLIP for the primary or
alternate exit route. For bomber IR, the final point on the climb-out track. For other routes, may
coincide with the final TA Termination Point.
Primary/Alternate TA Initiation Point (Initial/Start TA)—The way-point at which aircrew
are authorized to begin TA operations.
Primary/Alternate TA Termination Point (Final/End TA)—The point which denotes the end
of TA operations.
Primary Entry Control Point (PECP)—Referred to as the Entry Fix. The route point upon
which a control time for route entry is based.
 104                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Provisions—A statement on the front of the AF Form 8 indicating conditions for which the
evaluation may satisfy recurring evaluation requirements, usually used for no-notice or out-of-
the-eligibility-period evaluation. For example: “Provision: Open and closed book exams due
NLT 30 Apr 97.”
Reentry Track—A track, commencing at the end of a Maneuver Area, on which low altitude re-
entry to the route can be achieved to execute additional bomb/ECM/AGM runs.
Restriction—A statement on the front of the AF Form 8 that places limitations on the duties that
may be performed by an aircrew, usually as a result of a failed ground or flight phase event. For
example, “Restriction: Examinee will not fly unless under the supervision of an instructor pilot,
Day Only, Conus Only.”
Route Width (Route Perimeter)—The route boundary limits within which aircraft are
restricted to conduct operations.
Senior Flight Examiner—A commander authorized to conduct SPOT evaluations for
assigned/attached aircrews.
Significant Meteorological Information (SIGMET)—Area weather advisory issued by an
ICAO meteorological office relayed to and broadcast by the applicable ATC agency. SIGMET
advisories are issued for tornadoes, lines of thunderstorms, embedded thunderstorms, large hail,
sever and extreme turbulence, severe icing, and widespread dust or sand storms. SIGMET
frequently covers a large geographical area and vertical thickness. They are prepared for general
aviation and may not consider aircraft type or capability.
Single-Pilot Aircraft—Aircraft that require a minimum crew of only one pilot as defined the
aircraft’s flight manual (i.e. F-16, F-15A-E).
Single-Place Aircraft—Aircraft that possess only one seat in all versions (i.e. A-10, F-22, F-35).
Squadron Top 3—Squadron ADO, DO, CC.
Stabilization Point—Point on the DZ run-in course at which the lead aircraft should plan to be
stabilized at drop altitude and airspeed. This point will be planned to be at least 6 NM prior to the
point of impact.
Station Time—In air transport operations, the time at which crews, passengers, and cargo are to
be on board and ready for the flight.
Start Maneuver Area (SMA)—The point that defines the start of the bomb run area. Timing
control must be within applicable tolerances.
Suitable Airfield (C-130)—Normally, suitable airfields are those that meet C-130 weather, fuel,
and runway requirements (chapter 6) are within 50 NM of flight plan course centerline.
Temporary-2 (T-2) Modification—T-2 modifications are temporary modification required to
support research, development, test, and evaluation (RDT&E), in service testing of potential
replacement items (form, fit, and function), and for aircraft/stores compatibility testing.
Tactical Event (C-130)—Airdrop, low level, formation, and threat avoidance approaches/
departures.
TA Visual Conditions (B-52)—Weather conditions that permit aircraft operations clear of
clouds, provide the pilots visual contact with the ground, and three miles forward visibility.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         105


Terminal Fuel Flow (TFF) (C-130)—The fuel flow rate expected during the last hour at cruise
altitude. It is the difference between the fuel required for en-route time plus one hour and fuel
required for en-route time. TFF may also be computed using the T.O. 1C-130X-1-1 fuel flow
table and the estimated aircraft weight at destination. Estimated gross weight is determined by
subtracting fuel burn off from takeoff gross weight.
Terrain Avoidance (TA) (B-52)—Method of maintaining ground clearance by Terrain Trace,
EVS, or Radarscope Interpretation as close to the terrain as equipment, command directives, and
crew judgment allow.
Time Out—See definition for “Knock it Off.”
Training Mission—Mission executed at the unit level for the sole purpose of aircrew training
for upgrade or proficiency. Does not include operational missions as defined in this AFI.
Unilateral—Operations confined to a single service.
Unit Specified—Developed, published and maintained at the unit level. Approval required from
HQ AFMC.
Visual Contour Flight—Operation at a predetermined altitude above the ground, following
contours visually using the radar altimeter to crosscheck altitude. An operating radar altimeter is
required.
Visual Reconnaissance—Aerial survey of areas, routes, or LZs.
Zero Fuel Weight—Weight, expressed in pounds, of a loaded aircraft not including wing and
body tank fuel. All weight in excess of the maximum zero fuel weight will consist of usable fuel.
 106             AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                 Attachment 2
                  DELETED

A2.1. Deleted.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                           107


                          Attachment 2 (EDWARDSAFB)
                   EDWARDSAFB ARMS EVENT IDENTIFIERS

Figure A2.1. EdwardsAFB Arms Event Identifiers
FLYING TRAINING TASKS

DESCRIPTION                       TASK NAME            TASK ID
SORTIES
ELEVATED RISK SORTIE              ELEVTD RISK           ER86
TYPE CONVERSION SORTIE            BEHNP CONV            SC02
TYPE CONVERSION SORTIE            AD CONV               SC03
TYPE CONVERSION SORTIE            J CONV                SC04
C-130 AMP SORTIE                  C-130 AMP             SC05
C MODEL SORT                      C MOD SORT            SC21
TYPE CONVERSION SORTIE            TURBO FAN             SC41
TYPE CONVERSION SORTIE            HI-BYPASS             SC42
FUNCTIONAL CHECK FLIGHT TRAINING FCF TRNG               SF10
EXECUTIVE AIRLIFT SORTIE          EX ALFT SRT           SF20
FCP LANTIRN SORTIE                FCP LANT SORT         SL20
TYPE PROFICIENCY                  SERIES PROF           SP22
TYPE PROFICIENCY                  AD PROF               SP42
TYPE PROFICIENCY                  OSO SORTY             ST20
FRONT AND SINGLE SEAT SORTIE      FNT/SGL ST SORT       ST21
BACK SEAT SORTIE                  BACK SEAT SORT        ST22
THIRD SEAT SORTIE                 3RD SEAT SORT         ST23
LOW ALTITUDE NIGHT VISION GOGGLES
                                  L/ALT NVG SORT        VV02
SORTIE
MEDIUM ALTITUDE NIGHT VISION
                                  M/ALT NVG SORT        VV03
GOGGLES SORTIE
AIR EVENT
SPIN CHASE                        SPIN CHASE            AC12
STRAIGHT IN SIMULATED FLAME OUT STR IN SFO              AC17
BIG CROW MISSION                  BIG CROW              AC20
OVERHEAD SIMULATED FLAME OUT      OVERHEAD SFO          AC27
CRUISE MISSILE MISSION            CRUISE MISSILE        AC30
DAY VISUAL RESTRICTIVE DEVICE
                                  DAY VRD LNT           AC40
LANTIRN
LVAD/CDS DROP                     LVAD DROP             AD30
AIR EVENT CONTINUED
                                  HE AIRDROP            AD40
HEAVY EQUIPMENT AIRDROP
VISUAL FORMATION                  FORM VISUAL           AF01
FORMATION CAP/STATION KEEPING
                                  FRM CAP/SKE           AF02
EQUIPMENT
108                         AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


AIR-LAND DAY                      AIRLND DAY           AL20
AIR-LAND NIGHT                    AIRLND NGT           AL21
NAVIGATOR MANUAL GEAR AND FLAPS   NV GEAR/FL           AN20
CROSS COUNTRY NAVIGATION LEG      XC NAV LEG           AN21
LANTIRN NIGHT                     NIGHT LANT           AN40
HIGH ANGLE OF ATTACK
                                  HI AOA FAM           AO20
FAMILIARIZATION TRAINING
HIGH ANGLE OF ATTACK
FAMILIARIZATION TRAINING          HI AOA F IP          AO30
INSTRUCTOR PILOT
HIGH ANGLE OF ATTACK TEST         HI AOA TEST          AO40
AIR START                         AIRSTART             AS00
OVER WATER NAVIGATION             OVERWATER NAV        OW22
MISSION CONTROL ELEMENT PAYLOAD
                                  MCE PAYLOAD MSN      PS01
MISSION
TERRAIN FOLLOWING                 T/F                  TF20

TERRAIN FOLLOWING NIGHT           T/F NT               TN21
TOWER FLY BY                      TOWER FLY BY         XTFB
WEAPONS DELIVERY
ENHANCED ENVELOPE GUNNERY SIGHT   EEGS                 EG97
AIR TO GROUND STRAFE RUN          STRAFE (A/G)         SF80
AIR TO AIR GUNNERY                A/A GUNFIRE          WD21

PARACHUTIST TRAINING TASKS
TOTAL JUMPS PER MISSION           TOT JMP PER MSN      JT00
TOTAL EQUIPMENT JUMPS PER MISSION TOT EQ PER MSN       JT01
DROP ZONE CONTOLLER               DZC                  PC00
STATIC LINE COMBAT EQUIPMENT JUMP SL CBT EQP JUMP      PJ11
MILITARY HIGH ALTITUDE LOW
                                  MIL HALO JUMP         PJ12
OPENING JUMP
ADVANCED FREE FALL MANEUVERING
                                  ADV FFM JUMP          PJ13
JUMP
JUMP EQUIPMENT USED               B18/B22/C12J          PJ17
STATIC LINE MISSION JUMP          SL MSN JM             PJ18
HALO COMBAT EQUIPMENT JUMP        HALO CBT EQ JMP       PJ22
                                  AMF TRAINER           PJ23
                                  F/A EQUIP JMP         PJ27
FREE FALL MISSION JUMP            FF MSN JM             PJ28
HALO OXYGEN COMBAT EQUIPMENT      HALO O2 CMBT EQ       PJ32
JUMP EQUIPMENT USED               ACES 2 SEAT KT        PJ37
PARACHUTIST TRAINING TASKS
                                  MIL SYS HAHO          PJ42
CONTINUED
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                     109


MILITARY HIGH ALTITUDE HIGH
OPENING JUMP
EMERGENCY PROCEDURES              EMERGENCY PROC    PJ50
TANDEM LINE EMEMRGENCY
                                  TANDEM EP LAB     PJ51
PROCEDURES LAB
TANDEM LINE JUMP                  TANDEM JUMP       PJ52
                                  A/C PARA EP LAB   PJ53
MANEUVERING FREE FALL
                                  MFF PHOTOG        PJ62
PHOTGRAPHY JUMP
                                  L/EP CUT/A JMP    PJ72
                                  L/EP R/H DEP      PJ82

OTHER GROUND AIRCREW TRAINING
END OF HALF IS COMPLETE           EOH COMPLETE      EH01
SUPERVISOR OF FLYING EVALUATION   SUPER EVAL        EV84
AFMC FORM 81
                                  FORM 81           FM81
(CONTRACTOR/GOVERNMENT) AO
PHYSICAL FITNESS\                 PHYS FITNESS      GT20
FLIGHT TEST GROUND TRAINING       F/TST GND TG      GX02
NIGHT VISION GOGGLES ACADEMICS    NVG ACADEMICS     GX03
EMERGENCY EGRESS SIMULATOR        EMER EGRESS SIM   GX20
SAFETY MEETING                    SAFETY MEETING    SM60
ON SCENE COMMANDER TRAINING       CMDR TRNG         CC01
 110                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 3
                              A-10 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A3.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the A-10 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all A-10 aircraft.
A3.2. Phase I Training.
   A3.2.1. Conversion Training. A-10 A-C conversion training is required for pilots qualified
   in the A-10A to qualify in the A-10C.
A3.3. Phase II Training. No additional requirements.
A3.4. Continuation Training.
   A3.4.1. The A-10A and A-10C are considered the same series for the purpose of maintaining
   currency.
A3.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A3.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A3.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       111


                                        Attachment 4
                               B-1 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A4.1. General Information This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the B-1 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all B-1 aircraft.
A4.1. (EDWARDSAFB)General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1,
this instruction and approved training plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in B-1
aircraft (initial, requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as
applicable.
   A4.1.1. WSO requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the aft station crew
   complement for training to include qualified Weapon Systems Officers (WSOs) based on
   flight manual and unit training requirements. “Nontraditional” crew procedures, if applicable,
   must be developed by the unit and incorporated into the unit’s supplement upon approval
   from AFMC/A3V.
   A4.1.2. IFAST Simulator. The B-1 aft station trainer located in the Integrated Avionics
   Software Training Facility (IFAST) at Edwards AFB, CA is considered an approved
   simulator for completing B-1 WSO qualification/requalification simulator training events and
   flying events that specify “May be accomplished in the simulator.” The IFAST simulator is
   also considered an approved simulator for accomplishing the Electronics Countermeasures
   additional currency requirement for WSOs specified in Table A4.3. However, it is not
   adequate for completing annual simulator training required by AFI 11-2FTV1 chapter 4.
A4.2. Phase I Training. No additional requirements
A4.3. Phase II Training.
   A4.3.1. The nature of low altitude flight in the B-1, combined with the AFMC mission to
   regularly test and evaluate terrain following systems below 500’ AGL, requires aircrew to be
   both Low Level Navigation and LASDT qualified. B-1 aircrew members conduct Low Level
   Navigation, TF, and LASDT as a single training program. Pilots will demonstrate
   proficiency at 500’ AGL before accomplishing flight maneuvers below 500’ AGL. At the
   discretion of the instructor, this step down may occur on the same sortie.        While the
   majority of low level flight is conducted using the TF system, aircrews need to be
   knowledgeable of aircraft handling and performance characteristics to safely conduct
   operations at these lower altitudes.
       A4.3.1.1. Ground Training. The following outline is applicable to all Low Level
       Navigation/LASDT training. Training should incorporate appropriate portions of AFFTP
       3-1 and AFTTP 3-3 Volume 20, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals—B-1.
          A4.3.1.1.1. Aircraft Handling Qualities. Discuss aircraft performance as it applies to
          the low altitude environment, to include: control response (SEF, Hinge Moment
          Limiting, Speed Brake usage, Rudders), low/high speed, over-G potential, level turns,
          bank angles, aircraft buffet, climb/dive recoveries, effects of gross weight.
          A4.3.1.1.2. Environmental Factors. Discuss out-of-cockpit visibility and Field of
          View restrictions, sun angle, shadows/illusions (radar/visual).
 112                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


           A4.3.1.1.3. Low Altitude Awareness Training. Academics should consist of a
           discussion of low altitude tasks and task management/prioritization concepts and the
           importance of frequent cross check of aircraft attitude relative to the horizon. An Air
           Combat Command (ACC) LAAT refresher course satisfies this requirement. Unless
           previously LASDT qualified, pilots and WSOs will view the video “How Low Can
           You Go?”
   A4.3.2. Electronic Countermeasures (ECM) Training. ECM training is used to qualify
   WSOs to a level of proficiency in operating B-1 defensive system equipment to include
   receive and transmit functions as well as tail warning, towed decoy, and expendable
   countermeasure functions. ECM training will be used to train and WSOs to perform ECM in
   support of test programs requiring such operations. A B-1 instructor of like specialty, who is
   current and qualified in ECM, will administer the ground and flying training.
        A4.3.2.1. NEAJAM, EAJAM, expendable countermeasures, tail warning function and
        the TDS system training may be accomplished in the simulator or IFAST. The TDS
        system training may also be accomplished in simulated or actual modes, as appropriate.
A4.4. Continuation Training.
   A4.4.1. In addition to the minimum requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, B-1 aircrew
   members will also accomplish the requirements in Table A.4.1. and Table A4.2.
   A4.4.2. Air-to-Air Refueling Breakaway. Log breakaway per ATP-56.

Table A4.1. Additional B-1 Currency Requirements.
POSITION               TRAINING ITEM                                  NUMBER/FREQUENCY
Pilot                  Low Level (Visual Contour or TF)               1/120
WSO                    Low Level (Visual Contour or TF)               1/120
                       ECM (Notes1, 2)                                1/90
NOTES:
   1. As Applicable to the unit mission.
   2. May be accomplished in the simulator.

Table A4.2. Additional B-1 Proficiency Requirements.
POSITION                TRAINING ITEM                                   MONTHS
                                                                        AVAILABLE
                                                                         6 5 4 3           2   1
                                                                        NUMBER
                                                                        REQUIRED
Pilot                   Low level (Visual Contour or TF)                 3 3 3 2           1   1
                        Air to Air Refueling Receiver                    2 2 2 1           1   1
                        Air to Air Refueling Breakaway                   1 1 1 1           1   1
                        No flap Approach and Landing                     1 1 1 1           1   1
OSO/WSO                 Low Level (Visual Contour or TF)                 2 2 2 1           1   1
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                             113


   A4.4.3. Low Level Navigation/LASDT Requirements. Pilots and WSOs exceeding low
   level currency requirements in Table A4.1. may regain currency by accomplishing a low
   level navigation event under the direct supervision of an instructor. Loss of currency
   exceeding 2 months requires requalification training.
A4.5. Upgrade Qualification Training.
   A4.5.1. Copilot to Aircraft Commander Upgrade. The primary method to accomplish this
   training is at a formal school. If this is not practical, local upgrade training will consist of the
   ground, simulator, and flying training events specified in the “Qual” column of the AFMC
   Phase I qualification syllabus.
   A4.5.2. Instructor Upgrade. Instructor OSO upgrade must be flown from the DSO seat.
A4.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A4.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
 114                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 5
                              B-2 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A5.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the B-2 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all B-2 aircraft.
   A5.1.1. Crew Requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the crew
   complement to include two pilot crews and pilot / WSO crews based on unit training
   requirements. Mission qualification training qualifies pilots to perform mission events from
   either seat. There is no requirement to log mission qualification or continuation training
   events in relation to the seat occupied.
A5.2. Phase I Training. No additional requirements.
A5.2. (EDWARDSAFB)Flight Test training may be accomplished in conjunction with
Phase 1 and/or instructor training.
A5.3. Phase II Training.
   A5.3.1. Weapons Delivery Training. Pilots may complete training from either seat. Air-to-
   surface weapons delivery qualification automatically includes Ordnance Release Flight Test
   and Compatibility Flight Profile (if a TPS grad) qualifications.
A5.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, B-2 aircrew members will also accomplish the
following requirements.
   A5.4.1. Additional B-2 Currency Requirements. The currency requirement for air refueling
   is 1/120 days.
   A5.4.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Weapons Delivery may be accomplished on a captive carry
   weapon release (guided or unguided).

Table A5.1. Additional B-2 Proficiency Training Requirements.
 POSITION                       TRAINING ITEM                   MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                6  5  4   3  2   1
                                                                NUMBER REQUIRED
 Pilot                          Air to Air Refueling Receiver   2  2  2   1  1   1
                                Air to Air Refueling            2  2  2   1  1   1
                                Breakaway
A5.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A5.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A5.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      115


                                        Attachment 6
                              B-52 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A6.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the B-52 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all B-52 aircraft.
   A6.1.1. Navigator. The navigator position referenced in this attachment refers to both the B-
   52 navigator and radar navigator crew positions. Log mission qualification or continuation
   training events in either the navigator or radar nav seat. EWOs will complete the B-52
   NRA/Ops Support Phase I syllabus. Currency and proficiency requirements for B-52H
   EWOs are the same as B-52 Navigators.
A6.2. Phase I Training. No additional requirements.
A6.2. (EDWARDSAFB)Flight Test training may be accomplished in conjunction with
Phase 1 and/or instructor training.
A6.3. Phase II Training.
   A6.3.1. LASDT. Currently B-52’s only fly LASDT as part of the FCF mission and training
   is incorporated into the FCF training program. If the flying unit commander determines that
   LASDT (operations below 500’ AGL) is a mission requirement, non-FCF qualified aircrews
   must complete the LASDT training program.
A6.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum requirements in chapter 4 of this
instruction, B-52 aircrew members will also accomplish the requirements in Table A6.1 and
Table A6.2

Table A6.1. Additional Currency Requirements.
POSITION               TRAINING EVENT                             NUMBER/FREQUENCY
Pilot                  Air to Air Refueling Receiver              1/120
Pilot/Navigator        Low-level (EVS/Visual or TA)               1/120
                       Weapons Delivery (2)                       1/180
Navigator              Air to Air Refueling Rendezvous (2)        1/180
EWO                    B-52 EA Threat Activity (1,2)              1/60
NOTES:
   1. As Applicable to the unit mission.
   2. May be accomplished in the simulator
   3. (EDWARDSAFB)Weapons Delivery may be accomplished on a captive carry weapon
   release (guided or unguided).
 116                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A6.2. Additional Proficiency Training Requirements
POSITION                TRAINING ITEM                               MONTHS
                                                                    AVAILABLE
                                                                    6 5 4 3 2 1
                                                                    NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot                   Simulated Engine Failure on Takeoff         1 1 1 1 1 1
                        Low Level (EVS/Visual or TA)                3 3 2 2 1 1
                        Air to Air Refueling Receiver               2 2 2 1 1 1
                        Air to Air Refueling Breakaway              1 1 1 1 1 1
                        6-Engine Approach and Landing               2 2 2 1 1 1
                        No Flap Touch and Go Landing                2 2 2 1 1 1
                        6-Eng Missed Approach                       2 2 2 1 1 1
                        Pattern Proficiency Sortie                  1 1 1 1 1 1
Navigator               Low Level (EVS/Visual or TA)                2 2 2 1 1 1
   A6.4.1. Pattern Proficiency Sortie. Pilots may log proficiency sortie, as required in Table
   A6.2 provided they actively control the aircraft for a minimum of 0.5 hours of primary time
   and accomplish, as a minimum, the events listed; Two instrument approaches (precision and
   non-precision), Visual pattern, Landing, and Missed approach. Emphasize system
   malfunctions and asymmetric thrust operations (e.g., 6-engine approach, flaps up approach,
   engine loss on takeoff).
   A6.4.2. Low Level/LASDT Navigation Requirements. Pilots and navigators exceeding Low
   Level/ LASDT currency requirements exceeding 2 months requires the applicable
   requalification ground and flight training.
A6.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A6.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A6.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         117


                                         Attachment 7
                          B707/E-3/E-8 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A7.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the B707/E-3/E-8 aircraft under most circumstances. It
applies to AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all B707/E-
3/E-8 aircraft.
   A7.1.1. B-707. For the purpose of training required by this instruction, B-707 encompasses
   the category of all four engine military and civil aircraft based on the B-707-100/300 or 720
   series aircraft to include the E-3, and E-8, etc.
A7.2. Phase I Training.
   A7.2.1. Ground Training Requirements. All systems and components not covered in training
   due to differences between the simulator and the B-707 being trained on will be covered in
   detail by an instructor during the aircraft visit.
      A7.2.1.1. Simulator Training. Pilots and flight engineers will perform at least four
      simulator missions (4 hours/mission) prior to the initial qualification flight evaluation.
   A7.2.2. Conversion Training.
      A7.2.2.1. B-707 conversion training requirements are outlined in Phase I training plans.
      B-707 conversion training is required for pilots/flight engineers to qualify in another B-
      707 category to include the E-3/E-8, etc. Pilots/flight engineers seeking qualification in
      multiple categories must have an experience level of 2,000 hours total flying time with a
      combined total of 1,000 hours in a B-707 category.
      A7.2.2.2. The pilot and flight engineer positions in all B-707 aircraft are considered a
      single qualification upon completion of a qualification flight evaluation in each aircraft or
      upon completion of conversion training. Pilots and flight engineers maintaining
      qualification in two or more B-707 variants must take the qualification open and closed
      book examinations from each B-707 qualified as a requisite to the flight evaluation in
      their primary B-707, and complete MDS-specific egress training.
      A7.2.2.3. Navigator Qualification. The C-135 and B-707 (E-3, E-8, etc) are considered a
      single qualification upon completion of a flight evaluation in each aircraft or upon
      completion of applicable conversion training.
      A7.2.2.4. B-707 conversion training is not required for navigators to qualify in another
      B-707 aircraft to include the E-3/E-8, etc. However, C-135 navigators may qualify in the
      B-707 by completing a flight evaluation in each aircraft or upon completion of B-707
      conversion training Navigators maintaining qualification in both the C-135 and B-707
      must take the qualification open and closed book examinations for both aircraft as a
      requisite to a flight evaluation in either aircraft and comply with MDS-specific egress
      training requirements.
   A7.2.3. Flying Training Requirements. Flight training requirements have been established
   for pilots, navigators, and flight engineers. Complete Phase I Flight Training IAW
   AFMC/A3V syllabi for each applicable crew position. Initial qualification flying training will
 118                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   be accomplished within the same B-707 category to maximum extent practical. Copilots will
   accomplish Phase I training in the right seat. However, those items accomplished in the left
   seat, such as engine start, taxi, etc., may be demonstrated to the student.
A7.3. Phase II Training.
   A7.3.1. Air Refueling Training. Pilots may complete qualification training from either seat.
   A contact may be credited for each 5 minutes of toggles engaged time on the boom.
   Proficiency in day refueling and contacts will be demonstrated before night contacts are
   attempted.
       A7.3.1.1. To be a receiver AR qualified instructor, a pilot, flight engineer, or navigator
       must be instructor qualified in the basic aircraft. Only pilots require instructor upgrade
       training. Basic aircraft instructor pilot upgrade and air refueling instructor pilot upgrade
       training may be conducted concurrently. In this instance, the pilot must be air to air
       refueling receiver qualified prior to beginning instructor upgrade training. Receiver
       qualified pilots in the C-135 becoming qualified only need accomplish one training flight
       with a qualified AR instructor.
A7.4. Continuation Training.
A7.4.1. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency requirements in chapter 4 of this
instruction, B-707 aircrew members will also accomplish the requirements in Table A7.1

   A7.4.2. For navigators, qualification in the C-135, and B-707 aircraft is considered a single
   qualification for the purposes of currency and proficiency requirements upon completion of
   the applicable conversion training, or qualification flight evaluation.
       A7.4.2.1. For pilots and flight engineers, qualification in all B-707 variants are
       considered a single qualification for currency and proficiency requirements upon
       completion of the applicable conversion training or qualification flight evaluation.

Table A7.1. Semi Annual Basic Proficiency Training Requirements.
AIRCRAFT POSITION                 TRAINING ITEM                 MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                              6   5  4   3   2   1
                                                                NUMBER REQUIRED
B-707                    Sim Eng Fail on T/O (Note
               Pilot                                     2     2     2     1         1    1
E-3/E-8                  1)
                         Sim Eng Out Missed
                                                         2     2     2     1         1    1
                         Approach
                         Sim Eng Out Landing             2     2     2     1         1    1
                         Night Air to Air Receiver       1     1     1     1         1    1
                         Air to Air Refueling
                                                         1     1     1     1         1    1
                         Breakaway
                         Proficiency Sortie              2     2     2     1         1    1
                         Air to Air Receiver
            Navigator                                    1     1     1     1         1    1
                         Rendezvous
NOTE 1: Less E-3 if accomplished during annual simulator refresher training.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       119


  A7.4.3. Pilot Proficiency Sortie. Pilots may log a proficiency training sortie if they actively
  control the aircraft for a minimum of 0.5 hours of primary time and accomplish at least five
  different events from the following list: Takeoff or departure, Penetration or Enroute
  Descent, Precision Approach Non-precision approach, Simulated emergency procedure, VFR
  pattern, Landing or touch-and-go, Holding, Airwork, Receiver Air Refueling, Circling
  Approach, Missed Approach.
  A7.4.4. Conversion Currency Requirements. Pilot and flight engineer conversion training
  currency is maintained by logging a sortie every 180 days in each B-707 variant they are
  qualified. Navigator conversion training currency is maintained by logging a sortie every 180
  days in each aircraft (C-135, B-707) in which the qualification is held.
     A7.4.4.1. If B-707 pilots/flight engineers cannot maintain AFMC prescribed currency
     requirements in their variant, the squadron commander or operations officer, on a case-
     by-case basis, may authorize currency to be maintained in any B-707 variant. The
     following requirements must be met:
         A7.4.4.1.1. The aircraft to be used must have similar avionics equipment.
         A7.4.4.1.2. Accomplish pilot Phase I ground training applicable to the aircraft to be
         flown.
         A7.4.4.1.3. Be supervised by a qualified IP at a set of flight controls.
         A7.4.4.1.4. Use FP duty code on the AFTO Form 781.
         A7.4.4.1.5. These events can be counted toward semiannual training requirements.
     A7.4.4.2. The flying unit commander or operations officer, on a case-by-case basis, may
     authorize a C-135 airframe be used. If the pilot is not qualified in the C-135 airframe, the
     following requirements must be met:
         A7.4.4.2.1. The pilot must have 2000 hours total flying time with at least 1000 hours
         in the B-707 or C-135.
         A7.4.4.2.2. Accomplish pilot Phase I ground training applicable to the aircraft to be
         flown.
         A7.4.4.2.3. Be supervised by a qualified IP at a set of flight controls.
         A7.4.4.2.4. Use an XP duty code on the AFTO Form 781.
         A7.4.4.2.5. Not log events toward semiannual training requirements.
  A7.4.5. Air to Air Refueling Receiver Currency. Pilots may update air to air refueling
  receiver currency in any C-135/B-707 aircraft in which qualified. However, if the pilot is not
  qualified in the C-135, the following restrictions apply:
     A7.4.5.1. Complete pilot qualification ground training.
     A7.4.5.2. Under direct supervision of a receiver qualified instructor pilot.
     A7.4.5.3. Access to flight controls only during receiver refueling training.
     A7.4.5.4. Navigator air refueling currency is maintained by accomplishing a tanker or
     receiver rendezvous. Either rendezvous satisfies the requirements of chapter 4.
 120                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A7.4.6. E-3 Simulator Training. An attempt must be made to update aircraft currency in an
   aircraft before use of simulator. The use of a level “D” simulator is allowed to update E-3
   aircraft currency in the following categories: Sortie, Instrument Approach, Landing, Night
   Landing, Touch and Go Landing, Air Refueling and Night Air Refueling, for which the Class
   “D” simulator has FAA approval. The last simulator currency update within the actual flight
   currency window can be used to calculate the new currency date. Currency cannot be
   updated in two consecutive currency periods in the simulator. Lost currency must be
   regained in the E-3 aircraft. This instruction allows up to 50% of the proficiency
   requirements for Precision Approaches, Non-Precision Approaches, and Takeoffs in a Class
   “D” simulator. Other currency items updated in the simulator do not count towards cycle
   proficiency requirements of this instruction.
A7.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A7.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A7.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         121


                                         Attachment 8
                               C-5 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A8.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the C-5 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all C-5 aircraft.
A8.2. Phase I Training.
   A8.2.1. Ground and Flying Training Requirements. Copilots will accomplish Phase I
   training in the right seat. However, those items accomplished in the left seat, such as engine
   start, taxi, etc., may be demonstrated to the student.
A8.3. Phase II Training.
        A8.3.1. Pilots must be aircraft commander qualified prior to entering mission
        qualification training.
   A8.3.2. Air Refueling Training. Air Refueling training will be conducted IAW paragraph 3.2
   Pilots may complete qualification training from either seat. A contact may be credited for
   each 5 minutes of toggles engaged time on the boom. Proficiency in day refueling and
   contacts will be demonstrated before night contacts are attempted. Day and night
   qualification requires separate training. Instructor qualification requires the sortie be flown
   from the right seat.
A8.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, C-5 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A8.1

Table A8.1. Additional Proficiency Training Requirements.
POSITION               TRAINING ITEM                              MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                  6 5  4   3  2  1

                                                                  NUMBER REQUIRED

Pilot                  Air to Air Refueling Receiver              1    1    1    1    1    1
                       Simulated Engine Out Missed Approach       1    1    1    1    1    1
                       Simulated Engine Out Landing               1    1    1    1    1    1
                       Holding                                    1    1    1    1    1    1
                       No Flap Pattern and Landing                1    1    1    1    1    1
   A8.4.1. Air to Air Receiver Refueling Requirements. Loss of currency exceeding two
   months requires the applicable requalification ground and flight training.
   A8.4.2. FCF Recurrency Requirements. Loss of currency exceeding 4 months requires FCF
   requalification ground and flight training.
A8.5. Upgrade Qualification Training.
   A8.5.1. Instructor Pilot Upgrade. Instructor pilot candidates will receive training while
   occupying the right seat.
 122                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


A8.6. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A8.7. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A8.8. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      123


                                        Attachment 9
                              C-12 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A9.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the C-12 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all C-12 aircraft.
A9.2. Phase I Training.
   A9.2.1. Copilots will accomplish Phase I training in the right seat. However, those items
   accomplished in the left seat, such as engine start, taxi, etc., may be demonstrated to the
   student.
   A9.2.2. Conversion Training. C-12 conversion training is required for pilots/flight engineers
   to qualify in another C-12 aircraft category to include: C-12C/D/E/F, C-12J, MC-12, and B-
   1900. Pilots seeking qualification in all categories must have an experience level of 2,000
   hours total flying time with a combined total of 1,000 hours in one or more C-12 categories.
A9.3. Phase II – Training.
A9.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, C-12 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A9.1 and Table A9.2

Table A9.1. Additional C-12 Currency Requirements.
POSITION              TRAINING ITEM                              NUMBER/FREQUENCY
Pilot, Copilot        Simulated Engine Out Missed Approach       1/180
                      Simulated Engine Out Landing               1/180
                      Simulated Engine Out Takeoff               1/180
                      Personnel Airdrop                          1/180

Table A9.2. Additional C-12 Proficiency Requirements.
POSITION          TRAINING ITEM                                  MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                 6  5  4  3  2   1
                                                                 NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot, Copilot    Simulated Engine Out Missed Approach           1 1 1 1 1 1
                  Simulated Engine Out Landing                   1 1 1 1 1 1
                  Engine Failure immediately after takeoff       1 1 1 1 1 1
                  Photo/Safety Chase                             3 3 2 2 1 1
                  Personnel Airdrop                              1 1 1 1 1 1
   A9.4.1. Conversion Currency Requirements. Pilot conversion training currency is
   maintained by logging a sortie every 180 days in each C-12 category (C-12C/DE/F, C-12J,
   MC-12, or B1900) they are qualified.
       A9.4.1.1. If C-12 pilots cannot maintain AFMC prescribed currency requirements in
       their variant, the squadron commander or operations officer, on a case-by-case basis, may
 124                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


       authorize currency to be maintained in any C-12 category. The following requirements
       must be met:
          A9.4.1.1.1. The aircraft to be used must have similar avionics equipment.
          A9.4.1.1.2. Accomplish pilot Phase I ground training applicable to the aircraft to be
          flown.
          A9.4.1.1.3. Be supervised by a qualified IP at a set of flight controls.
          A9.4.1.1.4. Use FP duty code on the AFTO Form 781.
          A9.4.1.1.5. These events can be counted toward semiannual training requirements.
A9.5. Upgrade Training. Instructor Pilot Upgrade. Pilots will receive training while occupying
the right seat.
A9.6. Upgrade Qualification Training. No additional requirements.
A9.7. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A9.8. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       125


                                        Attachment 10
                              C-17 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A10.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the C-17 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all C-17 aircraft.
   A10.1.1. Aircrew Requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the requirement
   for the aircrew complement to include an additional qualified loadmaster that may be
   required on personnel, CDS, heavy equipment and HALO airdrops.
A10.2. Phase I Training.
   A10.2.1. Items accomplished in the left seat, such as engine start, taxi, etc., may be
   demonstrated to the student.
   A10.2.2. Simulator Training. If a simulator is not available, the aircraft cockpit can be used
   if the displays are powered and functioning. Simulator training will be accomplished prior to
   completion of Phase I training.
A10.3. Phase II Training.
   A10.3.1. Air Refueling Training. A contact may be credited for each 5 minutes of toggles
   engaged time on the boom. Proficiency in day refueling and contacts will be demonstrated
   before night contacts are attempted. Day and night qualification requires separate training.
   Instructor qualification requires the sortie be flown from the right seat.
   A10.3.2. Airdrop. An approved training plan has been developed for each Airdrop subarea:
   Personnel (including Dummy, Bundle, Dummy Retrieval, and HALO) and Equipment
   (including CDS, Dual Row, Type I and Tow). Use the appropriate syllabus for each
   qualification.
   A10.3.3. Formation. Separate sorties are not required to qualify in both types of formation.
   Visual formation qualification may be limited to day only if night formation requirements are
   not met.
   A10.3.4. Night Vision Goggles (NVG). NVG areas are subdivided into Airland and Airdrop,
   however only one form will be used for qualification. NVG qualification will be restricted to
   Airland only operations if the crewmember is not Airdrop qualified. If the Airdrop
   qualification is added subsequently, the NVG Airdrop portion of the forms will be
   accomplished.
A10.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in Chapter 4 of this instruction, C-17 aircrew members will also accomplish
the requirements in Table A10.1 and Table A10.2.
 126                                 AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A10.1. Additional C-17 Currency Requirements
POSITION              TRAINING ITEM                              NUMBER/FREQUENCY
Pilot                 Airdrop - Dummy, Retrieval, HALO,          1/180
                      Bundle, or Personnel
                      Airdrop - Tow, Equipment, or CDS           1/180
                      Formation – SKE/FFS or Vis                 1/180
                      NVG Airland (Takeoff and Landing)          1/90
                      NVG Airland (Takeoff and Landing) - 90’    1/120
                      Wide Runway
                      NVG Low Level                              1/180
                      NVG Airdrop (Any Type)                     1/180
Loadmaster            Personnel – Dummy Drop, Dummy              1/180
                      Retrieval,
                      CDS –Dual Row                              1/180
                      Heavy Equipment Airdrop – Type I, Tow      1/180
                      Test, Dual Row
                      NVG Airdrop - Any Type                     1/180
                      NVG Ground Ops – Backing and Combat        1/180
                      Offload or ERO

Table A10.2. Additional C-17 Proficiency Requirements.
POSITION        TRAINING ITEM                            MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                          6 5  4  3  2   1
                                                         NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot           Air to Air Refueling Receiver            1 1 1 1 1 1
                Airdrop - Dummy, Retrieval, HALO,        1 1 1 1 1 1
                Bundle, or Personnel
                Airdrop - Tow, Equipment, or CDS         1   1   1   1   1   1
                Formation – SKE/FFS or Vis               1   1   1   1   1   1
                NVG Sortie                               2   2   2   1   1   1
                NVG Airland (Takeoff and Landing)        4   4   3   3   2   1

                NVG Airdrop (Any Type)                   2   2   2   1   1   1
                NVG Low Level                            2   2   2   1   1   1
Loadmaster      Personnel – Dummy Drop, Dummy            1   1   1   1   1   1
                Retrieval
                CDS – Dual Row                           1   1   1   1   1   1
                Heavy Equipment Airdrop – Type I, Tow    1   1   1   1   1   1
                Test, Dual Row
                NVG Airdrop - Any Type                   1   1   1   1   1   1
                NVG Ground Ops - Backing and Combat      1   1   1   1   1   1
                Offload or ERO
   A10.4.1. Air to Air Refueling Requirements. Loss of currency exceeding two months
   requires the applicable requalification ground and flight training.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        127


   A10.4.2. Air Drop Requirements. Pilots and loadmasters exceeding NVG low level currency
   requirements in Table A10.1 may regain currency by accomplishing an airdrop event under
   the direct supervision of an instructor.
   A10.4.3. Dual Row may be logged as CDS or Heavy Equipment.
   A10.4.4. NVG ground ops must be logged by completing a backing with a combat offload or
   ERO.
A10.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. Instructor pilot candidates will receive training while
occupying the right seat.
A10.6. Training Restrictions.
   A10.6.1. The following training restrictions apply to all aircrew members:
       A10.6.1.1. All aircrew members will be trained using AFRL Night Vision Device
       courseware. Academic instructors must have completed one of the following courses:
       AFRL Instructor Course, Advanced Airlift Tactical Training Center (AATTC) NVG
       Training Course, or a Weapons Instructor Course (WIC).
       A10.6.1.2. NVG ground and simulator training must be completed prior to beginning
       NVG flight training. Simulator training must be accomplished under the supervision of a
       current and qualified NVG instructor. Loadmasters do not need simulator training prior to
       beginning flight training.
       A10.6.1.3. NVG flight training will be conducted under the supervision of a certified
       NVG instructor of like specialty. Pilots require an additional pilot in the ACM seat to act
       as a safety observer for all training conducted in the aircraft.
       A10.6.1.4. Isolate cargo compartment lighting from the flight deck.
       A10.6.1.5. NVG 90’ wide runway training may be conducted on a wider landing surface
       as long as the 90’ wide landing zone is clearly marked.
A10.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
 128                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 11
                              C-130 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A11.1. General Information. This attachment in conjunction with other governing directives
outlines procedures for operation of the C-130 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operations of all C-130 aircraft.
Training procedures not specifically addressed may be accomplished if they enhance safe,
effective mission accomplishment.
   A11.1.1. Aircraft Categories. For the purpose of C-130 qualification training, the following
   C-130 aircraft categories are defined:
       A11.1.1.1. C-130A. C-130 aircraft series derived from the C-130A (i.e., NC-130A).
       A11.1.1.2. C-130J. C-130 aircraft series derived from the C-130J (i.e., EC-130J).
       A11.1.1.3. C-130 E/H. All other C-130 aircraft series (i.e., C-130B through AC-130U).
       A11.1.1.4. C-130 AMP - Any C-130 from the E/H category that has undergone AMP
       modification.
   A11.1.2. Aircrew Requirements and Qualifications.
       A11.1.2.1. Navigator Requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the
       requirement for the navigator crew complement, to include Electronic Warfare Officer
       (EWO) and Fire Control Officer (FCO), based on flight manual and unit training
       requirements. Training tables and lesson plans in this instruction address the traditional
       navigator crew position. EWO and FCO procedures, if applicable, must be developed by
       the unit and incorporated into the unit's supplement.
       A11.1.2.2. Loadmaster Requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the
       need for loadmaster crew complement based on flight manual and unit training
       requirements. A Loadmaster is required for all C-130J operations.
       A11.1.2.3. Scanner Requirements. In general Scanners possess a 1Axxx AFSC, must be
       current and qualified as a C-130 crewmember, and have completed C-130 scanner
       training. On a case by case basis, other current/qualified crewmembers may complete
       scanner training. Training will be documented in the individual’s training folder and
       annotated on the AF Form 1381. C-130 Flight Engineers performing scanner duties do
       not require additional training. (N/A for C-130J)
       A11.1.2.4. Instructor Requirements. Instructor Flight Engineers may complete any
       aircraft systems for Qualification, Conversion, or Differences Ground Training.
       Instructor Flight Engineers may complete all phases of FCF Scanner Training.
A11.2. Phase I Training.
   A11.2.1. Ground Training Requirements. Ground and flight training has been established for
   C-130 pilots, navigators, flight engineers, and loadmasters. With the exception of the open
   and closed book examinations (if required), ground training will be completed prior to
   starting Phase I flying training.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         129


     A11.2.1.1. Pilot and flight engineer local qualification training will follow ETCA formal
     course syllabi to the maximum extent possible. Emphasis should be placed on a thorough
     review of aircraft systems/equipment, cockpit orientation, and normal/emergency
     procedures. All systems and components not covered in training due to differences
     between the simulator and the C-130 being trained in, will be covered in detail by an
     instructor during the aircraft visit.
     A11.2.1.2. Simulator Training. Pilots and flight engineers will accomplish required
     simulator training prior to the initial qualification flight evaluation.
  A11.2.2. Flying Training Requirements. Initial qualification flying training will be
  accomplished within the same C-130 category (i.e., C-130A, C-130J, or C-130E/H series).
  Copilots will accomplish Phase I training in the right seat. Required left seat items, such as
  engine start, taxi, etc., may be demonstrated to the student.
  A11.2.3. Conversion/Difference Training. C-130 conversion training is required for
  pilots/flight engineers to qualify in another C-130 aircraft category to include: C-130A, C-
  130J, C-130E/H, and the C-130 AMP. Pilots/flight engineers seeking qualification in three or
  more categories must have an experience level of 2,000 hours total flying time with a
  combined total of 1,000 hours in the C-130. (Exception for C-130 AMP, contact AFMC/A3V
  for case by case approval) Difference ground training (using a representative aircraft) is
  required to qualify in different series of the same category aircraft. Difference flying training
  requirements are per Table A11.1 Once initial AMP conversion training is complete,
  differences training (no flight required) will be completed for other variants (Exception: a
  flight is still required for the LC-130 unless previously qualified for ski operations).
  Instructors will focus training on systems, emergencies and operations limits differences for
  special mission equipment. AMP modified aircraft in the MC-130E/H/P/W, HC-130H
  (N)/N/P, and the AC-130H/U MDS require additional training for mission events (i.e., terrain
  following, helicopter air refueling, dry/live fire operations). Open and/or closed book tests
  are not required when completing conversion/difference training within the same C-130
  category. Testing is not required when transitioning into the C-130 AMP category. Testing
  will be completed for the first entry into the C-130A or the C-130J category, or if
  transitioning from the C-130J category into the C-130E/H category.
     A11.2.3.1. For C-130J pilots only, once initial qualification is complete in any C-130J
     variant, only ground difference training is required to convert to other variants.
     Exception: A flight is required to gain qualification in the CC-130J (Stretch). Training
     requirements are IAW HQ AFMC/A3V syllabi.
     A11.2.3.2. Navigator conversion/difference training procedures will be established and
     incorporated into a unit supplement to this instruction. Conversion/Difference training
     may be grouped by navigation systems and/or radar installation. Exception: Navigators
     must attend formal training to qualify in Combat Talon I or II.
     A11.2.3.3. For C-130 Loadmasters, once initial qualification is complete in any C-130J
     or C130E/H category variant, only ground difference training is required to convert to
     other variants within that category.
 130                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Table A11.1. C-130E/H Difference/Conversion Training Requirements.
MDS                 Pilot                                  Flight Engineer Navigator
C-130B              Flight N/R if KC-130F or               Flight N/R Flight N/R
                    LC-130F qual
C-130E              N/A if initial qual gained at LRF      Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
C-130E(E)           Flight N/R if qual on -15 variant      Flight N/R         Flight N/R
C-130H (1)          Flight N/R if qual on -15 variant      Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
C-130H1 (1)         Flight N/R if H2 qual                  Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
C-130H2/2.5 (1)     One flight (minimum) required.         Flight N/R if H3   Flight N/R (6)
                    Include H1 differences                 qual
                    (Qualification will be for H1, H2
                    and H2.5)
C-130H3 (1)         One flight (minimum) required          Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
C-130 AMP           Complete Conversion Training           Same as pilot      N/A
(Combat Delivery)   Plan
C-130T (USN)        Flight N/R if KC-130T                  Same as pilot      Flight N/R
AC-130H             One flight (minimum) required          Same as pilot      Flight N/R
AC-130U (4)         AFSOC training One flight              Same as pilot      Same as pilot
                    (minimum) required
EC-130H             One flight (minimum) required          Flight N/R         Flight N/R
(Compass Call)
HC-130H/P/N         Flight N/R if tanker qual (2)          Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
HC-130(H)N          Flight N/R if Tanker (2) and H3 Qual   Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
HC-130H (USCG)      Flight N/R if H2 qual                  Same as pilot      Flight N/R
KC-130F (USMC)      Flight N/R if B and tanker (2) qual    Same as pilot      Flight N/R

KC-130R/T           Flight N/R if H2 and tanker (2) qual   Same as pilot      Flight N/R
USMC)
KC-130T-30          T/O and landing required               Flight N/R if      Flight N/R
                                                           KC-130R/T qual
LC-130H(L1)         Flight N/R if SKI (3), H2, and H3      Same as pilot      Flight N/R (6)
                    qual
LC-130H (L2)        Flight N/R if SKI (3) and H3 qual      Same as pilot      Flight NR (6)

MC-130E (4)         AFSOC training. Flight(s) Required.    Same as pilot      Same as pilot
                    Additional FCF and OCF
                    ground/flight training required
MC-130H (4)         AFSOC training. Flight(s) Required.    Same as pilot      Same as pilot
                    Additional FCF and OCF
                    ground/flight training required
MC-130P             One flight (minimum) required          Flight N/R if      Flight N/R
                                                           HC-P/N qual
MC-130W             One flight (minimum) required          Same as pilot      Flight N/R
NC-130H (5)         One flight (minimum) required          Flight N/R         Flight N/R
TC-130H (7)         One flight (minimum) required          Flight N/R         Flight N/R
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         131


C-130FMS           Contact A3V                           Contact A3V              Contact A3V
C-130 (Retired     Contact A3V                           Contact A3V              Contact A3V
Variants)
NOTES:
1.     C-130H (73-1580 thru 73-1599)
       C-130H1 (74-1658 thru 74-2134)
       C-130H2 (78-0806 thru 91-9144 and 92-3021 thru 92-3024)
       C-130H3 (92-0547 thru 92-1538 and 92-3281 and up)

2. Tanker qual refers to any of the following variants: HC-130H/P/N; MC-130E/P;
HC-130(H)N; KC-130F/R/T/T-30 (MCARS pods on MC-130H/W do not fulfill this
requirement)

3. SKI equipped LC-130 aircraft require a flight only once. Complete difference training
between USN and USAF ski systems.

4. Gain qualification after attending AFSOC formal schools (with prior AFMC/A3V
coordination and approval, may be abbreviated to tailored academics and simulator training).
With approval from AFMC/A3V flight qualification requirements may be completed
in-unit if conducted by prior AFSOC crewmembers qualified in the aircraft.

5. ATL and ASETS equipment required additional training for all crew positions

6. Differences training may include all aircraft as grouped below. If included, no further
training is required. Training may be grouped as follows:
        SCNS navigation system and APN-59 radar
        SCNS navigation system and APN-241 radar

7. Training may be combined with EC-130H. Complete differences training for both. Flight
not required if completed in the EC-130H concurrently.
       A11.2.3.4. Pilot/Loadmaster conversion to the C-130B/E/H/P/N/K/R/T/U must complete
       the appropriate syllabus labeled “E/H Conversion” found on the AFMC/A3V website
       under C-130 Phase I training. Conversion to these models is applicable when converting
       from a C-130A or C-130J. This conversion training is allowed only if the individual has
       previously attended a C-130 initial qualification formal course.
       A11.2.3.5. Pilot/Loadmaster conversion from any C-130 to the C-130J must complete
       the appropriate syllabus labeled “J Model” found on the AFMC/A3V website under C-
       130 Phase I training.
A11.3. Phase II Training. C-130 AMP: Any previous phase II mission event qualification will
apply to C-130 AMP modified aircraft. Gain mission event qualification IAW
published/approved training plans. Aircrew attached to AFSOC or AFSOC gained units will
complete mission qualification training IAW AFSOC guidance. AFMC flying organizations will
honor mission qualification status when flying with AFMC units. Exception: Aircrew will
comply with AFMC requirements for FCF mission qualification.
132                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  A11.3.1. Touch and Go. Once training is complete, Copilots or Mission/First Pilots may
  conduct flight idle touch and go landings at any time. Ground idle touch and go landings will
  only be conducted when under the supervision of an instructor in the other seat.
  A11.3.2. Air Refueling – Tanker. This qualification is defined as Helicopter Air Refueling
  (HAR) or Tiltrotor Air Refueling (TAR). Contact A3V for guidance if actual refueling
  qualification is required. (N/A for aircrew attached and mission qualified with AFSOC flying
  units)
  A11.3.3. Air Refueling – Receiver. Contact A3V for guidance if actual refueling
  qualification is required. (N/A for aircrew attached with AFSOC flying units)
  A11.3.4. Functional Check Flight (FCF) Training. Pilots will complete qualification training
  from both left and right seats.
  A11.3.4. (EDWARDSAFB) FCF/ACF Qualification. Pilots, Navigators, Flight Engineers,
  and C-130J Loadmasters will complete ground/flight training according to AFI 11-2FTV1.
  Legacy C-130 loadmasters will complete the scanner FCF training events of the legacy C-
  130 FCF training plan in AFI 11-2FTV1. Training may be accomplished in a simulator if no
  aircraft are available; however, if completed in a simulator, the crewmember’s first FCF
  flight must be accomplished with an FCF qualified instructor.
  A11.3.5. NVG at Low Altitude Training. NVG Low Level Operations are conducted at 300
  ft contours over level/rolling terrain and 500 ft in designated mountainous terrain. NVG
  Medium Altitude is N/A for C-130 operations. No additional training is required to be an
  NVG Low Altitude instructor.
  A11.3.6. Low Level Navigation Training. C-130 Low Level Operations are conducted at
  300 ft AGL day and 500 feet above the highest terrain or obstacle within 3NM of route
  centerline or the planned flight path for night. (N/A for aircrew attached and mission
  qualified with AFSOC flying units)
  A11.3.7. Terrain Following/Terrain Avoidance (TF/TA). TF/TA operations for the MC-130
  may be conducted in day VMC in any set clearance. Night VMC or Day/Night IMC requires
  additional training. Contact A3V for guidance. (N/A for aircrew attached and mission
  qualified with AFSOC flying units)
      A11.3.7.1. Depot aircrews qualified on the MC-130E/H for OCF operations do not
      require any additional TF/TA training nor are they considered TF/TA qualified. TF/TA
      OCF operations are restricted to day/VMC only.
  A11.3.8. Chase Training. C-130 aircrew are not normally required to maintain chase
  qualification. If the C-130 acts as chase for another C-130, the aircrew will be C-130 visual
  formation qualified. If the C-130 aircrew is required to chase any other aircraft, Chase
  qualification training will be completed IAW 2FT Vol 1 and the Procedures in Chap 3 of this
  Instruction will be complied with.
  A11.3.9. Test Pilot School (TPS) Curriculum. Any curriculum profile will be flown IAW
  the procedures and limitations of the applicable C-130 and IAW all guidance in this
  Instruction. An IP will be in the seat for all TPS curriculum events. No additional training is
  required.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        133


   A11.3.10. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Airland Qualification (maximum effort/assault
   takeoff/landing). Day and night airland are separate qualifications. Complete a separate
   AFMC Form 68 for each qualification. Night airland training objectives may also be used to
   qualify for day airland training.
   A11.3.11. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Formation Qualification. Visual formation and SKE
   (CAPS) formation are considered separate qualifications. Visual formation qualified pilots
   may fly day or night VMC SKE (CAPS) formation operations as long as visual contact is
   maintained with the other aircraft. During an approved test plan, visual formation qualified
   pilots may build up to IMC SKE (CAPS) as long as the buildup is specified in the test plan.
A11.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, C-130 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A11.2 and Table A11.3 (Note: The NDB Approach may be completed
using VOR RMI only procedures when an NDB approach is not available). The flying unit
commander may specify additional requirements necessary to ensure aircrew members maintain
proficiency and mission readiness. Include these requirements in a supplement to this instruction.
   A11.4.1. Aircrew attached to AFSOC or AFSOC gained units will maintain currency and/or
   proficiency IAW AFSOC guidance.              AFMC flying organizations will honor
   currency/proficient status when flying with AFMC units. Exception: Aircrew will comply
   with AFMC requirements for FCF and Conversion sortie items.

Table A11.2. Additional C-130 Currency Requirements.
AIRCRAFT                             CREW POS        TRNG ITEM                      Num/Freq

C-130                                Pilot           Conversion Sortie (1)          1/180
                                                     FCF Sortie (2)                 1/180
                                                     Low Level (3) (4)              1/180
                                                     Vis Form                       1/180
                                                     Airdrop (Actual)               1/90
                                                     CDS/CRS Airdrop (5)            1/180
                                                     HE Airdrop (5)                 1/180
                                                     Pers Airdrop (5)               1/180
                                                     NVG Airdrop (6)                1/180
                                                     NVG Event (7)                  1/180
                                                     NVG Low Level (8)              1/90
                                                     NVG Airland AMP 1-3 (9)        1/90
                                                     NVG Airland AMP 4 (10)         1/60
                                                     NVG Airland Assault (11)       1/90
                                                     NVG Form (16)                  1/90
MC-130E/H                                            Terrain Following (12)         1/90
MC-130E/H/P/W or HC-                                 Helo Air Refueling (13)        1/180
130H/P/N
MC-130E/H/P/W                                        Tiltrotor Air Refueling (13) 1/180
AC-130H/U                                            Live/Dry Fire                1/60
C-130                                Navigator       FCF Sortie (2)               1/180
 134                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                                    Low Level (3) (14)             1/180
                                                    Vis Form                       1/180
                                                    Airdrop (5)                    1/90
                                                    Vis Airdrop (15)               1/180
                                                    NVG Event (7)                  1/180
                                                    NVG Low Level (8)              1/90
MC-130E/H                                           Terrain Following (12)         1/90
MC-130E/H/P/W or HC-                                Helo Air Refueling (13)        1/90
130H/P/N
MC-130E/H/P/W                                       Titlrotor Air Refueling (13)   1/180
AC-130H/U                                           Live/Dry Fire                  1/60
C-130                               FE              Conversion Sortie (1)          1/180
                                                    FCF Sortie (2)                 1/180
                                                    Airdrop (5)                    1/90
                                                    NVG Event (7)                  1/180
MC-130E/H                                           Terrain Following (12)         1/180
MC-130E/H/P/W or HC-                                Helo Air Refueling (13)        1/180
130H/P/N
MC-130E/H/P/W                                       Tiltrotor Air Refueling (13)   1/180
AC-130H/U                                           Dry/Live Fire                  1/60
C-130                               LM              Conversion Sortie (1)          1/180
                                                    FCF Sortie (2)                 1/180
                                                    Airdrop                        1/90
                                                    CDS/CRS Airdrop                1/180
                                                    HE Airdrop                     1/180
                                                    Pers Airdrop                   1/180
                                                    NVG Airdrop (6)                1/180
                                                    NVG Event (7)                  1/180
MC-130E/H/P/W or HC-                                Helo Air Refueling (13)        1/180
130H/P/N
MC-130E/H/P/W                                          Tiltrotor Air Refueling (13) 1/180
NOTES:
1. May be completed in any C-130J Variant or C-130 AMP Variant. If C-130J or C-130 AMP
is primary aircraft designation, then Conversions sortie may be completed in any E/H Variant.
2. May be completed in any C-130 Variant
3. FCF GCAS/GPWS does not update this currency
4. Requires 30 mins hands on flying at 500 AGL or less
5. May be completed on any actual/simulated (TTB) airdrop
6. If NVG Airdrop Qualified
7. For NVG Light Eval only – Any NVG event may update this event
8. If NVG LL qualified – requires 30 mins hands on at 500 AGL or lower
9. If NVG Airland AMP 1-3 qualified – requires takeoff/app/landing (in marked zone)
10. If NVG Airland AMP 4 qualified – requires takeoff/app/landing (Updates all NVG Airland
events)
11. If NVG Airland Assault qualified – requires takeoff/app/landing (Updates NVG Airland
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                     135


AMP 1-3 or AMP 4 events as appropriate)
12. Not required for MC-130E/H FCF/OCF operations following PDM
13. If qualified
14. Requires 30 mins at 500 AGL or less
15. Navigator directed visual release – Any type actual airdrop
16. If NVG Formation Qualified

Table A11.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Additional C-130 Currency Requirements

AIRCRAFT                CREW POS      TRNG ITEM                    Num/Freq
C-130                   Pilot         Airland, Day                 1/90 days
                                      Airland, Night               1/90 days
 136                                 AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014




Table A11.3. Additional C-130 Proficiency Requirements.
Position   Item                                       Months Available
                                                      6    5    4      3   2   1
                                                      Number Required

P/CP       Conversion Sortie                          2    2     2    1    1   1
           Sim Eng(s) Out App (Note 1)                1    1     1    1    1   1
           Sim Eng(s) Out Missed App (Note 1)         1    1     1    1    1   1
           Sim Eng (s) Out Land (Note 1)              1    1     1    1    1   1
           Holding                                    1    1     1    1    1   1
           No Flap Landing                            1    1     1    1    1   1
           NDB Approach (Note 2)                      1    1     1    1    1   1
           Low Level                                  1    1     1    1    1   1
           Vis Form                                   1    1     1    1    1   1
           Actual Airdrop (Any Type)                  2    2     2    1    1   1
           NVG Airdrop                                1    1     1    1    1   1
           NVG Event                                  2    2     2    2    2   2
           NVG Low Level                              2    2     2    1    1   1
           NVG Formation                              2    2     2    1    1   1
           NVG Airland (AMP 1-3)                      3    3     2    2    1   1
           NVG Airland (AMP 4)                        4    4     3    2    1   1
           NVG Airland Assault                        4    4     2    2    1   1
           Terrain Following (30 mins)                2    2     2    1    1   1
           Helo Air Refueling                         1    1     1    1    1   1
           Dry Fire                                   3    3     2    2    1   1
           Live Fire                                  3    3     2    2    1   1
Nav        Celestial Obs & Resolution                 2    2     2    1    1   1
           Low Level                                  2    2     2    1    1   1
           Vis Form                                   1    1     1    1    1   1
           Vis Airdrop                                1    1     1    1    1   1
           Actual Airdrop                             2    2     2    1    1   1
           CDS/CRS (Actual or TTB)                    1    1     1    1    1   1
           HE (Actual or TTB)                         1    1     1    1    1   1
           Pers Actual                                1    1     1    1    1   1
           NVG Event                                  2    2     2    2    2   2
           NVG Low Level                              2    2     2    1    1   1
           Terrain Following                          2    2     2    1    1   1
           Helo Air Refueling                         1    1     1    1    1   1
           Dry Fire                                   3    3     2    2    1   1
           Live Fire                                  3    3     2    2    1   1
FE         Airdrop (any type)                         2    2     2    1    1   1
           NVG Event                                  2    2     2    2    2   2
           Terrain Following                          1    1     1    1    1   1
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                            137


             Helo Air Refueling                              1      1     1       1       1       1
             Dry/Live Fire                                   3      3     2       2       1       1
LM           Airdrop (any type)                              4      4     3       2       1       1
             CDS/CRS (Actual)                                1      1     1       1       1       1
             HE (Actual)                                     1      1     1       1       1       1
             Pers (Actual)                                   1      1     1       1       1       1
             NVG Airdrop                                     1      1     1       1       1       1
             NVG Event                                       2      2     2       1       1       1
             Helo Air Refueling                              1      1     1       1       1       1
NOTES:
1. Instructors will complete this event using simulated two engine-out procedures. The 90
Currency may be completed on either simulated one or two-engine out events.

2. May be accomplished in an AFMC approved simulator.

Table A11.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Additional C-130 Proficiency Requirements.


Position                                     Item                        Months Available
                                                                    6    5  4    3    2 1
Pilot                       Formation (CAPS/SKE)                    1    1    1       1       1   1
                            Airland, Day                            4    4    3       2       1   1
                            Airland, Night                          4    4    3       2       1   1
Navigator                   Formation (SKE)                         1    1    1       1       1   1
                            NVG Airland Takeoff                     2    2    2       1       1   1
                            NVG Airland Landing                     2    2    2       1       1   1
                            NVG Takeoff                             2    2    2       1       1   1
Flight Engineer             NVG Airland Takeoff                     2    2    2       1       1   1
                            NVG Airland Landing                     2    2    2       1       1   1
                            NVG Takeoff                             2    2    2       1       1   1
     A11.4.2. Conversion Currency/Proficiency Requirements. Pilots, flight engineers, and
     Loadmasters conversion training currency is maintained by accomplishing a sortie IAW
     Table A11.2 in each C-130 category aircraft (C-130A, C-130J, C-130 AMP, and all other C-
     130 variants) in which qualification is held. Proficiency is maintained IAW Table A11.3
     A11.4.3. Conversion Recurrency Requirements. Aircrew members who exceed conversion
     currency requirements in Table A11.2 may regain currency by flying with an instructor on
     the applicable aircraft. Loss of currency exceeding 6 months requires requalification ground
     and flight conversion training in a representative aircraft from that category.
        A11.4.3.1. Aircrew members who do not meet proficiency requirements in Table A11.3
        must accomplish one training flight in the applicable category under the supervision of an
        instructor.
     A11.4.4. NVG Low Altitude. If NVG LL qualified – Pilots require 30 minutes hands on at
     500 AGL or lower. Navigators require 30 minutes at 500 AGL or lower.
 138                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A11.4.5. Low Level Navigation. If Low Level qualified – Pilots require 30 minutes hands
   on at 500 AGL or lower. Navigators require 30 minutes at 500 AGL or lower.
   A11.4.6. TF/TA If TF/TA qualified – Pilots require 30 minutes hands on at any set
   clearance. Navigators require 30 minutes at any set clearance.
   A11.4.7. Test Pilot School (TPS) Curriculum.           There are no currency/proficiency
   requirements for the C-130.
   A11.4.8. Airdrop. See Tables A11.2 and A11.3 for detailed guidance on C-130 airdrop
   operations.
A11.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. In addition to C-130 specific training, upgrading
crewmembers must complete General Instructor Ground Training.
   A11.5.1. Instructor Upgrade. C-130 Pilot instructor candidates will complete simulated two-
   engine out training prior to certification as an AFMC C-130 IP. This training may be
   “accepted” if the pilot was an IP with an AFSOC or AFSOC gained unit.
A11.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A11.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     139


                                       Attachment 12
                             C-135 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A12.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the C-135 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all C-135 aircraft.
   A12.1.1. Aircraft Categories. For the purpose of C-135 qualification training, the following
   C-135 aircraft categories are defined.
       A12.1.1.1. Turbofan (TF). C-135 aircraft series powered by turbofan engines (TF33-PW-
       102 or derivative).
       A12.1.1.2. Hi-Bypass (HB). C-135 aircraft series powered by high bypass turbofan
       engines (F108-CF-100 or derivative).
       A12.1.1.3. Block 40. Any model of C-135 with the Block 40 avionics upgrade.
       A12.1.1.4. Rivet GLASS (RG). Any model of C-135 with the Rivet GLASS avionics
       upgrade.
   A12.1.2. Aircrew Requirements and Qualifications.
       A12.1.2.1. Navigator Requirements. The flying unit commander will determine the
       requirement for the unit navigator crew complement, to include Electronic Warfare
       Officer (EWO), based on flight manual and unit training requirements. Training tables
       and lessons outlined in this instruction address training required for the traditional
       navigator crew position.
       A12.1.2.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Navigators are required for all Precision Navigation and
       Cruise Missile Mission Control Aircraft (CMMCA) missions. The squadron operations
       officer will determine the need for navigators on all other missions.
       A12.1.2.2. Navigator Qualification. The C-135 and B-707 (E-3, E-8, etc) are considered
       a single qualification upon completion of a flight evaluation in each aircraft or upon
       completion of applicable conversion training.
       A12.1.2.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Communications Systems Operator. A Speckled
       Trout primary aircrew member is required to operate and conducts tests of
       communication systems.
       A12.1.2.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Flight Attendant (FA). A Speckled Trout primary
       aircrew member is required for the safe handling and care of passengers, including
       emergency egress and inflight emergencies. He/She prepares meals and ensures aircrew
       and passenger compliance with worldwide customs, diplomatic, and agriculture
       requirements.
A12.2. Phase I Training.
   A12.2.1. Pilot local qualification training will follow ETCA formal course syllabi to the
   maximum extent possible. Emphasis should be placed on a thorough review of aircraft
   systems/equipment, cockpit orientation, and normal/emergency procedures. All systems and
140                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  components not covered in training due to differences between the simulator and the C-135
  being trained in, will be covered in detail by an instructor during the aircraft visit.
  A12.2.2. Flight Engineer Qualification Training: Since there is no C-135 ETCA formal
  school, all new C-135 flight engineers must have been qualified as a flight engineer in
  another weapon system. Flight engineers never qualified or unqualified over 2 years in the
  C-135 must attend a simulator event in addition to the specified syllabus. The simulator event
  must be completed prior to the qualification.
  A12.2.3. Flying Training Requirements. For student continuity, qualification flying training
  will be accomplished within the same C-135 aircraft category to the maximum extent
  practical. Copilots will accomplish Phase I training in the right seat. However, those items
  accomplished in the left seat, such as engine start, taxi, etc., may be demonstrated to the
  student.
  A12.2.3. (EDWARDSAFB) Non-rated aircrew and flight surgeons will complete
  aircraft/cockpit familiarization ground training (within 30 days preceding first flight). This
  briefing may be given by any crewmember maintaining an instructor qualification on that
  aircraft. An instructor pilot, instructor navigator, or instructor flight engineer may administer
  all aspects of Non-rated aircrew and flight surgeon training.
  A12.2.4. Conversion Training. C-135 conversion training is required for pilots/flight
  engineers to qualify in another C-135 aircraft category to include: turbofan (TF) or hi-bypass
  (HB).
      A12.2.4.1. Conversion training is not required for navigators or boom operators to
      qualify in another C-135 aircraft engine category to include turbofan (TF) and hi-bypass
      (HB). However, navigators and boom operators will complete difference training
      covering APU (and other applicable systems) operation using unit developed training.
      A12.2.4.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Conversion training is not applicable to communication
      systems operators, flight attendants, Non-rated Aircrew or flight surgeons.
      A12.2.4.2. A C-135 Conversion training program is established. The syllabus enables
      conversion to TF/HB airframes and is labeled “Conversion” under C-135 Phase I training
      on the HQ AFMC/ A3V website.
      A12.2.4.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) KC-135R 63-7980 Conversion Training. Pilots,
      navigators, flight engineers and boom operators already qualified in a KC-135R will
      accomplish the KC-135R 63-7980 Conversion training. Crew members initially trained
      on 63-7980 shall accomplish this training plan in reverse order to become qualified in a
      standard KC-135R.
  A12.2.5. Difference Training. Difference training includes avionics difference associated
  with GATM and other upgrade programs (e.g. KC-135R (Block 30) to KC-135R (Block 40)).
  Avionics difference training is required for pilots, flight engineers, and navigators. The
  syllabus is labeled “Avionics” under C-135 Phase I training on the AFMC/A3V website.
  A12.2.5. (EDWARDSAFB) Difference training is not applicable for communications
  systems operators, Non-rated Aircrew or flight surgeons.
  A12.2.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Speckled Trout communications systems operators
  will complete C-135 Communications Systems Operator Qualification or Requalification
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         141


   training. Note: An ETCA C-135 Communications Systems Operator initial qualification
   course does not exist.
   A12.2.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Speckled Trout flight attendants will complete C-135
   Flight Attendant Qualification or Requalification training. For an individual who arrives at
   the unit as a qualified flight attendant in some other aircraft, use the FA Differences training
   plan. For an individual who has never been a flight attendant before, use the Trout FA-2
   Qualification plan. Note: An ETCA C-135 flight attendant initial qualification course does
   not exist.
A12.3. Phase II Training.
   A12.3.1. Air to Air Refueling Receiver: To be a Air to Air Refueling Receiver qualified
   instructor; a pilot, flight engineer, or navigator must be instructor qualified in the basic
   aircraft first. Only pilots require instructor upgrade training. Basic aircraft instructor pilot
   upgrade and Receiver instructor pilot upgrade training may be conducted concurrently. In
   this instance, the pilot must be receiver air refueling qualified prior to beginning instructor
   upgrade training. Receiver qualified pilots in the B-707 becoming qualified only need
   accomplish one training flight with a qualified AR instructor.
   A12.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Gear and Flap Certification Training: This training is
   designed to certify pilots to fly missions without a navigator, flight engineer, and boom
   operator. Ground training will be accomplished using a locally developed A3V approved
   lesson plan.
   A12.3.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Multi-Point Refueling System (MPRS) Certification
   Training: This training is designed to certify pilots and boom operators to fly missions using
   MPRS. Certification training will be conducted IAW the A3V approved plan.
   A12.3.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Air Refueling Flight Test Qualification Training: This
   mission training is designed to prepare a boom operator for aerial refueling proximity flight
   test and aerial refueling flight test (envelope expansion). For boom operators qualified in
   both the KC135 and the KC10, the requirements for Air Refueling Testing qualification can
   be accomplished in either aircraft. Training will be conducted IAW the A3V approved plan.
   A12.3.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Speckled                Trout     Executive    Airlift   Mission
   Qualification: Complete training IAW the A3V approved plan. The Executive Airlift
   mission qualification is unique to the Speckled Trout. Crewmembers must complete
   applicable ground and flight qualification training prior to performing any EAFB mission.
   Executive airlift training is not applicable for Non-rated Aircrew and flight surgeons unless
   tasked to fly on an executive airlift mission.
   A12.3.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Airborne Icing Tanker (AIT): Pilot and boom operator
   AIT qualification will be conducted using the C-135 AIT Qualification training plan. Pilots
   must be Tanker Air Refueling qualified and boom operators must be flight test qualified prior
   to starting this training.
A12.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, C-135 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A12.1 and Table A12.2 The flying unit commander may specify
additional mission specific events. For navigators, qualification in the C-135, and B-707 aircraft
 142                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


is considered a single qualification for the purposes of currency and proficiency requirements
upon completion of the applicable conversion training, or qualification flight evaluation.
A12.4. (EDWARDSAFB)Additional C-135 Currency and Proficiency Requirements are
listed in Table A12 1. and A12.2 respectively.

Table A12.1. Additional C-135 Currency Requirements.
AIRCRAFT         CREW POSITION            TRAINING ITEM            NUMBER/FREQUENCY
C-135                                     Air to Air Refueling     1/120
                                          Receiver

Table A12.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Additional C-135 Currency Requirements.
 AIRCRAFT             POSITION              TRAINING ITEM            NUMBER/FREQ
 C-135                Pilot/Boom            Ice/Water Spray (Actual) 1/365
                      Operator
 C-135                Flight Attendant      Egress Simulator          1/365
 C-135                Flight Attendant      Hazardous         Cargo   1/365
                                            Training
 C-135                Pilot                 PST Tactical Training     1/180
 C-135                ALL                   7980 Egress               1/365
 C-135                P/N/FE/BO             7980 Sortie               1/180
 C-135                Communications        NIPRNET Connect           1/60
                      Systems Operator
 C-135                Communications        SIPRNET Connect           1/60
                      Systems Operator
 C-135                Communications        ARC-210 Radio             1/60
                      Systems Operator

Table A12.2. Additional C-135 Proficiency Flying Training Requirements.
POSITION       TRAINING ITEM                                MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                            6  5  4   3   2           1
                                                            NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot         Sim Eng Fail on Takeoff                       2  2  2   1   1           1
              Sim Eng Out Missed Approach                   2  2  2   1   1           1
              Sim Eng Out Landing                           2  2  2   1   1           1
              Night Air to Air Refueling Receiver           1  1  1   1   1           1
              Tanker Air to Air Refueling Breakaway         1  1  1   1   1           1
              Receiver Air to Air Refueling Breakaway       1  1  1   1   1           1
              Proficiency Sortie                            1  1  1   1   1           1
Boom Operator Manual Contacts                               2  2  2   1   1           1
              Contacts                                      5  4  3   2   1           1
Navigator     Air Refueling Rendezvous                      1  1  1   1   1           1
  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                            143


  Table A12.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Additional C-135 Proficiency Flying Training
  Requirements
POSITION                           TRAINING ITEM                MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                6  5    4   3   2               1
                                                                NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot                              Proficiency Sortie           2  2    2  1    1               1
        A12.4.1. Pilot Proficiency Sortie. Pilots may log a proficiency training sortie if they actively
        control the aircraft for a minimum of one half hour of primary time and accomplish at least
        five different events from the following list:
           A12.4.1.1. Takeoff or departure
           A12.4.1.2. Penetration / Enroute Descent
           A12.4.1.3. Precision approach
           A12.4.1.4. Non-precision approach
           A12.4.1.5. Simulated emergency procedure
           A12.4.1.6. VFR pattern
           A12.4.1.7. Landing or touch-and-go
           A12.4.1.8. Holding
           A12.4.1.9. Airwork
           A12.4.1.10. Receiver AR
           A12.4.1.11. Circling approach
           A12.4.1.12. Autopilot - off tanker air refueling
        A12.4.2. Conversion Currency Requirements. Pilot and Flight Engineer conversion training
        currency is maintained by accomplishing a sortie every 180 days in each C-135 category
        aircraft (TF, HB) in which qualification is held. Navigator conversion training currency is
        maintained by accomplishing a sortie every 180 days in each aircraft (C-135, B-707) in
        which qualification is held. Boom operators do not have a conversion training currency
        requirement.
           A12.4.2.1. If C-135 pilots cannot maintain AFMC mandated currency requirements
           within aircraft category, the squadron commander or operations officer, on a case-by-case
           basis, may authorize currency to be maintained in any C-135 aircraft category. The
           following requirements must be met:
               A12.4.2.1.1. The aircraft to be used must have similar avionics equipment.
               A12.4.2.1.2. Accomplish pilot phase 1 ground training applicable to the aircraft to be
               flown.
               A12.4.2.1.3. Be supervised by a qualified IP at a set of flight controls.
               A12.4.2.1.4. Use FP duty code on the AFTO Form 781.
               A12.4.2.1.5. These events can be counted toward semiannual training requirements.
 144                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A12.4.3. The flying unit commander or operations officer, on a case-by-case basis, may
   authorize a B-707 airframe be used. If the pilot is not qualified in the B-707 airframe, the
   following requirements must be met:
       A12.4.3.1. Pilot must have 2000 hours total flying time with at least 1000 hours in the C-
       135.
       A12.4.3.2. Accomplish pilot Phase I Ground Training applicable to the aircraft to be
       flown.
       A12.4.3.3. Be supervised by a qualified IP at a set of flight controls.
       A12.4.3.4. Use an XP duty code on the AFTO Form 781.
       A12.4.3.5. Not log events toward semiannual training requirements.
   A12.4.4. Receiver Air Refueling Currency Requirements. Pilots may accomplish receiver air
   refueling currency requirements in any C-135/B-707 aircraft in which qualified. However, if
   the pilot is not qualified in the C-135, the following restrictions apply:
       A12.4.4.1. Complete pilot qualification ground training.
       A12.4.4.2. Under direct supervision of a receiver qualified instructor pilot.
       A12.4.4.3. Access to flight controls only during receiver refueling training.
          A12.4.4.3.1. Pilots dual qualified in the C-135/B-707 aircraft and also receiver air
          refueling qualified in both aircraft may accomplish currency and proficiency receiver
          air refueling training events in either aircraft.
          A12.4.4.3.2. Navigator air refueling currency is maintained by accomplishing a
          tanker or receiver rendezvous. Either rendezvous satisfies the requirements in A12.1
          and A12.2
   A12.4.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) C135 Flight Engineers should receive annual simulator
   refresher training. This training may be conducted in any AFMC approved C135 simulator
   and will include a review of systems operations and emergency procedures.
   A12.4.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Speckled Trout Flight Attendants will attend an annual
   refresher egress simulator specifically tailored to flight attendants. They are also required to
   receive annual hazardous cargo training similar to requirements of EAFB loadmasters via a
   locally developed training plan approved by HQ AFMC/A3V. Table A12.1 displays
   additional currency requirements.
A12.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
   A12.5.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) All crewmembers selected to attend the Combat Flight
   Instructor Course (CFIC) at Altus AFB, Oklahoma, will complete the PreCFIC training
   requirements listed in AFI 11-2KC-135V1. Transcribe the Pre-CFIC events listed in AFI 11-
   2KC-135V1 onto an AFMC Form 67 and 68. Speckled Trout crewmembers will complete
   the additional training listed in IAW the A3V approved plan. Note: ETCA C135 specific
   flight instructor upgrade courses do not exist for flight engineers, Flight Attendants and
   Communications systems operators. Instructor Upgrade training is not applicable to the
   mission crew, and operational support flyer positions.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                    145


   A12.5.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Pilot receiver air refueling will require a separate
   instructor upgrade.
   A12.5.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Instructor Boom Operator (IBO). Boom Operators
   qualified in the KC-135 who have previously qualified as instructor boom operators in the
   KC10 may upgrade to instructor boom operators in the KC135 by completing the following
   training:
       A12.5.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Ground training will include a briefing on
       instructor techniques, a review of Phase I ground training, and a review of AFI 112FT
       Vol. 1/EAFB Sup 1 for establishing and maintaining training folders.         Instructor
       candidates will complete applicable items on AFMC Form 67.
A12.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A12.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
 146                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                         Attachment 13
                              *F-35 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A13.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the F-35 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with the operation of all F-35 aircraft.
   A13.1.1. Key Terms and Definitions
       A13.1.1.1. Variants. The F-35 has three variants:
          A13.1.1.1.1. CTOL (Conventional Takeoff and Landing). F-35A
          A13.1.1.1.2. STOVL (Short takeoff and Vertical Landing). F-35B.
          A13.1.1.1.3. CV (Carrier Variant). F-35C.
       A13.1.1.2. Experienced Pilot (EXP)
          A13.1.1.2.1. An experienced pilot has 50 hours PAI and 6 months in the ITF. Pilots
          will be designated as such by the Sq/DO.
A13.2. Phase I Training.
   A13.2.1. Ground Training Requirements
       A13.2.1.1. Aircrew will complete the F-35 ground training prescribed in Table A13.1
       Non- AFMC F-35 ground training may be conducted by command-certified instructors
       (i.e., an AETC F-35 academic instructor may not be an instructor pilot, but is qualified to
       teach academics). A qualified F-35 instructor pilot will administer all AFMC conducted
       ground training.
   A13.2.2. Flying Training Requirements.
       A13.2.2.1. Aircrew will complete the F-35 flying training prescribed in Table A13.1 A
       formal school will be the primary means of accomplishing initial and requalification
       training. Initial and requalification training will only be conducted by AFMC when a
       formal school is not available.
       A13.2.2.2. Initial qualification will be accomplished in any variant of Mission Systems
       aircraft. Pilots are responsible for understanding aircraft differences as identified in the
       Flight Series Data (flight manual) and program avionics.

Table A13.1. F-35 Qualification Training Requirements.
                    REQUIREMENTS
 Ground Training    a. F-35 Systems Academics (ITC academic instructors preferred)
                    b. F-35 Qualification Simulators (Eglin simulators preferred)
                    c. Egress Training (may be accomplished locally by qualified instructor)
                    d. F-35 Engine Run
 Flying Training    Flying Training in accordance with either an F-35 Formal Training
                    Qualification Syllabus or an AFMC-approved F-35 Qual Training Plan
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       147


       A13.2.2.3. Flight Lead Qualification.          F-35 aircraft qualification is considered
       qualification as an F-35 flight lead. An F-35 pilot qualified in a mission element is
       qualified as a flight lead in that mission element.
A13.3. Phase II Training.
   A13.3.1. General. Unless a mission element’s section includes a specific Instructor
   Qualification section, an F-35 IP current and qualified in a mission element is automatically
   qualified to instruct in that mission.
   A13.3.2. Flight Test Orientation (FTO).
       A13.3.2.1. F-35 pilots who are not graduates of TPS can complete FTO training to
       enable participation in low risk flight test sorties on a case-by-case basis. The 461 FLTS
       Squadron Commander is the approval authority for entry into FTO training for those
       pilots who are not TPS graduates.
A13.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, F-35 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A13.2

Table A13.2. Additional F-35 Currency Requirements.

      EVENT        To update fly:             INEXP     EXP          To regain currency:


LANDING            Ref 4.5.5                     21       45    Sim Landing (Note 1)
SFO                Actual FO or Sim Event        45       90    Sim Event (Note 1)
AAR                Day or Night AAR              60      180    Event
FLUTTER            Ref 4.5.37                    30      180    Sim Event (Notes 1 & 2)
LOADS              Ref 4.5.36                    30       90    Sim Event (Notes 1 & 2)
AIRSTART           Event                         30       30    Sim Event (Note 2)
ORDNANCE
             Event                              180      180    Sim Event (Note 2)
RELEASE TEST
HI AOA             Event                         30       30    Sim Event (Notes 1 & 2)
NOTES:
1. Accomplish in an AFMC-approved simulator only (exception: Edwards Mission Systems
    sim).
2. Sim event must be accomplished with MCR personnel.
A13.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
A13.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A13.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
A13.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Definitions
148                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  A13.8.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Mission Ready. Completion of Flight Test Orientation
  and the Instrument/Qualification Check constitutes Mission Ready (MR) status in the F-35.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                          149


                                         Attachment 14
                                F-4 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A14.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the F-4 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all F-4 aircraft.
   A14.1.1. Aircraft Categories. For the purpose of qualification training, the following F-4
   aircraft categories are defined:
       A14.1.1.1. F-4C/D. F-4C/D (to include the RF-4C) aircraft series has leading edge flaps
       for landing and a "hard wing" that allows for maneuvering up to 19.2 units AOA. These
       aircraft have more pronounced adverse yaw during maneuvering than F-4s with slats.
       These aircraft also contain a leading edge Boundary Layer Control (BLC) system on the
       wings. This system provides extra lift with hot engine bleed air over the wings when the
       flaps are down. Emergency steps were added for malfunctions in this system. These
       aircraft have a deployable Ram Air Turbine (RAT) in case of double generator failures.
       A14.1.1.2. F-4E/G. F-4E/G aircraft series has leading edge slats that allow for improved
       maneuvering up to 25 units AOA. The BLC system is removed from these models. The
       electrical system is reconfigured to the aircraft battery and removes the requirement for
       the RAT. The 'G' model is a converted 'E' model that includes the Wild Weasel avionics.
       A14.1.1.3. QF-4 aircraft are models that contain the drone modification. A separate QF-4
       checklist is used when this aircraft is a manned flyer
A14.2. Phase I Training.
       A14.2.1. Pilot Training. The first requalification training flight for the F-4 will be flown
       with an instructor pilot on board the aircraft. All other F-4 flights may be accomplished
       with an instructor pilot providing instruction from a chase aircraft. Instructor WSOs will
       not perform instructional duties for pilots during Phase I training.
   A14.2.2. Conversion Training. F-4 conversion training is required for pilots and WSOs to
   qualify in another F-4 aircraft category to include the (R) F-4C/D or F-4E.
       A14.2.2.1. Ground Training Requirements. Conversion training for all model aircraft
       will consist of completion of the appropriate ground and CPT training as specified in the
       Initial Qualification section of this volume. Emphasis of training will be placed upon the
       differences between the models of the F-4.
A14.3. Phase II Training.
   A14.3.1. Basic formation skills are not required for initial qualification in the F-4. Therefore,
   mission qualification training will include instruction in basic formation (fingertip, route,
   tactical, chase, formation takeoffs and landings, cross-unders, and rejoins) as applicable to
   the unit mission.
A14.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, F-4 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A14.1 and Table A14.2
 150                                   AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A14.4.1. The (R)F-4 C/D and F-4E/G are considered the same series for the purpose of
   maintaining currency. Recurring qualification and instrument evaluations may be taken in
   either airframe. The flying unit commander may specify additional currency and proficiency
   requirements upon aircrews for specific categories of the F-4.

Table A14.1. Additional Currency Requirements.
AIRCRAFT       POSITION           TRAINING ITEM             NUMBER/FREQUENCY
F-4            Pilot              FCF Sortie                1/90
               WSO                FCF Sortie                1/90

Table A14.2. Additional Proficiency Training Requirements.
POSITION          TRAINING ITEM                                 MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                 6 5  4   3  2   1
                                                                NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot             Simulated Single Engine (SSE) Approach        3 3 2 2 1 1
                  No Slat/Flap Approach                         3 3 2 2 1 1
A14.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
A14.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A14.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        151


                                        Attachment 15
                               F-15 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A15.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the F-15 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all F-15 aircraft.
A15.2. Phase I Training.
   A15.2.1. Centrifuge Training. F-15E WSOs current and qualified with respect to centrifuge
   requirements (as defined by AFI 11-404) are not required to attend centrifuge training for the
   higher-g F-15B/D profile as part of their conversion training.
   A15.2.2. Ground Training Requirements. During local qualification training, cockpit
   procedures training (CPT), at the aircraft, in an aircrew training device, or in a table-top
   forum, will be accomplished prior to any flying training.
   A15.2.3. Flying Training Requirements. F-15 flight training syllabi are divided into two
   categories: 1) F-15 A-D and 2) F-15E. Aircrew will complete the appropriate F-15 flying
   training prescribed in the syllabus.
       A15.2.3.1. Pilot Training. The first qualification training flight for F-15A/B/C/D or F-
       15E models will be flown in an F-15 B/D or F-15E with an instructor pilot on board the
       aircraft. All other F-15A/B/C/D or F-15E flights may be accomplished with an instructor
       pilot providing instruction from a chase aircraft. Instructor WSOs will not perform
       instructional duties for pilots during Phase I training.
   A15.2.4. Weapon System Officer (WSO) Training. WSO initial qualification and
   requalification training must consist of the following: Ground training as outlined in the
   QUAL or REQUAL column of the appropriate syllabus, simulator training for F-15E WSO
   initial/requalification will be completed before beginning flying training. No simulator
   training is required for F-15 B/D WSO requalification.
   A15.2.5. Conversion Training. F-15 conversion training is required for pilots and WSOs to
   qualify in another F-15 aircraft category to include the F-15B/D or F-15E.
       A15.2.5.1. Ground Training Requirements. Local conversion training for all model
       aircraft will consist of completion of the appropriate ground, CPT, and simulator training.
       WSOs converting from the F-15E to an F-15B/D require ground training only.
       Additional open book/closed book testing is not required for any F-15 conversion
       training.
       A15.2.5.2. Flying Training Requirements. For local conversion training aircrew will use
       the requalification requirements specified on the applicable AFMC Form 67/68.
       Additional training requirements will be as outlined by the flying unit commander. WSOs
       converting from the F-15E to an F-15B/D do not require flying training.
A15.3. Phase II Training.
   A15.3.1. General. Minimum aircrew qualifications and additional unit specific mission
   training and associated will be established by the flying unit commander and included in the
   unit supplement to this instruction.
 152                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A15.3.2. Mission training for the F-15E may be accomplished using either an instructor pilot
   or instructor WSO who is qualified for the specific mission/tasks to be instructed.
Table A15.1. F-15 Instructor of Record Requirements.
             Phase II              Instructor of Record for Initial    Instructor of Record
     Qualification/Currency                 Qualification              to Regain Currency
          Requirements
Sortie                                Phase I training requirements               IP
Formation T/O and Land                Phase II training requirements              IP
Landing                               Phase I training requirements               IP
Night Landing                         Phase I training requirements               IP
Instrument Approach                   Phase I training requirements          IP or IWSO
Simulated Engine Out Approach         Phase I training requirements          IP or IWSO
ILS PRM                                        IP or IWSO                        N/A
Touch and Go Landing                                 IP                          N/A
Air-to-Air Refueling Receiver                        IP                      IP or IWSO
FCF/ACF                                              IP                      IP or IWSO
AHC/AHM                                              IP                           IP
Formation Flight Lead                                IP                          N/A
NVG Medium Altitude                                  IP                      IP or IWSO
NVG Low Altitude                                     IP                      IP or IWSO
HMCS                                                 IP                          N/A
Intercept                                      IP or IWSO                    IP or IWSO
BFM                                                 N/A                      IP or IWSO
BFM Wingman                                          IP                          N/A
BFM Flight Lead                                      IP                          N/A
BFM Instructor                     IP for Pilot / IP or IWSO for WSO             N/A
ACBT                                                N/A                      IP or IWSO
ACBT Wingman                                         IP                          N/A
ACBT Flight Lead                                     IP                          N/A
ACBT Instructor                    IP for Pilot / IP or IWSO for WSO             N/A
Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery     IP for Pilot / IP or IWSO for WSO         IP or IWSO
Low Level Navigation                           IP or IWSO                    IP or IWSO
LASDT                                                IP                      IP or IWSO
TF (Night IMC/VMC or Day                       IP or IWSO                Flight in Day VMC
IMC)
Flight Test Orientation                        IP or IWSO                        N/A
Chase                                               IP                            IP
Ordnance Release Test                          IP or IWSO                        N/A
Compatibility Flight Profile               IP (TPS Graduate)                      IP
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       153


   A15.3.3. Basic formation skills are not required for initial qualification in the F-15.
   Therefore, mission qualification training will include instruction in basic formation
   (fingertip, route, tactical, chase, formation takeoffs and landings, cross-unders, rejoins) as
   applicable to the unit mission.
   A15.3.4. Targeting Pod (TGP) Pilot. Due to the division of tasks in the F-15E between the
   pilot and WSO and the integral part the TGP plays in basic aircraft qualification, TGP Pilot
   qualification is not required in the F-15E.
   A15.3.5. Navigation Pod. Due to the integrated and integral part the Navigation Pod plays
   in TF operations, Navigation Pod qualification is not required in the F-15E.
   A15.3.6. Night Vision Goggles. All sorties requiring an instructor will be flown in two seat
   F-15s. A minimum of 50 hours total time in the F-15 is required prior to beginning NVG
   training. Daytime Air-to-Surface Weapon Delivery qualification is required prior to
   accomplishing NVG weapon delivery events. Aircrew that are NVG Medium Altitude
   Qualified may fly below the MSA while wearing NVGs during low level navigation if using
   the TF system for terrain avoidance.
A15.4. Continuation Training.
   A15.4.1. General. The F-15A-D and F-15E are considered the same series for the purpose of
   maintaining currency. Recurring qualification and instrument evaluations may be taken in
   either airframe. The flying unit commander may specify additional currency and proficiency
   requirements upon aircrews for specific categories of the F-15.
   A15.4.2. NVG Currency. NVG IPs may update NVG currency from the rear cockpit.
A15.5. Upgrade Qualification Training.
   A15.5.1. Instructor pilot upgrade training may be accomplished in either single seat or two-
   seat aircraft. Rear-cockpit landing proficiency must be demonstrated before the IP upgrade
   flight evaluation.
A15.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A15.7. Additional Training.
   A15.7.1. TF system below LASDT qualification altitudes. For test plans requiring use of the
   TF system below the LASDT minimum altitude as described in chapter 3, but at or above
   100 feet AGL, the OG/CC will direct/approve “spin-up” training for the involved aircrew.
   Prerequisite for this training; the aircrew will be current and qualified in LASDT and TF.
 154                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                         Attachment 16
                                F-16 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A16.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the F-16 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all F-16 aircraft.
   A16.1.1. Aircraft Categories. For the purpose of F-16 qualification training, the following F-
   16 aircraft categories are defined.
       A16.1.1.1. F-16C/CG/CJ aircraft series to include Block 25-52 upgrades.
       A16.1.1.2. MMC. F-16 aircraft series equipped with the Modular Mission Computer.
       A16.1.1.3. MLU. F-16A/B aircraft series retrofitted with the Mid-Life Update
       hardware/software enhancements and are equivalent to F-16 MMC aircraft for training,
       currency and proficiency requirements.
A16.2. Phase I Training.
   A16.2.1. Conversion Training. F-16 conversion training is required for pilots to qualify in
   another F-16 aircraft category to include the F-16C/CG/CJ/ or F-16MLU/MMC.
   A16.2.2. Ground Training Requirements. Local conversion training for all model aircraft
   will consist of completion of the appropriate ground, CPT, and simulator training.
   A16.2.3. Flying Training Requirements. One sortie (minimum) is required to complete
   conversion training.
   A16.2.4. Difference Training. F-16 difference training is required for pilots to qualify in a
   different engine to include the PW200/220/229 or the GE100/129. Each engine requires
   separate ground training.
   A16.2.5. NAV/EWO/WSO. Initial qualification WSO training in the F-16 will be
   accomplished using the approved training plan. All WSOs qualifying in the F-16 must have
   been previously qualified in a fighter weapon system (i.e. F-15E, F-4, F-111 etc.).
   A16.2.5. (EDWARDSAFB) One sortie (minimum) is required for requalification.
A16.3. Phase II Training.
A16.3. (EDWARDSAFB)F16 Phase II flying training conducted by Test Squadrons: May
be accomplished in conjunction with test missions. However, if this occurs, the appropriate
Operations Officer will ensure that neither the test mission objectives nor the training mission are
compromised.
   A16.3.1. Basic formation skills are not required for initial qualification in the F-16.
   Therefore, mission qualification training will include instruction in basic formation
   (fingertip, route, tactical, chase, formation takeoffs and landings, cross-unders, rejoins) as
   applicable to the unit mission.
   A16.3.1. (EDWARDSAFB) Initial qualification for wing takeoffs and landings will be
   accomplished under the supervision of a current IP in the same aircraft or in the element.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     155


  A16.3.2. Night Vision Goggle (NVG) Training. The first training sortie of NVG
  Qual/Requal will be flown in two seat F-16s. A minimum of 50 hours total time in the F-16
  is required prior to beginning NVG training. Daytime air-to-ground qualification is required
  prior to accomplishing NVG weapon delivery events.
  A16.3.3. High-speed Anti-Radiation Missile (HARM) Targeting System (HTS).
     A16.3.3.1. Definition. HTS training qualifies aircrew to operate the HARM targeting
     system while conducting flight operations.
     A16.3.3.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
     A16.3.3.3. Training Classification. Individual flying units will establish ground and
     flying training requirements. This qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified
     aircrew and must be accomplished for each MD qualification.
     A16.3.3.4. Training Requirements. As a minimum, HTS training will include ground
     training. Flight training is at the discretion of the unit.
     A16.3.3.5. HTS training may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
  A16.3.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Air Refueling. Unless previously qualified in a fighter
  aircraft, the first training event must be accomplished in the F-16D.
  A16.3.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) General WSO Phase II. WSOs may fly any sortie they
  are qualified for provided the pilot is also current and qualified. WSOs will not instruct or
  provide upgrades for F-16 pilots.
  A16.3.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Range Control Officer (RCO) Training: Training will
  be IAW locally developmed AFMC/A3V approved plan. Prior to assuming RCO duties, the
  upgrading RCO will accomplish a supervised range tour with a qualified RCO.
  A16.3.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) AGTS-36 Tow.                  Training will be IAW locally
  developed AFMC/A3V approved plan.
  A16.3.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Ground Avionics Power-Up Training: This training
  qualifies flight test engineers to operate the avionics using ground power. Training consists
  of a briefing IAW the locally developed AFMC/A3V approved ground training and a cockpit
  familiarization with an F16 pilot. This is a one time training requirement. Unit training
  officers will maintain the completed grade sheets.
  A16.3.9. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Airstart Training
     A16.3.9.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) General. This training is required for pilots to
     conduct airstart flight test. This training will familiarize pilots with airstart test
     techniques and procedures. Training will be IAW a locally developed AFMC/A3V
     approved plan.
     A16.3.9.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Restrictions:
         A16.3.9.2.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) This training may be accomplished with
         any production representative engine, JFS, and EPU.
         A16.3.9.2.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) The jet will be configured clean or with a
         centerline tank; wingtip missiles are optional.
156                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


  A16.3.10. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Touch and Go Training.
      A16.3.10.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Initial Qualification Training. A pilot must fly
      with an instructor in the RCP on the first sortie in which touch and go landings (normal
      or SFO) or SFO full stop landings are performed. These events will be documented on
      AFMC Forms 67 and 68.
  A16.3.11. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) JHMCS Training.
      A16.3.11.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) General. Training will be IAW a locally
      developed AFMC/A3V approved plan.
  A16.3.12. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) BFM Requirements. Pilots will complete the High
  AOA Familiarization Sortie concurrently with initial or requalification upgrades in F-16
  BFM. The TPS High AOA syllabus sortie or a High AOA FAM sortie flown in the last 3
  years fulfils this requirement. The squadron commander/CTF director may waive/delay this
  requirement based on prior F-16 experience/jet availability.
  A16.3.13. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Pilots will complete the High AOA Test IP upgrade
  before instructing High AOA Test Upgrade sorties beyond the High AOA Familiarization IP
  upgrade.
      A16.3.13.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) To fly in the front cockpit (FCP), pilots must
      meet one of the following criteria:
         A16.3.13.1.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Be current and qualified in the F16.
         A16.3.13.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Be a test pilot (graduate of a test pilot
         school).
         A16.3.13.1.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Be a pilot enrolled in a test pilot school.
      A16.3.13.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) To fly in the rear cockpit (RCP), personnel will
      be current in F16 egress and hanging harness, have a current medical clearance, and
      current altitude chamber training.
      A16.3.13.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Training.             Training will have the following
      additional restrictions:
         A16.3.13.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) The airstart familiarization sortie must be
         accomplished prior to performing High AOA IP duties.
         A16.3.13.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Fly               all     upgrade      training  and
         familiarization sorties with a current High AOA IP in the aircraft except as stated in
         the local syllabus or an approved by safety package for test pilot upgrade.
         A16.3.13.3.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Fuel balancing to obtain the desired
         training CG will not be initiated until internal wing tanks are dry.
         A16.3.13.3.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Any compressor stall or stagnation
         requiring engine restart procedures to clear the condition will require an immediate
         return to base via an SFO full-stop landing.
         A16.3.13.3.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) If a stall or stagnation causes the EPU to
         activate, the mission will be aborted.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       157


          A16.3.13.3.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) The missions will be flown in day VMC
          conditions with a discernible horizon. Flight above a broken deck is permissible if
          sufficient ground references and vertical cloud clearance exist to recover and visually
          navigate to a suitable runway and fly a flameout pattern from high key or high final
          while remaining clear of clouds.
          A16.3.13.3.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) A dedicated mission frequency is desired.
          A16.3.13.3.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) All maneuvers will be flown above 35,000
          ft MSL in case of an inadvertent or intentional departure.
   A16.3.14. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Targeting (TGP) and Navigation pod (NVP) Aircrew
   Qualification Training and Currency.
      A16.3.14.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) NVP Terrain Following Radar (TFR) training
      and flying is defined as the use of TFR with fly-up protection. NVP TFR qualification
      will be limited to day, VMC, at or above 500 ft AGL. At a minimum, pilots will receive
      NVP ground academics derived from the Foreign LANTIRN NVP Course at Luke AFB
      combined with inputs from local EAFB NVP engineers and pilots. No flying training is
      required. No currency is associated with the use of the NVP TFR. The use of the NVP
      Forward-Looking Infrared (FLIR) requires ground training only.
A16.4. Continuation Training.
   A16.4.1. The F-16C/CG/CJ and MLU/MMC are considered the same series for the purpose
   of maintaining currency. Recurring qualification and instrument evaluations may be taken in
   either airframe. The flying unit commander may specify additional currency and proficiency
   requirements upon aircrews for specific categories of the F-16. NVG IPs may update NVG
   currency from the rear cockpit.
   A16.4.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) BFM Advanced Handling Characteristics (AHC)
   Requirements. Accomplish at least one HARTS (HARTS #3 or greater)/BFM/ACBT event
   every 90 days. If current, any HARTS/BFM/ACM event may be used to update currency. If
   noncurrent in AHC, a HARTS maneuver must be accomplished to regain currency and this
   may be accomplished as the first event of a BFM/ACM sortie. See Table A16.1.
   A16.4.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) High AOA FAM IP/Test Currency/Recurrency
   Requirements. Currency is for 180 days. Any High AOA sortie fulfills this requirement. To
   regain currency, must fly with a High AOA IP on a High AOA sortie. See Table A16.1.

Table A16.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Additional Currency Requirements
    TRAINING ITEM            EVENTS WHICH             NUMBER            TO REGAIN CURRENCY:
                                UPDATE              /FREQUENCY
                                                       (DAYS)
High AOA Fam             High AOA Fam IP/Test           1/180      One High AOA event under IP
IP/Test                                                            supervision
AHC                      HARTS (#3 or greater)          1/90       One HARTS (# 3 or greater)
                         or BFM/ACM event                          event under IP supervision.
 158                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


A16.5. Upgrade Training.
   A16.5.1. Instructor pilot upgrade training may be accomplished in either single seat or two-
   seat aircraft. Rear-cockpit landing proficiency must be demonstrated before the IP upgrade
   flight evaluation.
A16.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A16.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
   A16.7.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) NVG Orientation Flights. The Operations Officer may
   authorize NVG orientation flights for Non-Rated aircrew. The following restrictions apply:
       A16.7.1.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Individuals will have completed NVG ground
       training from a qualified NVG academic instructor prior to the initial flight.
       A16.7.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) The orientation flight will be under the
       supervision of an NVG IP.
       A16.7.1.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Preflight briefing/training will include: NVG
       preflight/adjustment, cockpit lighting setup, NVG donning/stowing, and emergency
       procedures.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      159


                                        Attachment 17
                              KC-46 TRAINING GUIDLINES

A17.1. General. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction and approved
test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in KC-46 aircraft (initial, requalification,
conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as applicable. KC-46 training will be
conducted in accordance with the KC-46 Initial Pilot Cadre Training Plan.
 160                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 18
                              T-38 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A18.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the T-38 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all T-38 aircraft.
A18.2. Phase I Training. Undergraduate Pilot Training (UPT) does not constitute sufficient
training for a pilot to be considered qualified in the T-38. At the flying unit commander’s
discretion, qualification from another T-38 using command (i.e. AETC, ACC) or service (Navy)
may constitute sufficient qualification training.
   A18.2.1. Ground and Flying Training Requirements. Qualification ground training will be
   accomplished 1) in a cockpit procedures trainer (CPT), 2) at the aircraft, 3) in an aircrew
   training device, or 4) in a table-top forum, prior to any flying training.
   A18.2.2. Simulator training will be accomplished for pilots before beginning flying training.
   (Exception: If a T-38 is flown to the simulator location, these missions can count as training
   sorties.)
   A18.2.3. NAV/EWO/WSO T-38 Initial qualification. All WSOs qualifying in the T-38 must
   have been previously qualified in a fighter weapon system (i.e. F-15E, F-4, F-111 etc.) or a
   graduate of the USAF Test Pilot School or another service equivalent school.
   A18.2.4. Conversion Training. T-38 conversion training is required for aircrew to qualify in
   another T-38 series (i.e. conversion from T-38A/B to T-38C).
A18.3. Phase II Training.
   A18.3.1. Basic formation skills are not required for initial qualification in the T-38.
   Therefore, mission qualification training will include instruction in basic formation
   (fingertip, route, tactical, chase, formation takeoffs and landings, cross-unders, rejoins) as
   applicable to the unit mission.
   A18.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) BFM & ACBT. T-38 BFM/ACBT training will be
   done only for mission (test) requirements. It is approved on a case-by-case basis. Creation
   of these plans must be coordinated through OGV and OG/CC for HQ AFMC/A3V approval.
A18.4. Continuation Training. The T/AT-38A/B and T-38C are considered the same series
for the purpose of maintaining currency. Recurring qualification and instrument evaluations may
be taken in either airframe. The flying unit commander may specify additional currency and
proficiency requirements upon aircrews for specific series of the T-38.
A18.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
A18.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A18.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        161


                                         Attachment 19
                             KC-10 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A19.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the KC-10 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all KC-10 aircraft.
   A19.1.1. The term “Test Boom Operator” refers to a fully qualified AFMC AFFTC Boom
   Operator.
A19.2. Phase I Training.
   A19.2.1. Ground Training Requirements. Unqualified crew members, including flight test
   engineers, who perform temporary aircrew duties in the KC10, will complete the KC-10
   Unqualified Crewmember training.
A19.3. Phase II Training.
   A19.3.1. Air to Air Refueling Tanker Training. An IP qualified in tanker refueling will
   administer ground and flying training. Training is not required for pilots with current KC-10
   tanker air refueling AF Form 8, Certification of Aircrew Qualification, and who are current
   in KC-10 tanker AR.
   A19.3.2. Air to Air Refueling Receiver Training. In the event that receiver air refueling was
   not accomplished in initial qualification training, accomplish receiver refueling training
   requirements outlined on the KC-10 Receiver Air Refueling syllabus. A contact may be
   credited for each 5 minutes of toggles engaged time on the boom. Proficiency in day
   refueling and contacts will be demonstrated before night contacts are attempted.
   A19.3.3. Air to Air Refueling Flight Test Qualification Flight Training. This training is
   designed to prepare a boom operator for aerial refueling proximity flight test and aerial
   refueling envelope expansion. Designated Air Refueling “Flight Test Boom Operators” will
   accomplish the KC-10 Boom Operator Flight Test syllabus. For “Flight Test Boom
   Operators” qualified in both the KC135 and the KC10, the requirements can be accomplished
   in either aircraft.
   A19.3.4. FCF Training. FCF Flight training is not required for boom operators.
A19.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the basic currency and semiannual proficiency
training requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, KC10 aircrew members will also
accomplish the requirements in Table A19.1
   A19.4.1. Pilot Proficiency Sortie. Pilots may log a proficiency training sortie, as established
   in Table A19.1, if they actively control the aircraft for a minimum of one half hour of
   primary time and accomplish at least five different events from the following list:
       A19.4.1.1. Takeoff or Departure
       A19.4.1.2. Penetration or Enroute Descent
       A19.4.1.3. Precision Approach
       A19.4.1.4. Non-precision Approach
 162                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


        A19.4.1.5. VFR Pattern.
        A19.4.1.6. Landing or Touch-and-go
        A19.4.1.7. Holding
        A19.4.1.8. Airwork
        A19.4.1.9. Receiver AR
        A19.4.1.10. Circling Approach
        A19.4.1.11. Missed Approach
   A19.4.2. Simulator Requirements. Crew members will complete simulator training at least
   once every 12 months, three month phase. This training will be based on AMC quarterly
   refresher simulator lesson plans.

Table A19.1. Additional KC10 Proficiency Flying Training Requirements.
CREW POSITION                TRAINING ITEM                  MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                            6 5 4 3 2 1
PILOT                        Air to Air Refueling Receiver 1 1 1 1 1 1
                             Air to Air Refueling Breakaway 1 1 1 1 1 1
                             (Receiver & Tanker)
                             Proficiency Sortie             2 2 2 1 1 1
BOOM OPERATOR                Contacts                       5 4 3 2 1 1
A19.5. Upgrade Training.
   A19.5.1. Basic aircraft instructor upgrade and instructor receiver AR qualification training
   may be conducted concurrently. In this instance, the pilot must be receiver AR qualified prior
   to beginning instructor upgrade training.
A19.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A19.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
A19.7. (EDWARDSAFB)Airwork Procedures.
   A19.7.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) This chapter will be used as a guide when information
   is not covered in the specific aircraft flight manual. The techniques outlined in this section
   are only suggested methods of performing the maneuvers. All flight manual procedures take
   precedence over this instruction and will be reviewed prior to accomplishing any maneuvers
   in fight. This guidance is to accomplish training and instructor pilot demonstration
   maneuvers in the KC10. Return the aircraft to a safe configuration after each training
   scenario. Instructor supervision is defined as a current and qualified instructor pilot at a set
   of flight controls. The AC or IP will ensure all crewmembers are advised of the maneuver
   and procedures to be followed. During all airwork and flight maneuver training, the IP or
   pilot in command, as applicable, will ensure that actions taken follow these priorities.
        A19.7.1.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Fly–the-Aircraft. Pilot should establish attitude
        and power settings that will control aircraft performance and flight path.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                    163


     A19.7.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Direct Crew Actions. While continuing to fly
     aircraft, pilot will initiate necessary checklist actions and coordinate crew activity as
     necessary to accomplish maneuver or demonstration.
  A19.7.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Slow Speed Tanker Refueling Demonstration:
     A19.7.2.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Purpose. Demonstrate slow speed flying
     characteristics of KC10 aircraft and proper pitch and power inputs required to maintain
     an effective tanker platform. Maneuver also demonstrates proper computation of
     minimum allowable air refueling (AR) speed (1.2g buffet onset plus additives).
     A19.7.2.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Conditions.            Slow speed tanker refueling
     demonstration will be practiced only under direct IP supervision. Slow speed tanker
     refueling demonstration will be conducted at a minimum altitude of 10,000 feet (AGL).
     All crew members will be briefed on maneuver and procedures to be used.
     A19.7.2.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Procedures.
        A19.7.2.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Compute and record the following data
        (units will develop procedures to compute and record the following data):
            A19.7.2.3.1.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Aircraft gross weight (GW)
            A19.7.2.3.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Aircraft center of gravity (CG)
            A19.7.2.3.1.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Pressure altitude
            A19.7.2.3.1.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Temperature deviation
            A19.7.2.3.1.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) 0/RET minimum maneuver speed
            A19.7.2.3.1.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) 0/EXT minimum maneuver speed
            A19.7.2.3.1.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Minimum AR speed (0/RET)
            A19.7.2.3.1.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Minimum AR speed (0/EXT)
        A19.7.2.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Set airspeed reference bugs to 0/RET
        minimum maneuver speed, minimum AR speed (0/RET).
        A19.7.2.3.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Turn on FASTEN SEAT BELTS and
        RETURN TO CABIN signs.
        A19.7.2.3.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Thrust rating computer—set MCT.
        A19.7.2.3.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Decelerate to minimum AR speed (0/RET).
        Trim aircraft to maintain level flight.
        A19.7.2.3.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Perform a series of 15-degree bank turns in
        level flight. Emphasize importance of controlling airspeed and minimizing load
        factor. Note pitch required to maintain level flight.
        A19.7.2.3.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Return to wings-level condition.
        A19.7.2.3.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) If at any time stick shaker or buffet onset
        occurs, recover using the following procedures:
            A19.7.2.3.8.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Pitch—as required.
164                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


            A19.7.2.3.8.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Power—maximum continuous thrust.
            A19.7.2.3.8.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Flap and slat handle—0/EXT.
            A19.7.2.3.8.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Accelerate to minimum AR speed
            (0/RET) speed.
            A19.7.2.3.8.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Retract slats and push SLAT RESET
            switch light. NOTE: If stick shaker occurred, observe SLAT DISAGREE
            light on, SLAT RESET switch light on, and 1-3 or 23 HYDRAULIC PUMP
            VALVE OPEN lights on.
         A19.7.2.3.9. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Set airspeed reference bugs to 0/RET
         minimum maneuver speed, 0/EXT minimum maneuver speed, minimum AR speed
         (0/EXT).
         A19.7.2.3.10. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Slats—extend.
         A19.7.2.3.11. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Decelerate          to   minimum      AR   speed
         (0/EXT). Trim aircraft to maintain level flight.
         A19.7.2.3.12. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Perform a series of 15-degree bank turns
         in level flight. Emphasize importance of controlling airspeed and minimizing load
         factor. Note pitch required to maintain level flight.
         A19.7.2.3.13. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) If at any time stick shaker or buffet onset
         occurs, recover using the following procedure:
            A19.7.2.3.13.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Pitch—as required.
            A19.7.2.3.13.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Power—maximum                    continuous
            thrust.
            A19.7.2.3.13.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Accelerate          to   0/EXT    minimum
            maneuver speed.
            A19.7.2.3.13.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Slats—retract.
            A19.7.2.3.13.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Accelerate          to   0/RET    minimum
            maneuver speed.
         A19.7.2.3.14. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Turn off FASTEN SEAT BELTS and
         RETURN TO CABIN lights.
         A19.7.2.3.15. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Reset thrust rating computer as required.
  A19.7.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Steep Turns Demonstration:
      A19.7.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Purpose. To demonstrate pitch, power, and bank
      relationships during turning maneuvers.
      A19.7.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Conditions.
         A19.7.3.2.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Perform steep turns at an altitude between
         10,000 feet AGL and FL250 in VMC conditions. Direct IP supervision is required.
         A19.7.3.2.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Maximum aircraft GW—450,000 pounds.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        165


        A19.7.3.2.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Maximum bank angle—45 degrees.
        A19.7.3.2.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Minimum airspeed—180 KIAS or cruise
        buffet-onset boundary speed (clean configuration) for a 55-degree bank, whichever is
        greater. Recommended airspeed is AR orbit speed or 195 KIAS, whichever is greater.
        A19.7.3.2.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) A 2000-foot block altitude is required for
        this demonstration. Plan to begin demonstration in the middle of the block.
        A19.7.3.2.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Clean configuration.
        A19.7.3.2.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Set thrust rating computer to climb thrust.
     A19.7.3.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Procedure. Perform a 360-degree turn to the left
     and to the right using a maximum bank angle of 45 degrees. Note pitch, power, and trim
     changes compared to level flight settings. Attempt to control altitude to within + 100 feet,
     airspeed + 5 knots, and bank + 5 degrees. N1 settings must be monitored carefully to
     prevent exceeding climb thrust N1. If at any time aircraft enters a spiral turn or if control
     of any parameter is lost, recover to level flight and restart maneuver if desired. NOTE:
     EGPWS will callout “BANK ANGLE, BANK ANGLE” above 40 of bank. When bank
     angle increases by 20% (to 48) the callout will be repeated. When the bank angle
     increases by 40% (to 56), the callout will repeat continuously.
  A19.7.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Vertical "S" Demonstration:
     A19.7.4.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Purpose. This series of maneuvers is designed to
     improve pilot’s instrument cross-check and aircraft control.
     A19.7.4.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Procedures. Perform vertical "S" series of
     maneuver described in AFMAN 11217. Observe flight manual restrictions and
     limitations. Request at least three consecutive altitudes (2000-foot blocks).
  A19.7.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Landing Attitude Demonstration:
     A19.7.5.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Purpose. To establish and maintain landing
     attitude picture long enough to observe all visual cues so that consistent, correct landing
     attitude can be learned.
     A19.7.5.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Conditions. Spoilers disarmed. Normal touch-
     and-go restrictions apply, except that ground contact is optional. Go-around procedures
     should be initiated after climb-out is established. Direct IP supervision is required.
     A19.7.5.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Procedure.
        A19.7.5.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Flare aircraft into landing attitude at the
        normal point, adjusting power to maintain level flight just above the runway surface
        in the landing attitude (7- to 8-degree pitch).
        A19.7.5.3.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Hold level flight attitude pitch constant,
        noting relative movement, peripheral and horizon cues, at the end of the runway.
        A19.7.5.3.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) No later than 2000-foot runway remaining,
        advance power and initiate normal climbout, including go-around procedures.
  A19.7.6. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Abnormal Configuration Approaches:
166                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


      A19.7.6.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Purpose. Demonstrate visual illusions and the
      power and pitch required to maintain proper airspeed and glide slope during approaches
      in abnormal aircraft configurations. Maneuver also demonstrates level of crew
      coordination required and importance of proper pacing during abnormal configuration
      approaches.
      A19.7.6.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Conditions:           FLOWN TO LOW APPROACH
      ONLY.
      A19.7.6.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Procedure. Refer to Asymmetric Flaps or No
      Flap Landing with Slats Checklist or the Asymmetric Slats or No Slat Landing with Flaps
      checklist.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       167


                                        Attachment 20
                               U-2 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A20.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the U-2 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all U-2 aircraft.
A20.2. Phase I Training.
   A20.2.1. Local requalification training, if approved, may only be conducted using a U-2
   RT/ST.
   A20.2.2. Local Area Orientation. Pilots should accomplish local area training flying
   requirements during a dedicated low sortie (if available). The flying unit commander can
   approve LAO in another aircraft.
A20.3. Phase II Training.
   A20.3.1. Prior to the mission qualification, an instructor will supervise all mission
   preparation activities, aircraft preflight, launch, and recovery.
   A20.3.2. Functional Check Flight (FCF) Training. Flying training will be conducted under
   the supervision of an FCF qualified instructor from the mobile vehicle or control room in lieu
   of airborne chase.
   A20.3.3. Photo/Safety Chase Training. Planned formation flights in the U-2 require U-2
   safety chase mission qualification.
   A20.3.4. Specialized Training. At the discretion of the unit operations officer some specific
   test plans, test programs, or on-board systems may require unique specialized training.
   Normally this will consist of specialized ground training. Security classification may prevent
   full documentation.
A20.4. Continuation Training. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency
requirements in chapter 4 of this instruction, U-2 aircrew members will also accomplish the
requirements in Table A20.1. and Table A20.2.

Table A20.1. Additional Currency Requirements.
AIRCRAFT POSITION               TRAINING ITEM                  NUMBER/FREQUENCY
U-2      Pilot                  Touch and Go                   1/120
                                No Flap Landing                1/120
                                SFO                            1/120
 168                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A20.2. Additional U-2 Proficiency Requirements.
 POSITION             TRAINING ITEM                                MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                  6    5   4   3   2
                                                                  1
                                                                    NUMBER REQUIRED
 Pilot                Sortie                                      20 17 14 10 7     4
                      Proficiency Sortie                          2   2  2   1   1  1
                      Night Sortie                                1   1  1   1   1  1
                      Touch and Go                                6   5  4   3   2  1
                      Night Landing                               3   3  2   2   1  1
                      Missed Approach                             2   2  2   1   1  1
                      No-flap landing                             3   3  2   2   1  1
                      SFO                                         6   5  4   3   2  1
   A20.4.1. Proficiency Sortie. Proficiency training sorties are not flown with Primary Mission
   Equipment (PME) on-board. A qualified SOF in the mobile vehicle will monitor these
   sorties. A transition proficiency sortie is credited when a pilot accomplishes a minimum of
   the following: 1) 3 Touch and Go Landings 2) 2 SFOs 3) 1 No Flap Landing.
   A20.4.2. FCF Currency/Recurrency Requirements. Aircrew members who exceed FCF
   currency requirements may regain currency by reviewing an FCF profile with an FCF
   qualified instructor pilot and accomplishing an FCF sortie with a current/qualified FCF
   instructor. Loss of currency exceeding 6 months requires FCF mission qualification training.
   A20.4.3. Chase Currency/Recurrency Requirements. Pilots with prior U-2 chase experience
   may maintain and regain chase currency in any aircraft (i.e., T-38), but must accomplish the
   appropriate training.
A20.5. Upgrade Training.
   A20.5.1. The 1st RS, 9th RW, will normally accomplish instructor pilot checkout ground
   and flying training, Beale AFB, CA.
A20.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A20.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        169


                                         Attachment 21
                                H-1 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A21.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the H-1 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all H-1 aircraft.
Training procedures not specifically addressed may be accomplished if they enhance safe,
effective mission accomplishment.
A21.2. Phase I Training.
   A21.2.1. Non-rated aircrew (NRA) training: Any instructor-qualified crewmember may
   instruct NRA, however the preferred method of instruction is by an instructor-qualified
   Special Mission Aviator.
   A21.2.2. For FTE, Flight Surgeon, and Aerial Photographer aircrew water Survival and UET
   are only required if a particular mission requires over water flight for an extended period of
   time, not within auto-rotational distance from land.
A21.2.3. Conversion Training. H-1 conversion training is required for aircrew to qualify in
another H-1 Mission/Series (i.e., conversion from UH-1N to TH-1H.

A21.3. Phase II Training.
   A21.3.1. Remote Site Operations.
       A21.3.1.1. Definition. This training qualifies aircrews to operate into and from
       unprepared surfaces and confined areas, day or night.
       A21.3.1.2. Prerequisites: None.
       A21.3.1.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
       is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
       A21.3.1.4. Remote site operations may be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
   A21.3.2. Search Patterns.
       A21.3.2.1. Definition. This training certifies aircrews to conduct aerial searches.
       A21.3.2.2. Prerequisites: None.
       A21.3.2.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
       is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
       A21.3.2.4. Search operations may be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
   A21.3.3. Low Altitude Step Down Training (LASDT) for enroute flight below 300 feet
   AHO. (The Low Level Navigation definition from Paragraph 3.5.3.1 applies to H-1 aircraft.
   Unit commanders may accept a crewmember’s H-1 Qualification Evaluation as the
   equivalent of the Low Level Navigation qualification, as H-1 aircrew routinely operate
   between 2,000 ft AGL and 300 ft AGL under VFR.)
170                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


      A21.3.3.1. Definition. LASDT training qualifies H-1 aircrews to navigate and operate
      continuously below 300 feet AHO down to a minimum of 50 feet AHO during enroute
      operations.
      A21.3.3.2. Prerequisites: Acceptance of Low Level Navigation Qualification.
      A21.3.3.3. Training classification. This training plan is command specified.         This
      qualification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
      A21.3.3.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
      found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server. Low level operations (below
      2,000 ft/above 300ft AGL) may be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
  A21.3.4. Night Vision Goggles (NVGs) Low Altitude. For NVG Phase II training
  completed within AFMC, the NVG Low Altitude (below MSA; the inadvertent IMC MSA
  or the VFR route leg MSA, as applicable) training program will be completed. Unit
  commanders may accept a crewmember’s NVG curriculum completed at pilot training and/or
  the formal schoolhouse as the equivalent of the NVG Medium Altitude qualification.
      A21.3.4.1. Definition. This training qualifies H-1 aircrew to operate with NVGs down to
      300 ft AGL enroute, including NVG remote operations.
      A21.3.4.2. Prerequisites: Day remote site operations, acceptance of NVG Medium
      Altitude Qualification.
      A21.3.4.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
      is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
      A21.3.4.4. NVG operations may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
  A21.3.5. Controlled Burn Operations.
      A21.3.5.1. Definition. This training certifies aircrew in the use of the PRIMO MK III
      aerial ignition system during aerial controlled burn operations in support of the forest
      conservation program. Controlled burn training instructs FEs on the operation of the
      ignition system and teaches pilots the proper techniques for delivering the ignition
      spheres. Controlled burn operations are considered remote operations for the purposes of
      altitude selection.
      A21.3.5.2. Prerequisites: Acceptance of Low Level Navigation Qualification; day remote
      operations and search patterns.
      A21.3.5.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
      is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
      A21.3.5.4. Controlled burn operations may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
      training.
  A21.3.6. Cargo Sling/External Load Operations.
      A21.3.6.1. Definition. This training certifies H-1 aircrew in the transport of external
      cargo.
      A21.3.6.2. Prerequisites: None.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         171


     A21.3.6.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
     is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
     A21.3.6.4. Cargo sling/external load operations may not be conducted concurrently with
     Phase I training.
  A21.3.7. Water Bucket Operations.
     A21.3.7.1. Definition. This training certifies aircrew in aerial firefighting/suppression
     operations.
     A21.3.7.2. Prerequisites: Cargo sling/external load operations.
     A21.3.7.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
     is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
     A21.3.7.4. Fire bucket operations may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
     training.
  A21.3.8. Alternate Insertion Extraction (AIE).
     A21.3.8.1. Definition. This training qualifies H-1 aircrew to conduct over-land insertions
     and extractions using the rescue hoist with forest penetrator, stokes litter, rescue basket;
     and to conduct extractions using the rope ladder.
     A21.3.8.2. Prerequisites: Remote site operations.
     A21.3.8.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
     is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
     A21.3.8.4. AIE may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I training.
  A21.3.9. Day Water Operations.
     A21.3.9.1. Definition. This training certifies H-1 aircrew members to conduct over-
     water insertions and extractions using the rescue hoist/forest penetrator, stokes litter, rope
     ladder, and or low and slow operations.
     A21.3.9.2. Prerequisites: Remote site operations and AIE.
     A21.3.9.3. Training classification. This training is command specified. This certification
     is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
     A21.3.9.4. Day water operations may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
     training.
  A21.3.10. Shipboard Operations/Deck Landings.
     A21.3.10.1. Definition. This training certifies H-1 aircrews to operate on or around USN
     or USCG vessels at sea.
     A21.3.10.2. Prerequisites: Remote site operations.
     A21.3.10.3. Training classification. This training is command specified.                 This
     certification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
     A21.3.10.4. Shipboard operations/deck landings may not be conducted concurrently with
     Phase I training.
 172                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A21.3.11. Parachute Drop Operations.
       A21.3.11.1. Definition. This training certifies H-1 aircrews to perform parachute drop
       operations of personnel.
       A21.3.11.2. Prerequisites: None.
       A21.3.11.3. Training classification. This training is command specified.          This
       certification is transferable for multi-qualified aircrew.
       A21.3.11.4. Parachute drop operations may not be conducted concurrently with Phase I
       training.
A21.4. Continuation Training.
   A21.4.1. If qualified in any of the events in Table A21.1 and Table A21.2, H-1 aircrew will
   accomplish the following additional continuation training.

Table A21.1. Additional Currency Requirements.
Position                        Training Item                  Number / Frequency
Pilot                           Emergency Procedures           1/90
                                Remote Operations              1/90
                                Night Remote Operations        1/90
                                AIE                            1/180
                                Water Operations               1/180
                                Cargo Sling Operations         1/180
                                Fire Bucket Operations         1/180
                                NVG Sortie                     1/90
                                NVG Remote Operations          1/90
                                Low Level                      1/90
                                Shipboard Operations 1SS       1/180
                                Shipboard Operations MSS*      1/180
Special Mission Aviator         Emergency Procedures           1/90
                                Remote Operations              1/90
                                Night Sortie                   1/90
                                Night Remote Operations        1/90
                                AIE                            1/180
                                Hoist                          1/180
                                Rope Ladder                    1/180
                                Water Operations               1/180
                                Cargo Sling Operations         1/180
                                Fire Bucket Operations         1/180
                                NVG Sortie                     1/90
                                NVG Remote Operations          1/90
                                Low Level                      1/90
                                Shipboard Operations 1SS       1/180
                                Shipboard Operations MSS*      1/180
* 1SS satisfies MSS currency
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        173


Table A21.2. Additional H-1 Proficiency Requirements.
POSITION              TRAINING ITEM                                 MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                6    5   4   3   2   1
                                                                    NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot                 Emergency Procedures                      2      2   2   1 1  1
                      AIE                                       2      2   2   1 1  1
                      Water Operations                          2      2   2   1 1  1
                      Shipboard Operations 1SS                  5      5   4   3 2  1
Special Mission       Emergency Procedures                      2      2   2   1 1  1
Aviator               AIE                                       2      2   2   1 1  1
                      Water Operations                          2      2   2   1 1  1
                      Shipboard Operations 1SS                  5      5   4   3 2  1
                      Shipboard Operations MSS*                 5      5   4   3 2  1
   A21.4.2. Emergency Procedures (EP) Sortie Requirements. Crewmembers must accomplish
   the following events to complete an EP sortie:
        A21.4.2.1. Review of all boldface procedures (either on the ground, in-flight, or some
        combination of ground or in-flight).
        A21.4.2.2. A minimum of one straight-ahead and one turning autorotation.
        A21.4.2.3. Boost-off approach and landing.
        A21.4.2.4. Simulated fuel control failure approach and landing.
        A21.4.2.5. Simulated single-engine approach and landing.
        A21.4.2.6. At least one 90° or one 180° autorotation.
        A21.4.2.7. EP sortie events should be accomplished on a single flight.
        A21.4.2.8. Up to 50 percent of this requirement may be logged in a AFMC/A3V
        approved simulator.
        A21.4.2.9. Instructors may credit one sortie per quarter when supervising an emergency
        procedures sortie.
   A21.4.3. Remote Operations.
        A21.4.3.1. To credit a remote operations sortie, a crewmember must complete a remote
        take-off and landing, a simulated max-performance takeoff and terminal area operation
        considerations.
   A21.4.4. Night Sorties.
        A21.4.4.1. Night sortie requirements include all events of a basic sortie. Additionally, a
        night sortie requires one hour of night time. Pilots must log ½ hour of primary time.
        A21.4.4.2. Night Remote Operations Sortie. Night remotes include all the requirements
        of remote operations, flown in night conditions.
        A21.4.4.3. NVG Sortie. An NVG sortie consists of a basic sortie and requires 1 hour of
        NVG time, of which ½ hour must be primary.
 174                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


          A21.4.4.3.1. NVG events may satisfy night unaided requirements.
          A21.4.4.3.2. Sortie/event accomplishment at night may be credited toward day
          requirements after night requirements are met.
   A21.4.5. Alternate Insertion Extraction (AIE).
       A21.4.5.1. For pilot currency, any of the AIE devices meet semi-annual currency
       requirements. Special Mission Aviators must accomplish at least one of each event in
       which they maintain qualification, semi-annually.
       A21.4.5.2. AIE events accomplished at night may be credited toward similar day
       requirements.
       A21.4.5.3. Crewmembers must accomplish the following events to complete an AIE
       sortie: mission planning (P,FE), equipment preparation (FE), pattern (P), approach to a
       hover (P,FE), verbal direction (FE), departure/takeoff procedures (P,FE).
   A21.4.6. Day Water Operations.
       A21.4.6.1. Day Water Operations will include overwater hover work, a minimum of one
       AIE, and actual or simulated swimmer deployment.
   A21.4.7. Cargo Sling/External Load Operations.
       A21.4.7.1. Crewmembers must accomplish the following events to complete a Cargo
       Sling/External Load Operations sortie: pattern, load release, cargo hook functional check,
       verbal direction, load hook-up.
       A21.4.7.2. Water bucket events may satisfy cargo sling requirements after fire bucket
       requirements have been met.
   A21.4.8. Low Level Navigation.
       A21.4.8.1. Low Level Navigation events will be logged IAW Paragraph 4.5.28
   A21.4.9. Shipboard Operations.
       A21.4.9.1. 1SS (Single Spot Ship).
       A21.4.9.2. MSS (Multi-Spot Ship).
       A21.4.9.3. Crewmembers must accomplish the following events to log a sortie: mission
       planning, landing and takeoff, terminal operations considerations.
       A21.4.9.4. Single spot landings count toward multi-spot requirements; however a multi-
       spot landing does not count satisfy single spot requirements.
       A21.4.9.5. Reference Memorandum of understanding between the Department of the
       Navy and the Departments of the Army and Air Force.
A21.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
A21.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A21.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                           175


                                         Attachment 22
                                F-22 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A22.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the F-22 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all F-22 aircraft.
   A22.1.1. Key Terms and Definitions
       A22.1.1.1. Aircraft Categories. For the purpose of F-22 qualification training, the
       following aircraft categories are defined:
          A22.1.1.1.1. F-22 EMD. Engineering Manufacturing Development (EMD) aircraft
          produced for flight test, lacking production representative avionics, and containing
          specialized flight test instrumentation.
          A22.1.1.1.2. F-22 EMDAV. Engineering Manufacturing Development Avionics
          (EMDAV) aircraft produced for flight test with production representative avionics.
          A22.1.1.1.3. F-22 A. Production model F-22 without specialized flight test
          equipment.
       A22.1.1.2. F-22s that have undergone modifications to install flight test equipment could
       be included in any of the three aircraft categories depending on the type of equipment and
       modifications. Flight test squadron commanders will decide which category the aircraft
       fits into for the purpose of compliance with this regulation.
A22.2. Phase 1 Training.
   A22.2.1. Ground Training Requirements.
       A22.2.1.1. Aircrew will complete the F-22 ground training prescribed in Table A22.1
       Formal courses and established ground and simulator training will be used to the
       maximum extent possible. Non-AFMC F-22 ground training may be conducted by
       command-certified instructors (i.e., an AETC F-22 academic instructor may not be an
       instructor pilot, but is qualified to teach academics). A qualified F-22 instructor pilot will
       administer all AFMC conducted ground training.
   A22.2.2. Flying Training Requirements.
       A22.2.2.1. Aircrew will complete the F-22 flying training prescribed in Table A22.1 A
       formal school will be the primary means of accomplishing initial and requalification
       training. Initial and requalification training will only be conducted by AFMC when a
       formal school is not available.
       A22.2.2.2. Initial qualification training will be accomplished in either F-22 EMDAV or
       F-22A aircraft. Pilots are responsible for understanding aircraft differences as identified
       in the flight manual and program avionics.
 176                                      AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


Table A22.1. F-22 Qualifications and Requalification Training Requirements.
                                                     REQUIREMENTS
                           1) Formal School
                           2) a. F-22 Systems Academics (must be accomplished first)
 Ground Training              b. F-22 Qualification Simulators
                              c. Egress Training
                              d. F-22 Engine Run (must be accomplished last)

 Exams                     Open & Closed Book (must be accomplished before first flight)
                           1) Formal School
 Flying Training
                           2) F-22 Qualification Flights
       A22.2.2.3. Night Upgrade Sortie. The night checkout sortie will be flown after the Phase
       I flight evaluation. NVG training may be accomplished concurrently with the night
       upgrade if the student had a previous NVG qualification in any other fighter aircraft. IPs
       may use NVGs if they are current and qualified NVG pilots in the aircraft they are using
       to chase the sortie.
       A22.2.2.4. AHC Qualification. AHC qualification will be accomplished concurrently
       with the aircraft qualification training sorties under the supervision of a qualified F-22 IP.
       A22.2.2.5. Flight Lead Qualification. F-22 aircraft qualification is considered
       qualification as an F-22 flight lead. An F-22 pilot qualified in a mission element is
       qualified as a flight lead in that mission element.
A22.3. Phase II Training.
   A22.3.1. General. Table A22.3, Table A22.4, Table A22.5, Table A22.6 and Table A22.7.
   prescribe the minimum ground and flying training needed to qualify pilots in F-22 mission
   elements. AFMC prescribed missions include Air Refueling (AR), Functional Check Flight
   (FCF), Flight Test, Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM), Air Combat Maneuvers (ACM), Air
   Combat Training (ACBT), Loads, and Night Vision Goggles (NVG). Unless a mission
   element’s section includes a specific Instructor Qualification section, an F-22 IP current and
   qualified in the mission element is automatically qualified to instruct that mission (see
   paragraph A22.5 Upgrade Qualification Training).
   A22.3.2. Common Mission Qualification Training. Table A22.2 modifies Table 2 of this
   instruction for all AFMC F-22 pilots.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                              177



Table A22.2. F-22 Phase II Qualification Matrix.
                                        AFMC                Dual       Concurrent
                                       Specified            Qual       Phase I, II
                                         Plan               Trans       Training
                                                                        allowed
 Vol 1    Phase II                     (Note 1) ( Note 2)               (Note 3)
 Para     Qualification                 (Y/N)         (Y/N)              (Y/N)
          Tactical and Systems
 3.3      Mission Qualifications
          NVG Med Altitude (>=
 3.3.8.1 MSA)                             Y             N             Y
 3.4      Air-to-Air Qualifications
 3.4.3.2 ACBT Flight Lead                 Y             N             N
 3.4.3.3 ACBT Instructor                  Y             N             N
 NOTE: Information displayed in Table A22.2. is clarified in following
 paragraphs.

 1. A “Y” in this column indicates that the corresponding qualification training
 plan is specified by the MAJCOM. An “N” indicates the qualification training
 plan is specified by the individual flying unit.
 2. A “Y” in this column indicates that the qualification is transferable across
 MD platforms for multi-qualified aircrew.
 3. A “Y” in this column indicates whether the qualification training can be
 conducted concurrently with Phase 1 training.

   A22.3.3. Flight Test Orientation (FTO).
         A22.3.3.1. F-22 qualified pilots who are not graduates of TPS can complete the flight
         test orientation training to enable participation in low risk flight test sorties on a case-by-
         case basis. The 411th FLTS Squadron Commander is the approval authority for entry into
         FTO training for those pilots who are not TPS graduates.
         A22.3.3.2. Ground training. Prior to their first test sortie, pilots will receive Flight Test
         academics under the supervision an F-22 IP qualified in the Flight Test mission.
         A22.3.3.3. Flying training. The student’s first test mission will be supervised by an F-22
         IP in another test, chase, or target aircraft.
   A22.3.4. Functional Check Flight (FCF) Training.
         A22.3.4.1. There is no specific training for the ACF mission, any F-22 pilot who is FCF
         qualified will also be qualified to execute the ACF mission. An F-22 IP qualified in the
         FCF mission will administer ground and flying training.
         A22.3.4.2. Ground training. Prior to their first FCF flight, pilots will receive FCF
         academics and practice events in the simulator under the supervision an F-22 FCF IP.
 178                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


       A22.3.4.3. Flight training. Pilots will accomplish FCF flight training chased by an F-22
       IP current and qualified in the FCF mission. The training may be accomplished on an
       actual FCF or ACF as long as the individual has demonstrated basic competency in all
       phases of the FCF mission. Basic competency may be accomplished in a simulator and
       the phrase “has demonstrated basic competency in FCF procedures” will be annotated in
       Block 6, AFMC Form 69.

Table A22.3. AR, Flight Test Orientation, and FCF Training Requirements.
                              AR                Flight Test                    FCF
                                                                 1) 200 hours F-22 flight time or
Prerequisites         None                  Graduate of TPS*     2) 100 hours F-22 flight time
                                                                     and graduate of TPS
                      F-22 AR               F-22 Flight Test     a. F-22 FCF Academics
Ground Training
                      Academics             Academics            b. F-22 FCF Simulator
Flying Training       F-22 AR Flight        *See A22.3.3.3       F-22 FCF Flight
* See Paragraph A22.3.3.1 for exceptions.

   A22.3.5. Tactical Mission Training.
       A22.3.5.1. F-22 Tactical Mission Training includes Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM), Air
       Combat Maneuvers (ACM), and Air Combat Training (ACBT). Tactical Mission
       Training is a building-block approach from two-ship (BFM) to three-ship (ACM) to
       multi-ship (ACBT) employment. The three tiers allow for progressive levels of tactical
       qualification to maximize training opportunities with extremely limited numbers of F-22
       aircraft. The change in F-22 element (two-ship) tactics from legacy fighters also dictates
       a separate ACM qualification.
       A22.3.5.2. Tactical Mission Training will be conducted to the maximum extent possible
       at a formal course. If a formal course is not available, then Tactical Mission Training will
       be conducted IAW the unit supplement to this instruction (for BFM and ACBT).
       A22.3.5.3. All pilots entering the next phase of Tactical Mission Training will be
       qualified in the previous level.
       A22.3.5.4. Ground Training. Prior to their first flight in each phase of Tactical Mission
       Training, pilots will receive academics and simulators under the supervision of an
       appropriately-qualified F-22 IP.
       A22.3.5.5. Flying training. Pilots will accomplish Tactical Mission flight training under
       the supervision of an F-22 IP current and qualified to instruct that mission element.
          A22.3.5.5.1. For BFM training, the F-22 BFM IP may instruct from any jet in which
          he/she is BFM current and qualified or from the RCP of a different jet.
          A22.3.5.5.2. For ACM training, the F-22 ACM IP will instruct from the other F-22 in
          the element.
          A22.3.5.5.3. For ACBT training, the F-22 ACBT IP may instruct from any jet in
          which he/she is ACBT current and qualified or from the RCP of a different jet.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     179


      A22.3.5.6. Instructor Qualification. Pilots upgrading as a Tactical Mission IP will be a
      current and qualified F-22 IP and meet the requirements specified in unit supplements to
      this instruction.
          A22.3.5.6.1. An IP entering the next phase of Tactical Mission Training must be
          qualified in the previous level.
          A22.3.5.6.2. Ground training. The upgrading IP will receive the Instructor portion of
          F-22 BFM, ACM, or ACBT Academics (as appropriate) from a qualified F-22 IP in
          that mission element. The upgrading IP will also act as instructor for the
          corresponding simulator scenarios under the supervision of an appropriately-qualified
          F-22 IP.
          A22.3.5.6.3. Flying training. Pilots will accomplish Tactical Mission IP training
          under the supervision of an F-22 IP current and qualified to instruct that mission
          element.
          A22.3.5.6.4. For BFM training, the upgrading IP may instruct from any jet in which
          he/she is BFM current and qualified. The F-22 BFM IP administering the training will
          fly in an F-22.
          A22.3.5.6.5. For ACM training, the upgrading IP and the F-22 ACM IP
          administering the training will both fly in an F-22.
          A22.3.5.6.6. For ACBT training, the upgrading IP will fly in an F-22. The F-22
          ACBT IP administering the training may fly in any jet in which he/she is ACBT
          current and qualified.

Table A22.4. Tactical Mission (BFM, ACM, and ACBT) Training Requirements.
                              BFM                  ACM                        ACBT
                                                                    1) F-22 ACM qualified
 Prerequisites       F-22 qualified        F-22 BFM qualified
                                                                    2) Prior ACBT experience
                     a. BFM Academics      a. ACM Academics         a. ACBT Academics
 Ground Training
                     b. BFM Simulator      b. ACM Simulator         b. ACBT Simulator
 Flying Training     F-22 BFM Flight       F-22 ACM Flight          F-22 ACBT Flight

Table A22.5. Tactical Mission Instructor Training Requirements.
                              BFM                      ACM                       ACBT
                     1) F-22 IP               1) F-22 BFM IP            1) F-22 ACM IP
 Prerequisites
                     2) F-22 BFM qualified    2) F-22 ACM qualified     2) F-22 ACBT qualified
                     a. BFM IP Academics      a. ACM IP Academics       a. ACBT IP Academics
 Ground Training
                     b. BFM IP Simulator      b. ACM IP Simulator       b. ACBT IP Simulator
 Flying Training     F-22 BFM IP Flight       F-22 ACM IP Flight        F-22 ACBT IP Flight

   A22.3.6. Loads Training.
 180                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


       A22.3.6.1. Only graduates of Test Pilot School can be qualified in the loads test mission.
       All loads training will be accomplished IAW the F-22 Combined Test Force Loads
       Syllabus.
       A22.3.6.2. Ground Training. Prior to their first Loads flight, pilots will receive Loads
       academics and practice events in the simulator under the supervision an F-22 Loads IP.
       The simulator training will also include Loads qualified Mission Control Room
       personnel.
       A22.3.6.3. Flying Training. Pilots will accomplish Loads flight training chased by an F-
       22 IP current and qualified in the Loads mission. Flying training will also include Loads
       qualified Mission Control Room personnel.

Table A22.6. Loads Training Requirements.
                                     Loads
Prerequisites               TPS Graduate
                            a. F-22 Loads Academics
Ground Training
                            b. F-22 Loads Simulator
Flying Training             F-22 Loads Flight

   A22.3.7. Night Vision Goggle (NVG) Training.
       A22.3.7.1. NVG training in the F-22 is designed to qualify pilots in NVG operations at
       or above the minimum safe altitude (MSA).
       A22.3.7.2. Only pilots with previous NVG experience may accomplish the NVG
       upgrade concurrently with the night upgrade.
       A22.3.7.3. Ground Training. Prior to their first F-22 NVG flight, pilots will receive NVG
       Academics from trained NVG academic instructors and from an F-22 NVG IP.
       A22.3.7.4. Flying Training. Pilots will accomplish NVG flight training under the
       supervision of a current and qualified F-22 NVG IP. The F-22 NVG IP may instruct from
       any jet in which he/she is NVG current and qualified or from the RCP of a different jet.
       A22.3.7.5. Instructor Qualification. Pilots upgrading as an F-22 NVG IP will be F-22
       NVG qualified and a current and qualified F-22 Night IP.
          A22.3.7.5.1. Ground training. The upgrading IP will receive the Instructor portion of
          F-22 NVG Academics from a qualified F-22 NVG IP.
          A22.3.7.5.2. Flying training. Pilots will accomplish NVG IP flight training under the
          supervision of a current and qualified F-22 NVG IP. The upgrading IP may instruct
          from any jet in which he/she is NVG current and qualified. The F-22 NVG IP
          administering the training will fly in an F-22.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                     181


Table A22.7. Night Vision Goggle Training Requirements.
                                             NVG                           NVG IP
                                1) F-22 Night qualified or
                                                                1) F-22 IP
                                2) Prior NVG experience
Prerequisites                                                   2) F-22 Night qualified
                                   to conduct concurrently
                                                                3) F-22 NVG qualified
                                   with F-22 night upgrade
                                1) NVG Academics
Ground Training                                                 F-22 NVG IP Academics
                                2) F-22 NVG Academics
Flying Training                 F-22 NVG Flight                 F-22 NVG IP Flight
A22.4. Continuation Training.
   A22.4.1. General. In addition to the minimum currency and proficiency requirements in
   chapter 4 of this instruction, F-22 pilots will accomplish the requirements in Table A22.8
   and Table A22.9 if qualified in the specific mission event (some requirements from the basic
   instruction are included for clarity).
   A22.4.2. F-22 EMDAV, and F-22A are considered the same series for the purpose of
   maintaining currency according to AFI 11-202, Volume 1. Recurring qualification and
   instrument evaluations may be taken in either the F-22 EMDAV or F-22A.

Table A22.8. F-22 Additional Currency and Semiannual Proficiency Requirements.
                                 CURRENCIES                      PROFICIENCY
                                                                REQUIREMENTS
   TRAINING ITEM             NUMBER/FREQUENC                  MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                    Y                    6    5   4  3   2   1
                                                               NUMBER REQUIRED
BFM                                   See Chapter 4      4    4   3  3   1   1
ACM                                   1/90               3    3   2  1   1   1
ACBT                                  See Chapter 4      4    4   3  3   1   1
Loads                                 1/60
* From Table 7 or Table 8 of basic instruction.
 182                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A22.9. Updating / Regaining Currency.
 TRAINING              EVENTS WHICH                     TO REGAIN
   ITEM                   UPDATE                        CURRENCY
                                                   FCF sortie or sim with
 FCF             FCF sortie or sim
                                                   F-22 FCF IP
                 4 AHC maneuvers from 411          4 AHC maneuvers with
 AHC
                 FLTS Raptor Guide                 F-22 IP
 BFM             BFM, ACM or ACBT                  BFM w/ F-22 BFM IP
 ACM             ACM or ACBT                       ACM w/ F-22 ACM IP
                                                   ACM or ACBT with F-
 ACBT            ACM or ACBT
                                                   22 ACM or ACBT IP
                                                   Loads sortie or sim
                 Loads sortie or sim (with
 Loads                                             (with MCR personnel)
                 MCR personnel)
                                                   with F-22 IP
                                                   NVG sortie with F-22
 NVG             NVG sortie
                                                   NVG IP

Table A22.10. Phase II Currency/Recurrency Restriction Matrix.
                                              Multi-                         Multi-
                                           Qualification Cross MD            Event
                Phase II                    Currency     Recurrency          Credit
             Qualification                   (Note 1)     (Note 2)          (Note 3)
Air-to-Air Training Qualifications
Basic Fighter Maneuvers (BFM)                    Y                N             N
Air Combat Training (ACBT)                       Y                N             Y
Flight Test Mission Training
Loads                                            N                N             N
NOTES:
1. Multi-Qualification Currency. A “Y” in this column indicates that an update
    to the qualification currency updates that currency for all aircraft aircrew are
    qualified in.

2. Cross MD Recurrency. A “Y” in this column indicates that an IP from
   another MD can provide in-flight instruction to update this currency, provided
   that IP possesses this qualification in their MD.

3. Multi Event Credit. A “Y” in this column indicates that a currency update of
   this qualification may update the currency of other qualification(s). See
   individual paragraphs for more details.
A22.5. Upgrade Qualification Training.
   A22.5.1. Pilots selected for upgrade training to instructor status will complete the
   requirements in Table A22.11 Ground training will be completed prior to flying training.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                         183


       A22.5.1.1. Completion of the training program prescribed in Table A22.11 will qualify
       pilots for basic F-22 Instructor Pilot duties. Some mission elements require completion of
       additional instructor training before a pilot is qualified to instruct those missions. These
       elements are identified in Section A22.3. by the addition of an Instructor Qualification
       section. If no Instructor Qualification section exists for a mission element in Section
       A22.3, then a basic F-22 Instructor Pilot is authorized to provide instruction in that
       mission element. The AF Form 1381 USAF Certification of Aircrew Training will also
       reflect completion of any mission element requiring additional qualification training by
       listing the individual as an IP in that mission element.

Table A22.11. Instructor Upgrade Training Requirements.
  REQUIREMENTS                         INSTRUCTOR
 Ground Training           F-22 Instructor Academics
 Flying Training           F-22 Instructor Qualification Flight

A22.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A22.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
A22.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Definitions.
   A22.8.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Mission Ready. Completion of the following events
   constitutes Mission Ready (MR) status in the F-22:
       A22.8.1.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Flight Test Orientation
       A22.8.1.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Advanced Handling Characteristics (AHC) flight
       A22.8.1.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Instrument/Qualification Check.
 184                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 23
                             RQ-4 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A23.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the RQ-4 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all RQ-4 aircraft.
   A23.1.1. Companion Trainer – An aircraft used to maintain civil instrument currency. (e.g.,
   Aero Club Cessna 172).
   A23.1.2. Common Ground Station (CGS) – Consists of a Launch and Recovery Element
   (LRE) and Mission Control Element (MCE) that contain the equipment and workstations
   necessary to control the aircraft and manage the mission payload/sensors.
A23.2. Phase I Training.
   A23.2.1. Prerequisites. Candidates must meet the following requirements before entry into
   RQ-4 qualification training:
       A23.2.1.1. USAF rated pilot.
       A23.2.1.2. USAF navigator with a FAA pilot instrument rating.
       A23.2.1.3. Civilian contract pilot with a FAA commercial pilot certificate, instrument
       rating (or military equivalent) and current FAA medical certificate (or military
       equivalent).
A23.3. Phase II Training. No additional requirements.
   A23.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Mission Commander Certification. Conduct ground
   training in accordance with HQ AFMC/A3V approved in-unit AFMC Form 67. Conduct
   flight training in accordance with locally developed courseware. Document this training on
   AFMC Form 68. Squadron commanders/CTF directors may elect to waive required mission
   commander training for those crew members who have sufficient flight and test experience.
A23.4. Continuation Training. Minimum currency and proficiency requirements are specified
in Table A23.1, Table A23.2 and Table A23.3
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        185



Table A23.1. RQ-4 Pilot/SO Basic Currency Requirements.
EVENT                                                CURRENCY
Flight Physical (1)                                  IAW Paragraph 4.2.
Flight Evaluation                                    IAW AFI 11-2FT Vol 2
Instrument Refresher Course (Pilot Only)             IAW AFI 11-2FT Vol 2
Crew Resource Management                             IAW Paragraph 4.2.
Recent Instrument Experience (2) (3) (Pilot          IAW FAR Part 61.57
Only)
Flight Review (2) (4) (Pilot Only)                   IAW FAR Part 61.56
NOTES:
1. Physical IAW AFI 48-123 (government employee) or FAA Medical Certificate (contractor
aircrew).
2. N/A for pilots with current military instrument qualification.
3. Accomplished within the previous six months, six instrument approaches, holding,
   procedures and intercepting and tracking courses. Pilots will perform and log this experience
   under actual or simulated instrument conditions in a designated companion trainer.
4. Accomplished within the previous 24 months.
   A23.4.1. Global Hawk Pilots/Sensor Operators who are non-current for the requirements
   listed in Table A23.2 are restricted from performing flight/mission duties and will regain
   currency IAW AFI 11-202 V1.

Table A23.2. RQ-4 Currency Requirements.
POSITION                         TRAINING ITEM                    NUMBER/FREQUENCY
Pilot                            Sortie (1)(5)(6)                 1/45
                                 Takeoff (2)(5)(6)                1/120
                                 Landing (2)(5)(6)                1/120
                                 FCF (4)                          1/180
Sensor Operator                  Sortie                           1/45
                                 Mission Takeoff Preparation      1/120
                                 (3)
 186                                        AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A23.3. Additional RQ-4 Proficiency Requirements.
POSITION                           TRAINING ITEM                      MONTHS AVAILABLE
                                                                      6  5 4   3  2  1
                                                                      NUMBER REQUIRED
Pilot                                Sortie (1)(5)(6)                 6  5 4   3  2  1
                                     Takeoff (2)(5)(6)                2  2 2   1  1  1
                                     Landing (2)(5)(6)                2  2 2   1  1  1
                                     FCF (4)                          1  1 1   1  1  1
Sensor Operator                      Sortie                           6  5 4   3  2  1
                                     Mission Takeoff Preparation      2  2 2   1  1  1
                                     (3)
NOTES (Tables A23.2 and A23.3):
1. For sortie credit, a pilot must achieve a takeoff credit, landing credit, or maintain primary
control of the aircraft for at least two hours. Credit for pilot sorties is awarded for Sim or Flight,
(see Note 6). At least one Sortie must be in the Sim and one must be in the MCE or LRE during
actual flight.

2. May be accomplished in either the LRE or MCE during actual flight. Takeoff credit is
awarded for Taxi, Takeoff Abort or Takeoff events. Landing credit is awarded for Approach or
Landing events. Credit is awarded to the pilot controlling the aircraft.

3. Mission Takeoff Preparation is accomplished with a Data Analysis Workstation (DAWS) or
Sensor workstation startup.

4. Applicable to FCF qualified pilots only.

5. Instructors may log a Sortie, Takeoff and/or Landing for both currency and proficiency,
provided an actual flight is performed, Instructor is actively performing instructor duties in the
specific event logged, and the Instructor is required due to student lack of qualification or
currency. If this Instructor option is used to update currency, the next currency update requires
actual control of the aircraft. No more than 50% of the semiannual proficiency requirements
may be logged using this Instructor option.

6. Sortie, Takeoff and Landing may be logged for credit in the simulator for both currency and
proficiency. If the simulator is used to update currency, the next currency update requires
control of the actual aircraft. No more than 50% of the semiannual proficiency requirements
may be logged in the simulator.
A23.5. Upgrade Qualification Training. Upgrade training will be conducted IAW Paragraph
5.3 If conducting a local upgrade, use the AFMC/A3V approved syllabus. In addition to Global
Hawk specific training, upgrading crewmembers must complete General Instructor Ground
Training.
A23.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                 187


A23.7. Additional Training. Hawkeye Ground Chase. The flying unit commander will
designate Hawkeye Ground Chase safety observer candidates. Candidates must be a USAF rated
officer, a qualified RQ-4 civilian/contract pilot. A student enrolled in RQ-4 qualification
training may be used for Hawkeye Ground Chase, but a qualified RQ-4 pilot must perform the
aircraft exterior inspection.
A23.7. (EDWARDSAFB)USAF Flight Test Engineers will not be considered as candidates
for Hawkeye Ground Chase. Candidates must be a USAF rated officer or qualified RQ-4 pilot.
Note: Hawkeye Ground Chase training will be accomplished using the HQ AFMC/A3V
approved in-unit AFMC Form 67.
 188                             AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                 Attachment 24
                        HH-60 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A24.1. General Information. AFI 11-2HH-60 Volume 1 will be used to qualify AFMC
crewmembers in AFMC HH-60 aircraft.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                   189


                                      Attachment 25
                           CSAR-X TRAINING GUIDELINES

A25.1. General. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction and approved
test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in CSAR X aircraft (initial,
requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as applicable. CSAR-X
training will be conducted in accordance with the CSAR-X Initial Pilot Cadre Training Plan.
 190                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 26
                              V-22 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A26.1. General Information. This attachment, in conjunction with other governing directives,
outlines procedures for operation of the CV-22 aircraft under most circumstances. It applies to
AFMC aircrews and all management levels concerned with operation of all CV-22 aircraft.
A26.2. Phase I Training.
   A26.2.1. CV-22 Conversion/Differences Training. CV-22 Conversion training is required
   for MV-22 qualified copilots to qualify as pilots in the CV-22. CV-22 Conversion training
   will culminate with an AFMC pilot qualification evaluation. Open and closed book testing
   will be accomplished as part of conversion training. CV-22 Differences training is required
   for MV-22 qualified pilots to qualify in the CV-22. MV-22 pilots will complete the re-qual
   portion of the Conversion/Differences training syllabus. Open and closed book tests are not
   required for CV-22 Differences training. A graduate of the AFSOC CV-22 MP course has
   met all requirements of CV-22 Conversion/Differences training.
       A26.2.1.1. CV-22 qualified aircrew members may fly as qualified crewmembers on the
       MV-22, provided their first flight is with an MV-22 qualified instructor and they are
       current in all required events. Currency for composite crews will be IAW each Service’s
       requirements. Should discrepancies with respect to currency arise, the CV-22 aircrew
       member will demonstrate proficiency to the satisfaction of an MV-22 instructor prior to
       flying the event unsupervised.
A26.3. Phase II Training.
   A26.3.1. CV-22 Phase II Qualifications. In addition to the Phase II training events listed in
   chapter 3, the CV-22 adds the additional phase II qualifications listed in Table A26.1
   Additional CV-22 Phase II Qualification Matrix. V-22 Low Visibility Approach (LVA) is
   a new qualification specific to the V-22. V-22 NVG is the V-22 specific qualification
   augmenting NVG at Low Altitude (para 3.3.8.2). V-22 Low Level is the V-22 specific
   qualification augmenting Low Altitude Step Down Training (para.3.5.4.). V-22 FCF is the
   V-22 specific qualification augmenting Functional Check Flight/Acceptance Check Flight
   (para 3.3.3).
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                      191



Table A26.1. Additional CV-22 Phase II Qualification Matrix.
Vol 1      Phase II        AFMC        Dual         Concurrent
                           Specialized Qual         Phase I, II
                           Plan        Trans        Training
                                                    Allowed
                         (Note 1)        (Note 2)   (Note 3)
Para       Qualification (Y/N)           (Y/N)      (Y/N)
A26.3.1    V-22 Low      Y               N          Y
           Visibility
           Approach
           (LVA)
A26.3.2    V-22 NVG      Y               N          Y
A26.3.3.   V-22 Low      Y               N          Y
           Level
A26.3.4.   V-22 FCF      Y                  N           N
NOTES:
1. A “Y” in this column indicates that the corresponding
qualification training plan is specified by the MAJCOM. An “N”
indicates the qualification training plan is specified by the
individual flying unit.
2. A “Y” in this column indicates that the qualification is
transferable across MD platforms for multi-qualified aircrew.
3. A “Y” in this column indicates whether the qualification
training can be conducted concurrently with Phase 1 training.
   A26.3.2. V-22 Low Visibility Approach.
        A26.3.2.1. Definition. V-22 LVA training qualifies aircrew to fly approaches that will
        essentially be conducted without outside visual references: brown-out (dust), white out
        (snow), or water approach. The approach may terminate in a landing, precision hover or
        translating hover (low and slow).
        A26.3.2.2. Prerequisites: none. Required previous experience: none.
        A26.3.2.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
        qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew, however CV-22 aircrew may
        conduct LVAs in MV-22 aircraft provided the provisions of Paragraph A26.2.1.1 are met.
        A26.3.2.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
        found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
        A26.3.2.5. LVA training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and other Phase II
        training.
   A26.3.3. V-22 NVG. (The NVG Medium Altitude (>=MSA) definition from chapter 3
   applies to CV-22 aircraft. However, unit commanders may accept crewmember’s NVG
   curriculum completed at the formal school course as the equivalent of NVG medium altitude
   qualification.)
192                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


      A26.3.3.1. Definition. V-22 NVG training qualifies aircrew to conduct NVG takeoffs,
      approaches and landings with or without the use of the NVG HUD and operate at
      altitudes below the MSA.
      A26.3.3.2. Prerequisites: NVG medium altitude qualification, Low Level Navigation
      qualification. Required previous experience: none.
      A26.3.3.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
      qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew; however, CV-22 aircrew may
      conduct NVG takeoffs, approaches and landings in MV-22 aircraft provided the
      provisions of Paragraph A26.2.1.1 are met. In addition, multi-qualified aircrew already
      qualified to conduct NVG takeoffs, approaches and landings in a different MD need only
      complete the re-qual portion of the syllabus.
      A26.3.3.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
      found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
      A26.3.3.5. V-22 NVG training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and other
      Phase II training.
  A26.3.4. V-22 Low Level (The Low Level Navigation definition from chapter 3 applies to
  V-22 aircraft. Unit commanders may accept a crewmember’s V-22 Qualification Evaluation
  as the equivalent of the Low Level Navigation qualification, as V-22 aircrew routinely
  operate between 2,000 ft AGL and 300 ft AGL under VFR.)
      A26.3.4.1. Definition. V-22 Low Level training qualifies aircrew to conduct low level
      operations down to 200’ AGL in APLN mode (Exception: This qualification extends
      down to 100 feet AGL in APLN mode for purposes of testing the Very Low Clearance
      capability of the TF radar system only) and down to 50 feet AGL in CONV/VTOL
      modes.
      A26.3.4.2. Prerequisites: Low Level Navigation qualification. Required previous
      experience: none.
      A26.3.4.3. Training Classification. This training plan is command specified. This
      qualification is not transferable for multi-qualified aircrew and must be accomplished for
      each MD qualification. Multi-qualified aircrew already qualified to conduct low level
      operations in a different MD need only complete the re-qual portion of the syllabus.
      A26.3.4.4. Training Requirements. The MDS specific MAJCOM training plans can be
      found on the Edwards Center Ops Online (COOL) server.
      A26.3.4.5. V-22 Low Level training may be conducted concurrently with Phase I and
      other Phase II training.
  A26.3.5. V-22 Functional Check Flight/Acceptance Check Flight (FCF/ACF).
      A26.3.5.1. Definition IAW chapter 3.
      A26.3.5.2. Prerequisites. CV-22 pilots who do not meet the flying hour pre-requisites
      listed in Table 3 may complete the FCF upgrade training plan with OG/CC approval,
      however they will be restricted to copilot duties only until the hours requirement is met or
      OG/CC waiver is granted IAW note 4 of Table 3.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        193


   A26.3.6. Additional Mission Events. Training to qualify aircrew in test specific mission
   events not addressed in this attachment will be detailed in the test plan. When available, lead
   command guidance will be used to develop AFMC training plans. Training plans will be
   submitted to AFMC/A3V for approval.
   A26.3.7. Accepted Phase II qualifications from formal MV/CV courses.
       A26.3.7.1. AFSOC CV-22 Course. The AFSOC CV-22 formal course serves as initial
       qualification for all of the following Phase II training events: Air-to-Air Refueling
       Receiver, V-22 NVG, NVG Medium Altitude, Low Level Navigation, V-22 Low Level,
       Terrain Following/Terrain Avoidance, Formation operations and LVAs. Graduates of the
       AFSOC CV-22 Formal Course may be considered qualified in all these events. Should
       the individual become non-current in any of these phase II events, para. 3.1.2 applies.
       A26.3.7.2. USMC MV-22 Course. The USMC MV-22 formal course serves as initial
       qualification for all of the following Phase II training events: Low Level Navigation and
       Formation operations. Graduates of the USMC MV-22 Formal Course may be
       considered qualified in all these events. Should the individual become non-current in
       either of these phase II events, para. 3.1.2 applies.
A26.4. Continuation Training.
   A26.4.1. CV-22 Currency Requirements. AFMC pilot and Special Mission Aviator CV-22
   currency requirements are listed in Table A26.2 This table is derived from Table 7 and
   contains CV-22 specific events. Section A26.4.8 details stipulations for updating/regaining
   currency in the simulator.

Table A26.2. CV-22 Basic Event Currency Requirements.
Position                        Training Item                    Number/Frequency
Pilot Phase II Event Currency   LVA                              1/60
                                V-22 NVG Sortie                  1/90
                                EP Sim Sortie                    1/180
Career Enlisted Aviator         LVA                              1/60
                                NVG sortie                       1/90
                                TF/TA                            1/90
                                EP Sim Sortie                    1/180
   A26.4.2. CV-22 Proficiency Requirements. AFMC pilot and Special Mission Aviator
   proficiency requirements are listed in Table A26.3 This table is derived from Table 8 and
   contains CV-22 specific proficiency events. Section A26.4.10 details stipulations for logging
   proficiency events in the simulator.
 194                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A26.3. CV-22 Semiannual Proficiency Training Requirements.
Line    Position       Aircraft    Training Item               Months Available
                                                               6   5    4    3         2     1
                                                               Number Required
1       Pilot          Tiltrotor   Transition Sortie           2   2    2    1         1     1
        Career
                                                               12    10     8    6     4     2
2       Enlisted       Tiltrotor   Sorties
        Aviator
    A26.4.3. LVA. To log this event, accomplish a simulated or actual dust-out/white-out or
    water approach to a landing, precision hover (uncoupled) or translational hover (low and
    slow). CEAs will be in the seat to log this event.
       A26.4.3.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
       does not count for multiple event credit and must be regained with an appropriate MD
       aircraft IP.
       A26.4.3.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
    A26.4.4. V-22 NVG Sortie. To log this event, accomplish a takeoff, approach (vis/instr) and
    landing on NVGs and 10 minutes of flight below the MSA. The 10 minutes need not be
    continuous but should allow sufficient time to experience and operate in the below MSA
    environment. CEAs may only log this event from the scanner position. CEAs non-current
    for this event may perform cockpit duties during NVG operations.
       A26.4.4.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
       does count for multiple event (night sortie and sortie) credit and must be regained with an
       appropriate MD aircraft IP.
       A26.4.4.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
    A26.4.5. TF/TA (See para 4.5.30.1.). CEAs must be in the seat to log this event.
       A26.4.5.1. Currency requirements. See para 4.5.30.2 CEAs may regain currency with
       an IP or IF.
       A26.4.5.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
    A26.4.6. Transition Sortie. To log this event accomplish a 60 degree or 75 degree Short
    Takeoff (STO), normal approach to a touchdown, steep approach to a touchdown, vertical
    takeoff, simulated marginal power Roll On Landing (ROL) and a VFR pattern.
       A26.4.6.1. Currency requirements. There is no currency requirement associated with
       this specific event.
       A26.4.6.2. Proficiency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
       does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in a different
       MD.
    A26.4.7. EP Sim Sortie. To log this event, review all boldface procedures; accomplish a
    single engine failure in VTOL, CONV and APLN modes; a sampling of flight control
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                        195


   failures to include FCC, HYD, actuator and AFCS failed conditions with an approach and
   landing; dual engine failure in APLN/CONV mode; and nacelle control failures.
       A26.4.7.1. Currency requirements. This event is not transferable across multiple MDs,
       does not count for multiple event credit and cannot be updated with an IP in a different
       MD.
       A26.4.7.2. Proficiency requirements. None.
   A26.4.8. Use of Simulator for currency/proficiency.
       A26.4.8.1. Logging Proficiency in Simulators. Pilots and Special Mission Aviators may
       log up to 50 percent of semi-annual proficiency requirements (as listed in Table A26.3
       and applicable items from Table 8) in the simulator. If proficiency is an odd number,
       individuals will round down the number that can be logged in the simulator. Exception:
       Pilots and Special Mission Aviators will log all EP sorties per semi-annual period in the
       simulator.
       A26.4.8.2. Currency in the Simulator. CV-22 Aircrew may maintain/regain currency for
       LVA listed in Table A26.2 in an AFMC approved simulator. Event must be
       accomplished under the supervision of a current and qualified Air Force Instructor to
       regain currency. The simulator may not be used consecutively to maintain currency or
       regain currency in a particular event. To the max extent possible the aircraft will be used
       to regain currency in phase I events. Exception: Pilots and Special Mission Aviators will
       log all EP sorties in the simulator.
       A26.4.8.3. Simulator Crew Complement. Simulator crews will consist of the standard
       crew complement for the type of mission being flown, minus the cabin FE. The
       emergency procedures sortie requires either an instructor pilot or a contract sim operator
       running the instructor operator station. Exception: Two aircrew ( 1 pilot and 1 FE or 2
       pilots) and a sim operator are all that is required to update/log phase I
       currency/proficiency events for pilots and sortie for FEs.
       A26.4.8.4. Minimum Simulator Requirements. When logging currency/proficiency in the
       simulator, crews are required to complete a full aircraft/systems run-up, a minimum of 1
       hour of flight time, a minimum of two different currency/proficiency events, and
       aircraft/systems shutdown. Instrument approaches accomplished in the simulator will be
       flown to published minimums.
A26.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements.
A26.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A26.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
 196                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                         Attachment 27
                           MQ-1/MQ-9 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A27.1. General Information. This attachment outlines the minimum ground and flying
training required to qualify AFMC crewmembers in AFMC aircraft. In addition, it prescribes
additional MQ-1/MQ-9 continuation training requirements.
A27.2. Phase I Training.
   A27.2.1. Training Prerequisites. Pilot candidates must meet one of the following
   requirements before entry into MQ-1/MQ-9 pilot qualification training:
       A27.2.1.1. USAF pilot with a current military instrument qualification.
       A27.2.1.2. USAF navigator with a FAA commercial pilot certificate and current
       instrument rating.
       A27.2.1.3. Civilian contract pilot with a FAA commercial pilot certificate, current
       instrument rating and current FAA medical certificate.
   A27.2.2. Predator Mission Aircrew Training System is an approved simulator creditable for
   proficiency.
   A27.2.3. Qualifications in the MQ-1 and MQ-9 will count as one qualification due to their
   similarities. Conversion training in either RPA may be initiated after 100 hours.
A27.3. Phase II Training
   A27.3.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Sensor Operator FCF Qualification – Flying unit
   commander will designate by MFR maintained in the training folder sensor operators eligible
   to conduct FCF flights. Sensor Operators will comply with flying time minimums in Table 3.
A27.4. Continuation Training. MQ-1/MQ-9 aircrew members will accomplish the currency
and proficiency requirements specified in Table A27.1 and Table A27.2 The flying unit
commander may specify additional requirements necessary to ensure aircrew members maintain
proficiency and mission readiness. Include these requirements in a supplement to this instruction.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       197



Table A27.1. MQ-1/MQ-9 Pilot and Sensor Operator Currency Requirements.
REQUIREMENT                         PILOT                 SENSOR OPERATOR            NOTES
                               IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 1       IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 1
Flight Physical
                                     /61-23                     /61-23
Flight Evaluation              IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 2       IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 2
IRC                            IAW AFI 11-202 Vol 2               N/A
CRM                              IAW AFI 11-290             IAW AFI 11-290
MQ-1 Basic Sortie                     1/45                        1/45               1, 3, 4
MQ-9 Basic Sortie                     1/45                        1/45               1, 3, 4
MQ-1 Takeoff                          1/45                       1/120               4, 6
MQ-9 Takeoff                          1/45                       1/120               4, 6
MQ-1 Landing                          1/45                       1/120               4
MQ-9 Landing                          1/45                       1/120               4
Launch Sequence (Ground               1/60                       1/120               2, 3, 4, 5, 6
Ops)
Instrument Approach (GLS)                1/45                        N/A             2, 4, 6
Nose Camera Landing                      1/60                        N/A             2, 4
IR Camera Landing                        1/60                        N/A             2, 4
Touch and Go                            1/120                        N/A             2, 4
Pilot Proficiency Sortie                1/120                        N/A             2, 4
Simulated Flame Out                     1/120                        N/A             2, 4, 6
FCF Profile                             1/180                        N/A             2, 4, 6
T & E Profile                           1/120                       1/120            1, 2, 4, 5
Instructor Event                        1/120                       1/120            1, 2, 6
NOTES:
1. Events applicable to MCE aircrew.
2. Event in either aircraft applies to both.
3. Sensor Operator requirements can be credited in either aircraft.
4. Supervision level for recurrency is an IP or ISO qualified and current in sortie/event.
5. Instructor aircrew may log this event for currency when they instruct it.
6. Aircrew and Instructors may update or regain currency in the PMATS. This may be done only once
in the ATD between actual flying events.
 198                                  AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014



Table A27.2. Additional MQ-1/MQ-9 Proficiency Requirements
                                                         MONTHS AVAILABLE
POSITION                                                  6   5 4   3   2   1
Pilot                                                       NUMBER REQUIRED
                  Basic Sortie                           12 10   8   6   2  1
                  Launch Sequence                         6   5  4   3   2  1
                  MQ-1 Takeoff                           12 10   8   6   2  1
                  MQ-1 Landing                           12 10   8   6   2  1
                  MQ-9 Takeoff                           12 10   8   6   2  1
                  MQ-9 Landing                           12 10   8   6   2  1
                  Instrument Approach (GLS)              10   8  6   4   2  1
                  Nose Camera Landing                     6   5  4   3   2  1
                  IR Camera Landing                       6   5  4   3   2  1
                  Touch and Go                            4   4  3   3   2  1
                  Pilot Proficiency Sortie                1   1  1   1   1  1
                  Simulated Flame Out                     1   1  1   1   1  1
                  GBU-12 Weapons Profile                  2   2  2   1   1  1
                  AGM-114 Weapons Profile                 2   2  2   1   1  1
                  FCF Profile                             1   1  1   1   1  1
                  T & E Profile                           2   2  2   1   1  1
                  Instructor Event                        2   2  2   1   1  1
                  Systems Training/SEPT                   3   3  3   3   2  1
Sensor Operator                                             NUMBER REQUIRED
                  Basic Sortie                            6   5  4   3   2  1
                  Launch Sequence                         2   2  2   1   1  1
                  MQ-1 Takeoff                            2   2  2   1   1  1
                  MQ-1 Landing                            2   2  2   1   1  1
                  Systems Training/SEPT                   3   3  3   3   2  1
                  T & E Profile                           1   1  1   1   1  1
                  Instructor Event                        2   2  2   1   1  1
                  MQ-9 Takeoff                            2   2  2   1   1  1
                  MQ-9 Landing                            2   2  2   1   1  1
   A27.4.1. Weapons profile does not require actual ordnance but should simulate a weapons
   release to the maximum extent possible.
   A27.4.2. IR Camera Landing updates the 45 day Landing currency requirement as well.
   A27.4.2. (EDWARDSAFB) Infrared Camera Landing. Log an IR Camera Landing when
   the primary visual reference used by the Pilot is the nose IR camera. IR Camera Landing
   also updates Nose Camera Landing currency.
   A27.4.3. Pilot Proficiency Sortie. Sortie may be logged upon completion of 5 of the 8
   events, regardless of length of actual sortie. As a minimum, practice the following:
       A27.4.3.1. One Takeoff
       A27.4.3.2. One instrument approach.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       199


     A27.4.3.3. One VFR pattern
     A27.4.3.4. One IR camera landing.
     A27.4.3.5. One nose camera landing.
     A27.4.3.6. One SFO.
     A27.4.3.7. One touch and go.
     A27.4.3.8. One Full stop
  A27.4.4. Basic Sortie Credit. In order to log a sortie for currency, aircrew must log 0.5 hours
  primary, secondary, instructor or evaluator time. If a currency event is accomplished, 0.3
  hours flight time is sufficient to log a Basic Sortie. For example, an aircrew that performs a
  simulated weapons release profile in 20 minutes can log a Basic Sortie. Performing a takeoff
  and a full stop landing automatically qualifies as a sortie, regardless of sortie duration.
  Aircrew may combine primary, secondary, instructor or evaluator time to meet sortie
  requirements.
  A27.4.4. (EDWARDSAFB) Secondary time does not qualify for basic sortie currency. A
  sortie may also be logged when a crewmember has accomplished at least one of the
  following.
     A27.4.4.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) A pilot proficiency sortie
     A27.4.4.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Complete aircraft launch through takeoff
     A27.4.4.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Complete an aircraft recovery, descent checklist
     through engine shutdown
     A27.4.4.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Logging 0.5 of instructor time
     A27.4.4.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Flight Examiners administering evaluations will
     log a Basic Sortie.
  A27.4.5. Pilot Touch-and-Go Landing Certification. Touch-and-Go Landing Certification
  will be accomplished in conjunction with qualification/requalification/instructor training.
  A27.4.6. The following training is not required for Sensor Operators:
     A27.4.6.1. USAF Physiological Training
     A27.4.6.2. Water Survival Training (AFI 11-301)
     A27.4.6.3. Low Threat Combat Survival Training
     A27.4.6.4. Aircraft Egress Training (AFI 11-301)
     A27.4.6.5. Aircrew Flight Equipment Training
     A27.4.6.6. Hanging Harness Training
     A27.4.6.7. Aircraft Portable and Fixed Fire Extinguisher Training
     A27.4.6.8. Aircraft Marshaling Exam
     A27.4.6.9. Local Area Survival Training
 200                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


   A27.4.7. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Events and Definitions. Unless otherwise specified in
   these event descriptions, the unit will determine the necessary parameters for fulfilling and
   logging tasked events and grounding status for failure to meet event currency.
   A27.4.8. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Test and Evaluation (T&E) Sortie. A sortie flown
   under a formal signed test plan; an ATP or any portion thereof; or any sortie in which aircrew
   members use established FTTs under the direction of a TC/TD/FTE.
   A27.4.9. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Instructor Event. An event logged by an instructor
   when performing instructor duties during a sortie or simulator session. Log only one
   instructor event per sortie. Instructors may also log the following events in which they
   provide instruction to an unqualified/conversion student or noncurrent aircrew member:
       A27.4.9.1. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Launch sequence
       A27.4.9.2. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) MQ-1/MQ-9 Takeoff
       A27.4.9.3. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) MQ-1/MQ-9 Landing
       A27.4.9.4. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) FCF Profile
       A27.4.9.5. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) T&E Profile
   A27.4.10. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Instrument Approach. Log an instrument approach
   when using the GLS as primary instrumentation on following vertical and horizontal
   guidance and displacement from the runway.
   A27.4.11. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Launch and Takeoff. To log a Launch Sequence,
   accomplish normal procedures checklists from Rack Configuration through Taxi. Event may
   be credited without aircraft entering the active runway. To log a takeoff accomplish the Pre-
   takeoff checklist through climb, level-off, cruise checklist or before landing checklist.
   A27.4.12. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Touch and Go. A Touch and Go Landing can be
   credited as both a takeoff event and a landing event.
   A27.4.13. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) MTS Landing. Pilots will accomplish 6 landings per
   training cycle using the Multispectral Targeting System (MTS) payload. Log an MTS
   Landing when the primary visual reference used by the pilot is the MTS EO/IR camera. MTS
   Landing currency is 60 days and an event accomplished in either aircraft applies to both.
   Supervision level for recurrency is an IP qualified and current in the event.
   A27.4.14. (Added-EDWARDSAFB) Instructor Qualification in MQ-1 or MQ-9 is
   transferrable to other MDS without a minimum hours requirement with flying unit
   commander’s approval.
A27.5. Upgrade Training. No additional requirements
A27.6. Training Restrictions. No additional requirements.
A27.7. Additional Training. No additional requirements.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014     201


                           Attachment 28
                             DELETED

A28.1. Deleted.
 202                                     AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 29
                          DHC-8-Q200 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A29.1. General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction
and approved test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in DHC-8-Q200 aircraft
(initial, requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as applicable.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                  203


                                      Attachment 30
                          PC-12/U-28 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A30.1. General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction
and approved test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in PC-12 aircraft (initial,
requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as applicable.
 204                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 31
                              C-20 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A31.1. General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction,
Contractor Flight Operations Procedures (CFOPs) and approved test plans will be used to qualify
AFMC crewmembers in C-20 aircraft (initial, requalification, conversion, difference, mission,
and upgrade training) as applicable.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                    205


                                       Attachment 32
                            C/RC-26 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A32.1. General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction
and approved test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in C/RC-26 aircraft (initial,
requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as applicable.
 206                                    AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 33
                          FALCON 20 TRAINING GUIDELINES

A33.1. General Information. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction,
Contractor Flight Operations Procedures (CFOPs) and approved test plans will be used to qualify
AFMC crewmembers in Falcon 20 aircraft (initial, requalification, conversion, difference,
mission, and upgrade training) as applicable.
AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014                                                       207


                                        Attachment 34
                   NON-USAF AIRCRAFT TRAINING GUIDELINES

A34.1. General Information.
A34.2. USAF Test Pilot School: AFI 11-401/AFMC Sup 1 designates the Commandant of the
USAF Test Pilot School (TPS) as the approval authority for TPS curriculum missions conducted
in non-USAF aircraft.
   A34.2.1. USAF TPS Glider Operations: AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this
   instruction and approved test plans will be used to qualify AFMC crewmembers in Glider
   aircraft (initial, requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training) as
   applicable. TPS operates contractor-owned glider aircraft in support of the TPS curriculum.
   Glider aircrew consist of assigned or attached military, civil service, and contractor pilots
   who are trained and qualified under Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR 61),
   Certification: Pilots, Flight Instructors, and Ground Instructors. Operation of the gliders is
   governed by 14 CFR 91, General Operating and Flight Rules. TPS Operating Instruction 11-
   4, Soaring contains specific guidance for administration of the glider program. Guidance is
   provided for aircrew selection, training, mission qualification and operating procedures.
 208                                       AFI11-2FTV1_EDWARDSAFBSUP_I 6 MAY 2014


                                          Attachment 35
                                       OTHER AIRCRAFT

A35.1. General Information. There are numerous aircraft in the USAF inventory that are
fielded and fully operational. These aircraft occasionally enter AFMC status, primarily while
undergoing heavy maintenance (PDM) or extensive modifications. AFMC does not maintain a
standing crew force to operate these aircraft.        Instead, they are flown during post
maintenance/modification check flights by owning unit aircrew on a TDY basis to the
maintenance facility. While the aircraft is flown for check flight purposes and while under
AFMC control (does not include delivery flight), the following aircraft may be operated IAW
published AFI 11-2MDS guidance without the need for further coordination or approval from
AFMC/A3V. AFMC retains all waiver authority for any required item or issue involved in the
check flight.
      A35.1.1. AFI 11-202 Volume 1, AFMC Supplement 1, this instruction, Contractor Flight
      Operations Procedures (CFOPs) and approved test plans will be used to qualify AFMC
      crewmembers (initial, requalification, conversion, difference, mission, and upgrade training)
      in the following aircraft as applicable. Aircraft governed by this attachment:
C-21

C-22 (B727)

C-32 (B757)

C-37 (Gulfstream V)

C-38 (Gulfstream G100)

C-40 (B737)

E-4

T-1 Jayhawk

T-6 Texan

T-41

T-43

VC-25

UV-18
