BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-102
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                 AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                      SUPPLEMENT

                                                                          1 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                                    Operations

                                                                 FLYING HOUR PROGRAM
                                                                         MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3BA                                              Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3B
                                                                   (Col Howard A. Shrum, III)
                                                                                   Pages: 11

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-102,
Flying Hour Program Management, dated 29 March 2002. This supplement governs AFGSC
flying hour programs, including development and management. It applies to all Air Force Global
Strike Command units and subordinate units which aircraft are assigned. Flying hour models can
be referenced and downloaded from the CAF Flying Hour Program Community of Practice
(CoP) via Air Force Knowledge Now (AFKN) or the Air Combat Command (ACC)/A3TB page
on the Air Force Portal. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force
Reserve Command units and personnel. Contact supporting records managers as required.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1.3.1. HQ ACC/A3TB will:
1.3.1.1. (Added) Manage the AFGSC Flying Hour Program (FHP) with close coordination with
HQ AFGSC/A3BA.
2                                              AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


NOTE: (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3IH will manage the FHP for UH-1N aircraft in AFGSC,
AFDW and PACAF. See paragraphs 1.3.3 (Added), 1.3.4 (Added) and 1.3.5 (Added) for
responsibilities.
1.3.1.2. (Added) Provide AFGSC's recommended FHP to HQ USAF in accordance with AFI
11-101.
1.3.1.3. (Added) Coordinate FHPs with other staff agencies for validation.
1.3.1.4. (Added) Validate the Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS) data.
1.3.1.5. (Added) Monitor individual unit flying hour accomplishments on a monthly basis.
Manage records created IAW the AF RDS. Contact local records managers as needed.
1.3.1.6. (Added) Coordinate all AFGSC flying hour program change requests through HQ
AFGSC/A3B prior to sending to HQ ACC/A3T for approval.
1.3.1.7. (Added) Conduct Staff Assistance Visits to each unit as required to be determined by
HQ AFGSC/A3B.
1.3.2. (Added) (N/A for UH-1) Flying organizations will:
1.3.2.1. (Added) Operational Support Squadron commander or designee will appoint primary
and alternate Flying Hour POCs who will report flying hours to HQ ACC/A3TB. These
individuals will be appointed for a minimum of one year and will receive training at the next
ACC Flying Hour Symposium.
1.3.2.2. (Added) Ensure flying squadrons plan and execute unit flying hour programs as
separate elements of the parent unit's program.
1.3.2.3. (Added) Submit an annual FHP in accordance with paragraph 2.3.1. (Added)
1.3.2.4. (Added) Submit RCS: A3TB(M) 7101 to HQ ACC/A3TB as early as the 5th but no
later than the 10th calendar day of each month via e-mail.
1.3.2.5. (Added) Submit RCS: A3TB(M) 7102 to HQ ACC/A3TB to report monthly flying
hours via Flying Hours on Line (FHOL) by the 10th calendar day of each month.
1.3.2.6. (Added) The unit’s operations officer will ensure completed AFTO 781’s are delivered
to the Squadron Aviation Resource Manager (SARM) office not later than the morning after the
date of flight. SARM’s will validate each day’s sorties and hours flown with maintenance
debrief personnel daily. SARM personnel will validate daily/weekly AUR’s and return correct
or adjusted AUR’s to maintenance debrief. OSS representatives will validate weekly/monthly
totals and ensure FHOL is updated. The purpose of the reviews is to identify and correct errors
on post mission paperwork (to include inaccurate time and/or mission symbols) and ensure
AFTO Form 781 data input into IMDS, ARMS, and FHOL reflects actual data.
1.3.2.7. (Added) Solicit feedback from HQ ACC/A3TB as required.
1.3.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3IH will:
1.3.3.1 (Added) Provide MAJCOM oversight for UH-1N FHPs in AFGSC, AFDW, and
PACAF.
1.3.3.2. (Added) Provide AFGSC, AFDW, and PACAF UH-1N recommended FHP to HQ
AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            3


USAF in accordance with AFI 11-101.
1.3.3.3. (Added) Coordinate FHPs with HQ AFGSC/FM and HQ AFGSC/A4/7.
1.3.3.4. (Added) Validate the Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS) data
in coordination with HQ AFGSC/A4/7.
1.3.3.5. (Added) Monitor individual unit flying hour execution on a monthly basis. Forward
consolidated UH-1N data to AF/A3O-AT, AFMC/CAM Flying Hours and AFGSC/FM (AFGSC
units only).
1.3.3.6. (Added) Coordinate UH-1N FHP program change requests through AFGSC/A3 prior to
forwarding to AF/A3O-AT for approval.
1.3.3.7 (Added) Provide 20th AF/A3H, AFDW/A3O and 374/OSS with required AF/A3O-AT
supplied reporting formats
1.3.4. (Added) 20th AF/A3H, AFDW/A3O and 374 AW/OSS will:
1.3.4.1 (Added) Assist AFGSC/A3IH in oversight of UH-1N flying units in AFGSC, AFDW
and PACAF, respectively.
1.3.4.2 (Added) Obtain monthly FHP execution data from flying units and forward to
AFGSC/A3IH using required formats NLT than the 10th calendar day of each month.
1.3.5. (Added) UH-1N Flying units will:
1.3.5.1 (Added) Appoint primary and alternate Flying Hour POCs who will report flying hours
to the respective oversight organization in paragraph 1.3.4.
1.3.5.2. (Added) Submit monthly execution reports via email in appropriate format to
appropriate organization in paragraph 1.3.4. NLT the 5th calendar day of each month.
1.5. (Added) Flying Hour Program (FHP):
1.5.1. (Added) The AFGSC FHP represents a considerable fiscal commitment and directly
affects the readiness of aircrews in the Combat Air Forces (CAF). Future command flying hour
requirements are incorporated into the USAF Program Objective Memorandum (POM) and are
included in the USAF Program Document, Aerospace Vehicles and Flying Hours (PA).
1.5.2. (Added) Unit flying hour allocations are derived from a combination of factors to include
the President’s Budget (PB), mission tasking, aircrew training requirements, unit equipment,
alert commitment, aircrew ratio, staff requirements, etc. These factors determine a rate of flying
necessary to maintain combat capability that is expressed as an aircraft Utilization rate (UTE).
1.5.3. (Added) Flying hour goals are cumulative values to be achieved by the end of the fiscal
year. The planning and execution of individual monthly programs toward this yearly goal is a
unit responsibility. Except for emergencies or Higher Headquarters (HHQ) tasking at year-end
(e.g., hurricane evacuations or air sovereignty scrambles), UNIT FLYING HOUR
PROGRAMS WILL NOT BE OVERFLOWN by more than 20 hours per MDS WITHOUT
PRIOR HHQ APPROVAL. Unit commanders are not required to "zero out" their annual flying
hour program at the end of the fiscal year. The last flying day of the year should be planned and
flown as a normal flying day and should not be truncated solely because the annual flying hour
contract has been satisfied. Procedures for requesting changes to annual contracts are outlined in
4                                              AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


paragraph 2.4. (Added) and succeeding sub-paragraphs of this supplement.
1.5.3.1 (Added) Due to the relatively small size and limited ability to shift hours in the UH-1N
FHP, units are not authorized to overfly their programs without AFGSC/A3IH approval.
1.5.4. (Added) REMIS is the official USAF flying hour report IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment
Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting; and AFM 66-279V1, Core Automated Maintenance
System (CAMS). The importance of accurate and timely flying hour utilization reporting through
CAMS and REMIS cannot be overemphasized. Erroneous reporting may result in the loss of
required funding, personnel authorizations, and supplies.
2.1.1. (Added) Aircraft Authorizations:
2.1.1.1. (Added) HQ USAF specifies the Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory (PMAI) for each
AFGSC unit in the USAF Programs: PA, Aerospace Vehicles and Flying Hours; and PD, Bases,
Units, and Priorities.
2.1.1.2. (Added) Units projected to possess less aircraft than authorized may be assigned a
revised PMAI, or Chargeable Aircraft Authorization (CHRG) for Utilization (UTE) and flying
hour computations. The CHRG will be displayed for each applicable unit in ACC's allocation
messages.
2.3.1. Flying Hour Program Development and Management.
2.3.1.1. (Added) Budget Activity (BA) Group. Flying hours and funds (except UH-1) are
assigned to HQ ACC by HQ USAF under two BAs; Operating Forces (BA01), and
Administrative and Service-wide Activities (BA04). Within each BA, flying hours are allocated
by MDS and Program Element Code (PEC). Each MDS and PEC combination is assigned a
separate account managed by ACC and reported to HQ USAF. Hours and funding may not be
transferred from one BA to another without HQ USAF approval. HQ AFGSC is the advocate for
UH-1 flight hours.
2.3.1.2. (Added) Units with flying hours in more than one PEC will manage each account
separately. Only HQ ACC (N/A for UH-1) has the authority to transfer flying hours between
PECs in the same BA. Units will only use and report flying time under the PECs assigned to
them by HQ ACC. Coordination will be established in the above mentioned MOA between the
Operations and the CAMS Data Base Managers to ensure the utilization codes are loaded against
the correct PEC in the CAMS database. HQ AFGSC will execute/manage the UH-1 flying hour
program. As with other flying hour programs, HQ AFGSC will manage the UH-1 program
through CAMS.
2.3.1.3. (Added) UTE Requirements. HQ ACC coordinating with HQ AFGSC will determine an
annual Sortie UTE to each flying hour program. The UTE is expressed in sorties per aircraft per
month. The UTE requirement may vary for each unit and MDS depending on each unit’s
situation.
2.3.1.3.1 (Added) UTE is not applicable to UH-1N units.
2.3.1.4. (Added) Average Sortie Duration (ASD). ASD is used to convert sorties to flying hours
and vice versa. HQ ACC/A3TB uses the unit's last programmed ASD when initially determining
flying hour programs for the current and future years. Units will update their ASDs annually to
reflect the unit's best estimate of the optimum sortie duration after considering historical
AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            5


experience, changes in missions or mix of missions, distance to ranges, deployments, etc.
2.3.1.4.1 (Added) ASD is not applicable to UH-1N units.
2.3.1.5. (Added) Initial Program Submission. By the end of May HQ ACC/A3 will provide the
units a projection for the upcoming fiscal year inputs through a “Proposed FHP” message. HQ
ACC/A3TB will formulate the next year's projected allocation for each unit and MDS using
information from ACC and AFGSC staff agencies, PB, historical unit flying data, the ACC
Flying Hour Program Model and unit-specific inputs. Additionally, information such as
Programmed Flight Training (PFT), staff training, and test requirements, will be identified and
included in the initial program build. Formal Training Units (FTUs), test units, and other ACC
aircraft not under the Ready Aircrew Program (RAP) will project their flying hour programs
based on historical data, PFT, test schedules, etc.
2.3.1.5.1. (Added) Upon receipt of the “Proposed FHP”, units will review and provide HQ
AFGSC/A3BA and HQ ACC/A3TB with any projected changes and rationale for the change.
Units will respond by submitting total requested sorties/hours for their annual flying hour
programs to HQ ACC/A3TB. Units submitting projected sorties/hours more than one percent in
variance from the HQ ACC/A3 “Proposed FHP” message will provide documentation staffed
through Operations Group Commander (OG/CC). Units unable to meet “Proposed FHP” flying
hour projections due to maintenance concerns or limitations will submit documentation
coordinated through HQ AFGSC/A4/7.
2.3.1.5.2. (Added) Upon completion and review of all unit responses to the "Proposed FHP"
message, HQ ACC/A3TB will submit a proposed flying hour program for COMACC approval.
HQ ACC/A3 will provide each unit with its final tasking for the next fiscal year in the "Baseline
Allocation" message. Units receiving baseline allocations different from their flying hour
proposal should submit a flow plan based on the new program to HQ ACC/A3TB prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year.
2.3.1.5.3. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3IH will forward upcoming UH-1N FHPs to HQ 20th
AF/A3H, HQ AFDW/A3O and 374 AW/OSS as soon as information becomes available.
2.3.1.6. (Added) Contingency Planning. Since the flying hours and associated funds provided to
ACC by Congress through HQ USAF are allocated for aircrew training, maintenance of combat
capability, test functions, and higher headquarters tasking; contingency operations may require
additional funding by national command authorities. Because there is some inherent training that
occurs while participating in contingency operations, the actual funding and programming for
contingency operations requires resources allocated to support the unit's home station flying
hour program along with additional flying hours/funds supplemented by the HQ USAF.
2.3.1.6.1. (Added) The unit's contribution to the contingency operation will be those hours the
deployed aircraft/crew ratio would have flown at home station in their normal training profiles.
HQ ACC/A3TB will reprogram the hours from the home station training account and place them
into a specific contingency account for the unit to fly. Due to higher ASDs in theater, this
account will normally have fewer hours than the total hours required, necessitating contingency
supplemental hours from HQ USAF.
2.3.1.6.2. (Added) Deployed units will fly all tasking assigned by the theater commander. HQ
ACC/A3TB is responsible for ensuring the unit obtains the flying hours required to fulfill theater
6                                                 AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


requirements and will supplement the account with additional flying hours, by authority received
from HQ USAF. However, to ensure the optimum use of the overseas contingency operations
budget, the unit must provide accurate and timely execution data from their deployed forces.
Units execute the hours in their contingency operation account beginning when their aircraft
takeoff from home station deploying to the theater and continue to use them until their aircraft
land back at home station on redeployment. Units are not accountable for all the hours that are in
their contingency accounts.
2.3.2.4. Operational Missions. AFGSC UH-1N units have an on-going and continuous
requirement to fly operational missions in support of AFGSC Missile Wing operations. These
requirements include, but are not limited to:
2.3.2.4.1. (Added) Emergency Security Force Response. UH-1Ns are a primary means of
transport for Security Forces responding to security situations throughout AFGSC missile field
AORs.
2.3.2.4.2. (Added) Nuclear Convoy Escort/Surveillance. Nuclear weapon movements in the
missile field require helicopter escort with on-board Security Forces when the weapon is outside
the main operating base.
2.3.2.4.3. (Added) Standard Security Operations. Patrolling in the missile field complex with
on-board Security Forces.
2.4. Program changes and reflows during execution year. Program Change requests to unit flying
hour programs will only be submitted when the unit's total flying hour requirement changes for
the year. Program changes should be made from the unit OG/CC or higher and should be
addressed to HQ ACC/A3T and HQ AFGSC/A3B. HQ ACC/A3TB will staff the request for
approval. Requested changes must be fully justified. Units are required to submit a memo for
flying hour change approval (Attachment 8 (Added)) and a revised program reflow
(Attachment 9 (Added)).
2.4.1. (Added) Adjustments to flying hour programs affect Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
funding at the unit. Because unit commanders have the fiduciary responsibility for all activities
at their unit, all flying hour related O&M dollars are allocated to the unit level. Therefore, a unit
requiring additional flying hours for additional training requirements will require the O&M
dollars to support the hours. Conversely, if a unit does not intend to fly all their flying hours, the
funds to support them are not required at that unit. ACC policy (AFGSC policy for UH-1 units is
identical) is that O&M dollars follow hours, and all changes to a unit's annual flying hour
program will be followed by a corresponding change to the unit's O&M funding. In cases where
actual costs per flying hour exceed funded levels (due to increased spare parts usage, etc.), only
the difference between the allocation funding and the amount absorbed by the unit for the
increased costs, if any, will be withdrawn. Under executed hours or funding will not be
withdrawn until the middle of the fourth quarter or later in order to give units every opportunity
to fly the program.
2.4.2. (Added) A program reflow of a unit's flying hour program is basically the same as
developing the yearly program. Additionally, CHRG aircraft should remain constant for the
months already flown. The remaining hours and sorties are allocated month by month for the
remainder of the year. Computations are based on unit needs; adjusting sorties, flying hours,
ASD, and UTE as required ensuring the net total hours already flown plus the additional
AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                          7


requirement equals the unit's total flying hour "contract". For example, a revision requested in
May must show the actual data flown from Oct - Apr and re-computed data from May - Sep.
This request must be formatted as shown in Attachment 9 (Added) and received NLT the 10th
calendar day of the month to be applicable for that month. The main reason for a re-flow will be
due to a change in contingency tasking.
2.4.3. (Added) (UH-1) Changes to UH-1 unit flying hour programs should be addressed to HQ
AFGSC/A3IH with a short justification for forwarding to Air Staff through HQ AFGSC/A3.
Upon approval units must submit an updated flow plan with their next monthly execution report.
NOTE: Changes to a unit's program constitute a new "contract" with the unit. Units requesting a
change to their annual flying hour program will receive a confirmation response once the
proposed change is approved.
2.5. ACC/A3TB and AFGSC/A3TO will determine the number of sorties required to train
aircrews to AFGSC/CC-directed readiness levels and maintain aircrew manning and experience
levels (AFI 11-2MDS volume sets and RAP tasking). Total sorties / 12 months / Primary
Aircraft Authorized (PAA) = Sortie UTE Rate (SUTE). Sorties X ASD = Flying Hours.
8                                            AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 29 January 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AOR—Area of Operations
API—Aircrew Position Indicator
ASD—Average Sortie Duration
AUR—Aircraft Utilization Report
BA—Budget Activity
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
FHOL—Flying Hours On Line
FHP—Flying Hour Program
FTU—Formal Training Unit
GCC—Graduated Combat Capability
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PEC—Program Element Code
PMAI—Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
SCM—Sorties per Crew per Month
USAF—United States Air Force
UTE—Utilization

Terms
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft above the PMAI to permit scheduled and
unscheduled maintenance, modifications, inspections and repair without reduction of aircraft
available for operational missions.
Change—A recompilation of a unit's month-by-month flying hour plan, this is required when
the unit's flying hour allocation changes.
AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                         9


Chargeable Aircraft (CHRG ACFT)—The number of aircraft against which units should
build their programs. Except in cases where possessed aircraft is forecast to be significantly
different from the PMAI such as in building or downsizing units, chargeable aircraft will
normally equal the unit's PMAI, PTAI, or PDAI, as applicable. In these cases, HQ ACC/DO/LG
will assign a chargeable aircraft accountability for the unit in the ACC Flying Hour First Look
and Baseline Messages.
Mission, Design, and Series (MDS)—An acronym for aircraft mission, design, and series. For
example: B052H, F015C, etc.
Possessed Aircraft—Aircraft under a wing commander's operational control and responsibility
IAW AFI 21-103.
Primary Aircraft Inventory (PAI)—Aircraft assigned to meet the primary aircraft
authorization (includes PDAI, PMAI, POAI, PTAI). PMAI will not change except when
approved by HQ USAF.
Primary Development/Test Aircraft Inventory (PDAI)—Formerly CB or Test. Aircraft
assigned primarily for the test of the aircraft or its components for purposes of research,
development, test and evaluation, operational test and evaluation, or support for testing
programs.
Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory (PMAI)—Formerly CC/CA PAA Coded Aircraft.
Aircraft assigned to a unit for performance of its wartime mission.
Primary Other Aircraft Inventory (POAI)—Formerly ZA, ZB. Aircraft required for special
missions not elsewhere classified.
Primary Training Aircraft Inventory (PTAI)—Formerly TF. Aircraft required primarily for
technical and specialized training for crew personnel or leading to aircrew qualification.
Program Element (PE)—The PE is the smallest unit of military output controlled at the DOD
level. It is identified by a six-digit alphanumeric program element code (PEC). The sixth
character, “F", identifies the PE with the Air Force.
Program Element Code (PEC)—The six digit alphanumeric code used to identify the Program
Element (see definition above).
Ready Aircrew Program (RAP)—Continuation Training regulated under the AFI 11-2MDS
volume sets for aircrews assigned to units primarily flying fighter, bomber, and LDHD PMAI.
The AFGSC and ACC flying hour program centers around unit RAP taskings and the associated
flying hours derived using the flying hour program models.
Reflow—An update of a unit's month-by-month flying hour plan, this is required when the unit
changes its monthly flow plan without changing allocated hours.
Total Active Inventory (TAI)—Aircraft assigned to operating forces for mission, training, test,
or maintenance functions (includes primary aircraft inventory, backup aircraft inventory,
attrition, and reconstitution reserve).
UTE Remaining—A measurement of the UTE required to accomplish a unit's remaining flying
hours with assigned aircraft over the remaining months of the fiscal year.
Utilization Rate (UTE)—the UTE is expressed in the number of Sorties flown per Aircraft per
Month.
10                                           AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


                                 Attachment 8 (Added)
                             PROGRAM CHANGE REQUEST


MEMORANDUM FOR ACC/A3T

FROM: Unit OG/CC

SUBJECT: XX Wing Flying Hour Program Change # XX

1. XX Wing requests a (decrease/increase of XXXX sorties and XXXX hours for the FY XX
   flying hour program.
2. Changes are as follows (ensure each MDS and mission are listed separately): MDS Mission
   PEC Old Program New Program Delta X-XXX Ops XX Srts/Hrs Srts/Hrs Srts/Hrs
3. Monthly reflow starting from the beginning of the year (Attachment 9 (Added))
4. “Justification for the Change”
5. This is an Operations/Logistics coordinated memo.
6. POC is XXXXX, DSN XXX-XXXX, E-Mail xxxxxxxxxxx.




                                                 TIMOTHY M. RAY
                                                 Brigadier General, USAF
                                                 Director of Operations
AFI 11-102_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                 11


                           Attachment 9 (Added)
               PROGRAM REFLOW OR NEW PROGRAM SUBMISSION


MEMORANDUM FOR ACC/A3T

FROM: Unit OG/CC

SUBJECT: XX Wing Flying Hour Reflow # XX of Program Change Request # XX

1. Reflows are as follows (Ensure each MDS and mission are listed separately):
2.MDS                     PEC                         MISSION
  X-XXX                   XXXXX                       Ops/Tng/Test
MONTH   ACFT              SORTIES             ASD           UTE          HOURS

(List months Oct - Sep with appropriate data and include total row at the bottom)
3. This is an Operations/Logistics coordinated memo.
4.   POC is XXXXX, DSN XXX-XXXX, E-Mail xxxxxxxxxxx.
