BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-102
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               29 APRIL 2013
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 18 June 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                         INTERNATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
                                                                        AGREEMENTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2DS                                                              Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                    (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI 14-102, 15 October 1993


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations. It provides guidance and
procedures for negotiating, concluding, changing, and terminating military-to-military
intelligence agreements (IIAs) with foreign governments and international organizations. This
publication applies to Regular Component, Air Force Reserve (AFR), Air National Guard
(ANG), and Department of the Air Force (AF) Civilians. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) activities. SIGINT activities are coordinated through the
Air Force Cryptologic Office. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Submit change
recommendations using an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This publication may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Upon publication, Major Commands (MAJCOMs) will ensure copies
are provided to the OPR. Compliance waiver requests must be submitted through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, all other waivers will be submitted to
the publication OPR.
 2                                                                    AFI14-102 29 April 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
MAJCOM level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance and updates the approving official.
A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. OVERVIEW. This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for the process of
negotiating, concluding, changing, and terminating military-to-military IIAs with foreign
governments and international organizations IAW DIAI 2000.001, which implements
Department of Defense Directive 5530.3, International Agreements. Air Force Instruction (AFI)
51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements,
implements DoDD 5530.3 and, along with this instruction, applies to the negotiation and
conclusion of IIAs. Activities related to support for combined exercises, liaison responsibilities
and subject matter expert exchanges are generally not implemented by IIAs.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
     (AF/A2). AF/A2 oversees, coordinates, and reviews guidance under which the Air Force
     negotiates, concludes, maintains, and reports IIAs. AF/A2:
        2.1.1. Advocates Major Command (MAJCOM) initiatives to begin exploratory talks with
        a foreign government or international organization.
        2.1.2. Provides guidance on IIAs and associated documentation for format, scope,
        content and classification.
        2.1.3. Provides guidance and support to MAJCOM activities associated with the IIA
        including, but not limited to, participation in exchanges, obtaining disclosure approvals
        and coordinating visits to other MAJCOM bases or facilities. Supports revisions to the
        Military Intelligence Relationships Data Base (MIRDB).
     2.2. Major Command (MAJCOM) A2s. Major Command (MAJCOM) A2s, Field
     Operating Agencies (FOAs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs). Air Force IIAs focus on the
     activities related to air and space operations. Coordination with the Combatant Command is
     vital to ensure AF IIAs meet theater objectives. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs will:
        2.2.1. Obtain written approval from the Director, Defense Intelligence Agency
        (DIA/DR) concerning agreements for the collection and exchange of military intelligence
        information (except signals and geospatial-intelligence (GEOINT) IIAs). DIA/DR has
        the delegated authority within this category. The National Security Agency/Central
        Security Service (NSA/CSS) serves as the delegated authority for signals IIAs; and the
        National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) serves as the delegated authority for
        GEOINT IIAs. The Air Force ISR Agency maintains the Air Force Cryptologic Office
        and the Air Force Geospatial Office, respectively, to represent Air Force requirements to
        these Agencies. (T-0)
        2.2.2. Notify the DIA Directorate for Operations (DIA/DO) of any request by a foreign
        organization to establish a human intelligence (HUMINT) collection relationship. Notify
        DIA’s Office of Partner Engagement (DIA/OPE) of any overture or request, official or
        unofficial, by a foreign military organization to establish an intelligence exchange
AFI14-102 29 April 2013                                                                      3


      relationship, including Counterintelligence and Measurement and Signature Intelligence
      (MASINT) relationships. (T-0)
      2.2.3. Submit requests to contact foreign organizations to explore the potential to
      establish a defense intelligence exchange relationship to DIA/OPE at least 60 days in
      advance of the desired date of contact IAW DIAI 2000.001. (T-0)
      2.2.4. Establish new exchange relationships or modify existing exchange relationships.
      Be sure to coordinate with the appropriate MAJCOM or SAF/IAPD foreign disclosure
      officers to share specific intelligence tactics, techniques and procedures as well as
      Category 8 - Military Intelligence Information. Submit requests to DIA/OPE at least 60
      days in advance of the desired date to begin discussions with the foreign organizations.
      The request will include: (T-0)
         2.2.4.1. A soft-copy draft of the proposed international defense intelligence
         agreement that describes all aspects of the intended relationship. (T-0)
         2.2.4.2. A legal memorandum prepared by the general counsel staff or staff judge
         advocate that covers the responsibilities of all stakeholders. (T-0)
         2.2.4.3. A fiscal memorandum that has been coordinated with the supporting
         resource management office IAW DIAI 2000.001. (T-0)
      2.2.5. Negotiate and conclude international defense intelligence agreements to establish
      new relationships when authorized to do so by DIA/DR. DIA/OPE will obtain any
      necessary OSD(P) and OUSD(I) coordination for the IIA.
         2.2.5.1. Provide DIA/OPE the following:
             2.2.5.1.1. A status report on progress in concluding an IIA every 60 days after
             being authorized by the DR. (T-0)
             2.2.5.1.2. Notify DIA/OPE immediately if either side proposes substantive
             changes during negotiations. DIA/OPE determines if the proposed changes need
             to be coordinated at the national level before the agreement can be concluded. (T-
             0)
             2.2.5.1.3. An e-mail with the scanned copy attached or a facsimile (FAX) copy of
             the new IIA to DIA/OPE, Fax number is (703) 693-6879; DSN 223-6879). Also
             provide a copy of the IIA to AF/A2DS Workflow via Secret Internet Protocol
             Router Network (SIPRNet: AF/A2DS.Workflow@AF.Pentagon.smil.mil or
             Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet): USAF.Pentagon.AF-
             A2.mbx.AF-A2DS-Workflow@mail.mil. (T-0)
      2.2.6. Upon appropriate approvals, negotiate and conclude an IIA for a period of one
      year, informing AF/A2 of any substantial changes. If the agreement is not concluded by
      the end of this period contact DIA/OPE for an extension. Each request for an extension
      should include an explanation why the agreement was not concluded and the prospects
      for success during the requested extension period. (T-0)
      2.2.7. Establish an entry in the MIRDB after initial approval is granted. MIRDB access
      is authorized by contacting DIA/OPE. (T-0)
 4                                                                      AFI14-102 29 April 2013


         2.2.8. Draft (or update, if appropriate) and submit a DDL IAW Air Force Instruction
         (AFI) 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, to ensure
         the proper disclosure authority is established upon signature of the IIA. (T-1)
         2.2.9. Delegates activities, as applicable, to subordinate organizations, such as Numbered
         Air Forces, to act as the AF executive agent or OPR. Responsibilities for subordinate
         organizations are the same as the MAJCOM for requests, etc. (T-2)
         2.2.10. Review and update the MIRDB for the IIA each year or when significant changes
         are made (cancellation, extension, or modified scope). (T-0)
         2.2.11. Prepare extensions or changes to memorandums of understanding one year prior
         to expiration and submit via message. Verbal extensions must be followed by e-mail and
         the MIRDB must be updated to reflect the extension.
3. CONDITIONS. Subject to obtaining DIA approval to negotiate and conclude the IIA, Air
Force intelligence components may enter into an IIA if all of the following conditions are met:
(T-0)
     3.1. The Foreign Military Organization. Foreign military organizations being considered
     for inclusion in an IIA must clearly support U.S. security and foreign policy objectives. (T-
     0)
         3.1.1. The foreign government must have favorable relations with the United States; a
         well-developed, secure intelligence service; and a stable domestic environment and
         military unity. (T-0)
         3.1.2. Known national characteristics of the foreign government in question must fall
         within the guidelines of the United States national disclosure and security policy, and be
         reasonably expected to have adequate fiscal means, and conform to legal guidelines. (T-
         0)
     3.2. International Intelligence Agreement (IIAs). IIAs must be fully documented and not
     merely based on an implied understanding or agreement. Each IIA must be prepared at the
     time the relationship with the foreign military organization is initiated. Note: Do not use
     existing IIAs to justify requests for additional DoD funding until operational requirements for
     intelligence have been validated. IIAs must:
         3.2.1. Be registered with DIA (Exception: SIGINT and GEOINT agreements). (T-0)
         3.2.2. Provide for mutual support (quid pro quo). (T-0)
         3.2.3. Provide intelligence that would otherwise be denied to the United States. (T-0)
     3.2.4.   Comply with Executive Order 12333, United States Intelligence Activities.




                                              LARRY D. JAMES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence
                                              Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AFI14-102 29 April 2013                                                                    5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements, 16
August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DIAI 2000.001, International Defense Intelligence Relationships, May 12, 2011,
http://diateams.dse.dia.smil.mil/sites/Issuances/default.aspx
Executive Order 12333, United States Intelligence Activities, as amended, 31 July 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
COCOM—Combatant Command (command authority)
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DDL—Delegated Disclosure Letter
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DIA/DR—Director, Defense Intelligence Agency
DIA/DX—Defense Counterintelligence and Human Intelligence Center
DIA/IE—Defense Intelligence Agency Office of International Engagement
DIAI—Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction
EA—Executive Agent
HUMINT—Human Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
 6                                                                    AFI14-102 29 April 2013


IIA—International Intelligence Agreement
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MASINT—Measurement and Signature Intelligence
MIRDB—Military Intelligence Relationships Data Base
NIPRNet—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
SAF/GCI—Air Force General Counsel, Intelligence, International and Military Affairs Division
SAF/IA—Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affair
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
TTPD—Tactics, Techniques, Procedures and Doctrine
USG—United States Government

Terms
Delegate Disclosure Letter (DDL)—A letter issued by the Under Secretary of the Air Force for
International Affairs (SAF/IA) to delegated disclosure authority for the IIA. It contains an
explanation of classification levels, categories, scope and limitations of information under Air
Force jurisdiction or control that designated disclosure authorities may approve for disclosure to
specific foreign governments. AFI 16-201 contains the proper DDL format, guidelines and
submission procedures.
Fiscal Memorandum—A financial memorandum that summarizes the resources programmed to
support the implementation of an IIA. It provides funding, manhours and any other support the
United States Government (USG) plans to commit to ensure successful implementation of the
IIA. The memo should address resources for the duration of the IAA or as identified in the
Program Objective Memorandum. DIAI 2000.001, Enclosure 3, provides an example of a Fiscal
Memorandum.
International Intelligence Agreement (IIA)—Any non-SIGINT written agreement with a
foreign government or international organization entered into by an Air Force organization with
the primary objective of collecting, processing, producing, disseminating, or sharing foreign
intelligence or sharing intelligence tactics, techniques, processes and doctrine (TTPD).
Legal Memorandum—Provides a review of applicable statutes, policy and guidance to
ascertain the authority for the organization to negotiate and conclude an IIA. IAW AFI 51-701,
SAF/GCI concurrence is required on all proposals for the negotiation or conclusion of
international agreements originating or received in the Secretariat or the Air Staff. MAJCOM
Judge Advocates General should generate legal memoranda to support proposals originating
within their MAJCOMs. DIAI 2000.001, Enclosure 4, provides a sample Legal Memoranda.
AFI14-102 29 April 2013                                                                    7


Military Intelligence Relationships Database (MIRDB)—MIRDB is a Defense Intelligence
Agency (DIA)-sponsored relational, electronic database that contains summary data on all
intelligence relationships within DoD. This eliminates the need for IIA OPRs to provide
hardcopy reports, and facilitates quick updates to senior DoD officials. Enclosure 7 of DIAI
2000.001 provides information about MIRDB format, entries and definitions.
Tier 0 (T—0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g., Congress, White House, OSD,
JS). The requirement is external to AF. Requests for waivers must be processed through
command channels to publication OPR for consideration. (AFI 33-360)
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders or the AF strongly at risk of mission
or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. T-1
waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than
MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official. (AFI 33-360)
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director. (AFI 33-360)
