BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2B-1,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 2

                                                                                 4 MAY 2012
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 26 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                  B-1 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Brig Gen Mark W. Westergren)
                                                                                       Pages: 25


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in B-1 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting B-1 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                                   AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................     3
       1.3.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................            3
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................          4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   5
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations. ........................................................................................            5
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations. ....................................................                          6
       2.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                     8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                               9
       3.1.   General Evaluation Standards. ...............................................................................                 9
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       9
Table 3.1.    Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       9
       3.3.   Specialized Evaluation Criteria. .............................................................................                15
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                15
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                      18

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
         INFORMATION                                                                                                                        20
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                           3



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this instruction.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Office of Primary Responsibility. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
   Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) delegates OPR for this instruction to
   Air Combat Command (ACC)/A2.
   1.1.3. Waivers. ACC/A2 is the waiver authority for specific intelligence procedural
   requirements outlined in this instruction. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of any significant
   trends in waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress
   policy and guidance.
1.2. Procedures.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed (verified by applicable AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet) all
   duty position required Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST)
   requirements outlined in AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 1, B-1 Unit Intelligence Training. (T-2)
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria in Chapter 3 to conduct all intelligence evaluations.
   To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar with the
   prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.2.3. Prior to beginning an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.2.4. Conduct evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Document evaluations
   IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Evaluations should be accomplished in a realistic training
   environment in conjunction with local events (e.g., actual deployment briefing or post-
   mission debrief) to the maximum extent possible. When it is impossible to conduct an
   evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be conducted via an alternate method
   (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order to complete the evaluation.
   Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the Comments section of the AF
   Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-2)
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.3. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this instruction. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
 4                                                                  AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
the IEs will determine the overall qualification level (also found in AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Chapter 5. (T-3)
     1.3.1. The IE will use the AF Form 4381 to assist in grading the individual areas during the
     evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF Form 4381, not the one
     completed on the individual during MQT/ST. The gradesheets elements specific to B-1
     intelligence tasks are found in Attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.3.2. In addition to the guidance provided by this instruction, IEs will be expected to use
     their personal experience and knowledge in the assessment of examinee performance. (T-3)
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training as
necessary. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (Q-3)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a mission
evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), they will not perform mission duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a specialized evaluation,
they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but they can
perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                        5


                                          Chapter 2

                            EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include the areas listed in this chapter as
depicted in Table 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
SUBJECT                                                  INIT     MSN      EIT IE
                                                         MSN
                                                         Ops Tgts Ops Tgts
Knowledge Evaluations
B-1 Weapons Systems Academics                            R     R     R    R      --- ---
Threat Knowledge                                         R     R     R    R      --- ---
Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                     R     R     R    R      --- ---
Visual Recognition                                       R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Personnel Recovery                                       R     R     R    R      --- ---
Force Protection Intelligence                            R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Close Air Support (CAS) Fundamentals                     R     R     R    R      --- ---
Performance Task Evaluations
Threat Briefing                                          R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Manual Order of Battle (OB)                              R     R     R    R      --- ---
Automated OB                                             R     R     R    R      --- ---
Initial Situation Briefing                               R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Situation Briefing                                       R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Changeover Briefing                                      R     R     R    R      --- ---
Deployment Briefing                                      R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Air Tasking Order, Airspace Control Order and Special
Instructions (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and Other Tasking           R     R     R    R      --- ---
Documents
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning                 R     R     R    R      --- ---
Mission Package Construction                             R     R     R    R      --- ---
Feasibility/Capability Meeting                           R     R     R    R      --- ---
Weaponeering                                             ---   R     ---  R      --- ---
Mission Briefing                                         R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
CAS Mission Support                                      R     R     R    R      --- ---
Step Briefing                                            R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Mission Tracking                                         R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Debriefing                                               R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Intelligence Reports                                     R     ---   R    ---    --- ---
Specialized Task Evaluations
Instructional Ability                                    ---   ---   ---  ---    R       ---
Evaluator Ability                                        ---   ---   ---  ---    --- R
NOTES:
Gradesheet elements for each area are included in AFI14-2B-1, Volume 1. Passing criteria for
 6                                                                  AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

R = Required area of evaluation
INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee‘s understanding of B-1
     systems and capabilities, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, visual
     recognition (VR), personnel recovery (PR), force protection intelligence (FPI), and close air
     support (CAS) fundamentals. Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit‘s
     master question file (MQF) for mission qualification evaluation subject areas. Examinees
     will take a separate VR test. Both examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350.
     Knowledge examinations may also be required during specialized qualification evaluations.
     Research, analysis and dissemination (RAD) and intelligence preparation of the operational
     environment (IPOE) involves knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying
     throughout all areas of the performance task evaluations and will be evaluated as subsets of
     each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
     materials based off of current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
     scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
     conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
     in constructing evaluation materials. (T-2)
        2.2.2.1. Situation displays. The situation for which the display is being built should
        contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to use for
        the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3
        that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the
        relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be plotted should be of
        sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is
        beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise will include both
        geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) coordinates.
        Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geographic coordinates
        (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also from geographic coordinates to
        decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may include erroneous information to
        mirror the fog of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats
        for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to
        identify errors and question the validity of information. The examinee should use MIL-
        STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine
        Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and
        Graphics.
            2.2.2.1.1. Manual Order of Battle. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise
            will be of sufficient volume to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                       7


        symbology is used. The examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for the OB being used.
        2.2.2.1.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of
        OB sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
        save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control
        of the displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a particular AOR.
     2.2.2.2. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
     provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery. Other
     sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluated
     briefings include:    threat briefings, initial situation briefing, situation briefing,
     changeover briefings, deployment briefing, mission briefing (including Combat Search
     and Rescue (CSAR) and CAS), and step briefing.
     2.2.2.3. ATO/ACO/SPINS and other tasking documents. Scenario, actual contingency
     or exercise materials will be used for this purpose. Provide enough information that the
     examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked on the ATO. Ensure the opportunity exists to
     evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking out the elements of
     ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking, air space control, personnel recovery and
     intelligence information. As applicable, personnel should be evaluated on other types of
     tasking requests they may face in particular theaters.
     2.2.2.4. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning.                  Scenario or actual
     contingency/exercise materials or exercise/range imagery will be used. Ensure the
     opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting the entire mission planning process. Provide enough information to evaluate
     the examinee‘s ability to analyze the tactical problem/scenario, threat considerations,
     terrain, and weather, target imagery, route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as
     appropriate. Evaluate proficiency in identify and plotting unit tasking. Specific pieces of
     information should be purposefully omitted to evaluate the examinee’s ability to define
     intelligence gaps and submit requests for information. Information for the situation
     briefing should be assembled from information provided by the evaluator; message
     traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery.
     2.2.2.5. Weaponeering.      Scenario or actual contingency/exercise materials or
     exercise/range imagery will be used. The examinee should demonstrate proficiency in
     validating weaponeering solutions based on the target and assigned/alternate munitions.
     The number of tasked targets in the weaponeering exercise should be of sufficient
     volume to be challenging and should allow the IE to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency
     in validating weaponeering solutions. Evaluate examinee’s proficiency in researching of
     targeting reference documents, to include the Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual
     (JMEM), bombs and fuses.
     2.2.2.6. Mission Package Construction.         Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
     materials or exercise/range imagery will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to
     evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in obtaining necessary mission materials to include
     required imagery and geospatial information and services (GI&S) to build mission
     materials. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission planning software to construct
     mission packages; and analysis in unit-level target development.
 8                                                                    AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


        2.2.2.7. Mission Tracking. Use scenario or actual exercise to allow examinee to flight
        follow missions in execution. Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate examinee’s
        proficiency to keep abreast of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs. Examine debrief
        forms to see that information has been filled in to maximum extent prior to engine shut
        down. Present simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure systems are used if
        available to aid examinee in monitoring progress of ongoing missions.
        2.2.2.8. Debriefing. Conduct aircrew debriefings following actual flying missions
        whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with aircrew
        to identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity
        to represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
        tasking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying
        questions and recognize irrelevant information.
        2.2.2.9. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREP), intelligence reports
        (INTREP), and Close Air Support Summaries (CASSUM) using information provided in
        the aircrew debriefing. Complete reports IAW theater intelligence reporting directives.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
     2.3.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
     consist of a knowledge examination and a performance task evaluation and be conducted
     IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Upon completion of profile EIT 1 and one or all of the
     remaining profiles outlined in AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 1, the EIT trainer will demonstrate
     knowledge of the information presented by successfully completing a test based on the
     questions from the master question file (85 percent minimum to pass), as applicable. The
     EIT trainer will also be evaluated on their ability to present training in each applicable
     profile. Evaluators will give the examinee no less than 4 hours’ notice of the subject matter
     or briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-3)
        2.3.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
        training in more than one EIT event at a time. The individual must complete the specific
        training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing element by an IE.
        Document the evaluation on the AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, and in
        coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding on-line documentation. The
        individual must maintain currency and be reevaluated periodically for the subject matter
        according to AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 1. (T-2)
        2.3.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
        evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
     2.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
     Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE specialized
     training profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Senior Intelligence Officer
     (SIO). IEs will be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be
     conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. (T-3)
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                           9


                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: Mission Qualification and Specialized evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria
applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain mission
qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
Q     Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in a test based on master question file.
Q-    Not applicable
U     Fails to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
Q-    Not applicable
U     Fails to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
THREAT BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Effective
      use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Tailored threat briefing to the
      capabilities of the B-1 airframe, avionics and countertactics. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to B-1, but not
      many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
      somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Threat was not tailored to B-1 capabilities. Major gaps in information, unable to
      recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct
      basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of B-1
      mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
Q     Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for creating the
      best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies,
      and relevance to the situation. Used manual and automated processes to accurately
      plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates. Consistently used
      correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US
     Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
     FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics. Correctly extracted geographic
     coordinates and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to unit
     requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed data. Able
      to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings and perform terrain masking
 10                                                               AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


      analysis. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats. Accurately
      maintained situation display to unit specifications, including classification and
      currency. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Did not select the best medium for creating the situation display. Did not fully
      research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be included.
      Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the remaining 5%
      within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little prompting.
      Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
U     Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
      or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision or
      intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-tailored analysis
      relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
      Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
      identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
      understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to
      discriminate irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed information
      tailored to the audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of
      unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
      redundant.
U     Failed to use checklist. Content poorly organized, not tailored appropriately.
      Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
      may have. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
      classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
      Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items since last update, and well
      tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local
      procedures. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
      Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, somewhat
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                     11


     redundant.
U    Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Content not tailored
     appropriately. Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability.
     Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed
     significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
     understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
     may have. Negative impact on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
     classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q    Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
     clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass to next shift. Showed
     ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
     capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
     identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to the audience. Correctly
     annotated event log, identified significant events. Correct classification and security
     markings on all products produced.
Q-   Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
     prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.
     relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
     usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
     with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
     information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
     capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
     mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q    Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
     followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by audience.
     Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience. Identified key
     points including synopsis of military and political situation generating the deployment,
     and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along deployment route.
     Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
     mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Showed ability to
     discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and
     limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly.
     Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-   Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
     Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U    Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key areas.
     Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Missed
     significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
     capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
     mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS AND OTHER TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q    Demonstrated ability to access the correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any changes.
     Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures, personnel recovery and
 12                                                                 AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


      other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have impacted mission
      planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention. Incorrect
      classification.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q     Effective use of checklist. Used appropriate research and analysis techniques in
      reviewing the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, unit IPOE, target acquisition, threat
      considerations (integrated air defense system, air, surface-to-air missiles (SAM), air
      defense artillery/anti-aircraft artillery (ADA/AAA), tactics, terrain, and weather, target
      imagery, route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as appropriate. Correctly
      identified and plotted unit tasking. Recognized information gaps and submitted
      requests for information through appropriate channels. Situation briefing was
      effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Appropriate
      level of detail, covered all applicable items. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products produced.
Q-    Required some assistance, but no impact on mission planning functions. Briefing
      could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of mission materials.
      Minor omission of intelligence information required for mission; however nothing that
      was critical to mission planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate
      mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of information
      critical to the planning cycle. Organization or lack of preparation seriously impacted
      understanding of the briefing. Incorrect classification.
FEASIBILITY/CAPABILITY (FEASCAP) MEETING
Q     Relayed appropriate target, weaponeering and threat information to audience. Clearly
      organized and professionally delivered, with appropriate visual aids and mission
      materials. Concise yet thorough. Clear understanding of mission and target and
      primary threats. Correct classification and security markings on all products
      produced.
Q-    Information could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of
      mission materials.
U     Failed to use checklist. Organization or lack of preparation seriously impacted
      audience’s understanding. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate
      mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of information
      critical to the planning cycle. Incorrect classification.
WEAPONEERING
Q     Correctly validated weaponeering solutions using local procedures. Successfully
      referenced the JMEM. Successfully acquired appropriate target materials to support
      mission planning. Correct classification.
Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge and comprehension of targeting procedures (to
      include weaponeering). Did not adversely affect overall task accomplishment.
U     Did not understand how to use weaponeering reference materials. Incorrectly
      validated weaponeering solutions. Failed to use local procedures. Failed to assemble
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                         13


      suitable mission materials. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Demonstrated clear
      understanding and proper use of mission planning materials. Chose scales and views
      appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for requesting information or
      materials. Accurate portrayal of target, terminal area threats and hazards as well as
      ingress and egress factors to consider. Tailored mission materials to the type of
      mission being planned, target and assigned weapons load/alternate munitions.
      Provided all mission materials in correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials
      neat and well organized. Considered all factors that could impact successful mission
      accomplishment. Provided thorough analysis of terrain, threats, route and target area.
      Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
      accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and identifying and
      ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U     Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors which
      would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of mission requirements or sources
      for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views for mission materials.
      Incorrectly plotted target or threats. Did not know how to request information or
      target materials. Did not provide analysis of threats, route, or target area. Incorrect
      classification.
MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Briefing effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Effective use of visual
      aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items:
      takeoff, ingress, target area, egress, divert airfields, and appropriate PR considerations.
      Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
      mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
      Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Correctly
      identified significant events and issued threat update codes. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions or errors but recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
      mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
      somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information,
      unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Fabricated
      information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of B-1 mission capabilities.
      Incorrect classification.
CAS MISSION SUPPORT
Q     Coordinated, directed, supervised, or conducted (as required) activities IAW checklists
      and local procedures. Demonstrated proficiency in individual duty position
      responsibilities. Clearly understood CAS mission tasking and was able to address all
      factors relevant to the mission. Well organized and fully prepared. Made appropriate
 14                                                                AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


      selection and effective use of planning materials and resources. Provided all mission
      materials in correct quantities and of sufficient detail. Materials neat and well
      organized. Considered all factors that could impact successful mission
      accomplishment. Provided thorough analysis. Identified shortfalls in information,
      recommendations for production/information requests. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced
Q-    Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact CAS mission planning and
      intelligence execution. Able to recover with minor prompting.
U     Poorly organized or unprepared. Made errors or omissions that could have prevented
      an effective mission. Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the
      mission. Improper use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of
      analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q     Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion and IAW local
      requirements. Appropriate for the particular mission. Identified, analyzed and
      highlighted changes and updates since mission briefing. Correct classification.
Q-    Made updates with prompting, not proactive. Omissions would not have affected
      mission effectiveness.
U     Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack
      of understanding of B-1 mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q     Used all resources (systems, operations, command post, onboard datalink) to track
      progress of missions. Well organized to receive information during various stages.
      All relevant mission information pre-filled on debriefing forms. Aware of all
      cancelled or diverted missions. Made provisions for debrief at diverted location via
      personnel or other electronic means. All personnel had access to mission tracking and
      could quickly interpret information to derive mission status.
Q-    Did not utilize resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with prompting,
      not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status. Debrief forms
      not pre-filled with mission information.
U     No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel not
      capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled missions.
      Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated lack
      of understanding of B-1 mission capabilities. No plans for contacting divert locations
      for mission status and reporting information.
DEBRIEFING
Q     Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
      manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing. Quickly
      identified time-sensitive information and ensured prompt dissemination as applicable.
      Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying questions, and recognized irrelevant
      information. Collected all significant intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish
      reporting requirements IAW checklists and theater directives. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Debrief took too long. Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                          15


      amplifying questions that would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Slow
      in dealing with time-sensitive information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Not prepared, didn’t have materials for debrief. Disjointed
      flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely missed a debriefing. Lost
      control of the debriefing. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting requirements.
      Incorrect classification.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
      available and included an initial level of tactical analysis with minimal to no
      extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting timelines. Produced report IAW
      checklists and theater directives. Correctly identified significant events. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products produced. Appropriate knowledge
      of US Message Text Format (USMTF), if required.
Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
      extenuating circumstances. A minor problem with clarity, organization or formatting;
      but pertinent information was included. Working knowledge of USMTF, but required
      some assistance.
U     Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format
      required by theater intelligence reporting directive. Failed to use checklist.
      Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of information or
      omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users
      through appropriate channels). No knowledge of USMTF. Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to tasks
associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
EIT KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
Q      Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on master question file.
Q-     Not applicable.
U      Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
EIT VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q      Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
Q-     Not applicable
U      Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
Q      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded and
       accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
       knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
       materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-     Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
       mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
       Did not adversely affect training.
U      Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
       efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
 16                                                                 AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


      procedures, requirements, mission, or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – THREAT SYSTEMS
Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used Air Force Tactics,
      Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary reference for
      training. Tailored threat training to the unit’s MDS, mission specific requirements and
      appropriate audience (e.g. pilots, security forces, etc). Demonstrated ability to instruct
      effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
      applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3, Unit Intelligence Procedures.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate collection and reporting training requirements. Included pilot
      originated reports (In-flight Report (INFLTREP), etc.), intelligence-generated reports
      (MISREP, INTREP, etc.) and essential elements of information (EEI). Demonstrated
      ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3 and the appropriate
      theater reporting directive. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively
      fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying
      data from reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all
      products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                          17


      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of knowledge in certain
      areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or
      security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Determined appropriate VR training requirements. Included enemy/adversary,
      friendly, and neutral aircraft, surface threat, ground equipment and naval vessel
      recognition features. Incorporated all aspects/angles, theater-specific paint
      schemes/fin flashes, and various configurations along with the name or numerical
      designator of all enemy/friendly/neutral weapons systems presented. Demonstrated
      ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Demonstrated subject
      matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved
      answers to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification
      and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or items to include in training. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
      Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
      knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
 18                                                              AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
Q     Determined appropriate FPI training requirements. Included intelligence principles
      and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot spot areas;
      examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; FPI resources; Terrorist
      Threat Levels; and unit FPI considerations. Demonstrated ability to instruct
      effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
      applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter
      knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers
      to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
      instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security
      markings.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
Q     Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
      evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
      Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
      recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge regarding unit procedures, evaluation
      requirements, or documentation. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in
      evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
U     Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
      plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
      evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
      evaluation documentation preparation. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                             19


      Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance.
      Incorrect classification.




                                         LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                         Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
 20                                                               AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2B-1, Volume 2, B-1 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 13 June 2008
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 15 August 2007
AFI 14-124, Predictive Battlespace Awareness, 25 November 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, 5 May 2010
AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 1, B-1 Unit Intelligence Training, 4 May 2012
AFI 14-2B-1, Volume 3, B-1 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 4 May 2012
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 14-118, Predictive Battlespace Awareness: Air and Space Intelligence Preparation of
the Operational Environment, 10 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.B-1, Tactical Employment B-1, 4 June 2010 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 2 July 2010 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-aircraft Artillery
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                   21


ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AF—Air Force
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAS—Close Air Support
CASSUM—CAS Summary
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
FEASCAP—Feasibility/Capability
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
JMEM—Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
 22                                                                 AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
SAM—Surface to Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition

Terms
ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout—Identifying and breaking out the elements of the air tasking
order, airspace control order and special instructions.
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and
issues to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks,
personnel and equipment problems, work center status and briefing times.
Close Air Support Summary (CASSUM)—The CASSUM is used by units generating high
numbers of close air support (CAS) or CAS-related sorties, such as airborne forward air
controller (AF AC) or "killer scout." Given the nature of CAS targets, such as artillery, armor,
and army air defenses together with the inevitable changing nature of the battlefield, there is a
very time critical requirement to pass on CAS mission results. The highest priority should be
given to submitting timely, detailed CASSUMs
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to
affected parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                          23


aircrew, ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and
disseminate appropriately and expediently.
Debriefed Discrepancy—Remedial action taken by an intelligence evaluator to remedy a
discrepancy noted during an evaluation. This action is accomplished during debrief of the
evaluation wherein the intelligence evaluator provides briefing/instruction concerning the
discrepancy and determines that the examinee has gained the necessary knowledge or
proficiency to remedy said discrepancy. The discrepancy area/subarea description is annotated
with “Debriefed” in the Evaluator’s Remarks section of the AF Form 4350 Comments.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence information to aircrew, key staff, and
deploying personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence information is tailored to the unit’s
specific mission, roles and combat profiles IAW the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking. It includes a
synopsis of the military and political situation generating the deployment, enemy activity and
force disposition (air, ground and naval, as applicable) in the AOR and along deployment route,
enemy tactics and employment strategies, potential and or anticipated enemy reactions to the
deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing issues (for hostile,
friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or regular military forces) in vicinity of bed
down location, reporting instructions and essential elements of information (EEI) and additional
items as dictated by the local situation.
External Intelligence Training (EIT)—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
aircrew or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC)
intelligence personnel who have completed the EIT specialized training and maintain currency as
an EIT trainer. Only qualified and current trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence
training for aircrew or other personnel in non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Codes.
Initial Evaluation—The first evaluation of any type for a duty position (e.g., INIT MSN, INIT
EIT, INIT IE).
Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the
initial situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major
events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at
deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats, etc.),
anticipated enemy reactions, possible en-route flight hazards for previously scheduled and
transient flights.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE specialized training. IEs conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic) and support unit Intelligence Stan/Eval functions.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
intelligence evaluator qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify
and requalify an intelligence member as an intelligence evaluator (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as
directed in this volume. The designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used
with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)—An analytical
methodology employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain
 24                                                                  AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012


for all types of operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and
extensive data base for each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The
database is then analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and
terrain on operations and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence preparation of the operational
environment is a continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to
higher headquarters (e.g., Mission Reports (MISREPs) and Intelligence Reports (INTREPs)).
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts without automated intelligence
system support.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the
mission. Accurate and timely intelligence information should be provided on the general
situation since the last briefing, mission information, general situation in the combat air patrol
(CAP)/objective area, en route and mission area threats (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral
interference threats/etc.), and other factors essential to mission success.
Mission Package Construction—The mission package provides the operator with the
intelligence materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission package includes route
maps, threat information and other local mission package requirements.
Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the
operational mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials
necessary to accomplish the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local
mission folder requirements. Aircrew should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate
information available on routes, CAP area, targets of strikers being supported, threats, evasion
and recovery and other factors essential to planning the mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification
evaluation is administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and
employment in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission
qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring
mission execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination
centers.
Personnel Recovery (PR)—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the
release or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas
whether they are captured, missing, or isolated.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination (RAD)—The ability to brief and report intelligence
concerning major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by
researching, analyzing and disseminating tailored intelligence to aircrew, commanders, and base
support agencies.
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders,
staff and aircrew in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political
events, enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of
AFI14-2B-1V2 4 May 2012                                                                       25


impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
action, local area situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies a trainee in a specialized
area. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence member for a
particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations are
identified in this volume.
Step Briefing—A briefing given to aircrew immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides the aircrew with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and
highlights changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC levels.
Weaponeering—The process of determining the quantity of a specific type of lethal or nonlethal
weapons required to achieve a specific level of damage to a given target, considering target
vulnerability, weapons effect, munitions delivery accuracy, damage criteria, probability of kill,
and weapon reliability.
