BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-290
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 OCTOBER 2012
                                                           AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                                                                            COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                   2 JUNE 2014

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                                 COCKPIT/CREW RESOURCE
                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-AI                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                        (Maj Gen James J. Jones)
Supersedes:    AFI11-290, 11 April 2001                                                Pages: 20
                                            (AETC)
OPR: AETC/A3VO                                        Certified by: AETC/A3V (Kurt S. Anders)
                                                                                      Pages:9
Supersedes:    AFI 11-290/AETC Sup 1, 22
               March 2005


This Instruction implements AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, and AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training,
Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure. It establishes the USAF
cockpit/crew resource management program and is applicable to all units assigned to or gained
by major commands (MAJCOMs) and applies to commanders, operations supervisors, and
aircrews assigned or attached to all flying activities of these commands. This publication applies
to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG). This Instruction may be
supplemented. Coordinate supplements with AF/A3O-AI prior to publication. Submit suggested
improvements to this Instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through training channels, to AF/A3O-AI, afa3oai.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
 2                                                     AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


https://www.my.af.mil/afrims//afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

(AETC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew
Resource Management Program, 15 October 2012. It applies to all AETC units and Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) crewmembers accomplishing
AETC-training missions. AETC units may further supplement instruction as necessary. AETC
units will coordinate proposed local supplements with AETC/A3VO before publication and
forward one copy to AETC/A3VO after publication. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
standardization and evaluation channels, to AETC/A3V. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW to Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air Force Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Attachment 1 provides a
glossary of references and supporting information used in this publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Format is
revised and procedural guidance is reduced throughout the AFI to place emphasis on
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU program oversight. Program goals are updated (paragraph 1.1), program
requirements are modified (paragraph 2), Steering Committee and Working Group information
is updated (paragraph 6 and paragraph 7), oversight responsibility is specified (paragraph 8)
and waiver guidance is added (paragraph 9). Updates reflect administrative changes and
prescribed format requirements.

(AETC) This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
Format is revised and procedural guidance is reduced throughout AFI 11-290_AETCSUP;
changes Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) from AETC/DOFV to AETC/A3VO; revised
AETC crewmember definition (para 1.); identifies AETC CRM trend reporting standards;
defines AETC course continuity; eliminates specific MWS training tables and defines the AETC
building block approach to phased CRM training; defines facilitator training in AETC; identifies
waiver Tier levels (para 9.3.1); removes steering committee; removes Quarterly CRM
requirements; removes continuation training scenario development from attachments; removes
IC 2005-1 from attachments.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                                                                            3


Section A—CRM Program Description                                                                                                           4
      1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    4
      1.     (AETC) General. ....................................................................................................           4
      2.     Program Requirements. .........................................................................................                4
      2.     (AETC) AETC Program Requirements. ................................................................                             4
      3.     CRM core curricula. ..............................................................................................             6
      4.     CRM Training Phases. ...........................................................................................               7
      4.     (AETC) AETC Building Block Approach to Training. .........................................                                     7
Table 4.1.   (Added-AETC) Aircrew Grade Sheet Requirements .............................................                                    8
      5.     Supporting Information. .........................................................................................              9

Section B—Program Management                                                                                                                9
      6.     The USAF CRM Steering Committee. ..................................................................                            9
      7.     USAF CRM Working Group. ................................................................................                      10
      8.     Oversight. ...............................................................................................................    10
      9.     Waivers. .................................................................................................................    12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             13

Attachment 1—(AETC) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                                   16

Attachment 2—(Added-AETC) CRM BRIEFING AND DEBRIEFING GUIDE                                                                                17

Attachment 3—(Added-AETC) RECOMMENDED FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR TRAINING
             STANDARDS                                                                                                                     19

Attachment 4—(Added-AETC) FORMAT FOR A CASE STUDY                                                                                          20
 4                                                       AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014



Section A—CRM Program Description

1. General. The Air Force Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM) program provides
crewmembers with performance-enhancing knowledge and skills directly applicable to their
roles in the aerospace mission of the Air Force. CRM training is a key component of a combined
effort to identify and manage threats to safe and effective mission operations. The CRM program
begins with crewmembers' initial Air Force flying training and is continuously built upon
throughout their operational careers. Training objectives will be tailored to the knowledge and
skill level of the aircrew member. As the aircrew member becomes more proficient, CRM
training should emphasize performance skills more than academic objectives. Lead commands
define "crewmember" in terms of their own operational mission requirements.
1. (AETC)General. Crewmember is identified as all AETC assigned officers who hold a
current DoD aeronautical rating or are enrolled in Undergraduate Pilot, Remotely Piloted
Aircraft (RPA) Pilot, CSO, ABM, Flight Surgeon, Observer or training, and all CEA aircrew
members identified by AFSCs 1AXXX (Aircrew Operations career field) or 1UXXX (RPA
Sensor Operator (SO) career field) or other AFSCs approved for CEA aviation service by
USAF/A3O-AT and civilian government employees who fly USAF aircraft
     1.1. The CRM program goals are:
        1.1.1. Maximize operational effectiveness and combat capability.
        1.1.2. Preserve personnel and material resources.
        1.1.3. Ensure the safety of non-combatant civilians.
        1.1.4. Facilitate mishap reduction by providing skills, processes, tools and techniques to
        aircrew members to effectively identify threats and mitigate errors in aviation operations.
     1.2. CRM training will be designed and managed to accomplish the following objectives:
        1.2.1. Develop aircrew skills in recognizing and responding to the conditions and/or
        threats that lead to aircrew error.
        1.2.2. Develop aircrew proficiency in CRM skills to anticipate conditions and/or threats
        and minimize their impact in order to safely and effectively meet mission requirements.
2. Program Requirements. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs) and HQ USAF direct
reporting units (DRUs) are responsible for establishing and managing their respective programs
in accordance with this Instruction. CRM programs are mandatory for aircrew members.
2. (AETC)AETC Program Requirements. CRM training is mandatory for all AETC
crewmembers as defined in paragraph 1 (AETC).
     2.1. Lead Commands will publish guidance in AFI 11-2 mission design series (MDS)
     specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 AFIs (Note: guidance may also be published in a Ready Aircrew
     Program (RAP) tasking memo or similar product), regarding CRM requirements, currency,
     tracking, and evaluation, to include:
        2.1.1. Establishing training frequency, required attendees, and method for tracking
        crewmember currencies.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                            5


     2.1.1. (AETC) AETC crewmembers are required to take CRM recurring/refresher
     training IAW AFI 11-2Mission Design Series (MDS)-Specific Volume 1 and Volume 2
     and 13-Series AFIs.
        2.1.1.1. (Added-AETC) Unit instructors and evaluators must document CRM
        performance during all simulator and flight training and evaluation missions (i.e.
        local grade sheets and Form 8s). Any CRM trends that have been identified by units
        (either positive or negative) should be documented and reported through the OG
        CRM POCs to AETC/A3VO to be incorporated into future CRM training or CRM
        interest items.
     2.1.2. Use of AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form, or
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute, to establish the skills training/evaluation
     criteria.
     2.1.3. If using a contract vehicle, provide a uniform CRM program via a contract vehicle
     that covers all applicable units to include units gained from AFRC or ANG.
  2.2. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM training program must:
     2.2.1. Provide training to develop and improve CRM knowledge and skills based on
     paragraph 3 and AF Form 4031. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU- approved substitute may be
     used in lieu of AF Form 4031.
     2.2.2. Be updated annually to incorporate: "real-world" operational experiences,
     sanitized mishap data, research data, critiques, and flight evaluation trends.
     2.2.3. Identify the process for gathering, analyzing and incorporating trend data from
     MAJCOMs into existing training and evaluation programs.
     2.2.3. (AETC) CRM Skill Evaluation Criteria. Follow CRM skills evaluation criteria
     guidance located in training syllabi, AFI 11-2MDS-Specific Volume 2, and 13-Series
     AFI. In the absence of guidance within AFI 11-2MDS-Specific Volume 2, and 13-Series
     AFIs, the AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form will be utilized.
     The Operations Group CRM POCs will compile the data from these assessments and
     develop trend evaluations in accordance with the guidance set forth in the CRM Trend
     Monitoring Standards.
        2.2.3.1. (Added-AETC) AETC CRM Trend Monitoring Standards
            2.2.3.1.1. (Added-AETC) Data Collection. Ensure CRM skills data is collected
            on AF Form 4031 or through AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification,
            based on CRM behaviors specified in the applicable AFI 11-2MDS-Specific
            Volume 2 and 13-series AFIs.
            2.2.3.1.2. (Added-AETC) Data Analysis. Data analysis will be performed on a
            semi-annual basis. Trends in grading of CRM core skills, identified by Stan/Eval,
            will be summarized and recorded.
            2.2.3.1.3. (Added-AETC) Data Reporting. Report all established trends by
            MFR or digitally signed email to AETC/A3VO Workflow. (Note: If using email:
            include “CRM Trends”, 1st or 2nd half, and “Unit” in the Subject line)
 6                                                         AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


        2.2.4. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU CRM managers will ensure continuity of course
        content with AETC’s introductory courses.
            2.2.4.1. (Added-AETC) AETC’s CRM training program will be data driven, skills-
            based, and operationally integrated to improve the daily mission performance of
            AETC crewmembers. Data sources should include USAF Safety Center data, local
            standardization and evaluation reports, mission reports, training summaries and grade
            sheet analysis. See Attachment 3 () for Flight Instructor Training Standards and
            Attachment 4 () for a standard Case Study Format.
        2.2.5. Ensure that data collected and/or generated through CRM and trend gathering
        processes is not used for monitoring aircrew performance to initiate punitive or adverse
        action.
        2.2.6. Provide proportional funding as necessary to support the lead MAJCOM CRM
        program.
     2.3. CRM skills will:
        2.3.1. Be integrated into flight briefings and debriefings.
        2.3.2. Be integrated into training syllabi.
        2.3.3. Be evaluated during initial qualification and recurring evaluations.
3. CRM core curricula. Core curricula will include the following knowledge and skill sets:
     3.1. Communication. Includes knowledge of common errors, cultural influences, and
     barriers (i.e., rank, age, experience, position, etc.). Skills will encompass listening, feedback,
     precision and efficiency of communication with all members and agencies (i.e.,
     Crewmembers, Wingmen, Weather, ATC, Intelligence, etc.).
     3.2. Crew/Flight Coordination. Knowledge and skills required within (internal) and outside
     the crew/flight members (external) for mission coordination, flight/mission integrity
     contracts, team-building, leadership, command authority, responsibility, behavioral styles,
     assertiveness, persistence, conflict resolution, hazardous attitudes, legitimate
     avenues/methods of dissent, and solution driven statements.
     3.3. Mission Analysis. Includes pre-mission analysis and planning, briefing, ongoing
     mission evaluation, and post mission debrief. Analysis instruction will include specific
     Threat and Error Management tools and techniques. Debrief instruction will include aircrew
     responses and outcomes to threats and errors.
     3.4. Risk Management (RM)/Decision Making. Includes risk assessment, the risk
     management processes (Deliberate, Real Time RM)/tools, breakdowns in judgment and flight
     discipline, problem-solving, evaluation of hazards, and control measures.
     3.5. Situational Awareness. Includes knowledge and skill objectives for identifying errors,
     preventing the loss of situational awareness, recognizing the loss of situational awareness,
     and techniques for recovering from the loss of situational awareness.
     3.6. Task Management. Includes establishing priorities, overload, under-load, complacency,
     management of automation, available resources, checklist discipline, and standard operating
     procedures.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                                   7


4. CRM Training Phases. Each phase of training should prepare individuals to apply the
knowledge and skills acquired in their specialty and motivate participants for the next phase of
training.
4. (AETC)AETC Building Block Approach to Training. Throughout AETC the intent of
CRM training is to observe, assess and document CRM skills used by crewmembers in a mission
environment and provide specific, meaningful, and standardized feedback to crews regarding
their CRM skills and overall mission effectiveness using CRM concepts. Although the six core
curricula should be discussed regularly, the level of discussion is based on each members place
in a formal course, recurring/refresher training, as an MDS-instructor/evaluator or as a CRM
facilitator. The six CRM core concepts in paragraph 3 will be used to differing degrees in all
phases of AETC training based on each member’s level of experience in their respective MDS.
   4.1. Introductory or Awareness Training. Normally conducted in a formal training
   environment by AETC. Trainees learn standard CRM terminology and core concepts. Lesson
   plans will include a description of the building block approach to CRM training the
   individual will participate in throughout their operational career.
   4.1. (AETC) Introductory or Awareness Training. Basic definitions and principles are the
   primary focus during Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training (SUPT), Undergraduate
   Combat System Officer Training (UCT), Undergraduate Remote Piloted Aircraft Training
   (URT), Battle Management Training (BMT), Aircrew Fundamentals Course (AFC) and the
   Career Enlisted Aviator Rotary-Wing Fundamentals (CEARF) Course. These concepts will
   be taught in academics using guided discussions, case studies, videos, and role-playing
   exercises. Classroom instruction will be reinforced at SUPT, UCT, URT, BMT, AFC and
   CEARF during mission briefings, aircraft and simulator briefings, flights, and debriefings.
       4.1.1. (Added-AETC) Student Simulator, Weapons System Trainer (WST), and
       Aircraft Sorties. Instructors will discuss CRM skills as part of all training event briefings
       and debriefings. They will use positive and negative CRM skill application observations
       to generate post flight discussion. Instructors will grade CRM core skills after each
       training aircraft or simulator sortie.
   4.2. Formal Training Unit (FTU)/Combat Crew Training School (CCTS) CRM Training.
   Students learn to apply knowledge and skills related to their assigned aircraft. Academic
   training is complemented during aircraft/simulator training. Emphasis should be placed on
   preflight planning, briefing, in-flight utilization, and debrief techniques for CRM. This
   should include a brief review of CRM core concepts identified in paragraph 3. Mission-
   Oriented Simulator Training (MOST) sessions or other simulated or actual operational
   scenarios may be used as an integral part of CRM training. Evaluate students for technical
   expertise, as well as the skills based on the six core concepts. If aircrew training devices are
   not available, students should participate in group problem-solving exercises.
   4.3. Mission-Specific Continuation Training. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs are responsible
   for CRM continuation training. This training will reinforce the aircrew’s CRM academic
   knowledge and refocus on skills to accomplish the mission. It also helps aircrews identify
   and respond to the conditions and/or threats that lead to error.
       4.3.1. Emphasize CRM skills in the mission qualification and continuation training
       programs so they become inseparable parts of operational practices.
 8                                                         AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


          4.3.2. Frequency for recurring CRM continuation training is defined in the AFI 11-2
          MDS specific volumes 1, a RAP tasking memorandum, or a similar product. Lead
          commands are responsible for providing guidance to standardize CRM MDS specific
          training policy and requirements. All aircrew require Mission-Specific Continuation
          Training. Separating training by crew position should be avoided. However, it is not
          mandatory to conduct this training with a complete aircrew.
          4.3.3. (Added-AETC) All AETC airframes and FTUs will conduct academic refresher
          CRM, MOST simulators, and tactical CRM refresher simulators with Emergency
          Procedures (EP) based on AFI 11-2MDS-Specific guidance and 13-Series AFIs. CRM
          academic refreshers will focus on instruction skills to include any unit trends. Conduct
          CRM refresher training in highest level of simulator/EP simulator available to military
          aircrew for each specific airframe. In the absence of onsite simulators, instructors can
          utilize “table top” training.
          4.3.4. (Added-AETC) EP and CRM simulator training for instructor pilots will include
          at least one CRM-focused scenario. A pre-brief (approximately 20 minutes) will focus
          on at least one CRM skill and the effective use of all available resources to include
          simulated student participation, Air Traffic Control (ATC), Runway Supervisory Unit
          (RSU), Supervisor of Flying (SOF), Pilot Meteorological Service (PMSV), etc.
          Simulator managers will maintain a book of CRM mission-specific scenarios for use
          during EP and CRM simulators. The scenarios will be updated each fiscal year.
          4.3.5. (Added-AETC) Flight and Simulator Grade Sheets. Aircrew flight and simulator
          grade sheets will contain CRM grading items as specified in Table 4.1. below.
          Crewmembers may use the CRM skill behaviors listed in Table A2.1. as a brief/debrief
          guide.

Table 4.1. (Added-AETC) Aircrew Grade Sheet Requirements
      ITEM      Grade Sheet                         CRM Grading Items
      1         Flight And Simulator                Communication, Crew/Flight
                                                    Coordination, Mission Analysis, Risk
                                                    Management/Decision Making,
                                                    Situational Awareness and Task
                                                    Management.
      2         Formation or tactical               Crew/Flight Coordination, Mission
                employment                          Analysis
      3         Crew Aircraft                       Communication, Crew/Flight
                                                    Coordination, Task Management
     4.4. Flight Instructor Training. All flight and simulator instructors will complete instructor
     specific CRM training. This training will normally be accomplished as part of instructor
     upgrade program. Courseware must build upon the previous blocks of training, both to
     reacquaint candidates with CRM fundamentals and to maintain continuity of terminology and
     techniques. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs develop courseware related to instructing and
     evaluating key skills that apply to command and aircraft-specific missions. Personnel may
     conduct this training at operational units, flying training units, or a combination, as required.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                               9


   Training will include, but is not limited to, proper use of AF Form 4031 (or approved
   substitute).
       4.4.1. CRM instructor or evaluator training will be included into instructor upgrade
       programs.
       4.4.2. CRM instructors and evaluators must be highly proficient in all CRM skills and be
       experts in the recognition, observation, and reinforcement of these skills as they are
       applied by aircrew members in a mission environment.
   4.5. Facilitator Training. Formal CRM academic curricula must be delivered by a trained
   CRM facilitator. Facilitator training will include training in running exercises, structured
   crew observation, and effective academic feedback.
   4.5. (AETC) AETC CRM facilitators will obtain training through an AETC/A3F approved
   facilitator course.
       4.5.1. (Added-AETC) AETC Facilitator Training Objectives. AETC                     CRM
       Facilitator Training will provide proficiency in three specific areas:
           4.5.1.1. (Added-AETC) Structured observation, assessment and documentation of
           CRM skills used by aircrew members in a mission environment.
           4.5.1.2. (Added-AETC) Provide specific, meaningful, standardized and effective
           feedback to aircrews regarding their CRM skills and overall mission effectiveness.
           4.5.1.3. (Added-AETC) Researching training applications and training in running
           exercises and classroom instruction.
       4.5.2. (Added-AETC) Each            Operations     Group,      without   contract     CRM
       instructors/training, will have at least one individual trained as a CRM facilitator. CRM
       facilitator certification is not required for day to day CRM training but is required to
       instruct CRM student academics and recurring/refresher AFI 11-2MDS-Specific and 13-
       Series AFI training.
5. Supporting Information. HQ Air Force Safety Center, MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU safety
staffs will screen mishap reports for human performance errors. This safety information should
be available for use at all phases of CRM training, either as part of simulator scenarios or for
CRM case studies. Sanitized “Limited Use” information will be provided to CRM program
managers in a timely manner by command/unit safety staff(s) according to AFI 91-204, Safety
and Investigation Reports.

Section B—Program Management

6. The USAF CRM Steering Committee. The Steering Committee standardizes CRM
program requirements and terminology.
   6.1. Steering Committee Membership:
       6.1.1. AF/A3O-AI, Chair.
       6.1.2. AF/A3O-AC
       6.1.3. AF/A3O-AM
 10                                                   AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


       6.1.4. AF/A3O-AS
7. USAF CRM Working Group. The CRM Working Group will consist of members of the
Steering Committee, AFSEC/SE representative, plus MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A3 (or equivalent)
representatives and additional personnel as designated by the Steering Committee. The working
group reviews program execution and policy issues and will meet in conjunction with Aircrew
Management Executive Council (AMEC) meetings.
8. Oversight. Oversight of Air Force CRM programs will rest within the MAJCOM, FOA and
DRU operations directorates. MAJCOM, FOA and DRU safety and surgeon general directorates
will act as advisors and respective subject matter experts to the operations directorates for
providing input to course content and delivery.
   8.1. Each MAJCOM, FOA and DRU will appoint a CRM program manager within the
   operations (or equivalent) function. The program manager is responsible for:
       8.1.1. Ensuring Lead Command’s AFI 11-2 MDS specific vol. 1 and vol. 2 publications
       (or RAP tasking memo/similar product) provide CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.2. Implementing Lead Command CRM policy guidance.
       8.1.3. Ensuring each applicable CRM training phase (paragraph 4) is implemented and
       evaluated.
       8.1.4. The forwarding of AF Form 4031 (or approved substitute) trend data to CRM
       Instructors/Facilitators.
       8.1.5. Ensuring a system is in place to collect performance data (i.e. Stan/Eval trends
       (Skills criteria), sanitized mishap data, Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR), and
       Inspector General reports), and send to CRM instructors and facilitators.
       8.1.6. Evaluating contractor implementation of CRM program objectives. Where
       discrepancies are identified, initiate corrective actions.
       8.1.7. Ensuring Quality Assurance Representatives (QARs) and IGs have current
       evaluation guidance to evaluate CRM program objectives. Where discrepancies are
       identified, initiate corrective actions.
       8.1.8. Providing feedback to CRM Working Group regarding program status covering:
       Training Continuum, Standardization, and Research and Development needs.
       8.1.9. Interacting with MAJCOM, FOA or DRU CRM advisors (Safety, Aerospace
       Physiology, etc.) ensuring CRM training is effective and minimizes redundancies with
       other programs given by Safety, Aerospace Physiology, etc.
       8.1.10. (Added-AETC) Specific responsibilities within AETC are:
          8.1.10.1. (Added-AETC) AETC/A3VO. AETC/A3VO is the CRM program
          manager for AETC and responsible for managing the AETC CRM program.
          AETC/A3VO will assist, with recurring/refresher/facilitator training programs to
          meet the requirements of AFI 11-290, AFI 11-2MDS-Specific guidance and 13-Series
          AFIs
          8.1.10.2. (Added-AETC) Operations Groups. Operations group commanders
          (OG/CC) will appoint, at a minimum, a CRM POC within the group responsible for
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                               11


         their units’ CRM program. These members must be experienced aircrew member(s)
         in a primary weapon system of their wing/unit.
            8.1.10.2.1. (Added-AETC) OG POCs are responsible to the AETC CRM
            program manager assigned to AETC/A3VO, JBSA Randolph TX, concerning
            matters related to CRM training.
            8.1.10.2.2. (Added-AETC) OG POCs will ensure annual and recurring/refresher
            training is being accomplished IAW AFI 11-2MDS-Specific guidance and 13-
            Series AFIs.
            8.1.10.2.3. (Added-AETC) OG POCs will provide oversight to the unit's CRM
            program to include updating the OG/CC on CRM feedback and command policy
            and guidance.
            8.1.10.2.4. (Added-AETC) Although recommended, there is no requirement for
            the OG POCs to be CRM facilitator trained. However, the OG POCs will assist
            CRM personnel in research of relevant CRM topics for their respective Wing
            CRM personnel.
            8.1.10.2.5. (Added-AETC) OG CRM personnel will be included in the
            distribution of meeting minutes from SEBs. CRM contractors can be granted
            access to Standardization and Evaluations Boards (SEB) at unit discretion.
         8.1.10.3. (Added-AETC) AETC Instructors. AETC Instructors will teach CRM
         training in all training media, in all phases of training and build on the awareness and
         introductory level of training students receive. Using Attachment 2, instructor
         trainees will be given instruction on the use of the in-flight guide (IFG) insert, or
         CRM Briefing and Debriefing Guides, or identical information contained in their
         brief/debrief rooms for training sorties as part of their refresher training. Attachment
         3, Flight Instructor Training Standards, provides recommended standards for flight
         instructor training.
         8.1.10.4. (Added-AETC) Civilian/Contract flight or simulator instructors will be
         trained in CRM. Contracts will reflect this requirement.
         8.1.10.5. (Added-AETC) Wing Aerospace and Operational Physiologists (AOPs).
         At OG/CC discretion, and with approval by the MDG/CC, Wing AOPs can assist the
         assigned office with the training requirements for the local CRM program to include
         being CRM facilitator trained. AOPs may provide the local office with the following:
         a. Conduct of quarterly/monthly unit and wing level CRM training during safety
         briefings or special topics presentations. Including CRM student academics and
         recurring/refresher AFI 11-2 MDS-specific and 13-Series AFI training. b.
         Employment of aero medical safety expertise to formulate trends and identify
         performance deficiencies obtained from flight safety information applicable to CRM
         academics and briefings.
  8.2. Command Steering Committees. MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs may establish command
  steering committees to identify the most effective methods for delivering and administering
  CRM programs.
 12                                                   AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


9. Waivers.
   9.1. AF/A3O is the waiver authority for provisions of this Instruction. Request waivers
   through applicable channels to MAJCOM/A3 (or equivalent). As applicable, MAJCOM/A3s
   will forward requests to AF/A3O, with an info copy to AF/A3O-AI.
   9.1. (AETC) Request waivers through appropriate command channels to AETC/A3V.
   9.2. Waiver authority for supplemental guidance will be as specified in the supplement and
   approved through higher level coordination authority.
   9.3. Waiver authority for MAJCOM/DRU/FOA CRM guidance is the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
   A3 or equivalent.
   9.3. (AETC) Policy and procedures are enacted to provide quality and consistency in
   training and evaluation whether at an undergraduate or graduate level. Occasionally, unique
   circumstances may warrant special consideration and possible waiver of policy provisions.
   At the same time, because it is important to preserve fidelity of training, evaluation, and
   policy implementation throughout the command, a process must be established for review of
   proposed waivers.
      9.3.1. (Added-AETC) Waivers that change the intent of the policy outlined in this
      instruction are not authorized without AETC/A2/3/10 (T-2) approval. Unless otherwise
      stated in this document, Wing/CCs (T-3) are the approval authority for individual
      personnel exceptions to the policy outlined in this instruction caused by special or
      unusual circumstances.
      9.3.2. (Added-AETC) AETC Units. Coordinate T-2 waivers through AETC/A3VO as
      appropriate. Squadron commanders will submit all T-2 waiver requests through
      command channels in electronic format. Waiver requests must provide justification why
      the individual or unit cannot comply with requirements. AETC/A3VO and the units will
      file a copy of approved waivers to this volume according to AFI 33-360, Publications
      and Forms Management.
      9.3.3. (Added-AETC) OG Commander. The OG/CC of local supplements will handle
      waivers to unit supplemental guidance.




                                           BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements

                                           (AETC)

                                           MICHAEL A. KELTZ, Major General, USAF
                                           Director of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
                                           Integration
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                              13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 Sep 2004
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure,
19 Jan 2012
AFI 11-403, Air Force Aerospace Physiological Training Program, 20 Feb 2001
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
Prescribed Form
AF Form 4031, CRM Skills Criteria Training/Evaluation Form (MAJCOM/FOA/DRU-
approved substitute may be used in lieu of AF Form 4031.)
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMEC—Aircrew Management Executive Council
CCTS—Combat Crew Training School
CRM—Cockpit/Crew Resource Management
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HATR—Hazardous Air Traffic Report
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MOST—Mission-Oriented Simulator Training
RAP—Ready Aircrew Program
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
RM—Risk Management
SA—Situational Awareness
TEM—Threat and Error Management

Terms
Cockpit/Crew Resource Management (CRM)—The effective use of all available resources--
people, weapon systems, facilities, and equipment, and environment -- by individuals or crews to
safely and efficiently accomplish an assigned mission or task. The term "CRM" will be used to
refer to the training program, objectives, and key skills directed to this end. MAJCOMs may
 14                                                      AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


implement their programs as either "cockpit" or "crew" resource management based on their
respective missions.
Communication—The act of sharing information with others to cause some kind of action: to
direct, to inform, to question, or to persuade.
Coordination—As used in this Instruction the act of working with all the members of the
crew/flight to accomplish the tasks of the mission.
Crew—As used in this Instruction, any collection of Air Force personnel who routinely work
together to accomplish an Air Force mission. For example, an air task order-designated team of
fighter pilots and airborne battle managers prosecuting an interdiction mission uses "crew" skills
to maximize its effectiveness.
Decision Making—The ability to choose a course of action using logical and sound judgment
based on available information.
Errors—Actions or inactions that lead to deviations from organizational or flight crew
intentions or expectations. Unmanaged and/or mismanaged errors can lead to undesired aircraft
states. Errors in the operational context tend to reduce the margins of safety and increase the
probability of adverse events.
Flight Discipline—The judgment and actions exercised by AF personnel to adhere to the spirit,
intent, and written word of governing guidelines in the presence of temptation to do otherwise,
while executing the Air Force flying mission. It also includes the prioritization of tasks based on
crew responsibilities to ensure safe mission accomplishment while demonstrating the highest
degree of integrity in the performance of flight duties.
Flight Integrity—Utilizing all the members of a flying package to accomplish the mission at
hand.
Mission Debrief—Reviewing and discussing mission accomplishment looking at what was
achieved, what barriers were encountered and how the mission could be accomplished better
next time.
Mission-Oriented Simulator Training (MOST)—Training presented as a part of a CRM
program in a realistic, operationally-based simulator environment in real time.
Mission Planning—Taking all of the information for a mission and developing short term, long
term, and contingency plans to coordinate, allocate, and monitor crew/flight and aircraft
resources. Effective planning leads to flight conduct that removes uncertainty, increases mission
effectiveness and enhances safety.
Risk Management—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk, making
control decisions, implementing control decisions and supervising/reviewing the activity for
effectiveness for both on- and off-duty missions/activities.
Situational Awareness (SA)—In flying, this refers to a aircrew member's continuous perception
of self and aircraft in relation to the dynamic environment of flight, threats, and mission, and the
ability to forecast, then execute, tasks based upon that perception.
Skills Criteria—Defined skills used as the basis for operational training and evaluation. The
characteristics of the skill are that they are easily identifiable and offer consistency in grading
evaluation.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                                15


Task Management—The ability to alter a course of action based on new information, maintain
constructive behavior under pressure, and adapt to internal and external environment changes.
Threat—An event or error that occurs outside the influence of the aircrew (i.e., it was not
caused by the crew), increases the operational complexity of a flight, and requires crew attention
and management if safety margins are to be maintained.
Threat and Error Management—Crews and flight members proactively using a combination
of CRM skills and automation to address internal and external threats to avoid, trap or mitigate
their impacts on mission safety and effectiveness.
 16                                               AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


                                   Attachment 1 (AETC)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-290, Cockpit/Crew Resource Management Program, 15 October 2012
AFI 11-2 MDS, (Title), (Date)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013

Prescribed Forms
None.

Adopted Forms
AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABM—Air Battle Management
AFC—Aircrew Fundamentals Course
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
ATC—Air Traffic Control
BMT—Battle Management Training
BSOC—Basic Sensor Operators Course
C2BMO—Command and Control Battle Management Operators
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
EP—Emergency Procedure
FTU—Flying Training Unit
IFG—In-Flight Guide
IFF—Introduction to Fight Fundamentals
LRAFB—Little Rock AFB
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
PMSV—Pilot Meteorological Service
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFC—RPA Fundamentals Course
RFS—RPA Flight Screening
RIQ—RPA Instrument Qualification
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
RSU—Runway Supervisory Unit
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
Stan/Eval—Standardization/Evaluation
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
UCT—Undergraduate CSO Training
URT—Undergraduate RPA Training
WST—Weapon System Trainer
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                           17


                             Attachment 2 (Added-AETC)
                     CRM BRIEFING AND DEBRIEFING GUIDE

A2.1. Information for In-Flight Guide (IFG) and/or Briefing Room CRM Topics. The
information in Table A2.1. Will be incorporated into IFGs, mission debriefing books, or
displayed in brief/debrief rooms by all AETC units.
Table A2.1. Information for IFG CRM Inserts.
    ITEM CRM Skill                    Positive Factors         Negative Factors
    1        Communication            Listens, provides        Interrupts, withholds,
                                      feedback, precision      discounts, ambiguous,
                                      and efficiency of        unclear, incomplete or
                                      communication with       inaccurate.
                                      all members and
                                      agencies (i.e.,
                                      Crewmembers,
                                      Wingmen, Weather,
                                      ATC, Intelligence,
                                      etc.).
    2        Crew/Flight Coordination Flight/mission           Lacks flight discipline,
                                      integrity, maintains     judges, ridicules,
                                      contracts, team-         overreacts, ignores,
                                      building, leadership,    imposes, accepts error.
                                      responsibility,
                                      assertiveness,
                                      persistence, conflict
                                      resolution and
                                      solution driven
                                      recommendations/dec
                                      isions.
    3        Mission Analysis.        Adequate pre-mission     Brief: Neglects,
                                      analysis and             rushed, incomplete,
                                      planning/briefing.       vague, ignores.
                                      Ongoing mission
                                      evaluation using         Ongoing Mission: Fails
                                      Threat and Error         to conduct timely
                                      Management tools         threat/error
                                      and techniques.          management
                                      Effective post mission
                                      debrief. Includes        Debrief: Rushed,
                                      crewmember               incomplete, vague,
                                      responses and            blames, ignores.
                                      outcomes to threats
                                      and errors.
    4        Risk                     Uses risk                Avoids decisions,
             Management/Decision      management               delays, wavers, argues,
18                                            AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


         Making.                  processes, problem-        fails to evaluate
                                  solving, evaluation of     consequences of
                                  hazards, deliberate,       decision.
                                  real time and correct
                                  decisions.
     5   Situational Awareness.   Anticipates, Identifies    Disorientated,
                                  errors, prevents loss,     confused, lost, fixated.
                                  recognizes
                                  o w n / o t h e r s loss
                                  and uses
                                  techniques for
                                  recovering from loss.
     6   Task Management.         Establishes priorities,    Rushed, overloaded,
                                  manages automation         complacent, mis-
                                  and available              prioritizes
                                  resources, checklist
                                  discipline, and
                                  standard operating
                                  procedures.
AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014                                                         19


                               Attachment 3 (Added-AETC)
         RECOMMENDED FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR TRAINING STANDARDS

A3.1. (AETC) Briefing Phase:
   A3.1.1. (AETC) Ensure CRM objectives and expectations for the mission are clearly stated
   and understood by the student.
   A3.1.2. (AETC) Ensure the student understands where CRM skills will enhance mission
   performance.
   A3.1.3. (AETC) Solicit student comments about where CRM will enhance mission
   effectiveness and safety.
   A3.1.4. (AETC) Discuss particular areas for student CRM development and improvement.
A3.2. (AETC) Flying Phase:
   A3.2.1. (AETC) Use in-flight activities to reinforce CRM skill objectives.
   A3.2.2. (AETC) Where appropriate, cue student to upcoming activities and events to
   maximize CRM skill development.
   A3.2.3. (AETC) Where appropriate, highlight traps in the flying environment that can be
   avoided by using CRM skills.
   A3.2.4. (AETC) Given the student’s proficiency, adjust CRM instruction to maximize his
   or her performance.
A3.3. (AETC) Debriefing Phase:
A3.3.1. (AETC) Effectively use mission debriefs to reinforce student’s CRM skills.
   A3.3.2. (AETC) Identify key points in the mission where CRM affected mission
   performance.
   A3.3.3. (AETC) Adjust debriefing techniques to match student’s experience and
   capabilities.
   A3.3.4. (AETC) Where appropriate, allow the student to error-analyze CRM skill
   applications
   A3.3.5. (AETC) Review and discuss expectations set in the briefing phase.
   A3.3.6. (AETC) Reinforce effective CRM performed during the mission.
   A3.3.7. (AETC) Identify areas for student’s CRM improvement.
 20                                           AFI11-290_AETCSUP_I 2 JUNE 2014


                            Attachment 4 (Added-AETC)
                           FORMAT FOR A CASE STUDY

Figure A4.1. Format for a Case Study
