BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2E-3,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   VOLUME 1

                                                                          17 DECEMBER 2012
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                        E-3 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                       (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                          Pages: 38


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in E-3 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting E-3 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. This
publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur covers
required information. The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this publication are
Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records
System and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To
Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order
9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all supplements must be
coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a tier (“T-
 2                                                                                       AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.6.   Intelligence E-3 Familiarization Program. .............................................................                        7
       1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                              9

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             17
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.    E-3 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. .............................                                       18
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              20
       5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           20
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                                       3


Table 5.1.   External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................            21
      5.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................   22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                      24

Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                                                                              28

Attachment 3—E-3 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET
             ELEMENTS                                                                                               29

Attachment 4—E-3 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                                                           36

Attachment 5—E-3 MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                                                                       37
 4                                                            AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic guidance for training E-3 unit intelligence
     personnel. With the complementary references cited, this publication prescribes procedures
     to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support E-3 unit operations. These
     training requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented by additional unit-level
     written guidance. Unit-level written guidance may expand upon these basic procedures, but
     in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for E-3 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2E-
     3, Volume 2, E-3 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 3, E-3 Unit
     Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat
     Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.AWACS, Tactical
     Employment; AFTTP 3-3.AWACS, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals and this publication.
     Training will be current with the latest editions. These references can be supplemented with
     other authoritative publications such as National Air and Space Intelligence Center products,
     Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as the source is
     appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of any significant trends in waiver
correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress policy and guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1,
     ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for E-3 intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for E-3 intelligence IQT through
            formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            baseline threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces
            electronic warfare (EW), aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface-to-air missiles
            (SAM), air defense artillery (ADA)/anti-aircraft artillery (AAA), ground forces and
            associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and
            employment techniques.
            1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  5


         audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
         neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
         as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
         concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and user
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with E-3 units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
  1.3.2. All user MAJCOMs with E-3 units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
     on this AFI and applicable MAJCOM supplements.
     1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.3.3. The unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint in writing an intelligence personnel training program manager (IPTPM)
     to oversee and document orientation training, IQT, MQT, CT, ST and other required
     training by unit personnel. Where assigned, the AF Intelligence Weapons Instructor
     Course graduate will provide input into the training programs. (T-2)
     1.3.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
     1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
     1.3.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
     Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped
     according to established standards for their respective active duty counterpart. (T-3)
     1.3.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manger and unit deployment
     manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-3)
6                                                            AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


       1.3.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.3.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       the MAJCOM/A2 (courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable). See
       Attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
       1.3.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level-best practices exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. Unit IPTPM will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
       materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
       tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       current qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
    1.3.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training and other required training programs. (T-3)
       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this publication have been met.
           1.3.5.3.1. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence
           personnel and those completing formal training to determine the training required for
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                      7


           them to achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this publication
           have been met. (T-2)
   1.3.6. Intelligence personnel will:
       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       publication and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.3.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training, professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training, is the responsibility
of the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via
skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Intelligence E-3 Familiarization Program. The SIO, in conjunction with the Operations
Group Commander, will develop an Intelligence E-3 Familiarization Program.                   The
Familiarization Program will be designed to provide intelligence personnel training on all phases
of mission planning and E-3 airframe capabilities and limitations. When feasible, flight
simulators will be used to enhance the intelligence E-3 familiarization program.
   1.6.1. The Intelligence E-3 Familiarization Program is a training program, not an orientation
   or incentive program. Intelligence personnel who participate in the program should complete
   specific desired learning objectives (DLOs) during each event.
   1.6.2. The SIO will develop Intelligence E-3 Familiarization Program written guidance
   outlining procedures to manage the program as well as DLOs to be achieved during program
   events.
1.7. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved processes regarding online
documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                           AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                                           Chapter 2

                           INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for E-3 unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (e.g., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC). The E-3 IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for
personnel assigned to support the E-3 weapon system. Personnel successfully completing the E-
3 IIQC and subsequent evaluation as described in AFI 14-202, Volume 1 are to be considered
Basic Qualified (BQ).
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be conducted at the unit using the E-3 IIQC syllabus and training courseware
     provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2)
     2.2.2. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the E-3 IIQC syllabus. Failure to
     complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
     person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-3)
     2.2.3. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the E-3 IIQC training standard. In-
     unit IQT will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on the individual’s
     proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-3)
     2.2.4. Evaluation and certification will be annotated IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved
     processes regarding online documentation. (T-3)
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  9


                                           Chapter 3

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting E-3 missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is provided
to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program for all individuals. MQT
execution will take into account the assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior
experience and training, currency, documented performance and/or formal training achieved by
each individual. MQT can be accomplished through one-on-one instruction from a qualified
trainer, external courses, or other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT.
Applicable portions of MQT will be used to create a requalification program for personnel who
are non-CMR or BMC status. (T-2)
   3.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT and attain BQ status before fully completing MQT and being awarded
   BMC/CMR. MQT will be completed within the time specified below. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and reporting
   requirements are specified in the following paragraphs.
       3.1.2.1. For active duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.             Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
       seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
       MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
       IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days.
       (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
   3.1.4. The AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, will be used to document the trainee’s
   progression through each individual training item IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved
   processes regarding online documentation. Specific E-3 MQT intelligence gradesheet
   elements are located in Attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2; AFI 14-2E-3,
   Volume 2; and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 2 for a more detailed
   explanation of evaluations.
3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
 10                                                         AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for E-3 intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination (RAD) and
   VR by successfully completing a test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85 percent
   minimum to pass). To demonstrate VR knowledge requirements, trainees must successfully
   complete a VR test via a visual presentation system (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination and Intelligence Preparation of the
       Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Operations Plan (OPLAN)/
          Concept of Operations Plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
          knowledge of unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate
          knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the
          context of the E-3 weapons system and the unit mission. Demonstrate knowledge of
          Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for
          intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate ability to use combat
          intelligence information systems and software to request intelligence from outside
          sources when unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use
          message traffic in US Message Text Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-
          specified formats, to request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence
          holdings are insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to unit aircrew, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by E-3 aircrew and mission
          planners for combat operations. Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence
          requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and other
          functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Be able to describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of unit-
          level resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to aircrew,
          mission planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of
          intelligence as determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
          Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based audiovisual
          and manual information displays and dissemination. Demonstrate knowledge of
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
          teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
          used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of aircrew, mission planner and squadron
          and wing leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                              11


        intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge of record message
        traffic reporting as required for unit operations by OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as
        applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods to identify currency and expiration
        of intelligence provided to end users. Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of
        information security, classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of
        authoritative guidance. Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions
        for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
        information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
        methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the IPOE
        process (define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
        evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action (COA).
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence
        for E-3 operations.
     3.2.1.2. E-3 Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: List the steps to accomplish the
     E-3 operational mission (e.g., mission rehearsal, verification requirements,
     considerations, presentations). Demonstrate an understanding of the unit’s specific E-3
     assigned mission areas at their home unit. Specific tasks: Demonstrate an understanding
     of the unit's specific E-3 mission areas and roles in support of pertinent
     OPLANs/CONPLANs. Identify the roles and responsibilities of friendly assets involved
     in the various E-3 missions (e.g., ground forces combat support). Identify the
     relationship between crew coordination practices for the various E-3 missions and
     successful mission completion. Show knowledge of how Air Force and joint doctrine
     drive the unit’s missions, employment, and E-3 missions in applicable areas of
     responsibility (AOR).
     3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable AOR
     enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of aircraft, AAMs,
     SAMs, ADA/AAA, EW, directed energy weapons (DEW), ground forces and associated
     equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and
     employment techniques of threat forces that may be encountered in the operational
     environment based on unit mission, E-3 capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate knowledge of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, DEW, ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric capabilities, limitations
     and employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, E-3 capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.5. VR. Objective: When shown a video or still image of sufficient quality, be able
     to identify enemy/adversary, friendly, or neutral weapon systems that may be
12                                                        AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


     encountered in the operational environment based on unit mission and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to visually identify
     enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing), ground
     equipment, and naval vessels by appropriate, name or numerical designator and
     determine whether the object is a threat or non-threat. Training will include: all
     aspects/angles; theater-specific paint schemes; national markings; various configurations;
     employment characteristics; muzzle flashes; smoke plumes; and burst patterns as
     applicable.
     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing aircrew for the possibility of survival, evasion,
     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of theater-specific isolated personnel report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of
     action (EPA) requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat search and rescue
     information contained in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence
     requirements during PR operations.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding of
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Summarize
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot
     areas. Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment. Identify FPI
     resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and force protection (FP) conditions.
     Understand unit FP considerations. State facts about base-specific and regional threats.
     3.2.1.8. Command and Control (C2) Above Wing-Level in the AOR. Objective:
     Demonstrate knowledge of specific C2 units assigned to specific AORs. Specific task:
     Demonstrate knowledge of how the E-3 interacts with these organizations.
  3.2.2. Performance-Based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific
     threat systems and tailoring the information to the E-3 airframe and countertactics.
     Specific Tasks: Successfully research, compile and develop an accurate, concise briefing
     with focus on the threat relevant to the E-3 mission and capabilities. Present a threat
     briefing for the selected weapons system.
     3.2.2.2. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
     constructing, posting, updating and maintaining quality OB displays without automated
     intelligence system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB
     using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US
     Army Field Manual, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics). Extract military grid
     reference system (MGRS) and geographic coordinates and accurately plot OB symbols.
     Identify critical elements of the table of organization and equipment for potential
     enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the
     AOR.
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  13


     3.2.2.3. Automated OB. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing intelligence
     support systems to download, construct, post, update, purge and control quality of
     automated OB displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to verify accuracy of
     computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of the table of organization
     and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB
     production sources for the AOR. Exploit intelligence software applications to post and
     maintain OB and convert MGRS coordinates and geographic coordinates.
     3.2.2.4. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the commander and
     staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify and present
     significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political
     decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the
     mission of the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COAs; relevant FPI (unless such intelligence is incorporated into
     Integrated Base Defense posture briefed by Security Forces (SF)); relevant intelligence
     gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Demonstrate proficiency in
     using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver initial situation briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.5. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for
     the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (e.g., next shift, next day and through the Air Tasking
     Order (ATO) cycle); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to
     the gaps; and relevant FPI (unless such intelligence is incorporated into Integrated Base
     Defense posture briefed by SF). Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver the situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.6. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Organize, prioritize and present key
     information at shift changeover IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Provide incoming personnel
     with a summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing
     immediate attention, situation update, a review of threat levels/conditions, briefing
     schedules, work and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team directives, mission
     report (MISREP) status, and other pertinent items. Demonstrate proficiency in using
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools as applied by the unit. Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and conducting a
     changeover briefing.
14                                                         AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


     3.2.2.7. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing.              Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (e.g., warning order (WARNORD), execution
     order (EXORD)) and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking, as
     applicable. Research, and focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and
     combat profiles. Include: synopsis of political-military situation generating the
     deployment; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force
     disposition and activity along deployment route; relevant FPI; relevant intelligence gaps
     and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment; possible en route hazards to flight,
     bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas); reporting
     instructions and essential elements of information (EEIs); and additional items as dictated
     by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying
     commander.
     3.2.2.8. ATO/Airspace Control Order (ACO)/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents.
     Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and breaking out the
     applicable elements of the ATO/ACO/SPINS, as well as a WARNORD, Alert Order,
     EXORD, Operations Order and Deployment Order IAW unit procedures. Specific tasks:
     Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS. Identify and extract unit tasking, airspace
     control, PR information, and intelligence related information from tasking
     orders/messages. Demonstrate breakout of ATO/ACO/SPINS with both manual and
     automated techniques and tools IAW prescribed local timelines and format requirements.
     As applicable, identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular
     theaters.
     3.2.2.9. Intelligence Support to the Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate
     proficiency in support to mission planning with appropriate intelligence tasks. Specific
     tasks: Review the tactical problem/scenario. Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout,
     unit IPOE threat considerations (e.g., integrated air defense system, air, SAMs,
     ADA/AAA), tactics, terrain, and weather, as appropriate. Recommend mission route,
     combat air patrol (CAP) location, initial points, and way points as applicable, based on
     threat and terrain analysis. Identify and plot unit tasking. Derive specified and implied
     intelligence requirements from tasking documents; research applicable intelligence;
     define gaps; submit collection requirements and/or requests for information (RFI) as
     appropriate. Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting the intelligence portion
     of an initial situation briefing for mission planners; Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local
     timelines, format and content requirements.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
     intelligence role in mission package construction. Specific tasks: Identify and obtain
     geospatial information and services (GI&S) products to build mission materials.
     Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission planning software to construct mission
     packages and conduct appropriate research and analysis. Build or aid in building Air
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  15


     Surveillance Officer (ASO) fly-away kit. Build or aid in building Electronic Combat
     Officer (ECO) fly-away kits.
     3.2.2.11. Support to Electronic Warfare. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in analysis
     of adversary electronic emitters with regards to E-3 system performance. Specific Tasks:
     Perform all-source AOR analysis to characterize adversary electronic emitters of interest.
     Integrate all-source analysis tools and databases with Detailed Emitter Reports (DER)
     from E-3 passive detection system (PDS) intercepts. Demonstrate proficiency in
     researching, analyzing and providing a review of the tactical problems related to
     detection and identification of adversary emitters by E-3 systems. Demonstrate
     knowledge as to the interaction and reporting procedures between the E-3 and other
     Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) assets within the AOR. Use the
     proper procedures to notify Electronic Support Team Chair and implement changes as
     needed. Provide recommendations on reprogramming of E-3 PDS databases. Use
     approved procedures to implement needed changes IAW prescribed local timelines,
     formats and requirements.
     3.2.2.12. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis (as
     required to fill intelligence gaps). Identify and present changes in the operational/tactical
     environment since the last update. Present any enemy/adversary air, ground, naval,
     space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity; relevant FPI; and tactical
     situation in the mission area. Present en route and mission area threats (e.g., SAMs,
     ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats), PR information EEIs, call signs (package
     and ISR supporting), inter-plane frequencies between ISR assets for threat notification or
     situational awareness, in-flight report (INFLTREP) requirements, debrief location, and
     other factors essential to mission success. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer,
     web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as
     applied by the unit. Deliver mission briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and
     commander’s requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.13. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a briefing that
     provides aircrew with critical last-minute changes in the threat that affect their missions.
     Brief any new threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data changes, latest
     threat update code (TUC), and any other changes impacting the mission. Demonstrate
     proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver step briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.14. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and
     coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
     systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log all communications in locally
     developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon.
     Make provisions for diverted missions.
16                                                        AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


     3.2.2.15. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Prepare appropriate sections of the
     debrief form/checklist. Extract relevant mission intelligence from aircrew. Identify time-
     sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per local/theater
     guidance.     Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
     Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying
     questions relevant to the mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate
     ability to control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
     accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate awareness and
     control of environmental factors that may distract aircrew or impede the debriefing
     process. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual information display and debriefing tools as applied by the unit.
        3.2.2.15.1. ECO Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in coordinating
        and conducting a debriefing with the ECO. Specific Tasks: Extract relevant
        information regarding electronic signatures observed as well as any conflicts,
        ambiguities or omissions. Disseminate pertinent information through appropriate
        channels to affect database update.
        3.2.2.15.2. Air-to-Air Principles and Basic Fighter Maneuvers.           Objective:
        Understand aircrew language in an air-to-air engagement debriefing. Understand
        typical air-to-air engagements that the E-3 may control. Specific Tasks: Be able to
        draw 2 versus 2 air to air engagements based on the crew debriefing. Be able to read
        and comprehend the crew’s air-to-air sketches and convert this intelligence into a
        MISREP.
     3.2.2.16. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other applicable intelligence reports (e.g.,
     Intelligence Summary (INTSUM), Intelligence Report (INTREP)) as required by local
     directives. Specific tasks: Analyze and extract information from INFLTREPs and other
     aircrew-submitted formats. Generate intelligence reports using computer and/or manual
     information systems applied by the unit. Validate accuracy and completeness IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and applicable reporting
     directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied by the unit.
     Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and transmitting appropriate USMTF
     intelligence messages when applicable reporting directives do not exist.
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                   17


                                           Chapter 4

                               CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with E-
3 capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training required to
accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate
RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the unit MQF.
Completion of CT tasks will be annotated using the online training documentation system. At a
minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. E-3 Weapons systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and tactics, radar and communications, and crew coordination practices.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA/AAA, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations
   with respect to E-3 operations.
   4.2.4. VR – to include identification features and employment characteristics of
   enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence
   systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit
   mission.
   4.2.6. PR – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater ISOPREP/EPA
   requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. FPI – to include intelligence support to FP principles; irregular/guerrilla/terrorist
   forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force
   protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Order of Battle – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating and
   maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
   4.2.10. Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout, mission
   planning software applications and route/CAP analysis, GI&S familiarization to determine
 18                                                          AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


   product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate scale), acquisition, receipt, storage
   and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
will be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-
2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1., E-3 Ready Intelligence Program
   and Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and
   BMC for Operations Intelligence (OPS INTEL) and Electronic Intelligence (ELINT)
   personnel. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or
   BMC status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO.
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully
   accomplish periodic mission qualification evaluations (MSNs) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2
   and AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2 to maintain currency and qualification. If an intelligence
   specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that task
   unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP
   task completion.

Table 4.1. E-3 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
                                               Minimum Frequency to                Minimum
                                               Maintain CMR Status                 Frequency to
 Subject
                                                                                   Maintain BMC
                                               OPS INTEL         ELINT             Status
 Situation Display                             Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
 Manual OB                                     Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
 Automated OB                                  Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually
 Initial Situation Briefing                    Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
 Situation Briefing                            Semi              Annually          Annually
 Changeover Briefing                           Annually          Annually          Annually
 Deployment Briefing                           Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking                                                   Annually
                                               Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually
 Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning      Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually
 Mission Package Construction                  Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually
 Support to EW                                 ----              Semi-Annually     Annually
 Mission Briefing                              Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  19


 Step Briefing                              Semi-Annually Annually              Annually
 Mission Tracking                           Annually          Annually          Annually
 Debriefing                                 Semi-Annually Semi-Annually Annually
 Intelligence Reports                       Semi-Annually Semi-Annually Annually
 Semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every 12
 months.
4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to non-combat mission ready (N-CMR)/non-basic mission capable (N-
BMC), as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a
given task to be regressed. Regression and the steps taken to correct the situation will be
documented in a memorandum for record in the individual's training record. CMR/BMC
intelligence personnel regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved
recertification program to return them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during
the re-certification program will be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-
3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 20                                                          AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                                            Chapter 5

                                  SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST programs are intended to provide SIOs the minimum ST programs for
individuals without previous qualifications and may be tailored for intelligence personnel with
current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training.
Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics
and scenarios. The IPTPM will ensure ST is recorded on AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for
AF Form 4381 elements) and IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved processes regarding online
documentation. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following
paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2) All
intelligence personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified trainers. (T-3)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
       5.2.1.4. Successfully complete a subject specific-test from the MQF question bank (85
       percent minimum to pass). (Does not apply to EIT 1 or EIT 8)
   5.2.2. EIT Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 – Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA/AAA, EW, and DEW
       threats (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2A-10, Volume 3). Specific tasks:
       Prepare and deliver an instructional session for threats based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
       in establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
       requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop
       training that enhances unit ability to use pilot-originated reports (INFLTREP or other
       formats) and intelligence-generated reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM, etc.). Prepare
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                  21


      and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit mission and
      OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
      5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - Visual Recognition. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing
      VR training requirements. Specific tasks: Successfully complete a VR test (85 percent
      minimum to pass). Develop and deliver an instructional session on VR based on unit
      mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
      5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
      developing instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment,
      and SERE personnel. Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on intelligence PR
      operational support processes as required. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be
      graduates of SV-80A Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist
      (1T0X1) may omit this block.
      5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - Force Protection Intelligence. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
      establishing FP threat training requirements (to include minimum standards cited in AFI
      14-2A-10, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for FP
      threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and
   endorsement from the SIO.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained.
   Trainers who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by
   another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
 Event                Specialized Training                    Currency Requirement
 Threat Training      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific       Instruct one threat training
                      tasks.                                  event per three-month period
                      Pass MQF test (threat specific).        (Quarterly).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 C&R Training         Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific       Instruct one C&R training event
                      tasks.                                  per 12-month period
                      Pass MQF test (C&R specific).           (Annually).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 VR Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific       Instruct one VR training event
                      tasks.                                  per six-month period (Semi-
                      Pass VR test.                           annually).
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 PR Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific       Instruct one PR training event
                      tasks.                                  per 12-month period
 22                                                          AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                       Pass MQF test (PR specific).              (Annually).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
 FPI Training          Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific         Instruct one FPI training event
                       tasks.                                    per 12-month period
                       Pass MQF test (FPI specific).             (Annually).
                       Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
5.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2E-3, Volume 2.
       5.3.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201.
       5.3.1.4. Be designated by the SIO.
   5.3.2. IE training consist of two steps; observation and performance demonstration. IE
   trainees must complete one or more of the observation profiles and the proficiency profile
   listed below.
       5.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
       tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
       evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
       Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
       preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
       intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
       5.3.2.3. IE 3 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
       conducting an evaluation. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
       simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
       provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
       grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation.
   5.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
   14-2E-3, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE ST is completed. The IE is
   qualified to perform IE duties after completing training, successful completion of the initial
   IE evaluation and endorsement from the SIO.
   5.3.4. IE Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding evaluation annually to
   remain current. IEs must successfully complete periodic IE evaluations IAW AFI 14-2E-3,
   Volume 2.
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                        23




                                LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                and Reconnaissance
 24                                                        AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2E-3, Volume 1, E-3 Aircrew Training, 23 February 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2, E-3 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 17 December 2012
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 3, E-3 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 17 December 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2208, Military Personnel Record System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.AWACS, Tactical Employment, 30 January 2008 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-3.AWACS, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals, 30 September 2009 (S)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2—Directorate of Intelligence
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                        25


AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ASO—Air Surveillance Officer
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualification
C2—Command and Control
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Courses of Action
CONPLAN—Concept of Operations Plan
CT—Continuation Training
DER—Detailed Emitter Reports
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objective
ECO—Electronic Combat Officer
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
ELINT—Electronic Intelligence
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EST—Electronic Support Team
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
 26                                                       AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OB—Order of Battle
OPS INTEL—Operations Intelligence
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
PDS—Passive Detection System
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                             27


PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
 28                                                    AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                                      Attachment 2
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major
impact on training.
 EVENT                                  PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE
                                        PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                                             SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                                             CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                                        LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                               29


                                        Attachment 3
       E-3 MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. E-3 MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record. IEs
will use the MQT gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form 4350, Certification of
Intelligence Qualification, IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2. Refer to
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of evaluations. (T-2)

Table A3.1. E-3 Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Primary threat countries
 2.2. Capabilities and limitations
 2.3. Employment characteristics
 2.4. Countertactics
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. E-3 Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Understanding of OB production sources
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Plotting abilities
 3.1. Geographic coordinates
 3.2. MGRS and UTM
 3.3. Coordinate conversion
 4. Correct use of symbology
 5. Updated and maintained OB displays
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. E-3 Automated Order of Battle Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB
 1.1. Construct OB display
 30                                                           AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


 1.2. Updated and Maintained OB display
 1.3. Performed coordinate conversion
 2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
 2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
 3. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. E-3 Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. E-3 Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Changes to IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
 2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
 2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
 2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
 2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
 2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
 or AFOSI
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                 31


 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. E-3 Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Presented situation update briefing
 3. Addressed relevant areas
 3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
 3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
 3.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
 3.4. Reviewed OB displays
 3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
 3.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
 3.7. Reviewed MISREP status
 4. Delivery
 4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 4.2. Effective use of visual aids
 4.3. Appropriate level of detail
 4.4. Applicability to audience
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. E-3 Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General knowledge
 2.1. Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, AEF tasking)
 2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
 2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
 and activity
 2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
 2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
 threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
 32                                                        AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. E-3 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Accessed correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document
 2. Identified and extract unit specific information using manual and automated processes
 2.1. Mission tasking information
 2.2. Applicable SPINS information
 2.3. Correct ACO information
 3. Adherence to unit standards
 4. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. E-3 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Organization/preparation
 1.1. Analysis of ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
 1.2. Review of tactical scenario understanding
 1.3. Defined intelligence gaps and submit RFI
 2. Presented mission planning situation briefing
 3. Identified and plotted unit tasking
 3.1. Recommended route/track
 3.2. Considered threats/terrain/weather
 3.2.1. Ingress
 3.2.2. Mission area
 3.2.3. Egress
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. E-3 Mission Package Construction Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
 2. Use of automated applications
 3. Identify/obtain applicable mission materials
 3.1. GI&S
 4. Coordinated mission materials with mission planners
 5. Aided with building ASO/ECO fly-away kits
 6. Time management
 7. Adherence to unit standards
 8. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                                33


Table A3.11. E-3 Support To Electronic Warfare Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Performed all source analysis on adversary electronic emitters
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Knowledge of threat emitters
 2. Integrated analysis and databases with DER from E-3 PDS intercepts
 2.1. Used proper automated systems
 2.2. Integrated of all-source tools
 2.3. Identified of valid PDS data
 3. Coordinated with EST and implemented changes
 3.1. Provided recommendations on reprogramming PDS databases
 4. Time management
 5. Adherence to unit standards
 6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. E-3 Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. IPOE
 1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
 2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
 activity
 2.3. En route and mission area threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW
 threats)
 2.4. Call signs and inter-plane frequencies between package and ISR assets
 2.5. FPI (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
 2.6. PR information
 2.7. EEIs
 2.8. INFLTREP requirements
 2.9. Debrief location
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability to audience
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. E-3 Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Briefing preparation
 1.1. Research
 34                                                         AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General Knowledge
 2.1. Changes in threat that affects the mission
 2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
 2.3. PR data changes
 2.4. Latest TUC
 3. Delivery
 3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
 3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
 3.3. Appropriate level of detail
 3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. E-3 Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Performed mission tracking
 1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
 1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
 1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
 1.4. Logged all communications
 1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
 1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
 2. Adherence to unit standards
 3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. E-3 Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Debriefing preparation
 1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
 1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. General performance
 2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
 2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
 2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
 2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
 2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
 2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
 3. ECO debriefing
 3.1. Extracted relevant information regarding electronic signatures observed
 3.2. Extracted relevant information regarding conflicts, ambiguities or omissions
 3.3. Disseminated pertinent to effect database update
 4. Air-to-Air Principles and Basic Fighter Maneuvers
 4.1. Understood aircrew language for an air-to-air engagement
 4.2. Able to comprehend crew’s air-to-air sketches and convert into MISREP
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                        35


 5. Time management
 6. Adherence to unit standards
 7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. E-3 Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
 1. Report preparation
 1.1. Research
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 2. Generate reports
 2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
 2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
 2.3. Validated accuracy and completeness
 3. Time management
 4. Adherence to unit standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
 36                                                       AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


                                       Attachment 4
                E-3 SPECIALIZED TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. E-3 Specialized Training Gradesheet Elements. The ST gradesheet tables in this
attachment are elements to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence
qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST.
The ST gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record. IEs will use the ST
gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2. Refer to AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of
evaluations. (T-2)

Table A4.1. E-3 External Intelligence Training Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. E-3 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
 1.   Preparation
 2.   Decision making
 3.   Objectives
 4.   Communication skills
 5.   Knowledge
 6.   Organization
 7.   Documentation
 8.   Follow security guidelines
AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012                                                          37


                                      Attachment 5
                       E-3 MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1 consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used
by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. E-3 MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
 Requirement                                                 MQT       ST        RIP
 RAD and IPOE                                                X         ---       ---
 E-3 Weapons Systems Academics                               X         ---       ---
 Threat Knowledge                                            X         ---       ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                        X         ---       ---
 VR                                                          X         ---       ---
 PR                                                          X         ---       ---
 FPI                                                         X         ---       ---
 C2 Above Wing-Level in the AOR                              X         ---       ---
 Threat Briefings                                            X         ---       ---
 Situation Displays                                          X         ---       X
 Manual OB                                                   X         ---       X
 Automated OB                                                X         ---       X
 Initial Situation Briefing                                  X         ---       X
 Situation Briefing                                          X         ---       X
 Changeover Briefing                                         X         ---       X
 Deployment Briefing                                         X         ---       X
 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents                   X         ---       X
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning                    X         ---       X
 Mission Package Construction                                X         ---       X
 Support to EW                                               X         ---       X
 Mission Briefing                                            X         ---       X
 Step Briefing                                               X         ---       X
 Mission Tracking                                            X         ---       X
 Debriefing                                                  X         ---       X
 Intelligence Reports                                        X         ---       X
 EIT 1 - Concepts and Methods                                ---       X         ---
 EIT 2 through EIT 6 - Threat Training                       ---       X         ---
 EIT 7 - C&R Training                                        ---       X         ---
 EIT 8 - VR Training                                         ---       X         ---
 EIT 9 - PR Training                                         ---       X         ---
 EIT 10 - FPI Training                                       ---       X         ---
 IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                                   ---       X         ---
 IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                                   ---       X         ---
38                      AFI14-2E-3V1 17 December 2012


IE 3 - IE Proficiency       ---     X        ---
