BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-301
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              16 AUGUST 2006
                                                                   Incorporating Change 1, 16 APRIL 2007

                                                                                               Operations

                                                              RESPONSIBILITIES OFAIR RESERVE
                                                                    COMPONENT (ARC) FORCES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This AFI is available for download from the e-Publication website at
                       http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A3/A5GH                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A3/A5GH
                                                                                      (Col Eric D. Sillery)
Supersedes AFI10-301, 1 August 1995                                                              Pages: 5

This instruction implements AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces. It outlines responsibilities of
the Air National Guard of the United States (ANG or ANGUS), the Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC), and all Air Force Headquarters and units that support or supervise training of the two reserve
components.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change deletes the reference to AFRCIND 2 and provides applicability IAW AFI 33-360.


1. AFRC and ANG MISSION. Total Force Policy highlights the importance of having the ANG and
AFR combat-ready and prepared to accomplish wartime tasks when needed. The mission of the AFR and
ANG is to recruit, train and provide combat ready units and qualified personnel for active duty in the Air
Force to:
   1.1. Support wartime requirements.
   1.2. Perform peacetime requirements that are compatible with Guard and Reserve mobilization readi-
   ness.
   1.3. Conduct training in support of Total Force capabilities.

2. Operational Readiness. The governors, through the adjutants general of the states, commonwealths,
or territories; the President, through the Commanding General in the case of the District of Columbia; and
the Commander, AFRC, are obligated to ensure that the training of their respective units conforms to the
same standards established by the gaining commands for similar units of the regular force.
   2.1. Gaining major commands must monitor and periodically evaluate readiness levels of ANG and
   AFR forces to ensure they are ready to function effectively when mobilized.
2                                                                        AFI10-301 16 AUGUST 2006


    2.2. Gaining major commands, with oversight from the AFRC RMG ensures Individual Mobilization
    Augmentees (IMAs) are trained and ready to assume their mobilization tasks and responsibilities.

3. Applicability of Publications. National Guard Bureau (NGB) and HQ AFRC determine those gain-
ing command publications that provide direction to non-mobilized ANG and AFRC units. These publica-
tions are applicable to Air Reserve Component (ARC) units when the AFRC OPR concurs with the
opening statement of applicability in the publication and when published in the ANGIND2. Refer to AFI
33-360, paragraph 2.4.2., Applicability of MAJCOM Publications to AFRC Units.
    3.1. ANG and AFRC publications provide direction in areas unique to the ARC and complement
    those of the regular force. Structure publications to avoid conflict with applicable gaining command
    publications.
    3.2. All Air Force publications, except those paragraphs noted in the publication itself, apply to AFR
    units.

4. NGB and HQ AFRC Responsibilities. Review and monitor the training, readiness, and safety of
ANG and AFRC forces. ARC units establish and maintain effective safety and training programs that are
compatible with those of the gaining commands. In addition, NGB and AFRC provide gaining commands
with copies of applicable training program policies and publications. ARC units investigate and report
mishaps as prescribed in appropriate USAF publications (i.e., Class B and below).

5. Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC) Responsibilities. ARPC is responsible for implementation
of personnel support and administration of all members of the Air Reserve Component (ARC), except as
expressly noted in paragraph 6. ARPC provides management of individual Reserve programs to include
the Selected Reserve, Individual Ready Reserve (IRR), the Standby Reserve, retired members, and lim-
ited portions of the IMA and Participating Individual Ready Reserve (PIRR) Programs. They also main-
tain the master personnel records for all Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve members not on
extended active duty.

6. Air Force Reserve Command/Readiness Management Group (AFRC/RMG) Responsibilities.
AFRC/RMG is responsible for the readiness and Administrative Control (ADCON) of IMAs and Partici-
pating Individual Ready Reservists (PIRR) so that Commander, AFRC is assured of providing fully
trained and ready personnel to the applicable command or agency being supported. It also ensures the
IMA and PIRR programs of gaining or using commands and agencies comply with approved Air Force
Reserve policy and guidance.

7. Gaining Major Command Responsibilities:
    7.1. Gaining commands perform the following functions to ensure the operational readiness of all
    gained ARC forces, both individual and unit:
       7.1.1. Establish training standards and objectives and provide training publications for use by
       ARC forces.
       7.1.2. Evaluate effectiveness of training, readiness, and safety of ANG and AFRC forces, such as
       would be accomplished during a wartime exercise (EORI, WORI, ORI).
AFI10-301 16 AUGUST 2006                                                                            3


   7.2. Review the organizational structure of ARC units to ensure their capability to perform wartime
   missions. Coordinate necessary changes with NGB or HQ AFRC (or AF/RE, as appropriate) and sub-
   mit to HQ USAF for approval.
   7.3. Include ARC forces in Air Force programming, contingency planning, and exercise planning and
   execution.
   7.4. Approve and assist in formulating unit mobility, mobilization and contingency plans, and
   host-tenant agreements that are effective on mobilization. (N/A for AFRC)
   7.5. Gaining command Equipment Management Teams periodically review organizational equipment
   authorizations and allowances to make sure that each type of unit is properly equipped.
   7.6. Provide funding for ARC units and personnel when operating regular force equipment or when
   augmenting the regular force beyond prescribed training periods funded by ARC appropriations.
   7.7. Provide advocacy and funding strategy as lead command for ARC equipment modifications and
   other acquisitions in accordance with Air Force policy.
   7.8. Implement IMA program policies and guidance as provided by ARPC and RMG. Provide admin-
   istrative, logistic, and management support for assigned IMAs.

8. See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information and terms explained.



                                             CARROL H. CHANDLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS, Air, Space & Information Operations,
                                              Plans & Requirements
4                                                                         AFI10-301 16 AUGUST 2006


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces
AFI 33-360, volume 1, Air Force Content Management Program—Publications
AFI 36-2629, Individual Mobilization Augmentee Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADCON—Administrative Control
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGIND 2—Air National Guard Index 2
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
HQ AFRC—Headquarters, Air Force Reserve Command
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
NGB—National Guard Bureau
RMG—Readiness Management Group
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve

Terms
Administrative Control (ADCON)—(DOD) Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other
organizations in respect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of
resources and equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness,
mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the
subordinate or other organizations.
Individual Mobilization Augmentee—An individual reservist attending drills who receives training and
is preassigned to an Regular Component organization, a Selective Service System, or a Federal
Emergency Management Agency billet that must be filled on, or shortly after, mobilization. Individual
AFI10-301 16 AUGUST 2006                                                                                5


mobilization augmentees train on a part-time basis with these organizations to prepare for mobilization.
[JP1-02]
Mobilization—The process by which the Armed Forces or part of them are brought to a state of readiness
for war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the Reserve Components as
well as assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. [JP1-02]
Operational Readiness—The capability of a unit/formation, ship, weapon system, or equipment to
perform the missions or functions for which it is organized or designed. May be used in a general sense or
to express a level or degree of readiness. [JP1-02]
Total Force—A Department of Defense policy directing the consideration of the most advantageous mix
of capabilities between Regular and Reserve forces in the planning, programming, manning, equipping
and employment of military forces.
