BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-212
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                 AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                      SUPPLEMENT

                                                                           1 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                 Certified Current 1 June 2012
                                                        Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                    RANGE PLANNING AND OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3TO                                              Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3T
                                                                          (Col Daniel A. Kosin)
                                                                                       Pages: 6

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI13-212, Range Planning and
Operations, 6 Jan 2010. This supplement provides additional guidance for range responsibilities,
scheduling and safety. It applies to all Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) units
conducting fixed-wing flying operations. This supplement applies to Air National Guard or Air
Force Reserve Command units. Unless otherwise specified, the Director of Operations (HQ
AFGSC/A3) is the overall waiver authority for this supplement. Waiver requests to this
instruction will be channeled through AFGSC/A3T for approval routing to AFGSC/A3. Units
may supplement this instruction. The operations group commander (OG/CC) is the waiver
authority for unit generated supplements. Prior to publication, forward unit supplements to
AFGSC/A3T for approval. Once approved, units will post their supplements behind the basic
AFI and the AFGSC supplement.
Ensure that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFGSC/A3TO. Submit suggested
improvements to this instruction on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through standardization and evaluation channels, to Headquarters Air Force Global Strike
Command, (HQ AFGSC/A3T), 841 Fairchild Ave, Suite 223, Barksdale AFB, LA 71110.
OVERVIEW
This is the first published version of this document and must be completely reviewed.
2                                              AFI 13-212_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010

1.3.1. ACC Primary Training Ranges (PTR) are listed in Table 1.1. (Added)
Table 1.1. (Added) ACC Primary Training Ranges.

    Primary Training Range                 Type1       Range Operating Agency and Location
    Avon Park                              A-S         23 WG/CC, Moody AFB, GA
    Dare County                            A-S         4 FW/CC, Seymour Johnson AFB, NC
    Grand Bay                              A-S         23 WG/CC, Moody AFB, GA
    Poinsett                               A-S, ECR 20 FW/CC, Shaw AFB, SC
    Red Rio, Oscura, Centennial, Casa A-S              49 FW/CC, Holloman AFB, NM
    Saylor Creek, Juniper Butte            A-S, ECR 366 WG/CC, Mt Home AFB, ID
    Belle Fourche ESS                      ESS2        28 BW/CC, Ellsworth AFB, SD
    Granite Peak ESS                       ESS2        388 FW/CC, Hill AFB, UT
    Snyder ESS                             ESS2        7 BW/CC, Dyess AFB, TX
    1 See paragraph 1.4 for range classifications.
    2 An Electronic Scoring Site is considered a range for the purpose of this supplement.



1.3.2. ACC Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB) activities are primarily training
ranges but possess capability to support test activities, and are considered ranges for the purpose
of this supplement. ACC MRTFB ranges are listed in Table 1.2. (Added)
Table 1.2. (Added) ACC Major Range and Test Facility Base Ranges.

    MRTFB Range                         Range Operating Agency and Location
    Nevada Test and Training Range      98 RANW/CC, Nellis AFB, NV
    Utah Test and Training Range        388 FW/CC, Hill AFB, UT

1.8. Send comments and/or suggested improvements to this supplement, through channels, to HQ
AFGSC/A3TO, AFGSCA3TWorkflow@barksdale.af.mil, 245 Davis Ave East, Barksdale AFB
LA 71110.
2.4. HQ AFGSC/A3T is the focal point for all AFGSC range issues and is responsible for
coordinating with HQ ACC/A3A for resolution.
2.4.16. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A is the CAF Lead for ACTS pod management, see paragraph 6.5
for policy and management.
2.4.17. (Added) HQ ACC/A3A is the OPR for issues relating to integration of range capabilities
into the Live-Virtual-Constructive (LVC) and Cross-Domain Integration (X-DI) arenas.
2.5.12. Each ACC ROA should have a copy of their Comprehensive Range Plan (or hyperlink to
the official document) on the ACC Range Operations and Requirements Community of Practice
(CoP) website on the Air Force Portal.
2.5.13. Each ACC ROA should have range information posted on the ACC Range Operations
and Requirements CoP. Data might include, but is not limited to, target information/restrictions,
authorized ordnance per target, manned sites, no-drop targets, unusual weather phenomena that
impacts range operations (e.g. standing water causing visual illusions), and potential night
AFI13-212_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                3

lighting interference issues (e.g. use of night vision devices on ranges near well lit towns/areas).
In the event the CoP is not accessible, contact the ROA to receive pertinent range information.
2.5.14.2. (Added) All ACC ROAs should have a local addendum published and approved by
HQACC/A3A. AFGSC/A3T and 8AF/OV should receive copies of all ACC approved local
addendums.
3.2.2.1.3. (Added) Range Users Conference. All ACC ROAs should hold an annual "range
users" conference to ensure user’s training requirements are identified. Recommended that a
wing representative attend the Range User’s Conference for each range it flies in. Examples of
topics that may be addressed are: range safety, operating procedures, scheduling, targets and
target sets, threats, range clean-up, weapons danger zones, scoring, etc.
3.2.2.1.4 (Added) End user target requirements should be documented through the Range Users
Conference or other cooperative means involving both the users and ranges. This is a cost-
effective means to determine the need for new targets or when to eliminate existing targets.
3.2.2.1.5. (Added) Operational Wings will submit range training requirements to AFGSC A3T
who will consolidate and submit through the ACC Realistic Training Review Board (RTRB).
3.4. Airspace and Range Conference. ACC/A3A will hold an annual Airspace and Range
Conference to ensure the widest dissemination of current Airspace and Range information.
AFGSC/A3T will send a representative to present MAJCOM range issues. AFGSC wings should
also consider sending a representative from their Wing Weapons Office.
4.1.2. (Added) Range Scheduling. All ACC ROA’s should publish range scheduling procedures
in their local range addendum and post them on their range web page. Published procedures
should include: scheduling procedures for: normal and additional operating hours (AOH),
schedule changes, and dissemination of range safety information to off-station/non-local users.
4.1.2.1. (Added) Off-station/Non-local Users (units without established Letters of Agreements
with the range). These users will provide a mission profile for each requested range period. The
scheduling authority will validate and approve the mission profile, then inform the User of
acceptance, denial or recommended changes. The User must acknowledge receipt of the
approved mission profile at least 24 hours prior to range usage. The acknowledgement will
include: mission number (if applicable), flight call sign, scheduled range date/time, and ordnance
(if applicable).
4.2. Each flight crew/range user is responsible for thoroughly understanding the contents of the
instruction, this supplement, and any range-specific addendum or agreement.
4.7. All users of ACC ranges must perform a dry/familiarization pass on that range before
weapons delivery (day or night) for any of these conditions: no specific AFI 11-2MDSV3
operating procedures exist, the aircrew/aircraft operator's initial use of the range (regardless of
class) or if the aircrew/operator has not frequented the range within 1 year.
4.8.4. (Added) On the day of the mission employing ordnance (practice or full-scale), but no
later than the start of the tactical portion of the mission, each flight/mission lead shall confirm
with the range control agency the specific target, planned ordnance on each target and applicable
restrictions (manned sites, etc.). In-flight "retargeting" exercises require approval of the RCO
before expending ordnance on the new target, and the flight/mission lead shall confirm approval.
4                                             AFI 13-212_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010

5.5. Aircrews should conduct site activity IAW ACCI 10-707, Air Combat Command (ACC)
Electronic Attack Training and Emissions Control (EMCON) Procedures and this supplement.
Refer to the chapter pertinent to the system or area of operation necessary for mission
completion. ACC ROAs may have published local guidance in the range addendum to AFI 13-
212_ACC SUP 1, to include special instructions (SPINS) and letters for special training missions
and exercises. Additional operating procedures are provided in Attachment 3 (Added) which
represents the continuation of operating procedures where training requirements have changed or
responsible organizations deactivated, and which do not exist in official publications, technical
orders or equipment manuals. Send recommendations to add, delete or change these procedures
to HQ AFGSC/A3T who will coordinate through the ACC/A3AR Threats Team.
5.5.1. (Added) The range scheduling authority controls and advertises EC vulnerability periods
and should publish scheduling procedures for vulnerability periods and unscheduled "bootleg"
opportunities. Sites will constantly monitor assigned UHF/VHF radio frequencies for bootleg
aircraft during the vulnerability period.
AFI13-212_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                  5


                            Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
ACCI 10-707, Air Combat Command (ACC) Electronic Attack Training and Emissions Control
(EMCON) Procedures, 7 Oct 2008
6                                              AFI 13-212_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


                                    Attachment 3 (Added)
                                   ECR/ESS OPERATIONS

A3.1. (Added) These operating procedures represent the continuation of operating procedures
where training requirements have changed or responsible organizations deactivated, and which
do not exist in official publications, technical orders or equipment manuals. Send
recommendations to add, delete or change these procedures to HQ AFGSC/A3T who will
coordinate with the ACC/A3AR Threats Team.
A3.2. (Added) Aircrew will be aware sites may perform unscheduled equipment maintenance
during vulnerability periods but they should maintain a 30-minute recovery capability.
A3.3. (Added) Wing scheduling authorities should provide the site with all necessary
information prior to the activity. Aircrews will relay information at initial contact to identify
activity when run information is not previously provided.
A3.4. (Added) Aircrew will perform radio check with ROA during initial check-in or when radio
status is in question.
A3.5. (Added) Sites DO NOT HAVE AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL AUTHORITY. Aircrew will
not request changes or cancellation any previous issued ARTCC clearances. Sites may relay
information between ARTCC and aircrews, on request. When communicating with aircrews,
ESSs will identify the site by the assigned name and the term Electronic Scoring Site.
A3.6. (Added) Aircrew should receive advisories from ROAs of the altitude and approximate
position of all other aircraft on the range, route closures, severe weather advisories, and loss of
capability by activity (ECM) with an estimated time of return to operational status.
A3.7. (Added) If more than one aircraft is scheduled at the same time through an ESS, using the
same IP and assigned flight level, aircrew should expect to contact ARTCC immediately to
deconflict themselves.
A3.8. (Added) Aircrew will confirm run information to site operators prior to mission start.
A3.9. (Added) Aircrews may be asked for Mode 3 IFF code settings to identify the correct
aircraft; the site may ask aircraft to go "STANDBY" in Mode 1 only. After aircraft identification,
the aircrew they may go back to "OPERATE." The site may request aircraft position to acquire
or reacquire the aircraft. Aircrew will give present position from the target or main site, as
applicable.
A3.10. (Added) At the conclusion of each ECM run, aircrew will be prepared to provide site
operators with any weak or undetected signals.
A3.11. (Added) ECM Run Types. Aircrew will refer to ACCI 10-707 to reference general
descriptions of different run types that correspond to MUTES/Mini-MUTES scenarios.




                                                     TIMOTHY M. RAY
                                                     Brigadier General, USAF
                                                     Director of Operations
