BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2E-3,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 2

                                                                        17 DECEMBER 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                  E-3 UNIT INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION
                                                                           CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                     (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                        Pages: 21


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in E-3 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting E-3 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                       AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                               3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................     3
       1.3.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................            3
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................          4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                           5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   5
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations. ........................................................................................            5
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations. ....................................................                          6
       2.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                     8

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                               9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   9
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       9
Table 3.1.    Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                       9
       3.3.   Specialized Evaluation Criteria. .............................................................................                14
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                14
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                      17

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              19
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                                  3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2
and this publication.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Waivers. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of any significant trends in waiver
   correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress policy and guidance.
1.2. Procedures.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed (verified by applicable AF Form 4381) all duty position required
   Mission Qualification Training (MQT) or Specialized Training (ST) requirements outlined in
   AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 1, E-3 Unit Intelligence Training. (T-2)
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 to conduct all intelligence
   evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be thoroughly familiar
   with the prescribed evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   1.2.3. Prior to beginning an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated. (T-3)
   1.2.4. Conduct and document evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Evaluations should
   be accomplished in a realistic training environment in conjunction with local events (e.g.,
   actual deployment briefing, post-mission debrief) to the maximum extent possible. When it
   is impossible to conduct an evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be
   conducted via an alternate method (e.g., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order
   to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the
   comments section of the AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification. (T-3)
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee‘s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training. (T-3)
1.3. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this publication. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades, the IEs will
determine the overall qualification level. (T-3)
   1.3.1. The IE will use the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, to assist in grading the
   individual areas during the evaluation. The form used by the evaluator will be a blank AF
 4                                                          AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


     Form 4381, not the one completed on the individual during MQT/ST. The gradesheet
     elements specific to E-3 intelligence tasks are found in attachments 3 and 4 of AFI 14-2E-3
     Volume 1. (T-3)
     1.3.2. IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general evaluated areas is
     subjective and when specific situations are not covered. (T-3)
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training at their
discretion. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. (T-
3)
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (Q-3)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a mission
qualification evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), they will not perform mission duties unsupervised
until remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a Q-3 on a specialized
evaluation, they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but
they can perform mission duties unless specifically restricted. (T-2)
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                                   5


                                          Chapter 2

                            EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include the areas listed in this chapter as
depicted in Table 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations. (T-2)

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations.
 SUBJECT                                                   INIT MSN MSN EIT IE
 Knowledge Evaluations
 E-3 Weapons Systems Academics                             R            R      ---      ---
 Threat Knowledge                                          R            R      ---      ---
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                      R            R      ---      ---
 Visual Recognition (VR)                                   R            R      ---      ---
 Personnel Recovery (PR)                                   R            R      ---      ---
 Force Protection Intelligence (FPI)                       R            R      ---      ---
 Command and Control (C2) Above Wing-Level in the          R            R      ---      ---
 Area of Responsibility (AOR)
 Performance Evaluations
 Threat Briefings                                          R            R      ---      ---
 Situation Displays                                        R            R      ---      ---
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                               R            R      ---      ---
 Automated OB                                              R            R      ---      ---
 Initial Situation Briefing                                R            R      ---      ---
 Situation Briefing                                        R            R      ---      ---
 Changeover Briefing                                       R            R      ---      ---
 Deployment Briefing                                       R            R      ---      ---
 Air Tasking Order/Air Control Order/Special Instructions R             R      ---      ---
 (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and Other Tasking Documents
 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning                  R            R      ---      ---
 Mission Package Construction                              R            R      ---      ---
 Support to Electronic Warfare                             R            R      ---      ---
 Mission Briefing                                          R            R      ---      ---
 Step Briefing                                             R            R      ---      ---
 Mission Tracking                                          R            R      ---      ---
 Debriefing                                                R            R      ---      ---
 Intelligence Reports                                      R            R      ---      ---
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Instructional Ability                                     ---          ---    R        ---
 Evaluator Ability                                         ---          ---    ---      R
 Note:
 Gradesheet elements for each area are included in AFI14-2E-3, Volume 1. Passing criteria for
 any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

R = Required area of evaluation
 6                                                           AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluations.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee‘s understanding of E-3
     systems and capabilities, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, VR, PR,
     FPI, and C2 above wing-level. Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit‘s
     master question file (MQF) for mission qualification evaluation subject areas. Examinees
     will take a separate VR test. Both examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350.
     Knowledge examinations may also be required during specialized qualification evaluations.
     Research, analysis and dissemination (RAD) and intelligence preparation of the operational
     environment (IPOE) involves knowledge intelligence personnel should be applying
     throughout all areas of the performance task evaluations and will be evaluated as subsets of
     each applicable performance task. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Units may use evaluation materials provided by
     MAJCOM/A2s or may assemble evaluation materials themselves using current intelligence,
     unit tasking and AOR scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to
     evaluations conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are
     provided to assist in constructing evaluation materials: (T-2)
        2.2.2.1. Situation displays. The situation for which the display is being built should
        contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to use for
        the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3
        that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the
        relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be plotted should be of
        sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is
        beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise will include both
        geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) coordinates.
        Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geographic coordinates
        (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also from geographic coordinates to
        decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may include erroneous information to
        mirror the fog of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats
        for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to
        identify errors and question the validity of information. The examinee should use MIL-
        STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine
        Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics.
            2.2.2.1.1. Manual Order of Battle. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise
            will be of sufficient volume to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct
            symbology is used. The examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the
            table of organization and equipment for the OB being used.
            2.2.2.1.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of
            OB sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                                 7


        save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control
        of the displayed data and question the information’s accuracy for a particular AOR.
     2.2.2.2. Intelligence Briefings. Briefings should be assembled from information
     provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery. Other
     sources that are used to evaluate other mission areas may also be used. Evaluated
     briefings include:    threat briefings, initial situation briefing, situation briefing,
     changeover briefings, deployment briefing, mission briefing, and step briefing.
     2.2.2.3. Air Tasking Order, Airspace Control Order and Special Instructions and Other
     Tasking Documents. Scenario, actual contingency or exercise materials will be used for
     this purpose. Provide enough information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit
     tasked on the ATO. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency
     in identifying and breaking out the elements of ATO/ACO/SPINS to include unit tasking,
     air space control, PR and intelligence information. As applicable, personnel should be
     evaluated on other types of tasking requests they may face in particular theaters.
     2.2.2.4. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning.                Scenario or actual
     contingency/exercise materials will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the
     examinee’s proficiency in planning, coordinating and conducting the entire mission
     planning process. Provide enough information to evaluate the examinee‘s ability to
     analyze the tactical problem/scenario, threat considerations, terrain, and weather,
     route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as appropriate. Evaluate proficiency in
     identifying and plotting unit tasking. Specific pieces of information should be
     purposefully omitted to evaluate the examinee’s ability to define intelligence gaps and
     submit requests for information. Information for the situation briefing should be
     assembled from information provided by the evaluator; message traffic, and intelligence
     reports.
     2.2.2.5. Mission Package Construction.      Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
     materials will be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s
     proficiency in obtaining necessary mission materials including geospatial information
     and services to build mission materials. Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing mission
     planning software to construct mission packages. Evaluate ability to assist in building
     different fly-away kits.
     2.2.2.6. Support to Electronic Warfare. Scenario or actual contingency/exercise
     materials will be used. Evaluate examinee’s ability to analyze all source information to
     characterize adversary electronic emitters of interest. Ensure data from the Detailed
     Emitter Report (DER) obtained during Electronic Combat Officer (ECO) debriefing is
     used. The DERs should be completed via appropriate intelligence systems IAW local
     guidance. The IE may assume the role of a simulated Electronic Support Team (EST) to
     field recommended database changes. Grade the examinee's use of applicable
     intelligence systems, use ability to decipher valid Passive Detection System (PDS) data
     and properly identify fields requiring PDS database updates.
     2.2.2.7. Mission Tracking. Use scenario or actual exercise to allow examinee to flight
     follow missions in execution. Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate examinee’s
     proficiency to keep abreast of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs. Examine debrief
     forms to see that information has been filled in to maximum extent prior to engine shut
 8                                                             AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


        down. Present simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure systems are used if
        available to aid examinee in monitoring progress of ongoing missions.
        2.2.2.8. Debriefing. Conduct aircrew debriefings following actual flying missions
        whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with aircrew
        to identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefings. Ensure there is enough activity
        to represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
        tasking. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying
        questions and recognize irrelevant information. Conduct ECO debriefing following
        actual flying missions whenever possible. Grade the examinee’s ability to extract
        relevant information regarding electronic signatures observed as well as any conflicts,
        ambiguities or omissions.
        2.2.2.9. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREP) and intelligence
        reports (INTREP) using information provided in the aircrew debriefing. Complete
        reports IAW theater intelligence reporting directives.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
     2.3.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
     consist of a knowledge examination and a performance task evaluation and be conducted
     IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Upon completion of profile EIT 1 and one or all of the
     remaining profiles outlined in AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 1, the EIT trainer will demonstrate
     knowledge of the information presented by successfully completing a test based on the
     questions from the master question file (85 percent minimum to pass), as applicable. The
     EIT trainer will also be evaluated on their ability to present training in each applicable
     profile. Evaluators will give the examinee no less than 4 hours notice of the subject matter or
     briefing topic for the evaluation. (T-3)
        2.3.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
        training in more than one individual EIT event at a time. The individual must complete
        the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
        element by an IE. Document the evaluation in coordination with AF/A2 approved
        processes regarding online documentation. The individual must maintain currency and
        be reevaluated periodically for the subject matter according to AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 1.
        (T-2)
        2.3.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
        evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
     2.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
     Volume 2. Individuals will be qualified to be IEs upon completion of the IE specialized
     training profiles, successful IE evaluation and endorsement by the Senior Intelligence Officer
     (SIO). IEs will be evaluated using criteria in Chapter 3. Subsequent evaluations may be
     conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. (T-3)
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                                     9


                                           Chapter 3

                                 EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General. Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: Mission Qualification and Specialized evaluation Criteria. Use all sections of criteria
applicable to the events performed on the evaluation. (T-2)
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions or work centers in which personnel maintain mission
qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q     Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on the MQF.
 Q-    Not applicable
 U     Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q     Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
 Q-    Not applicable
 U     Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
 THREAT BRIEFING
 Q     Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
       Clear understanding of research methods and sources. Effective use of visual aids.
       Concise yet thorough delivery. Tailored threat briefing to the capabilities of the E-3
       airframe, avionics and countertactics. Correct classification and security markings on
       all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
 Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
       omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to E-3, but not
       many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
       somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
 U     Threat was not tailored to E-3 capabilities. Major gaps in information, unable to
       recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct
       basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of E-3
       mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
 SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
 Q     Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for creating the
       best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for accuracy, inconsistencies,
       and relevance to the situation. Used manual and automated processes to accurately
       plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates. Consistently used
       correct symbology IAW MIL-STD-2525C and FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A. Correctly
       extracted geographic coordinates and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail
       with respect to unit requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and
       displayed data. Able to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings and perform
       terrain masking analysis. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate formats.
       Accurately maintained situation display to unit specifications, including classification
10                                                        AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


       and currency. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-     Did not select the absolute best medium for creating the situation display. Did not
       fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be
       included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of coordinates, the
       remaining 5% within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in symbology, corrected with little
       prompting. Needed little assistance with coordinate conversions.
U      Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify errors
       or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant supervision
       or intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q      Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
       Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-tailored analysis
       relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures.
       Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to
       identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
       understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability
       to discriminate irrelevant information. Understood and provided detailed information
       tailored to the audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations
       of unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
       classification and security markings on all products.
Q-     Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
       Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, redundant.
U      Failed to use checklist. Content poorly organized, not tailored appropriately.
       Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
       conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
       information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
       understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or impact information may
       have. Negative impact on mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q      Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence.
       Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items since last update, and well-
       tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and followed local
       procedures. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
       Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the
       mission. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts.
       Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding
       of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
       identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience.
       Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
Q-     Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
       Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow, redundant.
U      Failed to use checklist, follow local procedures. Content not tailored appropriately.
       Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
       conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed significant
       information or failed to disseminate information to proper audience. Poor
       understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or impact information may
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                              11


      have. Negative impact on mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q     Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas. Demonstrated
      clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass to next shift. Showed
      ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
      capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
      identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to the audience. Correctly
      annotated event log, identified significant events. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products produced.
Q-    Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover with
      prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating circumstances (e.g.,
      relocation, attacks) vs. poor planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist
      usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even
      with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next shift. Missed significant
      information or failed to disseminate information. Poor understanding of
      capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
      mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q     Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
      followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by
      audience. Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for audience.
      Identified key points including synopsis of military and political situation generating
      the deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition in AOR and along
      deployment route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
      potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
      sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
      understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
      Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
Q-    Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on mission.
      Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted key
      areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research.
      Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information. Poor
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information
      may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS AND OTHER TASKING DOCUMENTS
Q     Demonstrated ability to access the correct ATO/ACO/SPINS and any changes.
      Correctly extracted mission tasking, airspace control measures, personnel recovery
      and other information relevant to unit or tasking. Correct classification and security
      markings on all products.
Q-    Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or impact
      mission planning timeline. Accomplished tasks but needed minimal assistance.
U     Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have impacted
      mission planning. Unable to accomplish tasks without significant intervention.
      Incorrect classification.
12                                                         AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MISSION PLANNING
Q     Effective use of checklist. Used appropriate research and analysis techniques in
      reviewing the ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking documents, unit IPOE, target
      acquisition, threat considerations, tactics, terrain, and weather, target imagery,
      route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as appropriate. Correctly identified
      and plotted unit tasking. Recognized information gaps and submitted requests for
      information through appropriate channels. Situation briefing was effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Appropriate level of
      detail, covered all applicable items. Correct classification and security markings on
      all products produced.
Q-    Required some assistance, but no impact on mission planning functions. Briefing
      could be better prepared or organized. Some difficulty with use of mission materials.
      Minor omission of intelligence information required for mission; however nothing
      that was critical to mission planning.
U     Failed to use checklist. Poor understanding of the requirements or lack of adequate
      mission materials delayed mission planning timeline. Major omissions of
      information critical to the planning cycle. Organization or lack of preparation
      seriously impacted understanding of the briefing. Incorrect classification.
MISSION PACKAGE CONSTRUCTION
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Demonstrated clear
      understanding and proper use of mission planning materials. Chose scales and views
      appropriate for mission. Knew proper channels for requesting information or
      materials. Accurate portrayal of mission area threats and hazards as well as ingress
      and egress factors to consider. Materials neat and well organized. Considered all
      factors that could impact successful mission accomplishment. Provided thorough
      analysis of terrain, threats, route, combat air patrol (CAP) area(s) and/or mission area.
      Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Errors or minor omissions in mission materials which would not preclude mission
      accomplishment. Minor problems in organizing mission materials and identifying
      and ordering requirements. Corrected when prompted.
U     Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Major omissions or errors which
      would have impacted mission. Poor understanding of mission requirements or
      sources for mission materials. Chose incorrect scales or views for mission materials.
      Incorrectly plotted threats. Did not know how to request information. Did not
      provide analysis of threats, route, CAP or mission area. Incorrect classification.
SUPPORT TO EW
Q     Coordinated post mission DER with the EST IAW local procedures. Integrated all-
      source analysis tools and databases with DERs from E-3 PDS intercepts.
      Demonstrated proficiency in analysis of adversary electronic emitters with regards to
      E-3 system performance utilizing appropriate automated Intel systems. Provide
      recommendations to Electronic Support Team Chair on reprogramming of E-3 PDS
      databases. Use approved procedures to implement database changes IAW prescribed
      local timelines, formats and requirements.
Q-    Some errors/delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize/impact E-3 PDS
      mission integration. Completed tasks IAW local guidance, required some assistance.
U     Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate checklist usage. Deficiencies not due
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                             13


      to extenuating circumstances. Inability to recover even with minor prompting.
      Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of relevant analytical techniques utilizing
      automated intel systems. Failed to follow approved procedures IAW local guidelines.
MISSION BRIEFING
Q     Effectively used checklist and followed local procedures. Briefing effectively
      organized and professionally presented in a logical sequence. Effective use of visual
      aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items:
      takeoff, en route, mission area, egress, divert airfields, and appropriate PR
      considerations. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
      potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods, sources,
      IPOE concepts. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated
      understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
      Correctly identified significant events, issued threat update codes. Correct
      classification/security markings on all products. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-    Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered. Minor
      omissions or errors but recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
      mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to follow,
      somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U     Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in information,
      unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to
      conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Fabricated
      information. Demonstrated lack of understanding of E-3 mission capabilities.
      Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q     Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion and IAW local
      requirements. Appropriate for the particular mission. Identified, analyzed and
      highlighted changes and updates since mission briefing. Correct classification.
Q-    Made updates with prompting, not proactive. Omissions would not have affected
      mission effectiveness.
U     Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated
      lack of understanding of E-3 mission capabilities. Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q     Used all resources (systems, operations, command post, onboard datalink) to track
      progress of missions. Well organized to receive information during various stages.
      All relevant mission information pre-filled on debriefing forms. Aware of all
      cancelled or diverted missions. Made provisions for debrief at diverted location via
      personnel or other electronic means. All personnel had access to mission tracking
      and could quickly interpret information to derive mission status.
Q-    Did not utilize resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with prompting,
      not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission status. Debrief forms
      not pre-filled with mission information.
U     No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel not
      capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled missions.
      Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information. Demonstrated
      lack of understanding of E-3 mission capabilities. No plans for contacting divert
      locations for mission status and reporting information.
 14                                                         AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


 DEBRIEFING
 Q     Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
       manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing.
       Quickly identified time-sensitive information and ensured prompt dissemination as
       applicable. Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying questions, and recognized
       irrelevant information. Collected all significant intelligence with sufficient detail to
       accomplish reporting requirements IAW checklists and theater directives. Correct
       classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Debrief took too long. Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some
       amplifying questions that would have enhanced detail of information gathered. Slow
       in dealing with time-sensitive information.
 U     Failed to use checklist. Not prepared, didn’t have materials for debriefing.
       Disjointed flow. Failed to identify perishable information. Completely missed a
       debriefing. Lost control of the debriefing. Not enough detail to accomplish reporting
       requirements. Incorrect classification.
 INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
 Q     Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent information
       available and included an initial level of tactical analysis with minimal to no
       extraneous info. Properly formatted. Met reporting timelines. Produced report IAW
       checklists and theater directives. Correctly identified significant events. Correct
       classification and security markings on all products produced. Appropriate
       knowledge of US Message Text Format (USMTF), if required.
 Q-    Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
       extenuating circumstances. A minor problem with clarity, organization or formatting;
       but pertinent information was included. Working knowledge of USMTF, but
       required some assistance.
 U     Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Report was not in format
       required by theater intelligence reporting directive. Failed to use checklist.
       Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills was confusing or omitted critical
       information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g., not sent to the correct users through
       appropriate channels). No knowledge of USMTF. Incorrect classification.
3.3. Specialized Evaluation Criteria. The following evaluation criteria apply to tasks
associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
 EIT KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q      Correctly answered at least 85% of questions in a test based on the MQF.
 Q-     Not applicable.
 U      Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 EIT VISUAL RECOGNITION
 Q      Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
 Q-     Not applicable
 U      Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
 Q      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                                15


      timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded and
      accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
      knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
      mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
      Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission, or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – THREAT SYSTEMS
Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used Air Force Tactics
      Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary reference for
      training. Tailored threat training to the unit’s MDS, mission specific requirements
      and appropriate audience (e.g., aircrew, security forces). Demonstrated ability to
      instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3, Unit Intelligence
      Procedures. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately
      answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from
      reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3. Lack of
      subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate collection and reporting training requirements. Included
      aircrew originated reports (e.g. In-flight Report), intelligence-generated reports (e.g.,
      MISREP, INTREP) and essential elements of information. Demonstrated ability to
      instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently, made timely decisions, incorporated
      all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3 and the appropriate theater reporting
      directive. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately
      answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from
      reference materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
16                                                       AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of knowledge in some areas
      seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Determined appropriate VR training requirements. Included enemy/adversary,
      friendly, and neutral aircraft, surface threat, ground equipment and naval vessel
      recognition features. Incorporated all aspects/angles, theater-specific paint
      schemes/national markings, and various configurations along with the name or
      numerical designator of all enemy/adversary/friendly/neutral weapons systems
      presented. Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently
      and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3
      Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately
      answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from
      reference materials. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or items to include in training. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3. Lack
      of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3.
      Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                             17


       answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
 U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
       Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
       knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
       questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
       to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
       efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
       procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in some areas seriously
       detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security markings.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
 Q     Determined appropriate FPI training requirements. Included intelligence principles
       and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot spot areas;
       examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; FPI resources; Terrorist
       Threat Levels; and unit FPI considerations. Demonstrated ability to instruct
       effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all
       applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter
       knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers
       to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products.
 Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
       deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
       requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
       instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
       answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
 U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2E-3 Volume 3. Lack
       of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
       questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
       to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
       efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
       procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
       detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification and/or security markings.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
 Q     Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
       evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
       Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
       recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification and
       security markings on all produced.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge regarding unit procedures, evaluation requirements
       or documentation. Minor problems in communicating or organization of evaluation.
       Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in evaluation
       records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
       plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
18                                                      AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


     evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
     evaluation documentation preparation. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
     detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
     Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance.
     Incorrect classification.




                                        LARRY D. JAMES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                        Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                        and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012                                                          19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 11-2E-3, Volume 2, E-3 Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 23 February 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, 5 May 2010
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 1, E-3 Unit Intelligence Training, 17 December 2012
AFI 14-2E-3, Volume 3, E-3 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 17 December 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2208, Military Personnel Record System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2—Directorate of Intelligence
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF—Air Force
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 20                                                     AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012


AFTTP—Air Force Tactic, Techniques, and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
C2—Command and Control
DER—Detailed Emitter Report
ECO—Electronic Combat Officer
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EST—Electronic Support Team
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT EIT—Initial Mission Qualification EIT Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDS—Passive Detection System
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
AFI14-2E-3V2 17 December 2012   21


T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition
