BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-207
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                   AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        SUPPLEMENT

                                                                   Effective 1 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                                       Operations

                                                                             COMMAND POSTS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

  ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                         http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

  RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


  OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3C                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3
                                                                        (Capt Jimmy D. Winters)
                                                                                      Pages: 40


  This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-207,
  Command Posts, 4 April 2008. This Supplement applies to Headquarters Air Force Global
  Strike Command (HQ AFGSC) and its subordinate units. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve
  Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) personnel unless activated and working in an
  AFGSC CP. Users of this instruction must notify the AFGSC Director of Operations (HQ
  AFGSC/A3C) of conflicts between this instruction and other directives, instructions, or technical
  orders. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
  Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
  route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
  Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
  maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
  and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
  (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
  af61a/afrims/afrims/. This instruction requires collecting, maintaining, and providing
  information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and protection by the Privacy Act of
  1974. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
  commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
2                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

1.1.3.1. The AFGSC Command Center will operate independently of the Barksdale Command
Post.
1.2.2. The AFGSC C2 mission is to provide the Commander, Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC/CC) the support structure to exercise C2 over assigned forces through facility, staff
advice and communications resources. The CP/command center provides direction to provide
combat ready forces for nuclear deterrence and global strike operations. Safety, security and
credibility of nuclear operations are the key components of effective mission accomplishment.
1.2.3.1 (Added) AFGSC bases with tenant units (i.e, OSI Detachment, Reserve or Guard units,
etc,) will have, at a minimum, a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) IAW AFI 25-201 with the
tenant unit for OPREP reporting and other provided support.
1.3.1. The MAJCOM Staff is broken out as follows:
1.3.1.1. . (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3C in concert with the AFGSC 1C3 Functional Manager and
C2 Policy and Procedures Branch provides policy and guidance to AFGSC subordinate CPs. The
function of AFGSC C2 Policy and Procedures office (HQ AFGSC/A3CP) is to provide policy,
guidance, and procedures (i.e., supplements, C2CIFs, checklists, etc.) to AFGSC command
posts.
1.3.1.2. The Operational Readiness office (HQ AFGSC/A3CR) provides the command support
required for Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) and other readiness
systems/issues as deemed appropriate by the major command (MAJCOM).
1.3.1.3. The AFGSC Command Center (HQ AFGSC/A3CO) will be organized to effectively and
efficiently execute C2 on behalf of and at the direction of AFGSC/CC.
1.3.1.4. The NAF Command Centers are as follows: Barksdale AFB Command Post (2 BW/8
AF) and F.E. Warren Command Post (90 MW/20 AF) are responsible for supervision over
subordinate CP operations.
1.3.1.4.1. 8 AF subordinate units are as follows: 2 BW/CP, 509 BW/CP and 5 BW/CP
1.3.1.4.2. 20 AF subordinate units are as follows: 91 MW/CP, 90 MW/CP and 341 MW/CP
1.3.1.4.3. DRUs are as follows:
    1. 576th Flight Test Squadron at Vandenberg AFB, CA
    2. 25th Strategic Operations Squadron at Offutt AFB, NE
1.5.1.3. (Added) Supported agency will develop detailed plans of instruction (POI) for inclusion
in the CP unit training plan (UTP). CP training managers will incorporate training into UTP
IAW Chapter 7 of AFI 10-207.
1.5.1.4. (Added) CP managers will ensure duties are thoroughly covered in the specific controller
duties and responsibilities operating instruction (OI), unless a separate OI is warranted.
1.5.3. (Added) The CP will include a knowledge/client support administrator (CSA) function if a
knowledge manager (KM) or CSA is authorized and assigned. Some responsibilities of the
systems function may reside with the CSA when assigned. For AFRC units, the CP consists of
the C2 operations function (C2OP) which will include operational reporting SORTS (Air
Reserve Technicians [ART] only), and may include a maintenance control function.
1.6.5. (Added) The CP is not responsible for manning, operating or augmenting the Commander
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                         3

Senior Staff, Command Support Staff or the Emergency Operations Center. CP managers (i.e.,
CP/Command Center Chief and Superintendent) serve as the CP liason officer to the Installation
Control Center Director (if other than CP OIC) and the Commander Senior Staff.
1.6.9. AFGSC CPs will not serve as a personnel collection point for the UCC/Deployment
Readiness Center.
1.6.10. (Added) Due to the degree of mission essential duties, proficiency training, 24-hour
work-center requirements, and a chronic worldwide C2 manpower shortfall, 1C3X1 personnel
will not be tasked to support base wide manning details (i.e. Ready Augmentee programs or
installation “Fair Share” taskings), unless otherwise directed by the installation commander in
times of contingency or crisis.
1.6.10.1. (Added) AFGSC C2 controllers, like Fire Dept and SF personnel, remain on call to
support to the installation commander exercising C2 authority/control of assigned forces,
reporting to the SECDEF and CJCS; this includes days they are not scheduled for CP shifts. CP
controllers are considered " alert personnel” as it is their obligation to immediately respond to
force posturing/execution and alert/recall mission requirements on 24/7/365 hours a day basis.
1.6.10.2. (Added) During installation contingencies, all assigned C2 controllers are on 24 hour
alert and are obligated to immediately report to the CP to augment console shift teams due to the
increased contingency workload. There are multiple inherent duties that generate to 24 hour
operations during an on-going contingency (i.e. OPREP, SITREP, LOSREP, etc.). See Para
3.1.10.3. of AFI 10-207.
2.2.3. HQ AFGSC/A3CP will develop and maintain current assessment checklists criteria for
AFGSC unit CPs/Command Center. Assessment criteria is for use during higher headquarter
visits (Functional Area Visit [FAV], Staff Assistance Visit [SAV], Inspector General [IG]) and
unit self assessments. See Chapter 13 of this supplement for additional information on HQ
AFGSC staff/functional assistance visits.
2.2.5. AFGSC C2 Managers must ensure their CP budget details required maintenance cost for
existing equipment and the budget forecasts for replacement of outdated equipment as necessary.
2.2.5.4. (Added) Alternate CPs, when activated, must be designated the same protection level
(PL) as the primary facility, and meet all requirements as detailed in Chapter 9 of AFI 10-207.
Identify and ensure equipment is available to provide continuous command and control support.
Equipment must be in place in the Alternate or in use at the Primary CP/Operations Center with
the ability for duty controllers to relocate it in the event of an evacuation.
2.2.6. Specific AFGSC manning requirements for functional areas are outlined in Chapter 3 of
the basic AFI 10-207. Air Force Manpower Standard (AFMS) 135A, Command Posts,
establishes staffing levels for CP controllers and staff positions to include waivers (N/A for
AFRC). AFGSC Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 1C3 functional manager (FM) is the office
of primary responsibility for C2 staffing issues. Coordinate AFSC 1C3X1 C2 issues through the
HQ AFGSC 1C3X1 FM. The AFGSC 1C3X1 FM represents AFGSC's interest at Air Force and
MAJCOM-sponsored C2 forums.
2.2.8. The F.E. Warren Command Post, 90th MW will act as the 20 AF CP after duty hours.
2.2.9.4. (Added) Physical security requirements are outlined in AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense
(FOUO), and applicable MAJCOM supplements. Information security requirements are outlined
4                                               AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

in AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management and applicable MAJCOM
supplements. AFGSC units will also comply with USSTRATCOM-published requirements as
applicable. Do not delay required security upgrades outlined in these instructions for
programmed facility renovations or upgrades.
2.2.12.1. (Added) AFGSC CPs will establish an internal/external 406 MHz ELB notifications
process IAW their unit’s Airfield Operations Instructions (AOI). If a unit does not possess an
Airfield Operating Instruction that covers ELB notifications, CP mangers will develop and
coordinate a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that outlines the ELB notification process
for their respective unit. CP Managers will develop checklists or operating instructions IAW
with their unit’s AOI or MOU and ensure that the AFRCC has current contact information for
the command post. CP, must also ensure that a current list of agencies (aircraft maintenance and
survival equipment shops) that can assist in tracking an ELB on the military installation is on file
within the command post. These agencies typically have hand held radios that can assist
tracking an ELB on frequency 243.0 UHF and/or 121.5 VHF.
2.2.15. (Added) Manage and schedule unit personnel requirements for C2 related courses:
1. ACC Managed CP Managers Course (For CP OICs and Superintendents)
2. AF Training Managers Course
3. Joint Nuclear Command and Control (JNC2) Course
4. ACC Managed Wing SORTS Managers Course
5. Aircrew Command and Control Principles Training Managers Course
6. ACES Course
7. Theater Mobility Command and Control (TMC2) Course
Any class date changes must be approved by HQ AFGSC/A3CP.
2.2.16. (Added) Units must have a viable plan to operate during limited and complete
communications outages to include a means to receive FLASH and IMMEDIATE message
traffic.
2.3.5. (Added) Submit TDY manning assistance requests signed by the wing commander to
HQAFGSC/A3C via e-mail AFGSCA3Cworkflow@barksdale.af.mil. Requests will include
current/projected manning, justification for TDY manning assistance and unit funding
information.
2.3.12. The AFGSC CP annual awards program is covered in Chapter 15 (Added), Annual
Awards, of this supplement.
2.3.13. (Added) Act as HQ AFGSC point of contact (POC)/liaison with the Air Force Career
Field Manager for all C2 related issues (see para 2.2.6 of this supplement).
2.3.14. (Added) Represent the AFGSC 1C3X1/C2 community at the Utilization & Training
Workshop; provide input and attend other MAJCOM-sponsored C2 conferences and forums.
2.3.15. (Added) The AFGSC 1C3 FM is assigned to the AFGSC/A3C.
2.4.8. (Added) The AFGSC Command Center serves as the focal point for continuous voice
connectivity with assigned NAFs/War Fighting Headquarters (WFHQ) and unit CPs. Official
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                          5

written correspondence between the Command Center and outside agencies will be IAW
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications.
2.4.9. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3C will coordinate with A5PO to ensure the COOP-AFGSC (S)
establishes a viable command center alternate facility that is available and equipped. A
geographically separated location will be identified in the event C2 operations from the alternate
location are not possible.
2.4.10. (Added) The AFGSC Command Center will develop and maintain standardized
emergency action (EA) procedures (EAP), quick reaction checklists (QRC), and Operating
Instructions (OI), in support of Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), and US Strategic
Command (USSTRATCOM).
2.4.11. (Added) The AFGSC Command Center will support the AFGSC IG and Policy and
Procedures Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) team with dissemination of exercise emergency action
message (EAM) traffic.
2.4.12. (Added) Outstanding personnel from AFGSC unit CPs and AFGSC Command Center
may augment the AFGSC/A3CP as members of the Staff Assistance Visit team.
2.5.1. (Added) Receive a CP orientation briefing from the CP Chief/Superintendent within 60
days of assumption of command. As a minimum, the briefing will contain: core mission
requirements, reporting procedures, notification process, manning structure, and an introduction
of current CP personnel.
2.5.2. Installations with air component command responsibilities or WFHQ will provide HQ
AFGSC/A3C a copy of agreements established between the CP and tenant unit(s).
2.5.6. Ensure EA formats contain local requirements to execute higher headquarters directed
actions IAW applicable EAP(s). Forward a copy of Emergency Action Checklists (EAC) to HQ
AFGSC/A3C for review prior to implementation.
2.5.9. Ensure all units, including tenant units, provide the CP with current recall rosters. Recall
rosters will not be older than 3 months and must contain proper classification markings and full
privacy act statements. Alpha rosters may be maintained in lieu of recall rosters but must meet
the same currency and identification marking requirements as recall rosters. Ensure all rosters
containing privacy act information are protected IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
2.5.11.1. (Added) As mission dictates, evaluate and certify EA controllers for the Nuclear
Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP) IAW DoD 5210.42-R, Department of Defense
Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program Regulation (PRP); and DODR
5210.42_AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP). Further
guidance regarding EA certification at USSTRATCOM-committed units can be found in
Paragraphs 3.3.1. through 3.3.3 of this supplement.
2.5.11.2. (Added) If appropriate, grant interim security clearances based on the requirements in
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management. If the commander does not elect to
grant interim clearance(s), ensure personnel only have access to information equivalent to their
highest eligibility. A current list of those personnel with interim clearance, limited access to
information or removed from access shall be placed in the Controller Information File (CIF) and
in a viewable area where such material is kept. Remove personnel from the CP if access
6                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

restriction cannot be assured. Clearance requirements for access to Communications Security
(COMSEC) is covered in AFI 33-201, Volume 2, COMSEC User Requirements.
2.5.12. For AFGSC 406 MHz ELB alert message policy, refer to Para 2.2.12.1. of this
supplement.
2.5.16. (Added) Ensure local instructions and plans that affect CP personnel or resources are
properly coordinated with CP managers prior to publishing.
2.6. CP managers are defined as personnel with the duty title CP Chief, Superintendent,
Operations Officer, Deputy CP Chief, AOC NCOIC, etc. Conversion to civilian positions IS
NOT authorized. Final waiver authority rests with the AFGSC AFSC 1C3 FM.
2.6.3. Ensure CP training managers provide required information to the unit training manager
(reference AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program--On the Job Training
Administration). Units are required to maintain the results of the latest base OJT training
manager inspection.
2.6.3. If either the Training Manger or alternate is absent from duty for an extended amount of
time (exceeding 45 days), subsequent alternate training manger, must be appointed.
2.6.8. The Security Manager will be responsible for the following programs:
2.6.8.1. (Added) Operations Security (OPSEC) Manager (Reference AFI 10-701, Operations
Security [OPSEC]).
2.6.8.2. (Added) Personnel, Physical and Information Security Manager (reference AFI 31-101,
AFI 31-401 and AFI 31-501).
2.6.8.3. (Added) Information Systems Security Officer (performed by CSA if one is authorized
per AFMS 135A, Command Post Air Force Manpower Standard, or provided by lateral agency
support).
2.6.11. Appoint a CP/command center self-inspection program manager in writing. Self-
inspections will be conducted semi-annually utilizing Self-inspection Checklists. CP Managers
will document and track all open and closed items in a MFR or other inspection tracking
mechanism. Self-inspection documentation will be retained for one year.
2.6.13 (Added) At a minimum, CP Managers must project funding for the following: TDY costs
for required training (SORTS personnel, Training Managers, and CP Managers training),
conferences (MAJCOM and Worldwide C2 conferences), equipment sustainment, future
equipment requirements, and basic CP supplies. Reference para 2.2.5 of this supplement.
2.6.16. (Added) Submit AFGSC CP monthly manning reports IAW Attachment 1 of this
supplement.
2.6.23. (Added) Develop written procedures to activate, staff, deactivate, and maintain the ACP.
2.6.24. (Added) Establish a Top Secret Control Account (TSCA) and appoint a Top Secret
Control Officer (TSCO) IAW AFI 31-401.
2.6.25. (Added) Ensure primary and alternate personnel are appointed and trained to manage any
additional essential programs IAW applicable governing directives. All program managers must
develop and document continuity procedures/guidance for each program.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                          7

2.6.26. (Added) Establish an Air Force Knowledge Now (AFKN) account and become a member
of the AFGSC C2 Community of Practice (CoP). Coordinate with HQ AFGSC/A3CP to ensure
appropriate personnel are granted privileges to restricted unit folders. Submit waiver requests,
memorandums of agreement, etc. via the AFGSC C2 CoP. Additionally, AFGSC C2 CIFs, the
AFGSC Master Training Plan (MTP), and other valuable tools are available on the AFGSC C2
CoP.
3.1.1. The AFGSC Command Center is a 24-hour operating agency and is staffed by two
certified controllers. Every effort will be made to man the Command Center with nuclear
experienced personnel in the ranks of SSgt or above. When manning dictates, the Command
Center may be staffed with personnel in the rank of senior airman (SrA). The AFGSC
Command Center will have no more than two SrA assigned.
3.1.3. (Added) CP Managers will send a copy of the interview documentation to HQ
AFGSC/A3CP via e-mail. All interviews will be reviewed by the AFGSC 1C3 FAM and
forwarded to the CFM.
3.1.4.2. (Added) AFGSC CP Chief must work a minimum of two full console shifts (eight or
twelve hours) per month to maintain console proficiency.
3.1.5.2. (Added) AFGSC CP Superintendent must work a minimum of two full console shifts
(eight or twelve hours) per month to maintain console proficiency.
3.1.7. Primary and alternate training manager must complete: the Air Force Training Course
IAW AFI 36-2201V3 prior to assuming position and the AF Training Managers Course within 6
months of appointment.
3.1.8. (Added) If a civilian functions as the SORTS Program Manager, and the CPD does not
specify operational reporting duties, a separate NCOIC of Reports will be appointed for the
Reports position.
3.1.8.1. (Added) Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) Program Manager. The
SORTS Program Manager must possess a primary Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 1C351; 7-
level desired. The primary and alternate(s) will be trained IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources
and Training System, AFGSC Sup 1 to AFI 10-201, the Master Training Plan (MTP) and Unit
Training Plan (UTP). SORTS reporting will be IAW AFI 10-201.
3.1.8.2. (Added) If certified in Command and Control Operations (C2OP) and/or EA, the SORTS
Program Manager and alternate(s) will be trained and certified IAW AFI 10-207, chapter 7 and
will perform a minimum of two console shifts per month to maintain proficiency.
3.1.10.1. Identify 5-level personnel (SrA and above) filling senior controller position on monthly
manning report. Requests to temporarily deviate from prescribed senior controller rank/skill
level requirements will be approved in writing by the wing commander or vice commander prior
to submitting waiver request to HQ AFGSC/A3C for Air Force Operations Group (AF/A3O-
AO) final approval. An example of when a waiver request must be submitted is units requesting
to fill the senior controller position with a 3-level master sergeant.
3.1.10.2.1. Due to AFGSC mission requirements, single controller waivers will not be approved.
3.1.10.4. Replacement controllers are required if an on duty controller must leave the CP facility
(i.e., illness, injury, family emergency, etc). Immediate recall of a replacement controller is
defined as contact within 5 minutes and present for duty within 30 minutes.
8                                            AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

3.1.10.4.1. Command Post Chiefs and Superintendents must strive to provide exercise equipment
within the CP facility. ONLY command post with exercise equipment may offer controllers on
shift breaks from console in order to exercise. Under no circumstances will the console be
unmanned.
3.1.10.4.1.1. Command Posts with exercise equipment within the confines of the CP, may allow
controller breaks when mission allows. Immediate recall for a controller performing physical
fitness activities IAW 3.1.10.4.1. of this supplement is defined as 5 minutes.
3.1.11. (Added) Prior to being appointed CP Functional Area Managers, NCOICs, or alternates,
1C3X1 Controller Training Outline(s) must be signed off by the trainer, CP Chief, and/or
Superintendent (as applicable) IAW the Master Task Listing (MTL).
3.2.3. (Added) Refer to AFI 36-2101, Chapter 4, for instructions to withdrawal from AFSC due
to revocation of security clearance or documented substandard duty performance.
3.2.4. (Added) AFGSC Command Center/CP managers must ensure their Force Support
Squadron is notified immediately if inbound personnel arrive without the appropriate security
access requirements for PCS according to AFI 36-2110, Assignments, paragraph 2.54. See
DoDR 5210.42_AFMAN 10-3902 for errors involving PRP.
3.3. Additional Qualifications. AFGSC CPs tasked to support STRAT/Emergency War Order
(EWO) must meet requirements outlined in DoD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program;
applicable USSTRATCOM EAP volume; AFI 10-1102, Safeguarding the Single Integrated
Operational Plan (SIOP), and DoDR 5210.42_AFMAN 10-3902; prior to access to EWO
information. Personnel will obtain and maintain PRP certification if applicable.
3.3.1. (Added) A CP controller must have the following actions completed prior to start of the
STRAT/EWO portion of EA training:
3.3.1.1. (Added) Final Top Secret (DCID 6/4) clearance adjudicated by Air Force Central
Adjudication Facility (AFCAF) or been granted an interim Top Secret by the wing commander
or designated alternate.
3.3.1.2. (Added) PRP actions initiated by PRP certifying official, when mission requires PRP.
3.3.2. (Added) A CP controller must a have a Final Top Secret (DCID 6/4) clearance
adjudicated by AFCAF before being granted formal Nuclear Command and Control-Extremely
Sensitive Information (NC2-ESI) Cat C access by the wing commander or designated alternate.
3.3.3. (Added) The following must be completed prior to formal EA certification by the wing
commander or designated alternate:
3.3.3.1. (Added) All STRAT/EWO training requirements accomplished and signed off.
3.3.3.2. (Added) Successfully pass all required STRAT/EWO open-book and closed-book
written examinations and performance evaluations.
3.3.3.3. (Added) Final Top Secret (DCID 6/4) clearance adjudicated by AFCAF.
3.3.3.4. (Added) Formal NC2-ESI Cat C access granted by the wing commander or designated
alternate.
3.3.3.5. (Added) Nuclear Surety Training, when mission requires PRP.
3.3.3.6. (Added) Formal PRP certification, when mission requires.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                        9

3.3.3.7 (Added) JNC2 Course
3.3.4. (Added) The PRP monitor (if assigned) will attend unit and wing PRP meetings. If this
additional duty is assigned to a full-time console worker, a replacement will be identified in
advance to ensure attendance/representation at meetings.
3.4.3. (Added) All AFGSC CP controllers are restricted from alcohol consumption within 8
hours preceding a scheduled shift. Local policy must address controller alcohol consumption
during increased ops tempo/contingency.
3.4.10. (Added) Duty schedules may be maintained electronically.
3.4.11. (Added) CP Managers must work a minimum of two full console shifts (eight or twelve
hours) per month to maintain console proficiency refer to para. 3.1.4.2. and 3.1.5.2. of this
supplement.
3.5.6.6. Use “MULTI” for controllers certified in both C2OP and EA.
3.5.6.11. (Added) Purpose/Submission Instructions. The CP Manning (CPMAN) report provides
the AFGSC 1C3X1 FM with current and projected manning status. It is a valuable tool that
assists in determining future manning and tasking priorities. OPR for CPMAN is AFGSC
1C3X1 FM. The CPMAN is submitted by all AFGSC CPs. Reports will be unclassified and
submitted directly to the AFGSC 1C3 FM via AFGSC/A3C workflow. See Attachment 1 of this
supplement for CPMAN report format.
3.5.6.11.1. (Added) CPMAN subject line will read: "(Unit) Command Post Manning Report--
Mon Yr."
3.5.6.11.2. (Added) Maintain 1 year on file IAW AF Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) (current month plus 11 months).
3.5.6.11.3. (Added) Reports are due NLT close of business on the fifth duty day of each month.
When significant changes requiring HHQ involvement occur (i.e. inbounds drop), notify AFGSC
1C3 FM by phone or email as soon as possible. Indicate significant changes since the last report
with an asterisk (*) preceding the individual’s name ( i.e. PRP Temporary or Permanent
decertification).
3.5.6.11.3. (Added) CP Managers will utilize the CPMAN format provided in Attachment 1. In
the PRP column ensure the following codes are utilized, AWAT for awaiting certification, CERT
for certified, SUSP for suspended, TEMP for temporary decertification, PERM for permanent
decertification. If an individual has any code other than CERT a remark is required in SECTION
III: REMARKS, of the CPMAN.
3.5.7. (Added) Command Post AEF Schedule. The AEF schedule contains data that aids the
AFGSC 1C3X1 FM and HQ AFGSC 1C3 Contingency Manpower Manager in sourcing AEF
requirements. The HQ AFGSC 1C3 Contingency Manpower Manger will provide the AEF
schedule and instructions for completion on the AFKN AFGSC C2 CoP. The AEF schedule will
be submitted monthly as an attachment to the manning report.
3.6. (Added) Manning Assistance. Submit request via e-mail through the unit commander and
group commander to AFPC/DPAPP, and provide an information copy to the AFGSC 1C3X1
functional manager. The requesting unit is responsible for funding manning assistance TDYs.
The message must include the unit, inclusive dates of the TDY, fund-cite, justification, and any
10                                            AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

special requirements (e.g., member must have qualifications to be granted access to special
access programs, be PRP certifiable, weapons qualification, etc.). CP Managers must forecast
manning assists when dealing with PRP billets to provide sufficient lead time to enable PRP
transfer actions IAW DoDR 5210.42_AFMAN 10-3902.
3.7. (Added) AFGSC C2 Courses are as follows:
1. ACC Managed CP Managers Course (For CP OICs and Superintendents)
2. AF Training Managers Course
3. Joint Nuclear Command and Control (JNC2) Course
4. ACC Managed Wing SORTS Managers Course
5. 8010 Course
6. Arms Control Enterprise System (ACES) Course
7. Theater Mobility Command and Control (TMC2) Course
3.7.1. (Added) Reservations. HQ AFGSC publishes a yearly course schedule prior to each fiscal
year and distributes it to units. Units may also go to the AFKN AFGSC C2 CoP website.
Reservations are on a first-come, first-served basis. Complete the Formal Request Worksheet
located on the AFKN AFGSC C2 CoP and submit to HQ AFGSC/A3C to request a course.
3.7.2.1. (Added) HAF or Treaty budgets fund TDYs for the following:
ACES, TMC2, JNC2, AF CP Training Managers Course
3.7.2.2. ACES Course is a requirement for all AFGSC ACES system administrator(s) when the
unit has a commitment to START. This course must be scheduled within 90 days of
appointment and completed within 6 months of assignment to their position.
3.7.2.3. TMC2 Course is a requirement for all controllers deploying on an AEF tasking who have
not had the course within the last year. The course must be completed prior to the AEF
deployment.
3.7.2.4. JNC2 Course is a requirement for all AFGSC units. Controllers must attend prior to
certification (within 120 days).
3.7.2.5. AF CP Training Managers Course is a requirement for all AFGSC training managers.
This course must be scheduled within 90 days of appointment and completed within 6 months of
assignment to their position.
3.7.2.6. (Added) ACC's CP Manager Course is a requirement for all AFGSC CP OICs and
Superintendents with less than 5 years experience in the 1C3X1 career field. Units should
coordinate with AFGSC C2 Policy and Procedures Branch to schedule inbounds as an en-route
TDY whenever possible. All OICs and Superintendents who require the course and are not able
to attend en-route must attend within 6 months of assignment to their position. This is a unit
funded TDY.
3.7.2.6.1 A copy of the course completion will be located either in the 623 or CTO.
3.7.2.7. (Added) ACC's Wing SORTS Manager Course is a requirement for all primary and
alternate AFGSC CP SORTS Managers. Units should coordinate with AFGSC C2 Policy and
Procedures Branch to schedule members for this course. Primary and alternate reports managers
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                           11

without prior SORTS and reports experience will attend the SORTS/reports course within 6
months of assignment to the position. This is a unit funded TDY. Note: refer to AFI 10-201 and
AFGSC Supplement for additional wing SORTS training requirements and unit monitor training
requirements.
3.7.2.8. (Added) When AFGSC C2 Policy and Procedures is unable to provide a course date
within the required time frame, units will create a memorandum for record and maintain in the
623 or CTO.
3.7.3. (Added) Security Clearance Requirement. Personnel attending the Command Post
Management Orientation (CPMO) and SORTS/Reports courses must have final Secret clearance
prior to attendance.
3.7.4. (Added) Waivers justifying personnel not attending the required courses must be
submitted to HQ AFGSC/A3C for approval. Approval will be on a case-by-case basis.
3.7.5. (Added) The CP chief/superintendent are encouraged to attend the SORTS/reports and the
AF trainer's courses to become familiar with AFGSC specific requirements. Attendance and
funding will be handled on a case-by-case basis dependent on funding and seat availability.
3.7.6. (Added) For AFRC units, the CPMO and SORTS/reports course is encouraged but not
mandatory. Attendance for these courses will be unit funded.
4.1.9.7. (Added) If deemed necessary by the installation commander, AFGSC CPs may be given
receive capability on the primary crash net.
4.1.10. Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS) (e.g., Giant Voice, Network
Alerting System, Mass Telephone Notification System, Emergency Mass Notification System,
etc.) test will be conducted at least weekly and results will be documented in the daily events log.
Each independent INWS system will be tested at least monthly.
4.1.11. (Added) Ensure accurate and timely submission of operational reportable incidents IAW
AFI 10-206 and AFGSC Supplement.
4.1.12. (Added) Ensure processing of incoming and outgoing messages.
4.1.13. (Added) All units with an Aircrew Alerting Communication EMP Console (AACE)
system will perform a weekly klaxon and Tactical Aircrew Alerting Network (TAAN) pager
check. Results of these tests will be documented in the CP daily events log.
4.2.7. (Added) Provide operational reports training IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting,
and the AFGSC supplement. Personnel requiring training include, but are not limited to wing
commander, vice wing commander, group commanders, tenant unit commanders, and first
sergeants. NCOIC, Reports will work closely with the NCOIC, Training to incorporate
initial/recurring/refresher OPREP-3 training into the annual training plan for C2OP personnel.
4.2.8. (Added) Assist the CP chief/superintendent in coordinating written agreements covering
detailed reporting procedures and authority with tenant units. Agreements must be developed
IAW AFI 25-201, Support Agreement Procedures. Also see AFI 10-207, paragraph 1.4, AFI 10-
201, Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), and AFI 10-206.
4.3.1. Although the training function manages and conducts controller training, it is usually not
practical or desirable for the training function to be the sole trainers for assigned personnel. Task
trainers from all functional areas must contribute to the continuous training process.
12                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

4.3.5. (Added) Coordinating with security manager and, if applicable, PRP monitor to verify
trainee clearance eligibility upon assignment to installation. This coordination must take place
prior to entering the trainee into training involving classified information and prior to
certification. Prior to certification, find out whether the controller needs final or interim TS to
continue.
4.3.6. (Added) Monitoring training status of all assigned personnel and providing the base
training office training status code and Career Development Course progression updates. See
AFI 36-2201V3 for additional information concerning your role and responsibilities to the unit
training program.
4.3.7. (Added) Training NCOIC will ensure others involved in the training process (trainee,
trainer, certifier, supervisor, and superintendent/OIC) accomplish required training-related
documentation as training occurs.
4.4.14. (Added) Systems function personnel will, as a minimum, be formally appointed as:
4.4.14.1. (Added) TBMCS Manager as applicable.
4.4.14.2. (Added) Global Command and Control System (GCCS) Automated Data Processing
Terminal Area Security Officer (if applicable).
4.4.14.3. (Added) START Tracking and ACES system administrator (for units with START
reporting requirements) Reference AFMAN 16-602, STARS User Manual and STARS workbook
for system administrator/assistant system administrator responsibilities and training
requirements.
4.4.14.4. (Added) Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS) administrators.
4.4.15. (Added) Systems Function personnel ensure CP has all required communications systems
by being appointed:
4.4.15.1. (Added) Equipment Custodian (Reference AFI 23-111, Management of Government
Property in Possession of the Air Force).
4.4.15.2. (Added) Automated Data Processing Equipment Manager (performed by CSA if
authorized per AFMS 135A or provided by lateral agency support).
4.6. (Added) Knowledge Management (KM). KM is everyone's responsibility. If assigned, the
information manager will be responsible for CSA, records management, publications library, and
other administrative duties deemed necessary by the CP chief. If a knowledge manager is not
assigned, CP managers will ensure these functions are managed appropriately within the CP.
4.7. (Added) Records Management. All records created, regardless of media, are official
government records that must be preserved and disposed of according to Air Force RDS located
at the Air Force Portal link. It is the records manager’s responsibility to ensure records are
managed IAW Air Force guidelines. These procedures apply to all electronic records systems,
whether on desktop or server computers, in networked or stand-alone configurations, regardless
of storage media. All electronic records are maintained according to the requirements of
AFMAN 33-363. Records managers will as a minimum:
4.7.1. (Added) Develop file plans IAW applicable governing directives. Include structure of
shared electronic file systems.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                           13

4.7.2. (Added) Identify the proper retention and disposition requirements for records created and
maintained in electronic file systems.
4.7.3. (Added) Establish common file naming conventions, especially where official records are
on networks or common systems and software are used.
4.7.4. (Added) Verify file security settings to limit file access to those individuals with a need to
know while preserving document integrity.
4.7.5. (Added) Coordinate information management across CP functional areas.
4.7.6. (Added) Facilitate the management and distribution of information to users.
5.1.1. (Added) The library will contain printed copies of frequently used publications pertinent to
C2 operations and the base mission. Other required publications may be maintained
electronically (CD-ROM, LAN, etc.). The Publications Library must be reviewed on a semi-
annual basis and documented on a MFR to ensure currency of material and to identify new
requirements.
5.1.2. (Added) Location of Publications. In addition to electronic copies of the pubs library,
some instructions must be kept in printed form. The minimum hardcopy instructions that must be
available within the EA Cell are listed below:
5.1.2.1. (Added) Emergency Action Procedures -- HQ USAF (as required).
5.1.2.2. (Added) Emergency Action Procedures -- USJFCOM (as required).
5.1.2.3. (Added) Emergency Action Procedures – USSTRATCOM, (volumes as applicable).
5.1.2.4. (Added) STRATCOM Instruction (SI) 501-14
5.1.2.5. (Added) CJCS EAP Vol VII, Nuclear Reporting (NEREP)
5.1.2.5. (Added) AFI 10-206 (including supplements of all supported MAJCOMs).
5.2.1.1. (Added) CP OIs are used to announce policies, assign responsibilities, direct actions and
prescribe procedures within the CP in response to critical and/or recurring situations. AFGSC CP
OIs should contain complete procedures to accomplish specific actions of a given task and
reference all source material. If a checklist can prescribe all actions, an OI is not required.
Mandatory semi-annual reviews of OIs by CP Managers will be officially annotated on a MFR
that includes the name, rank and position of person performing review, and will also include the
date and results of the review. If there were no issues with the review, the term "no further
action required" should be placed in this section/block. However, if there is an issue or there are
follow-up actions required, explanatory remarks and/or references are not optional. The OI
review MFR will be located on the first page of the applicable OI binder. CP Managers must
ensure the appropriate level of oversight and attention is given to this area of operations.
5.2.1.2. (Added) A current and complete set of CP OIs will be maintained in the CP console area.
5.2.3.1. (Added) Incoming/outgoing message handling will be covered in this OI. Procedures
will include message acknowledgements, filing and handling priorities.
5.2.3.11. Also include guidance for PNAF missions.
5.3.2.2.7. Upcoming events will cover, at a minimm, from start of shift through the next 24
hours, and must be briefed during shift changeover.
14                                              AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

5.3.2.2.13. (Added) Local Flying Activities. Cover local flying activities, to include a brief
summary of the daily schedule and current status (e.g., airborne sorties, mission delays, and
cancellations).
5.3.2.2.14. (Added) Communications and Information Systems Status. Provide network and/or
system status of all required systems and applications listed in AFI 10-207 and this supplement.
Additionally, if used, provide status on Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System,
Predator feeds, Global Combat Support System (GCSS), Air Traffic Control and Landing
Systems, and any Tier 1 communications support (to include Blackberry).
5.3.3.1. Electronic QRCs are authorized provided proper checklist markings can be made real
time.
5.3.3.3.3. Contact numbers may be on a consolidated listing or on individual QRCs. If a
consolidated list is used, it must be completely visible, without controllers having to repeatedly
turn pages to view the numbers. Such actions would impede timely notification. Recall/standby
rosters may also be used but procedures must be developed to ensure no delays in notifications
when using these rosters.
5.3.3.3.4. Do not add OPREP-3 voice and record report formats to QRCs. Formats should be
located in the reports book.
5.3.3.3.6.5. (Added) QRCs should list specific references used to develop the checklist and date
of development or latest change.
5.3.3.3.6.6. (Added) Predetermined QRCs requiring accomplishment by two controllers will be
constructed in a manner that eliminates potential confusion by the controller team (i.e.,
predetermine which steps will be completed by the senior controller versus the deputy/junior
controller). This locally developed method, if used, will be standardized throughout the QRCs.
5.3.4. (Added) Additional QRCs for AFGSC CPs will be developed IAW a unit’s local base
plans. Mandatory QRC references must be based on AFIs, OIs, OPLANS, and directives. “Local
Procedures” in the source reference block will not suffice.
5.4. CP Daily Events Log. Use of a locally developed electronic log is permitted provided the
log mirrors the format of the AF Form 4377, Events Log, and meets all other requirements of
AFI 10-207 and this supplement.
5.4.3. These events include (but are not limited to):
5.4.3.1. (Added) All security incident reports and actions taken.
5.4.3.2. (Added) All nuclear communication systems status reports and actions taken.
5.4.3.3. (Added) All nuclear forces tasks received and actions taken.
5.4.4. When referencing messages, enter the message classification followed by the complete
date-time group and originator. Classify logs with the appropriate classification as required.
Document time of receipt and acknowledgement.
5.4.4.1. (Added) Encoded messages will be logged by the preamble.
5.4.7. Log entries will note QRC used and action taken, including who, what, when, where, and
why of situations.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                       15

5.4.12. (Added) Further changes cannot be made to a document once a log is closed and initialed
by the CP managers. Corrections required will be made on the open log with reference to the
previous entry. Pen and ink changes for minor errors (i.e., spelling) are permitted. Ensure
controller making changes initials the change.
5.4.13. (Added) Every effort should be taken to keep logs unclassified; however, ensure all
required security classification markings are made and logs are properly controlled if classified
entries are made. Units maintaining event logs on Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
(NIPRNET)-connected computers will establish procedures to maintain classified log entries on
a SIPRNET or otherwise isolated/secured computer and cross-reference classified events to
ensure continuity.
5.4.14. (Added) All events logs will be retained for 3 months IAW the Air Force RDS.
5.5. Reports Guidebook. AFGSC units will develop and maintain a Strategic Force Accounting
reports guide, separate from the Reports guide book, IAW with procedures in STRATCOM
Instruction (SI) 501-14, (S) Strategic Force Accounting Procedures (U). The Strategic Force
Accounting reports guide will contain a current listing of standard addresses, step-by-step
procedures to ensure reports are properly formatted, instructions for submitting all reports
applicable to the unit’s mission, alternate reporting procedures during degraded communications,
and current deviation cause code listings, in addition to the requirements listed in SI 501-14.
Additionally, units will prepare a Nuclear Execution Reporting (NEREP) guide IAW EAP-
CJCS, Volume VII, EAM Dissemination and NEREP Procedures (U) and EAP-CJCS Volume
VII Annex A, Nuclear Execution Reporting (NEREP) (U). The NEREP guide will contain step-
by-step procedures for ensuring reports are properly formatted and contain instructions for
submission over non-secure voice, non-secure data via , Military Strategic Tactical Relay
(MILSTAR)- Ultra High Frequency (UHF) (i.e., AACE) and secure data via MILSTAR-
Extremely High Frequency (EHF) (i.e., Single Channel Anti-Jam Man Portable [SCAMP]).
Units will review, update and document review of report guides at least annually or when
changes to EAP-CJCS, Volume VII and Volume VII Annex A occur.
5.6.9.3. Program Administration. The AFGSC C2CIF program facilitates the dissemination of
important and time sensitive information affecting C2 operations. CP Managers must ensure that
policies and procedures are instituted in order to properly receive, process, and implement
procedures directed via the C2CIF program. All AFGSC Command and Control Controller
Information File (C2CIF) messages will be posted on the AFKN AFGSC C2 CoP
(https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/AFGSCC2). AFGSC Command Center will
announce posting of all C2CIFs to your CP organizational inbox. The on-duty controller will
notify their CP manager(s) of the C2CIF.
5.7.1. This includes local flying, cross country flights, location of off-station aircraft, and
transient missions (as applicable).
5.7.9. (Added) Navigational Aid Status (as applicable).
5.7.10. (Added) Base/Airfield Grid map (as applicable).
5.8.3. (Added) Written procedures must be in place to ensure relocation QRC(s) provide for
timely relocation of personnel and materials. Procedures will include relocation from primary,
activation and set-up procedures at alternate location, tear-down and deactivation procedures for
alternate location, and relocation to primary facility. Procedures must be sufficient to minimize
16                                            AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

interruption of C2 operations and clearly identify items for "stow-and-go", items controller(s)
must relocate, and pre-positioned items already available at the alternate facility. Ensure
operational voice reporting procedures are in place and allow for immediate up-channeling of
time critical nuclear related information directly to the National Military Command Center from
the primary and alternate CP during normal and degraded communications. Reference AFI 10-
207, Paragraph 9.6 for additional requirements.
5.8.4. (Added) CP Managers will ensure operating procedures are developed and approved by
base civil engineering when the emergency power generator requires input from CP personnel or
remote controls are located within the CP.
6.1. AFGSC CP mission management is significantly smaller than that of our AMC counterparts;
however, because mission management is a CP core competency, it is vital to C2 as a whole that
AFGSC CPs develop and maintain robust mission management training standards and operations
continuity. A sustained mission management systems competency is crucial to the overall AF
mission success and must be given the appropriate degree of attention by CP Managers as the
career field adapts to C2 mission consolidation/evolution. Essential mission monitoring systems
(i.e. GDSS, TBMCS) must be procured and/or utilized, regardless of existing unit mission
requirements. Each AFGSC CP holds a stake in the success of AFGSC and AF airlift operations
through the direct mission management support provided to transient, assigned, and deployed
aircraft missions despite operations demand.
6.1.1. (Added) The CP will report status of assets IAW SI 501-14 via SIPRNET on Force
Status/Readiness (FSR) Reporting outlined in the FSR User Guide.
6.1.4.2. (Added) CP managers will establish procedures to ensure transient crews receive the best
possible service consistent with current manning and operations. AFGSC CPs are not manned to
allow controllers to meet crews at the aircraft, but will make every effort to support transient
crew requests. Each CP will establish a Transient Program operating instruction and maintain
the capability to assist and support aircrew at the CP as needed.
6.4 AFGSC CPs will maintain the appropriate level of situational awareness necessary to
anticipate potential support requirements for those special missions transiting, or missions that
may have the potential of transiting their installation. Support requirements do not change even
if the mission is not AFGSC owned. At a minimum, progress reports and status updates to
higher headquarters and senior staff will be required. Real-time mission movement reporting
requirements may be required; therefore, CP controllers should utilize existing mission
management systems, and engage theater C2 nodes/support agencies necessary to gather
adequate operational data in order to remain informed.
7.1.5. Task trainers will be designated IAW AFI 36-2201V3. Maintain Air Force Trainers
Course certificates in Section 6 of the Training and Certification Binder.
7.1.6.1. (Added) The review will be conducted every 30 days for all personnel in upgrade
training to 5- or 7-skill level. Document reviews for personnel in upgrade training on the AF
Form 623A, On-the-job Training Record--Continuation Sheet.
7.1.6.2. (Added) CP chief or superintendent will conduct a review on controllers in
initial/refresher training after each task section in the Controller Training Outline (CTO) has
been successfully completed. CP Chief/Superintendent will document progress, weaknesses,
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                       17

strengths, and concerns in the controller’s AF Form 623A, On-the-job Training Record—
Continuation Sheet, as well as initial off in the controller CTO.
7.3.3.2. Deleting/Modifying MAJCOM MTL tasks: Submit deletion or modification requests to
HQ AFGSC/A3CT via the AFGSC/A3CT workflow for approval prior to implementation.
7.3.4.2. Deleting/Modifying MAJCOM ATP tasks: Submit deletion or modification requests to
HQ AFGSC/A3CT via the AFGSC/A3CT workflow for approval prior to implementation.
7.3.4.3. (Added) The Annual Training Plan (ATP) will be reviewed/signed by CP/command
center leadership annually.
7.3.5.2. Deleting/Modifying MAJCOM POI tasks: Submit deletion or modification requests to
HQ AFGSC/A3CT via the AFGSC/A3CT workflow for approval prior to implementation.
7.3.7. CTO. Units will create separate initial/refresher CTOs. CTOs will be categorized in 6
different areas: Initial, Refresher, Refresher – Deployment, Training Manager, Reports Manager
(Includes both SORTS and OPREP-3 managers), and Just In Time Training.
7.5.1.4. AFGSC CPs must also meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs 3.3. - 3.3.3. in this
supplement.
7.5.1.5. (Added) Notify HQ AFGSC/A3CT if an individual does not have the appropriate
clearance eligibility to complete training. Training should continue on all tasks commensurate
with the trainee's clearance eligibility and need to know.
7.5.3. Units will submit an extension waiver to HQ AFGSC/A3CT via the AFGSC/A3CT
workflow as soon as possible. Waiver must include, as a minimum, the date arrived station or
the date assigned to CP, the date-entered training, original required certification date,
justification for extension, and estimated certification date.
7.6.1.1. (Added) Provide trainee with an initial controller training outline (CTO) and estimated
completion date. This will assist the trainee, trainer and supervisor to ensure training progress
remains on schedule.
7.6.1.2. (Added) Training manager will conduct an initial evaluation with trainee within 14 days
of entering initial training. Place a statement and any additional remarks/concerns within the AF
Form 623A (E-1 thru E-6) or Memorandum for Record (MFR) in CTO for E-7 and above.
Statement must contain the date entered training, estimated completion date and any foreseen
problems as a minimum.
Example:
SSgt Bird entered initial training on 10 Jan 07 with an estimated completion date of 4 Apr 07. I
have conducted an initial evaluation of the trainees’ qualifications on duty position knowledge
and skills. Based on this evaluation, I do not foresee any problems with SSgt Bird completing
training on time.
7.6.3.1. (Added) Trainees will be evaluated through written examinations (knowledge objectives)
and performance evaluation (performance objectives) after each phase to ensure controller
knowledge/performance meets required standards.
18                                               AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

7.6.3.2. (Added) Phase examinations will consist of a minimum of 25 questions. Phase scenarios
will be a minimum of two situations but no more than five. End of task test or performance
evaluations will meet the same requirements.
7.6.3.3. (Added) The minimum passing score for all written examinations is 90% (critiqued to
100%).
7.6.3.4. (Added) Task/phase written examination/performance evaluation will be documented
and maintained in the CTO.
7.6.3.5. (Added) For a controller in initial training, observation of monthly recurring tests and/or
scenario training/performance evaluation does not fulfill this requirement.                  However,
participation will fulfill the requirement if the tests or scenarios meet training tasks as outlined in
the CTO.
7.6.4. (Added) AFGSC units will meet additional requirements established in EAP-STRAT,
Volume 4, Chapter 1.
7.7.1. (Added) Provide trainee with a CTO and estimated refresher training completion date.
This will assist the trainee, trainer and supervisor to ensure training progress remains on
schedule.
7.7.2. (Added) Training Manager will conduct an initial evaluation with trainee within 14 days of
entering refresher training (Exception: Controllers returning from deployment or extended TDY
do not require an initial evaluation for their refresher training). Place a statement and any
additional remarks/concerns within the AF Form 623A (E-1 thru E-6) or MFR in CTO for E-7
and above. Statement must contain the date entered training, estimated completion date and any
foreseen problems as a minimum.
Example:
SSgt Jordan entered refresher training on 10 Jan 07 with an estimated completion date of 4 Apr
07. I have conducted an initial evaluation of the trainees’ qualifications on duty position
knowledge and skills. Based on this evaluation, I do not foresee any problems with SSgt Jordan
completing training on time.
7.7.3. (Added) Refresher training will be completed and documented in the same manner as
initial training. Trainees will be evaluated through written examinations (knowledge objectives)
and actual scenario accomplishment (performance objectives) after each task and phase to ensure
controller knowledge/performance meets required standards.
7.7.3.1. (Added) Units will create separate initial/refresher written examinations and scenarios.
End of task and phase examinations will consist of a minimum of 25 questions. End of task and
phase scenarios will be a minimum of two situations but no more than five.
7.7.3.2. (Added) The minimum passing score for all written examinations is 90% (critiqued to
100%).
7.7.3.3. (Added) Task/phase written examination/scenario results will be documented on the
CTO.
7.7.3.4. (Added) Controller observation of monthly recurring tests and/or scenario training does
not fulfill this requirement. However, participation will fulfill the requirement if the tests or
scenarios meet training tasks as outlined in the CTO.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                          19

7.8.1.1. CP managers must ensure training meetings focus, at a minimum, on required CP
training objectives based on the ATP. Supplemental training (e.g., identified weak areas that
require attention) may be included provided it is identified on the self-study letter. Time used for
supplemental training, staff meetings or a commander's call (e.g., award presentations, safety
briefings, etc.) does not qualify as formal recurring training. If testing is accomplished during
the training meeting only the critiquing/reviewing of exam questions will meet the requirement;
testing time will not be counted.
7.8.1.2. Meeting minutes are a synopsis of events/briefings and will include the name of each
briefer, topics covered and duration. Minutes must also include controllers absent, reason for
absence, (for Leave or TDY) projected return date, and total duration of the meeting. Post
meeting minutes in the CIF immediately following the training meeting.
7.8.1.4. (Added) Each meeting will be video recorded and maintained for 1 year. Classify the
video in accordance with the meeting content.
7.8.2.2. (Added) Controllers must utilize available time (on and/or off duty) to ensure they
complete all assigned self-study.
7.8.2.3. (Added) Reference specific chapters, annexes, pages and paragraphs to the maximum
extent possible, rather than entire instructions or operational plans for study. This will target
monthly training objectives for controllers.
7.8.3.1.1. The use of AF Form 4373, Consolidated Record of Controller Recurring Training, is
not mandatory; however, if used it must be consistently documented and maintained IAW AFI
10-207 Paragraph 7.11.4.
7.8.3.1.2.1. (Added) Retests will consist of a minimum of three questions from each deficient
MTP/UTP subtask. For retest failures, the CP Chief or Superintendent will conduct personal
review with trainee on areas of weakness and determine if further testing is required. Document
this review on the controller’s AF Form 4372, Record of Controller Recurring Training or AF
Form 623A. No more than one retest per subject will be administered per day.
7.8.3.1.2.2. (Added) Controllers with recurring test failures should be analyzed for potential
reading or testing deficiencies and referred to outside agencies for assistance.
7.8.3.3. Emergency Action Examinations. Separate EA tests will be administered for each
actively supported command. Tests will be critiqued to 100%.
7.8.3.5.1.1. (Added) All performance evaluations will be conducted using a team concept
whenever possible.
7.8.3.5.2.1. (Added) Performance evaluations and training scenarios will be accomplished in a
secure environment away from controllers performing daily console operations and other
distractions. A secure training area must be provided so there is no possibility of an EAM or an
EAM encoded in a training document or any training situational information being transmitted
over a communications system. EA checklists and crew action sheets located at the EA Console
are dedicated resources and will not be used for training exercises or tests. Training checklists,
formats and crew action sheets will parallel the EA material on the console. KTC-165, KTC-221
and KTC-2230 are for classroom training only.
7.8.3.5.2.2. (Added) As a general rule, performance evaluations and training scenarios should not
exceed 3 hours. The performance evaluations/training scenarios should be challenging. Training
20                                              AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

scenarios provide an opportunity to practice important tasks controllers do not accomplish on a
daily basis.
7.8.3.5.3. Maintain the higher headquarters evaluation/local exercise script or injects in place of
the performance evaluation or scenario training script (or in addition to if all objectives were not
met during the exercise). Complete an MFR identifying objectives evaluated/trained if the
scripts/injects are not available.
7.8.3.5.4. The use of AF Form 4373 is not mandatory; however, if used it must be consistently
documented and maintained IAW AFI 10-207 Paragraph 7.11.4.
7.8.3.5.7. (Added) CP/command center performance evaluations/training scenarios will consist
of a minimum of five situations (two for AFRC units). Ensure sessions include at least one EAM
for each supported command. Additionally, units must comply with the performance
evaluation/scenario training requirements in EAP-STRAT, Volume 4, Chapter 1. Additional
contents of the situations will be based on the ATP.
7.8.3.5.7.1. (Added) CP/command center performance evaluations/training scenarios will contain
events that drive controller teams to QRCs, EACs and EWO-related QRCs not normally used.
Scenarios should require controller teams to build and print (but not transmit) reports and
messages transmitted from C2OP (e.g., OPREPs, GENADMIN, EAMs, OPEN SKIES,
ASORTIE, NEREP, etc.).
7.8.3.5.7.2. (Added) Each EA controller will copy and broadcast at least three EAMs and will
complete at least one FSR report representing each type of report required during situation
training. Training personnel will ensure controllers understand the actions driving the different
reports as well as the format, content and submission time requirements.
7.8.3.6. (Added) Written examinations (EA, general knowledge, Two-Person Control),
performance evaluations, and scenario training scripts developed by a single author will be
scored as “100” or “SAT”, as applicable, on the AF Form 4372. In these cases, annotate
“Authored EA test (or applicable product)” in the Remarks section of the controller’s AF Form
4372.
7.9.3.1.1. (Added) Initial/refresher certification examination testing will consist of EAP closed
book examination (25 questions minimum) and an open book general knowledge examination
(25 questions minimum). Units will also comply with certification requirements listed in EAP-
STRAT, Volume 4, Chapter 1 and will be administered an open book STRAT reports test
containing a minimum of 25 questions covering Force Status and STARS reporting.
7.9.3.1.2. (Added) CPs actively supporting multiple MAJCOM EAPs will complete a
certification closed book EA exam for each supported command (15 questions minimum).
7.9.3.2.1. (Added) Initial/refresher certification performance evaluation will include three EAMs,
one OPREP-3 reportable event and relocation of the primary CP. Additionally, units will
comply with certification requirements listed in EAP-STRAT, Volume 4, Chapter 1.
7.9.3.2.2. (Added) CPs supporting Air Sovereignty Alert (NORAD) mission will also include a
minimum of two Quick Reaction Messages within the performance evaluation.
7.9.3.3. (Added) If a failure occurs during certification testing/evaluation, the trainee will obtain
additional training in the areas missed and be re-tested with a different test/evaluation including
the areas previously missed. No more than one retest/reevaluation per subject will be
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                         21

administered per day. This training will be documented on an AF Form 623A. The AF Form
623A for E-7 and above not in retraining status will be filed with the individual’s CTO.
7.10.1. Decertification due to failure to maintain proficiency standards should be accomplished
due to repeated failures or demonstrated inability to perform required tasks. Repeated test failure
is defined as “UNSAT” performance evaluation, below 90% on three consecutive monthly
exams (from the same category), or below 90% on three monthly exams (from the same
category) in 6 month period. Retests do not count as consecutive failures.
7.10.1.1 (Added) Repeated failures must be documented with appropriate LOC/LOR.
7.10.1.2 (Added) A history of poor proficiency may lead to removal from the AFSC ref AFI 36-
2101 Ch 4.
7.10.2. A letter of delegation appointing CP chief for recertification must be on file and signed
by the current wing commander.
7.10.4. (Added) PRP Decertification. Temporary decertification under the PRP does not affect
C2OP or EA certification. Controllers that are temporarily decertified under the PRP may
continue to work console, provided internal CP procedures are developed to ensure (1) the
controller does not work as a single controller, (2) the controller is easily identified as
temporarily PRP decertified (e.g., controller displays temp PRP decert badge while on duty), (3)
the controller does not have access to any information that falls under the PRP, (4) another PRP
controller is on standby and can respond IAW EAP-STRAT, Volume 4, Chapter 1 as required.
Controllers who are permanently decertified under the PRP will be decertified in C2OP and EA.
DO NOT include information related to behavior or incidents causing PRP decertification or
other statements that may be construed as potentially disqualifying information. Place the below
statement in the AF Form 623A (E-1 thru E-6). The AF Form 623A for E-7 and above not in
retraining status will be filed with the individual’s CTO.
Example:
 “(Rank/Name) was decertified in C2OP and EA on (date) due to temporary/permanent
(appropriate) decertification under PRP on (date).”
In the cases of permanent PRP decertification, CP managers will immediately contact the
AFGSC 1C3X1 Function Manager for further guidance and assistance.
7.11.6. (Added) Section VI--General Administrative Correspondence. This section will be used
for:
7.11.6.1. (Added) Training Manager appointment letter
7.11.6.2. (Added) C2 Training Managers Course certificates
7.11.6.3. (Added) AF Trainers Course certificates
7.11.6.4. (Added) Results of latest unit training manager inspection
7.11.6.5. (Added) MFR(s) if applicable
7.11.6.6. (Added) Email communication between higher headquarters if applicable
7.11.6.7. (Added) Waivers if applicable
22                                               AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

7.12.1. During HQ AFGSC/A3C SAVs, a closed book EA test, consisting of 30 questions, will
be administered. A passing score of 90% must be obtained. Controllers not obtaining a passing
score will, at a minimum, be retrained in the deficient areas. Results will be included in the
unit’s final report to the wing and CP leadership.
7.12.3. Actions to be taken by CP managers in the event controllers fail a closed book EA
examination given by HQ AFGSC/IG inspectors during an OPLAN 8010 inspection will be in
accordance with applicable HHQ EAPs.
8.4.1.1. The AFRCC contact information provided in AFI 10-207 para 8.3. must be included on
the following aircraft checklist: Overdue Aircraft, Rescue Operations, Combat Loss of Aircraft,
and other applicable checklists.
8.4.1.2. For non-emergency questions or administrative rescue control questions contact AFRCC
at Tyndall AFB DSN 356-5683/5688.
8.5. (Added) CP Response to 406 MHz Emergency Locator Transmitter/Beacons (ELT/ELB).
The 406 MHz beacon has the capability of providing location and specific identification of the
asset (tail number, type of aircraft, etc.) to rapidly identify and facilitate contact of a 24-hour C2
agency. In the event of an aircraft or personal ELT/ELB activation, the CP must be capable of
determining whether an actual emergency condition exists.
8.5.1. (Added) CP leadership will submit the CP contact information to aircraft maintenance and
life support functions for entry into the DoD Joint Search and Rescue Satellite (SARSAT)
Electronic Tracking System (JSETS) registration database. This information will allow Rescue
Coordination Centers (RCCs) to contact the CP when an alert message is received. Ensure
contact information is verified annually and updated as necessary.
8.5.2. (Added) If a 406 MHz ELT/ELB alert message is received controllers will initiate the
aircraft accountability/overdue aircraft QRC to determine the location of the source beacon IAW
AFI 13-202.
9.1.4. (Added) When provisions of this chapter cannot be met, requests for waivers,
accompanied with supporting rationale, will be forwarded to HQ AFGSC/A3C.
9.3.1.1. (Added) Critical C2 assets (i.e., EA Consoles and GCCS Terminals) must be protected
by an uninterrupted power source with sufficient power to sustain mission critical applications.
9.3.1.2. (Added) CP/command center management will provide written operating procedures
and/or a checklist, to provide details for converting to and from emergency power, when
CP/command center personnel are responsible for operating the emergency power supply. These
checklists/procedures will be validated in writing by appropriate civil engineering personnel
prior to final publication and annually thereafter.
9.3.1.3. (Added) The appropriate civil engineering (CE) division must be notified whenever the
emergency power unit is started so they can reconfigure the unit for further service when the
emergency power unit is no longer needed.
9.3.2. (Added) Emergency lighting for the entire CP/Command Center includes the entrapment
area.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                         23

9.3.3. (Added) Door combinations should also be changed when suspected compromised or
when personnel have their clearance suspended. Also the Chief/OIC/Superintendent will have
the discretion to change the combo for cause as needed.
9.3.7. Ventilation. Areas with critical temperature-sensitive computer systems or equipment will
have air conditioning/heat controls separate from the main command post controls.
9.4.1. EA Cell/Console Area. The CP/center should have basic cable access or satellite reception
capability as a minimum, whichever is least expensive. This capability should be provided to
ensure controllers are able to monitor emerging local and world events. Television must be
Emissions Security certified.
9.4.4.3. (Added) GCCS Terminal Area.           GCCS terminal areas must meet the security
requirements established for this system.
9.4.7.2. Restrooms. Provide separate facilities for men and women when possible. Restrooms
should include a shower area if feasible.
9.4.8. (Added) All secondary entrances and exits will be alarmed to alert security forces when
the doors are opened or tampered with.
9.4.9. (Added) Due to controllers working rotating shifts, when space allows, CPs should have a
workout area for controllers. The fitness facility will be equipped with a telephone with a desired
speaker/PA function. Ref para 3.1.10.4.1.1. of this supplement.
9.5.1. Reproduction/Destruction Equipment. If the CP/center is equipped with only one
copier/shredder and personnel other than controllers require access, they will be located near but
not within the EA cell area. This is to ensure other functional missions collocated with the
CP/center can continue without interrupting or viewing EA cell operations.
9.6. (Added) All AFGSC CPs/Command Centers will have alternate CPs (ACP) or alternate
command center. AFGSC CP/Command Center ACP requirements are outlined IAW AFI 10-
207 paragraphs 2.2.5.1, 2.2.5.2, 2.2.5.3 and sub paragraphs of 9.6.
9.6.1.2. (Added) Once activated, the ACP will be manned continuously by at least two EA-
certified controllers. ACPs in “warm status” are exempt from this requirement until ACP is fully
activated.
NOTE: “Warm status” is defined as one controller bringing the alternate into a functional state
with computers turned on, command post accounts opened and all equipment functionally
9.6.2.4. (Added) AFGSC CP Managers must ensure their alternate CP/Command Center are
activated and tested quarterly. Documentation of the alternate activation will be located in the
events log.
9.6.3. (Added) Minimum equipment required is as follows:
9.6.3.1. (Added) (N/A AFGSC Command Center) UHF Radio.
9.6.3.2. (Added) Two telephone lines with Class A service. One line must be equipped with one-
way (receive) speaker phone capability.
9.6.3.3. (Added) (N/A AFGSC Command Center) Land Mobile Radio (LMR) base station with
two handheld mobile radios.
9.6.3.4. (Added) One cellular phone.
24                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

9.6.3.5. (Added) 2 (ea) NIPRNet/SIPRNet computers capable of receiving classified and
unclassified message traffic.
9.6.3.6. (Added) Two secure voice terminals.
9.6.3.7. (Added) STRAT Unit ACP. STRAT ACPs must meet the same minimum equipment
requirements as a conventional unit. STRAT ACPs should (to the maximum extent possible)
mirror requirements of the primary CP to ensure redundancy of operations and communications.
9.6.3.8. (Added) NORAD Unit ACP. NORAD ACPs must meet the same minimum equipment
requirements as a non-NORAD unit. NORAD ACPs should (to the maximum extent possible)
mirror requirements of the primary CP to ensure redundancy of operations and communications.
Equipment requirements listed in NORAD Instruction (NI) 10-44, Command and Control (C2)
of NORAD Forces, and other applicable NORAD directives must also be met.
9.6.3.9. (Added) NSA approved shredder for destruction of classified documents and COMSEC
material (if the CP only has one shredder, ensure it is approved for destruction of COMSEC
material).
NOTE: Ensure COMSEC approval letter is posted next to shredder.
9.7. (Added) AFGSC CP facility renovations or upgrades must be approved by the installation
commander and be IAW the guidelines outlined in AFI 10-207. A formal notification that
includes details/requirements of AFGSC subordinate unit projected and/or ongoing projects
should be forwarded to the AFGSC 1C3 FAM for headquarters situational awareness.
10.2.1.1.3. Blackberry or cellular phone devices may be used in lieu of LMRs as long as the
device can be used to make multiple notifications simultaneously. AFGSC CPs will maintain the
capability to monitor other base LMR networks (e.g., fire, medical, security, etc.).
10.2.1.1.7. (Added) Telephones. As a minimum, all AFGSC CPs will have direct lines to the
wing commander, Security Forces Law Enforcement Desk, fire department, control tower, base
operations, radar approach control, maintenance operations control, group commander offices,
flying squadron operations, alert facility (if applicable), commander’s senior staff, CAT, mission
director, emergency operations center (EOC), and the alternate CP EA cell. There will be four
administrative telephone lines (with roll-down ringing when busy). Two of the administrative
lines as a minimum must provide direct Defense Switched Network (DSN) access with
Immediate Precedence. Telephone systems will provide controllers the ability to establish preset
conferences. Preset conferencing may be accomplished through the base switch or frame. The
EA cell/Command Center will have at least one secure voice terminal.
10.2.1.1.7. (Added) Communications Recorder. For recording all radio (UHF/VHF) and voice
communications within the CP EA cell with the exception of STU-IIIs or STEs.
10.2.1.1.8. (Added) The AFGSC Command Center will have secure and non-secure (Red and
Black Switch) telephone capability at each controller position and one additional telephone
dedicated to a 1-800 phone number.
10.2.1.1.9. (Added) AFGSC CPs will have a dedicated line for the AFGSCVAN. CP Managers
will ensure this line is never placed on hold or used for anything other than receiving information
from the MAJCOM. The AFGSC Command Center will have at least two lines with speaker
capability. The AFGSC Command Center will also have two dedicated telephones for the
STRATCOM Emergency Actions Telephone System (SEATS).
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                    25

10.2.2. (Added) AFGSC CPs will ensure mission unique C2 systems are available, operational,
and controllers are proficient on their use.
10.2.2.2. (N/A AFGSC Command Center) High Frequency (HF)/ UHF/Very High Frequency
(VHF) Radio. HF radio operating mode will be Upper Side Band for all HF equipped command
posts. For STRATCOM units, UHF radios must be High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse
(HEMP) survivable.
10.2.2.4.2. (N/A AFGSC Command Center) AFGSC CPs will have NIPRNET and SIPRNET
Theater Battle Management Core System-Unit Level (TBMCS-UL) client workstations.
NIPRNET TBMCS-UL does not require additional equipment. Applications are loaded on
existing NIPRNET workstations. Note: Future releases of TBMCS-UL will be renamed Unit
Level/Unit Command and Control (UL/UC2).
10.2.2.4.3 (Added) It is recommend for ICBM units to have TBMCS-UL. H. However, it is not
required.
10.2.2.5. (Added) The AFGSC Command Center will have a Strategic Automated Command and
Control System (SACCS) Desktop Terminal (SDT) and SACCS Portable Terminal (SPT).
10.2.2.6. (Added) AFGSC CPs supporting Air Sovereignty Alert (NORAD) missions will be
equipped in accordance with NI 10-44 and other applicable NORAD directives.
10.2.2.7. (Added) STRATCOM Units. In addition to the basic AFGSC CP requirements, units
with USSTRATCOM commitment will have reliable communications systems per EAP-CJCS,
Volume VII to include, SEATS, HF, UHF, MILSTAR UHF/EHF, SACCS (SDT and SPT), and
Klaxon Alerting System. Survivable HEMP protected communications capability will include
Fixed Site and mobile SCAMP, Aircraft Alerting Communications EMP (AACE), UHF line of
sight (LOS) radios.
10.2.2.7.1. (Added) MILSTAR Usage. The Conventional MILSTAR Operations Network-EHF
(CMON-E) offers MILSTAR training opportunities for controllers in the areas of satellite
acquisition and transmitting/receiving message traffic. Network usage is intended to increase
controller efficiency to communicate during OPLAN 8010 events and higher headquarters
connectivity exercises and assessments.
10.2.2.7.1.1. (Added) Units with a MILSTAR Dual Modem Upgrade (DMU) II (located within
AACE) will perform at a minimum one communications check with the Offutt AFB net control
station Monday-Friday (except holidays) between 0900-1500 CST. Controllers will log onto
MILSTAR Net 2 (CMON-E) and transmit a message formatted IAW the CMON-E Network
Operating Instruction.
10.2.2.7.1.3. (Added) Controllers must deconflict CMON-E checks with any AFGSC Wing
Command Post Continuing Evaluation Program or HHQ assessment. Upon completion of a
CMON-E check, controllers will ensure the MILSTAR DMU-II is logged back on to their
primary EAM net IAW EAP-CJCS, Volume VII.
10.2.2.7.2. (Added) Communications Spot (COMSPOT) Report requirement. Units will submit
COMSPOT Reports IAW SI 701-1, (FOUO) NetOps Reporting (U). Reports will be submitted
for all outages of SEATS, SACCS, Fixed Site SCAMP, and AACE (to include UHF, MISTAR
DMU-II, Klaxon, and TAAN). Units will courtesy copy AFGSC/A6 on all reports.
26                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

10.3.3. (Added) (N/A AFGSC Command Center) Console positions will have radios to provide
ground-to-air communications with unit and transient aircraft supported by the CP. The number
and type of radios is based on mission requirements. Controllers must also be able to access the
commander's LMR network and monitor other base LMR networks (i.e., security, maintenance,
fire) as required.
10.3.4. (Added) The two CP console positions will have immediate access to activate the base
public address system, sirens, and klaxon system when required. This may be accomplished by
two individual or one centrally located activation point(s). An intercom capability or public
address system within the CP is required for immediate broadcasting of critical information (e.g.,
alarm conditions, etc.).
10.4.4. Push-to-Talk. Push-to-talk feature will be installed on all phones throughout the entire
CP to include any collocated agencies (e.g., ICC, MOC, EOC, etc.).
11.1. Physical Security Considerations. AFGSC CPs will have a PL "3" designation as a
minimum (reference AFI 31-101_AFGSC SUP 1). AFGSC-gained AFRC CP will be designated
based on mission IAW AFI 31-101 procedures.
12.3.1.2. (N/A AFGSC Command Center) CP Chief/Superintendent will ensure at least one
person assigned to the CP (e.g., Superintendent, Reports Manager, etc.) has an AEF Reporting
Tool (ART) account and reviews CP Unit Type Codes in ART for accuracy every month.
13.1. Overview. HQ AFGSC/A3C conducts a SAV at all active duty AFGSC CPs. These visits
will be conducted approximately every 18 months but should not to exceed 24 months. AFGSC-
units will also receive an NSSAV which may be conducted in conjunction with a HQ
AFGSC/A3C SAV or independently. See AFI 91-101_AFGSC SUP 1, Air Force Nuclear
Weapons Surety Program, and AFGSCI 91-109, Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visit (NSSAV)
Program and Responsibilities, for further details on the NSSAV. HQ AFGSC/A3C will also
conduct a FAV at the AFGSC Command Center.
13.2.5. The AFGSC/A3C SAV/FAV is conducted utilizing AFGSCDIR 90-201, Compliance and
Standardization Requirements Lists (C&SRL)--Command Post Function. Compliance with this
directory also includes other governing directives associated with each item. Team composition
will vary depending on unit mission and personnel availability. AFGSC/A3C may request team
augmentation when required.
13.2.5.1. (Added) AFGSC/A3C will publish a SAV/FAV schedule annually. CPs will advise
AFGSC/A3C of activities that may conflict with a scheduled visit.
13.2.5.2. (Added) AFGSC/A3C will provide units with an entry authority list approximately 2
weeks prior to a visit.
13.2.5.3. (Added) Units must coordinate an in-brief/out-brief time with the wing commander or
his/her designated representative.
13.2.5.4. (Added) Whenever possible, an informal out brief will be given to the CP management
team prior to out briefing the commander or his/her designated representative. The SAV/FAV
team chief will complete a final report NLT 10 duty days after the team returns. Final reports
will be sent by AFGSC/A3C and will be addressed to the visited wing commander and CP Chief.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                             27

13.2.5.5. (Added) The training manager will be observed administering a scenario script during
the SAV/FAV. The focus is to evaluate the effectiveness of the training program. The unit may
choose the scenario and which controllers participate in the scenario.
13.2.5.6. (Added) Controllers will be observed generating an Operational Report (OPREP-3) for
a given situation during the SAV/FAV. The unit may choose which controllers participate.
13.2.5.7. (Added) On duty controllers may be observed processing EAMs. The SAV/FAV team
chief may request appropriate EAM support from the ACC Command Center or the AFSWC.
13.2.5.8. (Added) On duty controllers may be observed relocating to their alternate facility.
13.2.5.9. (Added) EA testing during SAVs/FAVs will be IAW EAP-AFGSC and Chapter 7 of
this supplement.
13.2.5.10. (Added) The SAV/FAV for active duty units is AFGSC funded.
13.2.5.11. (Added) AFRC and ANG units may request a SAV/FAV. Such requests will be
coordinated through appropriate ANG and AFRC channels. These visits are unit funded.
13.2.6. (Added) Unit Follow-up Actions. Critical Compliance Objectives (CCO) are key result
areas needed for successful mission accomplishment. Evaluators will ensure deficiencies are
clearly identified as not in compliance when 75% of the requirements listed in each specific
CCO of AFGSCDIR 90-201 are marked as "NO" or there is a trend of noncompliance. Units
must track identified deficiencies, identify corrective actions and forecast correction completion
dates. Units must follow up on these items at least every 30 days until corrected. Maintain
follow-up documentation in the self-inspection continuity binder. AFGSC/A3C may require
written follow up on non-compliant CCOs, core compliance items (CCI), or general compliance
items (GCI) and may conduct a 90 day follow up visit to the unit. AFGSC will fund follow up
visits in this case. If the unit requests a follow up visit before the next regularly scheduled
SAV/FAV, the unit must fund the visit.
13.3. Self-Inspection Program. CP managers will maintain completed self-inspection checklists
(SIC) along with documentation of follow up corrective actions for 1 year from the completion
date. In some cases, this will require a total of three completed SICs (last 2 semi-annual and the
SIC just prior to an AFGSC SAV/FAV).
13.3.1.4. Units identifying discrepancies within the self-inspection program will track and
document their status monthly until corrected. Status updates must specify actions being
accomplished to correct the deficiency to include an estimated completion date and procedures to
preclude future occurrences.
13.3.2.2. A current copy of the most recent NSSAV report and a copy of the most recent IG
report for each type of IG inspection your unit is subject to.
13.3.3. Self-inspections will be conducted by a person other than the program manager who is
knowledgeable in the area being assessed.
13.3.4. (Added) Completing AFGSCDIR 90-201 does not fulfill self-inspection requirements of
specific individual programs (e.g., although security is covered in the C&SRL, it is not in-depth
enough to meet information security program requirements). Units are encouraged to conduct
other program self-inspections when the CP self-inspection is accomplished. This will allow
easy program management and tracking.
28                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

13.3.5. (Added) AFGSC SAV/FAV results may not be used to fulfill semi-annual self-inspection
requirements.
14.2. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AF Form 623A, On-the-Job Training Record - Continuation Sheet.
AF Form 4372, Record of Controller Recurring Training.
AF Form 4373, Consolidated Record of Controller Recurring Training.
AF Form 4377, Events Log.
14.3. (Added) Information Collections and Records:
14.3.1. (Added) Information Collections. No information collections/reports are prescribed by
this publication.
14.3.2. (Added) Records. Command and control records prescribed by this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) accessible through the AF
Portal.
Chapter 15 (Added) Annual Awards
15.1. (Added) AFGSC Command Post Annual Awards Program is dictated by the Air Force
Command Post Annual Awards Program. This chapter will be used in conjunction with AFI 36-
2807, Headquarters United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and
Requirements Annual Awards Program, Chapter 22 when preparing AFGSC Command Post
Annual Awards for individuals, units, and HHQ C2 elements.
15.1.1. (Added) All AFGSC CPs are designated as "large" for annual awards.
15.1.2. (Added) AFGSC Command Center, AFGSC C2 Policy, Guidance, and Procedures,
AFGSC IG, and AFGSC SORTS may each submit a HHQ C2 Element package.
15.1.3. (Added) Eligibility Period and Submission Guidance. AFGSC annual award packages
must be submitted to HQ AFGSC/A3C IAW HHQ annual tasking message that will be sent NLT
10 Dec of each year. Electronic mailbox: AFGSCA3Cworkflow@barksdale.af.mil. HQ
AFGSC Command Section will announce winners via message.
15.1.4. (Added) Unit commanders/branch chiefs (for HHQ C2 elements) must include a cover
letter nominating the individual(s) or CP and give a brief justification statement focusing on the
individual’s or CP’s impact on the unit. All individual award nominees may be included on one
commander's letter.
 AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                       29


                                 Attachment 1

                          (SAMPLE MANNING REPORT)

                     COMMAND AND CONTROL MANNING REPORT

2 BW COMMAND POST, BARKSDALE, LA
UNIT: 2 BW    UNIT PASS CODE:             AUTHORIZED:      ASSIGNED: 12 DATE: 030705
              HL0RFB08                    12
SUPERINTENDENT: Leasure, Harry R. OFFICE: 781-2536 CONSOLE: 781-2151 FAX: 781-2152
SECTION I: CURRENT MANNING
         SEC.
         CLEA        AUTH ASSIGN FULL                      CERT                 PRP
POS #    R     AFSC RANK RANK NAME              D/TITLE TYPE SSN         DAS STATUS
                                   Cooper,                       123-45-
1234560R TS    N/A MAJ CAPT James               Chief      TNG 6789      990115 AWAT
                                                                 123-45-
1234570R TS    1C371 MSgt MSgt     Ruiz, Johnny Supt       MULTI 6789    010425 TEMP
                                                                 123-45-
1234580R TS    1C371 TSgt SSgt     Smith, Doug Training MULTI 6789       020521 PERM
                                   McCall,                       123-45-
1234590R TS    1C351 SSgt SSgt     Tanya        Reports    MULTI 6789    000915 CERT
                                   Adams,       C2               123-45-
1234670R TS    1C351 SSgt SSgt     Steve        Systems    MULTI 6789    990529
                                                                 123-45-
1234680R TS    1C351 SSgt SSgt     Murray, Joe C2OP        MULTI 6789    010915
                                   Tormey,                       123-45-
1234690R TS    1C351 SSgt SrA      Phillip      Sr. Cntrlr TNG 6789      980731
                                   Littlejohn,                   123-45-
1234760R TS    1C351 SrA SrA       Nui          Sr. Cntrlr MULTI 6789    020521
                                   Clark,                        123-45-
1234770R ITS   1C351 SrA AIC       Joseph       Controller MULTI 6789    020819
                                   Brown,                        123-45-
2239190R ITS   1C331 SrA AIC       Daniel       Controller MULTI 6789    010808
                                                                 123-45-
1234780R ITS   1C331 AIC AIC       Hart, Kels Controller TNG 6789        010915
                                                                 123-45-
1234790R ITS   1C331 AIC AIC       Ray, Rico Controller TNG 6789         020521

SECTION II: PROJECTED GAINS / LOSSES
DAFSC/GRD NAME              GAIN     LOSSES     TDY          REMARKS
1C351/SrA Delacruz, Roberto 030910                           8 FW/Kunsan
 30                                              AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009


1C351/SSgt McCall, Tanya                    030724                     460 SW/Buckley
1C351/SSgt Adams, Steve J.                             030715 - 031115 AEF 3, Al Jabar
SECTION III: REMARKS
DAFSC/GRD NAME                   ISSUE
1C351/AIC Brown, Daniel          No security clearance
1C351/SrA Littlejohn, Nui        Non-deployable due to permanent medical waiver
SECTION IV: CURRENT AUTHORIZED / ASSIGNED / AVAILABLE FOR USE
      OFF            1C3X1          3AOX1                CIV                     TOTAL
     1/1/1           10/10/7         1/1/1              0/0/0                     12/12/9
SECTION V: 3-MONTH PROJECTED AUTHORIZATION / ASSIGNED / AVAILABLE FOR USE
      OFF            1C3X1          3A0X1                CIV                     TOTAL
     1/1/1            10/9/7         1/1/1              0/0/0                     12/11/9
SECTION VI: PERSONNEL AEF ASSIGNMENTS
                                     LAST        NEXT SCHED REMARKS
NAME            RANK       AEF # DEPLOYED DEPLOYMENT
Ruiz, Johnny MSgt            10
Smith, Doug SSgt              7
McCall, Tanya SSgt            1
Adams, Steve SSgt             4
Murray, Joe     SSgt          7
Tormey, Phillip SrA           6
Littlejohn, Nui SrA           2
Clark, Joseph AIC             9
Brown, Daniel AIC             1
Hart, Kels      AIC           3
SECTION VII: OIC/SUPERINTENDENT COMMENTS




 This document contains “For Official Use Only” information that is legally protected by the
 Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
 1996, P.L.104-191, and other applicable federal and state laws. The authorized recipient of this
 information is prohibited from disclosing this information to any other party and is required to
 destroy the information after its stated need has been fulfilled, unless otherwise required by state
 or federal law. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure,
 copying, distribution, or action taken in reliance on the contents of this document is strictly
 prohibited.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                  31


                                      Attachment 2

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
EAP-CJCS, (S) Emergency Actions Procedures of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Volume VII, EAM Dissemination and NEREP Procedures (U), 1 September 2008
EAP-CJCS, (S) Emergency Actions Procedures of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
Volume VII, Annex A, Nuclear Execution Reporting Plan (NEREP) (U), 1 September 2008
DoD 5210.42-R, Department of Defense Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program
Regulation (PRP)
DODR 5210.42_AFMAN 10-3902, Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability Program (PRP)
NI 10-4, (S/RELCAN) NORAD Emergency Action Procedures (U), 12 June 2009
NI 10-44, Command and Control (C2) of NORAD Forces, 1 April 2009
SI 501-14, (S) Strategic Force Accounting Procedures (U), 1 October 2008
SI 701-1, (FOUO) NetOps Reporting (U), 13 February 2008
AFI 10-1102, Safeguarding the Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP)
AFI 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force
AFI 33-201, Volume 2, COMSEC User Requirements, 26 April 2005
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFI 36-2110, Assignments
AFRCI 10-203, United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR) Command and Control
Abbreviations and Acronyms
COMACC--Commander Air Combat Command
AFGSC/A3C – AFGSC Command Center/Command Section/Policy and Procedures/SORTS
Office
AACE--Aircraft Alerting Communications EMP
AFCAF--Air Force Central Adjudication Facility
AFGSC – Air Force Global Strike Command
AFKN--Air Force Knowledge Now
AFRCC--Air Force Rescue Coordination Center
AFSC--Air Force Specialty Code
BDOC--Base Defense Operations Center
C2CIF--Command and Control Controller Information File
C2OP--Command and Control Operations
C&SRL--Compliance and Standardization Requirements List
CCI--Core Compliance Item
CCO--Critical Compliance Objectives
CJCS--Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CMON-E--Conventional MILSTAR Operations Network-EHF
COMACC--Commander, Air Combat Command
COMSPOT--Communications Spot
CONR--CONUS NORAD Region
CONUS NORAD--Continental United States North American Aerospace Defense Command
COOP-ACC--Continuity of Operations Plan--Air Combat Command
CoP--Community of Practice
32                                       AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

CP--Command Post
CPMAN--CP Manning
CPMO--Command Post Management Orientation
CSA--Client Support Administrator
CTO--Controller Training Outline
DMU--Dual Modem Upgrade
EHF--Extremely High Frequency
EMNS--Emergency Mass Notification System
EMP--Electromagnetic Pulse
EWO--Emergency War Orders
FAV-Functional Assistance Visit
GGI--General Compliance Item
GCSS--Global Combat Support System
HEMP--High Altitude Electromagnetic Pulse
HF--High Frequency
IAW--In Accordance With
IG--Inspector General
INWS--Installation Notification and Warning System
KM--Knowledge Manager
KM--Knowledge Management
LOS--Line of Sight
MAJCOM--Major Command
MFR--Memorandum for Record
MILSTAR--Military Strategic Tactical Relay
NAF--Numbered Air Force
NC2--Nuclear Command and Control
NC2-ESI--Nuclear Command and Control-Extremely Sensitive Information
NEREP--Nuclear Execution Reporting
NIPRNet--Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NLT--Not Later Than
NORAD--North American Aerospace Defense Command
NSSAV--Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visit
OCONUS--Outside the Continental United States
OI--Operating Instruction
OIC--Officer in Charge
OPORD--Operations Order
PBX--Private Branch Exchange
SACCS--Strategic Automated Command and Control System
SARMaster--Search and Rescue Master
SAV-Staff Assistance Visit
SCAMP--Single Channel Anti-Jam Man-Portable
SD--Strategic Command Directive
SDT--SACCS Desktop Terminal
SEATS--STRATCOM Emergency Actions Telephone System
SIPRNet--Secure Internet Protocol Network
SORTS--Status of Resources and Training System
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                 33

SPT--SACCS Portable Terminal
SSBI--Single-Scope Background Investigation
STARS--Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) Tracking and Reporting System
STRAT--Strategic
STRATCOM--Strategic Command
TAAN--Tactical Aircrew Alerting Network
TBMCS--Theater Battle Management Core System
TDY--Temporary Duty
TS--Top Secret
UHF--Ultra High Frequency
UL/UC2--Unit Level/Unit Command and Control
USAF--United States Air Force
USAFR--United States Air Force Reserve
USJFCOM--United States Joint Forces Command
USSTRATCOM--US Strategic Command
UTA--Unit Training Assembly
WFHQ--War Fighting Headquarters
A4.1.59. (Added) Aircraft diversion/recall
A4.1.60. (Added) Aircraft evacuation
A4.1.61. (Added) Aircraft grounding/stand down
A4.1.62. (Added) Arms reduction treaties
A4.1.63. (Added) Barrier engagement
A4.1.64. (Added) Convoy movement
A4.1.65. (Added) Criminal activity
A4.1.66. (Added) Force Protection Condition (FPCON) change
A4.1.67. (Added) Hydrazine incident
A4.1.68. (Added) Major accident/incident (non-aircraft)
A4.1.69. (Added) Natural disaster
A4.1.70. (Added) Near miss involving civilian aircraft
A4.1.71. (Added) No-lone zone violations
A4.1.72. (Added) Pyramid recall (Wing, Commander’s Senior Staff, EOC, ICC, etc. Include
communications outage procedures)
A4.1.73. (Added) Red Cross notification
A4.1.74. (Added) Riot/protesters/demonstrators
A4.1.75. (Added) Tasking/Deployment/Warning Order
A4.1.76. (Added) Time compliance technical orders
34                                          AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009


                                   Attachment 6 (Added)

        AFGSC COMMAND POST STANDARDIZED C2 COMMUNICATIONS
                           CAPABILITIES

A6.1. (Added) Statement of Objective. This guidance provides AFGSC wing command posts
with a baseline of standardized C2 communications capabilities. These are minimum
components based on AFI 10-207, AFI 10-207 AFGSC Sup 1, and other directives combined
into one attachment. Individual unit command posts may tailor their system’s configuration to
their unit’s unique mission and physical layout. Units may add additional Air Force approved
systems needed to meet unit specific mission requirements.
 A6.2. (Added) AFGSC Command Post Systems.
A6.2.1. (Added) Basic CP Components. Minimum reliable communications systems to include:
A6.2.1.1. (Added) Direct line to the wing commander, Security Forces Law Enforcement Desk,
Fire Department, flying squadrons and other essential base mission and mission support
functions as outlined in AFI 10-207 AFGSC Sup 1, paragraph 10.2.1.1.7.
A6.2.1.2. (Added) A minimum of two console positions with telephone systems having access to
the Private Branch Exchange (PBX) and a Digital Recording Capability.
A6.2.1.3. (Added) Dedicated AFGSCVAN line.
A6.2.1.4. (Added) Access to the primary crash network (receive only capability) and secondary
crash net access (receive and transmit capability).
A6.2.1.5. (Added) Secure voice system (Secure Telephone Unit-III [STU-III]/Secure Telephone
Equipment [STE]).
A6.2.1.6. (Added) Cellular Telephone.
A6.2.1.7. (Added) SIPRNet, NIPRNet, and DSN.
A6.2.1.8. (Added) Secure/Non-Secure Facsimile.
A6.2.1.9. (Added) TBMCS-UL.
A6.2.1.10. (Added) GDSS2 (not required for CPs without an active runway).
A6.2.1.11. (Added) HF, UHF, VHF, and LMR Radios (For USSTRATCOM-committed units
HF, and UHF shall be EMP hardened).
A6.2.1.12. (Added) Giant Voice/Base Warning Siren, Public Address System.
A6.2.1.13. (Added) Back-up power generator capability and an Uninterruptible Power Supply
(UPS) for all systems supporting EAM reception, at a minimum.
A6.2.1.14. (Added) Emergency Mass Notification System.
A6.2.2. (Added) Additional Components for a CP with a USSTRATCOM commitment. In
addition to the basic AFGSC CP requirements, units with a USSTRATCOM commitment will
have reliable communications systems per EAP-CJCS, Volume VII and CJCSI 3222.01A to
include:
A6.2.2.1. (Added) Dedicated SEATS line.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                   35

A6.2.2.2. (Added) Survivable, hardened communications.
A6.2.2.2.1. (Added) Fixed-site SCAMP.
A6.2.2.2.2. (Added) Aircraft Alerting Communications EMP (AACE).
A6.2.2.2.2.1. (Added) UHF LOS.
A6.2.2.2.2.2. (Added) MILSTAR UHF.
A6.2.2.2.2.3. (Added) Klaxon Alerting System.
A6.2.2.2.2.4. (Added) Tactical Aircrew Alerting Network (TAAN) (bomber units only).
A6.2.2.2.3. (Added) LF/VLF - (**Upon fielding of Ground Element Minimum Essential
Emergency Communications Network (MEECN) System - GEMS).
A6.2.2.3. (Added) SACCS Desktop Terminal (SDT).
A6.2.2.4. (Added) SACCS Portable Terminal (SPT).
A6.2.3. (Added) Additional Components For A CP With A NORAD/Air Sovereignty Alert
Commitment. In addition to the basic AFGSC CP requirements, units with a NORAD
commitment will have reliable communications systems per NI 10-44 and other applicable
NORAD directives to include:
A6.2.3.1. (Added) NORAD Alerting System (NAS) (if already in place).
A6.2.3.2. (Added) Klaxon Alerting System (Non survivable).
A6.2.3.3. (Added) Standardized Alert Lighting System.
A6.2.3.4. (Added) High Assurance Remote Access (HARRA).
A6.2.3.5. (Added) Scramble Circuit.
A6.2.3.6. (Added) Situational Awareness Data Link Gateway.
A6.2.3.7. (Added) Secure Wireless Phone.
A6.2.3.8. (Added) Iridium Satellite Phone.
A6.2.3.9. (Added) UHF and VHF (Secure/Non-secure).
A6.2.4. (Added) Additional components for a CP with a National Airborne Operations Center
(NAOC) commitment see ACC OPORD 84-CY.
A6.3. (Added) Console Systems.
A6.3.1. (Added) Console Configuration: IAW AFI 10-207 para 10.3: “The EA cell/console area
must have console positions for two controllers.” It is recommended to have a third console
position for heightened operations. The CP layout will be determined by operational mission
requirements.
A6.3.2. (Added) Console Housing: The console housing is the furniture in which the
communications equipment and auxiliary control devices are installed. The housing shall be
ergonomically designed and aesthetically pleasing. The housing shall be angled for ease of
operation while minimizing distracting reflections. Communications equipment shall be flush
36                                              AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

mounted, monitors may be mounted via swing arm attachment. Front or rear entry maintenance
panels shall be provided for easy access to console cabling.
A6.3.3. (Added) Circuit Monitoring: A circuit is an incoming/outgoing phone line. The console
shall be capable of monitoring any given circuits(s) through a telephone handset, a headset with
microphone, or speaker(s). The console shall allow the console operator to choose any method
of call monitoring simply by depressing the circuit control/button.
A6.3.4. (Added) Circuit Interfaces: For radio and paging circuits, the circuit interface can include
external devices from the PBX or consoles. Access to these circuits shall be available at each of
the console positions. For units supporting a USSTRATCOM mission, interfaces must support
the AACE SAC Standard Turret Interface Unit (SSTIU) for UHF LOS and TAAN Pagers
(bomber units only).
A6.3.5. (Added) Private Branch Exchange (PBX): IAW DODI 8100.3, E2.1.29: “A subscriber-
owned telecommunications exchange that usually includes access to the public switched
network. The switch serves a selected group of users and is subordinate to a switch at a higher-
level military establishment.”
A6.3.6. (Added) Telephone Switch: IAW DODI 8100.3, 4.1: “Telecommunications switches
(and associated software releases) leased, procured (whether systems or services), or operated by
the DoD Components, and connected or planned for connection to the DSN, shall be joint
interoperability certified by the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), Joint
Interoperability Test Command (JITC) and granted information assurance certification and
accreditation by the Defense Information System Network (DISN) Designated Approval
Authorities (DAAs). Switch must provide full interoperability, Military Unique Features (MUF)
functionality, security, conferencing, and call processing.” Switch must also offer normal
telephone service.
A6.3.7. (Added) Radio Interface: IAW AFI 10-207, ACC Sup 10.3.3: “The number and type of
radios is based on mission requirements.” The console shall be equipped with circuits designed
to interface with a number of different radio networks. Typically HF, UHF, VHF, SATCOM,
LMR, and trunked LMR network interfaces shall be required. LMR radio interfaces must be
compatible with digital encryption when such encryption is in use to support the mission.
A6.3.8. (Added) Assured Voice Communications: IAW DODI 8100.3, E4.1.1.8.1: “Assured
service or connectivity is the ability of the DSN and DRSN to optimize call completion rates for
all C2 users, despite degradation due to network disruptions, natural disasters, or surges during
crisis or war.” Telecommunications switches and services connected to the DSN shall comply
with MUF requirements (MLPP, routing, survivability, and security). “To meet MUF
requirements, the DSN and DRSN shall employ an MLPP capability, which permits higher
precedence users to preempt lower precedence calls.”
A6.3.9. (Added) Defense Switched Network (DSN): IAW DODI 8100.3, E4.1.1.1: “The DSN is
the first choice for non-secure inter-installation telephone service network and it shall be the
primary communications means for C2 and non-C2 users. DSN provides end-to-end command
and control capability and dedicated telephone service.” These circuits are long distance DoD
common user switched services. IAW AFI 10-207,AFGSC Sup, 10.2.1.1.7: A minimum of two
administrative lines must provide direct DSN access with “immediate” precedence dialing
capabilities.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                           37

A6.3.10. (Added) Military Unique Features (MUF): IAW DODI 8100.3, E2.1.24: “Those
network and telecommunications switch features that are required to support C2 users and are
above and beyond those supported by commercial carriers in telephone services to the general
public.” MUFs include: Survivable service, assured connectivity, responsive service, surge
capacity, secure service and interoperable service.
A6.3.11. (Added) Multilevel Precedence and Preemption (MLPP): IAW DODI 8100.3, E2.1.25:
“In military communications, a priority scheme is used for assigning a precedence level to
specific calls or messages so the system handles them in a predetermined order and timeframe.”
In this scheme calls and messages can be preempted only by a higher priority call or message.
A6.3.12. (Added) Precedence: IAW DODI 8100.3, E2.1.28: “In communications, a designation
assigned to a message by the originator to indicate to communications personnel the relative
order of handling and to the addressee the order in which the message is to be noted. The order
of message precedence in ascending order of precedence is: Routine, Priority, Immediate and
Flash.”
A6.3.13. (Added) Expansion Capacity: The telecommunications system should have an
expansion capacity of 25% above and beyond the initial installed capacity.                      The
telecommunications system shall be expandable beyond the equipped capacity up to the wired
access capacity without interruption of service. Common control equipment, software features,
and power system components provided at the initial installation shall support the wired access
capacity, to include processing capacity, system memory, cabinets, lines and trunks, touch
screens, speakers, radio interfaces, recorder interfaces, and power system components. Wired
access is defined as the ability to add additional switched lines, trunks, radio interfaces, console
position, speakers, etc. to the initially equipped telecommunications system.
A6.4. (Added) Telecommunications Features.
A6.4.1. (Added) Call Indicators: Each circuit integrated on the telecommunications system shall
have a control/button associated with it on the console. Each control/button shall have a visual
indicator to reflect when a circuit is idle, receiving calls, in use, and/or on hold. Each indication
shall be unique (e.g., blinking when receiving incoming calls, highlighted/lit steadily when in
use, or have different color illumination for each type of call). There shall also be unique audible
indicators for incoming calls, and calls placed on hold. The audible indicators shall be equipped
with volume control. A caller ID function shall be available for all incoming calls.
A6.4.2. (Added) Direct Dialing: The telecommunications system shall perform direct dialing on
and off base without the assistance of an operator. Feature activation shall be limited to one
button excluding call-transfer and conferencing, which shall be limited to one additional button.
A6.4.3. (Added) Hold: This feature shall put a call on hold from any console user by pressing a
"hold" button or by selecting another line button.
A6.4.4. (Added) Hotline calling: The system shall provide direct connection between two or
more telephones within the system without the user dialing any number(s). The system shall be
programmable to ring another telephone(s) in the system when the calling console depresses a
dedicated hot line button or a single line telephone goes off-hook. When the far end initiates this
same hot line, the call shall appear as an incoming call on the same dedicated hot line button as
described above.
38                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009

A6.4.5. (Added) Speed Dial: This feature allows the user to place calls, to designated numbers,
by pressing a single button representing the number to speed dial. This feature should have the
capacity to maintain a minimum of 23 DSN and 23 commercial programmable, thirteen-digit
phone numbers.
A6.4.6. (Added) Speakers: The console shall be equipped with speakers for telephone and radio
network monitoring. Each speaker shall be equipped with independent volume controls and an
activity indicator light for incoming radio traffic. Speakers shall be recessed in the console
housing.
A6.4.7. (Added) Handsets: IAW AFI 10-207, AFGSC SUP, 10.4.4: “Push-to-Talk. Push-to-talk
feature must be installed on all phones throughout the entire CP to include any collocated
agencies (e.g., ICC, MOC, EOC, etc.).” The handsets will provide the console with positive
disconnect, push-to-talk feature. The push-to-talk feature shall be equipped on the handset as a
button. The console will have the capability to plug in two handsets simultaneously into each
console position. The second device is used for supervision/training.
A6.4.8. (Added) Conferencing: The console shall allow progressive and preset conferences.
Each telecommunications system shall be equipped with a minimum of three independent,
simultaneous conference bridges with all three conferences accessible from each console
position simultaneously. Each conference bridge shall be capable of accepting up to 20 different
conferees (circuits) in any combination with no degradation of audible quality. Each console
shall be capable of adding and removing conferees from the conference, and be able to enter and
leave the conference as a participant at any time. Each console shall be capable of initiating and
terminating a conference with a single button on any of the conference bridges. This feature
must allow controllers to quickly program additional numbers into the system as needed.
A6.5. (Added) Auxiliary Systems.
A6.5.1. (Added) Device Control: Each of the auxiliary systems and devices referenced below can
interface with the telecommunications system and should be made available as one touch/step
control on the console for activation and deactivation.
A6.5.2. (Added) Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS): In lieu of time-consuming
manual telephone notifications, an automated rapid alert notification system should be utilized.
AFGSC EMNS is a rapid notification system used to streamline time-critical/time sensitive
notifications to the chain of command as well as disseminate information to the base populace in
a timely manner. With this system in place numerous notifications can be made in seconds
versus minutes. Examples of notifications this system facilitates are: FPCON Changes,
Information Condition (INFOCON) changes, weather watches, warnings, and advisories, base-
wide recalls, commanders senior staff recalls, bomb threats and many more via Desktop Pop-up,
phone, email, text messaging, and giant voice alert notifications.
A6.5.3. (Added) Digital Recording Capability: IAW AFI 10-207, 10.3.2: “Consoles will have
voice recording capability for both landline and radio communications as applicable. The
console installed recording system will be capable of generating recording warning tones when
required.” The recording device should be a multi-channel digital recording device, with tone
generator (every 12 to 18 seconds). The recording system must have at least a 90-day storage
capability with external storage possible if additional requirements are needed. EA console
positions will be equipped with a tone generator cut out device for each telecommunication line.
AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009                                                         39

System must also be capable of providing a daily back-up capability in the event of a system
failure.
A6.5.4. (Added) Klaxon Alerting System: The Klaxon alarm shall be activated manually by a
switch. A light indicating the system has been activated will be easily visible to controllers when
illuminated. Alternate methods that clearly indicate the alarm activation may also be used (i.e.,
audible alarm). The control device shall be equipped with safety covers or other safeguards to
prevent inadvertent activation. For units supporting USSTRATCOM the alerting system
(klaxons and pagers) shall be hardened against EMP.
A6.5.5. (Added) Giant Voice/Base Warning Siren: This system shall be integrated with AFGSC
EMNS. This system shall be equipped with circuits designed to interface with the base Giant
Voice System. Each control feature shall appear on each console position and allow direct
access through the PBX without manually dialing an access code; an automatic stored program
routing shall be provided. The system will be configured to make voice announcements as well
as play music base-wide.
A6.5.6. (Added) Public Address System: IAW AFI 10-207, AFGSC SUP, 10.3.4: “An intercom
capability or public address system within the CP is required for immediate broadcasting of
critical information (e.g., alarm conditions, etc.).” The existing systems may be multiple zones
and terminations shall be provided for each zone. Selection and access to the public address
zones shall only be available from the consoles, and they shall not be capable of being placed
into any of the conference bridges. The console operator shall be capable of selecting any one or
more of the zones, or all at the same time, from the console.
A6.5.7. (Added) Power Requirements: IAW AFI 10-207, 9.3.1: “All CPs/command centers
must have and are authorized IAW AFH 32-1084, a non-interruptible power supply. The
emergency power system must be capable of accommodating the maximum CP/command center
load. The emergency power source should start automatically with load assumption.” Critical
C2 assets must be protected by a UPS and an emergency back-up power source with sufficient
power to sustain mission critical applications. All power to telecommunications system shall be
protected against surges by use of fuses/circuit breakers. Power faults shall be indicated by a
visual and audible alarm within the Command Post.
A6.5.8. (Added) Theater Battle Management Core System Unit Level (TBMCS-UL): IAW AFI
10-207, 10.2.2.4: “TBMCS is the CAF information and decision support application supporting
combined and joint air operations for the JFC. It provides the means to plan, direct and control
all theater air operations and coordinates with ground and maritime elements, and can be tailored
to large or small-scale operations.”
A6.5.9. (Added) Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet): Is a network of
Internet protocol routers owned by the DoD. The NIPRNet is used to exchange unclassified
information between internal users.
A6.5.10. (Added) Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet): Is a network of Internet
protocol routers owned by the DoD. The SIPRNet is used to exchange classified information in
a secure environment between users.
40                                             AFI 10-207_AFGSCSUP 1 DECEMBER 2009


A6.6. (Added) Maintenance and Support.
A6.6.1. (Added) System Maintenance: A maintenance agreement with responsibilities for system
maintenance and repairs as well as all costs involved will be agreed upon prior to acquiring and
installing a system. This applies to any future Air Force approved systems that become
integrated into command posts. The installation/wing owning the command post is responsible
for providing or securing funding for CP system maintenance. Units are encouraged to seek
funding from higher-level agencies outside the installation however; units should always seek
local funding until funds are secured by other means.
A6.6.2. (Added) System Support: Required or anticipated system support should be included in
any maintenance agreement prior to purchase. System support can range from 24/7 over the
phone technical support to in-person repairs by certified contractors. Consult with the
installation’s contracting office prior to obligating the government to any agreement.
A6.7. (Added) Training and Safety.
A6.7.1. (Added) Human System Integration: Human engineering must be considered throughout
the design effort and must include design criteria to minimize problems associated with
equipment size, locations, and handling. Removal and replacement of any module must not
require removal of non-failed modules or require any other facilitating maintenance.
A6.7.2. (Added) Training and Training Support: Personnel will require contractor provided
training for operators, trainers, and maintainers. Information to support the development of
recurring training programs is also required. Training will take place upon installation at each
site. An agreement that includes a 24/7 toll free technical support number to the vendor is highly
recommended.
A6.7.3. (Added) Safety: Protecting the system as a critical resource and ensuring the safety of
people and property are critical concerns in developing, fielding, and operating various system
architecture’s components. Maintainer safety requirements must be covered in equipment
manuals and/or other applicable maintenance documents.




                                             TIMOTHY M. RAY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Director of Operations
