BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2F-22,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 1

                                                                            28 AUGUST 2012
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                     F-22 UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                                Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                           (Mr. Mark B. Tapper)
                                                                                        Pages: 42


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in F-22 units. This publication
applies to Regular Air Force (RegAF), Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) intelligence
personnel supporting F-22 operations. The National Guard Bureau will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). This AFI may be supplemented, but all
supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the
authorities associated with the tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR
for non-tiered compliance items.
 2                                                                                      AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change adds risk factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below
major command (MAJCOM) level to depict the assessed risk of non-compliance. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                  4
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   4
       1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................    4
       1.3.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
       1.4.   Internal Intelligence Training. ...............................................................................                7
       1.5.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................            7
       1.6.   Intelligence F-22 Familiarization Program. ...........................................................                         7
       1.7.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     8
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................            8

Chapter 3—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                     9
       3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................    9
       3.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                             10

Chapter 4—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                             17
       4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................   17
       4.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                           17
       4.3.   Ready Intelligence Program. ..................................................................................                18
Table 4.1.    F-22 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements. ...........................                                        18
       4.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................     19
       4.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................       19

Chapter 5—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                              20
       5.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................           20
       5.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                        20
Table 5.1.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies. .............................                                   21
       5.3.   Aerospace Control Alert (ACA). ...........................................................................                    22
       5.4.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                          22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              24
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                              3


Attachment 2—TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT                    32

Attachment 3—F-22 MQT GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                 33

Attachment 4—F-22 SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST) GRADESHEETS   40

Attachment 5—F-22 MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS           41
 4                                                           AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume outlines the basic policy and guidance for training F-22 unit
     intelligence personnel. With the complementary references cited, this volume prescribes
     procedures to attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support F-22 unit
     operations. These training requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented by
     additional unit-level written guidance. Unit-level written guidance may expand upon these
     basic procedures, but in no case will it be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. Office of Primary Responsibility. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
     Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) delegates OPR for this instruction to
     Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence (ACC/A2).
     1.1.3. References. The primary references for F-22 unit intelligence training are AFI 14-2F-
     22, Volume 2, F-22 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 3, F-22
     Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP) 3-
     1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.F-22,
     Tactical Employment - F-22; AFTTP 3-3.F-22, Combat Aircraft Fundamentals – F-22 and
     this instruction. Training will be current with the latest editions. These references can be
     supplemented with other classified and unclassified authoritative publications such as
     National Air and Space Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis
     Reports, Country Studies, etc. as long as the source is appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2 is the waiver authority for specific intelligence procedural
requirements outlined in this instruction. MAJCOM/A2 will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding
all waiver requests and responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver
correspondence if such correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and
guidance.
1.3. Responsibilities.
     1.3.1. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1,
     ACC/A2 will:
        1.3.1.1. Coordinate with user MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum
        requirements for F-22 intelligence personnel training.
        1.3.1.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
        training materials for Initial Qualification Training (IQT), Mission Qualification Training
        (MQT), Continuation Training (CT), and Specialized Training (ST).
            1.3.1.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop/maintain and provide a
            training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for F-22 intelligence IQT through
            formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
            1.3.1.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
            baseline Threat Capabilities Briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                   5


         forces electronic warfare (EW), aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), surface-to-air
         missiles (SAM), air defense artillery/anti-aircraft artillery (ADA/AAA), ground
         forces and associated equipment, naval and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations
         and employment techniques.
         1.3.1.2.3. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide
         softcopy and hardcopy still images, computer-generated graphics, and digital
         audiovisual visual recognition (VR) training materials covering worldwide adversary,
         neutral and friendly air, naval, ground, missile and electronic orders of battle as well
         as asymmetric threat systems; their deployment patterns; and camouflage,
         concealment and deception measures as deployed by foreign forces.
     1.3.1.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit senior intelligence officers (SIO) and user
     MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the defined standardized training requirements.
     Provide feedback on lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability
     of emergent training tools, techniques and procedures. Assist units in identifying changes
     in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Foster unit-level
     'best practices' exchanges for intelligence personnel training.
     1.3.1.4. Assist ACC subordinate units in developing training programs.
     1.3.1.5. Assist user MAJCOMs with F-22 units in providing support to unit training
     programs.
  1.3.2. All user MAJCOMs with F-22 units will:
     1.3.2.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training
     requirements for intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
     1.3.2.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs based
     on this AFI and applicable MAJCOM supplements.
     1.3.2.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
  1.3.3. The Unit SIO will:
     1.3.3.1. Develop and execute programs to meet minimum training requirements for
     intelligence personnel. Provide guidance to flying squadron intelligence sections
     regarding execution of training. (T-2)
     1.3.3.2. Appoint in writing an Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
     (IPTPM) to oversee and document orientation training, MQT, CT, ST and other required
     training by unit personnel. Where assigned, the USAF Intelligence Weapons Instructor
     Course graduate will provide input into the training programs. (T-2)
     1.3.3.3. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. All
     intelligence personnel must maintain at least Basic Mission Capable (BMC) qualification.
     Upon request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with
     a list of Combat Mission Ready (CMR) and BMC manning positions. (T-3)
     1.3.3.4. Review programs and manning position designations annually. (T-3)
6                                                           AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


       1.3.3.5. Monitor training requirements and currencies for all intelligence personnel.
       Assigned Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) will be trained and equipped
       according to established standards for their respective Active Duty counterpart. (T-3)
       1.3.3.6. Ensure personnel accomplish ancillary training IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
       Training Program. Consult with the local unit training manager and Unit Deployment
       Manager for ancillary training requirements specific to the unit and base. (T-2)
       1.3.3.7. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and
       current intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or
       perform tasks for which they are not qualified and current. (T-2)
       1.3.3.8. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
       MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
       Attachment 2 for an example report. (T-2)
       1.3.3.9. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training
       organizations on the defined standardized training requirements. Provide feedback on
       lead MAJCOM-developed training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training
       tools, techniques and procedures. Identify changes in requirements and potential training
       opportunities to MAJCOM/A2. Participate in unit-level “best practices” exchanges for
       intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
    1.3.4. Unit IPTPM will:
       1.3.4.1. Develop intelligence personnel training programs with written guidance
       detailing how programs will be conducted. Design training programs to achieve the
       highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and resource availability.
       Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat, unit mission and
       capabilities. (T-2)
       1.3.4.2. Use lead MAJCOM-developed training materials to assist in the development
       and conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training
       materials to meet unit needs. (T-3)
       1.3.4.3. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and
       notify/coordinate with individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include
       delays, BMC/CMR status, and selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
       1.3.4.4. Provide a written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program to the
       SIO at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for
       tracking overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
       1.3.4.5. Provide individuals a digital copy of their qualification training and evaluation
       records when they change station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing
       current qualifications and training requirements. (T-2)
    1.3.5. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
       1.3.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification
       status determined by the SIO. (T-2)
       1.3.5.2. Assist the IPTPM in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification
       training and other required training programs. (T-3)
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                       7


       1.3.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of newly-assigned intelligence personnel
       and those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to
       achieve CMR or BMC status and to ensure provisions of this instruction have been met.
       (T-3)
   1.3.6. Intelligence personnel will:
       1.3.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this
       instruction and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
       1.3.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or
       the ability to participate in training. (T-2)
       1.3.6.3. Hand-carry or electronically deliver a digital copy of qualification training and
       evaluation records when changing station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in
       assessing qualifications and training requirements. (T-3)
1.4. Internal Intelligence Training. Internal intelligence training is a venue intended to
facilitate achieving and maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. While the SIO
is ultimately accountable for the successful completion of all required training; professional
development, including intelligence-specific and mission-specific training is the responsibility of
the trainee and supervisor. Training received during internal training may be achieved via skills
practice/demonstration during exercises or special events, group academics or as otherwise
devised by the IPTPM. The internal intelligence training plan will include all identified training
requirements for the training cycle. (T-2)
1.5. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from IQT through MQT to qualify them to perform duty position tasks
and achieve CMR status. CT ensures individuals maintain proficiency and currency. ST
qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions. Qualification training can/should be
conducted in conjunction with skill level upgrade training. For a detailed explanation of IQT,
MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1 and the ensuing chapters of this AFI.
1.6. Intelligence F-22 Familiarization Program. The SIO, in conjunction with the Operations
Group Commander, will develop an Intelligence F-22 Familiarization Program.                  The
Familiarization Program will be designed to provide intelligence personnel training on all phases
of mission planning and F-22 airframe capabilities and limitations. When feasible, flight
simulators will be used to enhance the intelligence F-22 familiarization program.
   1.6.1. The Intelligence F-22 Familiarization Program is a training program, not an
   orientation or incentive program. Intelligence personnel who participate in the program
   should complete specific desired learning objectives (DLO) during each event.
   1.6.2. The SIO will develop Intelligence F-22 Familiarization Program written guidance
   outlining procedures to manage the program as well as DLOs to be achieved during program
   events.
1.7. Documentation. All intelligence training must be documented. Units will document
qualification training on the AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, and in coordination with
AF/A2 approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
 8                                                              AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


                                              Chapter 2

                            INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

2.1. General. This chapter outlines IQT for F-22 unit intelligence personnel. IQT for
intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air Force Specialty Code
awarding courses) and concludes with successful completion of the Intelligence Initial
Qualification Course (IIQC) conducted at the F-22 Intelligence Formal Training Unit (IFTU).
     2.1.1. IIQC. The F-22 IIQC is designed to meet the IQT requirements for personnel
     assigned to support the F-22 weapon system. Personnel successfully completing the F-22
     IIQC and its subsequent evaluation as described in AFI 14-202, Volume 1 are to be
     considered Basic Qualified (BQ).
     2.1.2. In-Unit IQT Training. When individuals are unable to attend the IFTU to receive
     IQT, it may be accomplished at the unit when authorized via waiver (See paragraph 1.2). If
     authorized, in-unit IQT will be conducted using the F-22 IIQC syllabus and training
     courseware provided by ACC/A2 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1. (T-2) Waiver requests for in-
     unit IQT will include:
        2.1.2.1. Justification for the in-unit training in lieu of formal course training.
        2.1.2.2. Summary of individual’s intelligence career field experience.
        2.1.2.3. Date training will begin and expected completion date.
        2.1.2.4. Requested exceptions, to formal course syllabus, with rationale.
2.2. IQT Requirements.
     2.2.1. IQT will be completed within the time specified by the F-22 IIQC syllabus. Failure to
     complete training within the specified time limit requires notification to MAJCOM/A2 with
     person’s name, rank, reason for delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. (T-2)
     2.2.2. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the F-22 IIQC training standard. In-
     unit IQT, when authorized will be modified at the discretion of the SIO for reasons based on
     the individual’s proficiency, experience, or previous qualifications. (T-2)
     2.2.3. Personnel completing in-unit IQT will be evaluated according to the same criteria as
     individuals completing the F-22 IIQC at the IFTU. The unit IPTPM will oversee and
     document in-unit IQT. The F-22 IFTU will provide the qualification (QUAL) criteria to the
     requesting unit intelligence standardization/evaluation function. Evaluation and certification
     will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved processes regarding online
     documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                      9


                                            Chapter 3

                          MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting F-22 missions/operations. Guidance in this chapter is
provided to assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will
take into account the assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training,
currency, documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. MQT
can be accomplished through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or
other training opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Applicable portions of MQT
will be used to create a requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR or BMC status.
(T-2)
   3.1.1. Prior to completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR, member must have already
   completed IQT and attained BQ status. (T-3)
   3.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
   ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the gaining unit or immediately after the
   completion of IQT, if IQT was conducted in-unit. Timelines for completion of MQT for
   each MAJCOM and reporting requirements are specified in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
       3.1.2.1. For Active Duty units, MQT will be completed within 120 days.                Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       3.1.2.2. For AFRC units and IMAs, MQT will be completed within 120 days with
       seasoning days. If no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 365
       calendar days, or the execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and
       Annual Training, whichever is earlier. Notify AFRC/A2F, NAF/A2 and gaining
       MAJCOM if training exceeds these timelines. For IMAs, notify MAJCOM Intelligence
       IMA Program Manager, ACC/A2 and AFRC/A2 if training exceeds 365 calendar days.
       (T-2)
       3.1.2.3. For ANG units, MQT will be completed within 120 days with seasoning days. If
       no seasoning days are available, MQT will be completed within 180 calendar days, or the
       execution of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training. (T-2)
   3.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis.
   3.1.4. The AF Form 4381 will be used to document the trainee’s progression through each
   individual training item IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved processes regarding online
   documentation. Specific F-22 MQT intelligence gradesheet elements are located in
   Attachment 3. (T-2)
   3.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2; AFI 14-2F-22
   Volume 2; and SIO endorsement. Refer to AFI 14-2F-22 Volume 2, for a more detailed
   explanation of evaluations.
 10                                                        AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


3.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for F-22 intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position (Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs). (T-2)
   3.2.1. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to unit
   missions for all areas listed below except research, analysis, and dissemination, and visual
   recognition by successfully completing a test from the unit master question file (MQF) (85
   percent minimum to pass). To demonstrate the visual recognition knowledge requirements,
   trainees must successfully complete a timed VR test via a visual presentation system (85
   percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
       3.2.1.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination (RAD) and Intelligence Preparation of
       the Operational Environment (IPOE).
          3.2.1.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research. Objective: Demonstrate ability to apply
          intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and operations plan (OPLAN)/concept
          of operation plan (CONPLAN) tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of
          unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Demonstrate knowledge of the
          strengths and weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the context of the F-22
          weapons system and the unit mission. Demonstrate knowledge of Intelligence
          Community analysis centers and intelligence producers useful for intelligence
          applications at the unit level. Demonstrate ability to use combat intelligence
          information systems and software to request intelligence from outside sources when
          unit intelligence holdings are insufficient. Demonstrate ability to use message traffic
          in US Message Text Format (USMTF) or OPLAN/CONPLAN-specified formats, to
          request intelligence from outside sources when unit intelligence holdings are
          insufficient and combat intelligence information systems are unavailable.
          3.2.1.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
          intelligence applies to the unit mission, (i.e., what is useful to unit pilots, mission
          planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
          tasks: Demonstrate knowledge of intelligence needed by F-22 pilots and mission
          planners for combat operations. Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence
          requirements of the wing commander, operations group commander and other
          functional areas supported by wing intelligence. Be able to describe the intelligence
          requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s OPLAN/CONPLAN
          tasking.
          3.2.1.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Show knowledge of unit-level
          resources, points of dissemination and methods of dissemination to pilots, mission
          planners, operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of intelligence as
          determined by the unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks:
          Demonstrate knowledge of unit computers, web-based audiovisual and manual
          information displays and dissemination.             Demonstrate knowledge of
          professional/unprofessional use of collaborative chat tools, secure video
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                  11


        teleconference and/or other interactive communications and dissemination systems
        used by the unit. Demonstrate knowledge of pilot, mission planner and squadron and
        wing leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated
        intelligence into the information flow. Demonstrate knowledge of record message
        traffic reporting as required for unit operations by OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking, as
        applicable. Demonstrate knowledge of methods to identify currency and expiration
        of intelligence provided to end users. Demonstrate knowledge of the fundamentals of
        information security classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of
        authoritative guidance. Demonstrate knowledge of rules, procedures and restrictions
        for secure transfer of intelligence from various levels of classified intelligence and
        information networks.
        3.2.1.1.4. Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment. Objective:
        Demonstrate knowledge of IPOE terms and concepts and understand the analytical
        methodology employed in IPOE. Specific tasks: Be able to describe the IPOE
        process (define the operational environment) as it pertains to the unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Describe the impact of the operational environment,
        evaluating the adversary, and determining adversary courses of action. Demonstrate
        knowledge of IPOE products and producers based on unit mission and
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence
        for F-22 operations.
     3.2.1.2. F-22 Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: Demonstrate an understanding
     of the unit’s specific F-22 weapons systems and operations. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of F-22 employment in offensive counter air, defensive counter air, dynamic
     targeting, and destruction of enemy/adversary air defenses missions. Show knowledge of
     F-22 capabilities and limitations; EW suite, defensive/passive sensors; air intercept radar;
     air-to-ground and air-to-air weapons and delivery profiles.
     3.2.1.3. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable area of
     responsibility (AOR) enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Demonstrate knowledge
     of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, directed energy weapons (DEW), ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric threat capabilities,
     limitations and employment techniques of threat forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-22 capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.4. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate knowledge of EW, aircraft, AAMs, SAMs, ADA/AAA, DEW, ground
     forces and associated equipment, naval systems, and asymmetric capabilities, limitations
     and employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be encountered in the
     operational environment based on unit mission, F-22 capabilities and limitations, and
     OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.1.5. Visual Recognition (VR). Objective: When shown a video or still image of
     sufficient quality, be able to identify enemy/adversary, friendly or neutral weapon
     systems that may be encountered in the operational environment based on unit mission
     and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to visually identify
12                                                       AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


     enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral aircraft (both rotary and fixed-wing), ground
     equipment, and naval vessels by appropriate, name or numerical designator and
     determine whether the object is a threat or non-threat. Training will include: all
     aspects/angles, theater-specific paint schemes, national markings, various configurations,
     employment characteristics, muzzle flashes, smoke plumes, and burst patterns as
     applicable.
     3.2.1.6. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing pilots for the possibility of survival, evasion,
     resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks: Demonstrate
     knowledge of theater-specific isolated personnel report (ISOPREP) and evasion plan of
     action (EPA) requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     Demonstrate knowledge of environmental, operations and combat search and rescue
     (CSAR) information contained in the special instructions (SPINS) that will drive
     intelligence requirements during PR operations.
     3.2.1.7. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate understanding of
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Summarize
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in OPLAN/CONPLAN-tasked AORs and other hot spot
     areas. Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment. Identify
     intelligence force protection (FP) resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and force
     protection conditions. Understand unit FP considerations. State facts about base-specific
     and regional threats.
  3.2.2. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
  IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. (T-2)
     3.2.2.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific
     threat systems and tailoring the information to the F-22 airframe and countertactics.
     Specific Tasks: Successfully research, compile and develop an accurate, concise briefing
     with focus on the threat relevant to the F-22 mission and capabilities. Present a threat
     briefing for the selected weapons system.
     3.2.2.2. Situation displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing, posting,
     updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without automated
     intelligence system support IAW standards established by the SIO and based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Select the proper medium to
     use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be included on
     a situation display IAW AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3. Research, analyze and plot situation
     display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting
     Symbology and US Army Field Manual /US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-
     02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics).
         3.2.2.2.1. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
         updating and maintaining OB on situation displays without automated intelligence
         system support IAW OB standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission
         and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking. Specific tasks: Research, analyze and plot OB
         using correct symbology. Extract military grid reference system (MGRS) and
         geographic coordinates. Identify critical elements of the table of organization and
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                    13


        equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Demonstrate understanding of OB
        production sources for the AOR.
        3.2.2.2.2. Automated OB.       Objective:   Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing
        intelligence support systems to download, update, purge and control quality of
        automated OB used on situation displays. Specific tasks: Demonstrate ability to
        verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Identify critical elements of the
        table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations.
        Demonstrate understanding of OB production sources for the AOR. Exploit
        intelligence software applications to post and maintain OB and convert MGRS
        coordinates and geographic coordinates.
     3.2.2.3. Initial Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of an initial situation briefing to the commander and
     staff. Specific tasks: Conduct effective IPOE research and analysis. Identify and present
     significant events leading to the crisis; adversary, neutral, friendly and/or US political
     decisions or diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the
     mission, or the deploying unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary course of action (COA); relevant for the local area (e.g., terrorism,
     sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by security forces (SF) or Air Force Office
     of Special Investigations (AFOSI); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of
     likely answers to the gaps. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver initial situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO based on
     unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.4. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis.
     Identify and present changes in the operational environment since the last update.
     Present any enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or
     diplomatic initiatives that impact the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the
     deployed unit; relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COA for
     the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours (i.e., next shift, next day and through the Air Tasking
     Order (ATO) cycle); relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to
     the gaps; and relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats);
     unless briefed by SF or AFOSI. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver the situation briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.5. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Organize, prioritize and present key
     information at shift changeover. Specific tasks: Provide incoming personnel with a
     summary of events to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate
     attention, situation update, a review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team directives, mission report (MISREP)
     status, and other pertinent items. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
14                                                        AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and conducting a changeover briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO and based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN
     tasking.
     3.2.2.6. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing.               Specific tasks:
     Demonstrate understanding of unit tasking (i.e., warning order (WARNORD), execution
     order (EXORD)) and/or Air Expeditionary Forces tasking (as applicable). Research, and
     focus intelligence to the unit’s tasked mission, roles and combat profiles. Include:
     synopsis of political-military situation generating the deployment; relevant
     enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
     activity along deployment route; relevant FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage,
     subversion threats), unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; relevant intelligence gaps and any
     assessments of likely answers to the gaps; most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COAs in reaction to the deployment; possible en route hazards to flight,
     bailout or alternate landing sites (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas); reporting
     instructions and essential elements of information (EEI); and additional items as dictated
     by the local situation. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based,
     audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the
     unit. Deliver deployment briefing IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit
     mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the deploying
     commander.
     3.2.2.7. ATO/Airspace Control Order/SPINS (ATO/ACO/SPINS) and Other Tasking
     Documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and breaking
     out the applicable elements of the ATO/ACO/SPINS, as well as a WARNORD, Alert
     Order, EXORD, Operations Order and Deployment Order IAW unit procedures. Specific
     tasks: Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS. Identify and extract unit tasking,
     airspace control, PR information and intelligence related information from tasking
     orders/messages. Demonstrate breakout of ATO/ACO/SPINS with both manual and
     automated techniques and tools IAW prescribed local timelines and format requirements.
     As applicable, identify other types of tasking requests the unit may face in particular
     theaters.
     3.2.2.8. Intelligence Support to the Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate
     proficiency in supporting mission planning by accomplishing appropriate intelligence
     tasks.     Specific tasks:     Review the tactical problem/scenario.       Analyze the
     ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout, unit IPOE, target acquisition, target significance, threat
     considerations (e.g., integrated air defense system, air, SAMs, ADA/AAA), tactics,
     terrain, and weather, target imagery, route/avenue(s) of approach recommendation(s), as
     appropriate. Identify and plot unit tasking. Derive specified and implied intelligence
     requirements from tasking documents; research applicable intelligence; define gaps;
     submit collection requirements and/or requests for information (RFI) as appropriate.
     Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting the intelligence portion of an initial
     situation briefing for mission planners; Deliver briefing IAW prescribed local timelines,
     format and content requirements.
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                   15


     3.2.2.9. Weaponeering. Objectives: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     validating weaponeering solutions for tasked targets. Specific tasks: State basics of unit
     procedures in accessing target databases and developing targeting specific RFIs.
     Demonstrate where to locate and conduct basic unit specific research of targeting
     reference sources, to include the Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual (JMEM),
     imagery, and other target materials.
     3.2.2.10. Mission Package Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
     intelligence role in mission package construction and in basic targeting skills.
     Understand the roles and responsibilities of each echelon in the target development
     process. Specific tasks: Identify and obtain required imagery and geospatial information
     and services (GI&S) products to build mission materials. Demonstrate proficiency in
     utilizing mission planning software to construct mission packages and conduct
     appropriate research and analysis in unit-level target development. Demonstrate
     proficiency in obtaining target materials, coordinating mission materials with mission
     planners, acquiring Digitized Point Positioning Database (DPPDB), targeting application
     systems (e.g., Common Geo-positioning System (CGS) Target Application Workstation
     (TAW)) and aiding in quality control of mission packages. Build intelligence-specific
     contents of the mission package IAW prescribed local timelines, format and content
     requirements.
     3.2.2.11. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit IPOE products and/or conduct effective IPOE research and analysis (as
     required to fill intelligence gaps). Identify and present changes in the operational/tactical
     environment since the last update. Present any enemy/adversary air, ground, naval,
     space, cyber and irregular force disposition and activity; relevant FPI for the local area
     (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats), unless briefed by SF or AFOSI; target
     information and tactical situation in the target area. Present en route and target area
     threats (e.g., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW and DEW threats), PR information, EEIs,
     in-flight report (INFLTREP) requirements, debrief location, and other factors essential to
     mission success. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual
     and/or manual information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit.
     Deliver mission briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and commander’s
     requirements based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.12. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing. Specific tasks: Construct and deliver a briefing that
     provides pilots with critical last-minute changes in the threat that affect their missions.
     Brief any new threats (e.g., air, air defense, ground), new tactics, PR data changes, latest
     threat update code (TUC), and any other changes impacting the mission. Demonstrate
     proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information
     display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Deliver step briefing IAW
     standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
     3.2.2.13. Mission Tracking. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in local procedures for
     monitoring mission execution and in communicating with other agencies and
     coordination centers. Specific tasks: Effectively monitor and use communication
     systems including collaborative chat tools to maintain situational awareness of ongoing
16                                                        AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


     missions. React as necessary to support the mission. Log all communications in locally
     developed mission tracking log. Ensure all missions are debriefed and reported upon.
     Make provisions for diverted missions.
     3.2.2.14. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Prepare appropriate sections of the
     debrief form/checklist. Extract relevant mission intelligence from pilots. Identify time-
     sensitive information and disseminate appropriately and expediently per local/theater
     guidance.     Prioritize questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements.
     Demonstrate ability to identify key points and develop intelligence by asking amplifying
     questions relevant to the mission. Consult appropriate post flight products. Demonstrate
     ability to control the flow and pace of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and
     accurate information collection without wasting time. Demonstrate awareness and
     control of environmental factors that may distract pilots or impede the debriefing process.
     Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and debriefing tools as applied by the unit. The following additional
     tasks apply, dependent upon the debriefing method(s) used by the unit.
        3.2.2.14.1. For plane-side debriefing (i.e., “plugged in” to the jet), also demonstrate
        appropriate use of communications equipment, control of classified debriefing
        materials and appropriate application of communications methods used to pass
        debriefed information to unit intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.14.2. For flight-line debriefing (i.e., in a vehicle or other venue on the flight
        line), also demonstrate control of classified debriefing materials and appropriate
        application of communications methods used to pass debriefed information to unit
        intelligence work centers.
        3.2.2.14.3. For in-flight debriefing (i.e., via secure or non-secure radio with the pilot
        en route to base), demonstrate appropriate use of radio communications, brevity and
        security awareness IAW standards established by the SIO, based on unit mission,
        OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking and the requirements of the supported commander.
     3.2.2.15. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting accurate MISREPs and other applicable intelligence reports (Intelligence
     Summary (INTSUM), Intelligence Report (INTREP), etc.) as required by local directives.
     Specific tasks: Analyze and extract information from in-flight reports (INFLTREP) and
     other pilot-submitted formats. Generate intelligence reports using computer and/or
     manual information systems applied by the unit. Validate accuracy and completeness
     IAW standards established by the SIO based on unit mission and applicable reporting
     directives. Demonstrate proficiency in using computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or
     manual intelligence dissemination tools and techniques as applied by the unit.
     Demonstrate proficiency in drafting, validating and transmitting appropriate USMTF
     intelligence messages when applicable reporting directives do not exist.
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                    17


                                           Chapter 4

                               CONTINUATION TRAINING

4.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with F-
22 capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training required to
accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
4.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
IPTPMs will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. Continuation training must reinforce MQT
tasks and facilitate RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the
unit MQF. Completion of CT tasks will be annotated in coordination with AF/A2 approved
processes regarding online documentation. At a minimum, the following topics will be covered
during CT: (T-2)
   4.2.1. IPOE – to include the steps and elements of the IPOE process as applied to unit
   mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   4.2.2. F-22 Weapons systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and defensive tactics/maneuvers, mission profiles, armament and on-board
   systems.
   4.2.3. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA/AAA, naval and ground threat system capabilities and limitations
   with respect to F-22 operations.
   4.2.4. Visual Recognition – to include identification features and employment characteristics
   of enemy/adversary, friendly and neutral weapon systems.
   4.2.5. Automated Intelligence Systems – to include types and functions of intelligence
   systems, software applications and operations, and how intelligence systems support the unit
   mission.
   4.2.6. PR – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater ISOPREP/EPA
   requirements and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   4.2.7. FPI – to include intelligence support to FP principles; irregular/guerrilla/terrorist
   forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force
   protection considerations.
   4.2.8. Order of Battle – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating and
   maintaining manual and automated OB.
   4.2.9. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
 18                                                          AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


   4.2.10. Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout, mission
   planning software applications and route/combat air patrol (CAP) analysis, GI&S
   familiarization to determine product requirements (quantity, chart type, appropriate scale),
   acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission package construction.
   4.2.11. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
   handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
   4.2.12. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
   reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
4.3. Ready Intelligence Program. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities needed to
accomplish the unit’s tasked missions. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel
perform specific mission essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their
duty positions. In order to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, RIP tasks
will be conducted in conjunction with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-
2)
   4.3.1. The standard task requirements listed in Table 4.1, F-22 Ready Intelligence Program
   and Currency Requirements, establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and
   BMC. Failure to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC
   status and additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   4.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks and successfully
   accomplish periodic mission qualification evaluations (MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2
   and AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2 to maintain currency and qualification. If an intelligence
   specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform that task
   unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for documenting RIP
   task completion. (T-2)

Table 4.1. F-22 Ready Intelligence Program and Currency Requirements.
                             Minimum Frequency to                Minimum Frequency to
Subject
                             Maintain CMR Status                 Maintain BMC Status
                             Ops            Tgts                 Ops           Tgts
Situation Display            Semi-Annually Semi-Annually         Annually      Annually
Manual OB                    Semi-Annually Semi-Annually         Annually      Annually
Automated OB                 Semi-Annually Semi-Annually         Annually      Annually
Initial Situation Briefing   Annually       ----                 Annually      ----
Situation Briefing           Annually       ----                 Annually      ----
Changeover Briefing          Annually       Annually             Annually      Annually
Deployment Briefing          Annually       ----                 Annually      ----
ATO/ACO/SPINS and
                             Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
Other Tasking Documents
Intelligence Support to
                             Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
Mission Planning
Weaponeering                                   Quarterly                           Annually
Mission Package
                             Semi-Annually     Semi-Annually     Annually          Annually
Construction
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                 19


Mission Briefing            Quarterly        ----              Annually        ----
Step Briefing               Quarterly        ----              Annually        ----
Mission Tracking            Semi-Annually ----                 Annually        ----
Debriefing                  Quarterly        ----              Annually        ----
Intelligence Reports        Quarterly        ----              Annually        ----
Note: Quarterly is once every 3 months, semi-annually is once every 6 months, and annually
is once every 12 months.
4.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to non-current (N-CMR/N-BMC, as applicable). The SIO will direct the
member who fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Regression and the
steps taken to correct the situation will be documented in a memorandum for record in the
individual's qualification training and evaluation record. CMR/BMC intelligence personnel
regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to return
them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification program will
be credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
4.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1, paragraph 1.7.
 20                                                          AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


                                            Chapter 5

                                 SPECIALIZED TRAINING

5.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST programs are intended to provide SIOs the minimum specialized
training programs for individuals without previous qualifications and may be tailored for
intelligence personnel with current qualifications, prior experience, currency, documented
performance or formal training. Unless governed by a formal syllabus, these programs will
consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios. The IPTPM will ensure ST is recorded on
AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for AF Form 4381 elements) and IAW AF/A2 guidance and
approved processes regarding online documentation. Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
5.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised EIT. All intelligence
personnel assigned or attached to a flying squadron must be qualified external intelligence
trainers. (T-2)
   5.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected for EIT trainer must:
       5.2.1.1. Be mission qualified (CMR or BMC).
       5.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
       listed below.
   5.2.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Profiles:
       5.2.2.1. EIT 1 - EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
       instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
       Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
       delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
       one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
       trainee achievement.
       5.2.2.2. EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing threat training requirements for air, SAM, ADA/AAA, EW, and DEW
       threats (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 3). Specific tasks:
       Prepare and deliver an instructional session for threats based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.3. EIT 3 - Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
       in establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
       requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Develop
       training that enhances unit ability to use pilot-originated reports (INFLTREP or other
       formats) and intelligence-generated reports (INTREP, MISREP, INTSUM, etc.). Prepare
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                    21


       and deliver an instructional session on C&R based on unit mission and
       OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.4. EIT 4 - Visual Recognition (VR). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       establishing VR training requirements. Specific tasks: Successfully complete a VR test
       (85 percent minimum to pass). Develop and deliver an instructional session on VR based
       on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
       5.2.2.5. EIT 5 - Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in
       developing instructional material in coordination with tactics, aircrew flight equipment,
       and SERE personnel. Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on intelligence PR
       operational support processes as required. Where possible, PR EIT trainers should be
       graduates of SV-80A Survival Training. Units with an assigned SERE specialist
       (1T0X1) may omit this block.
       5.2.2.6. EIT 6 - Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
       in establishing FP threat training requirements (to include minimum standards cited in
       AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 3). Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session
       for FP threats based on unit mission and OPLAN/CONPLAN tasking.
   5.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
   successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and
   endorsement from the SIO.
   5.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 5.1, External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and
   Currencies, defines the currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to
   maintain EIT trainer status. EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT
   trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a
   particular area, the individual will not conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained.
   Trainers who are non-current must satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by
   another current and qualified EIT trainer in the same training event.

Table 5.1. External Intelligence Training Trainer Events and Currencies.
Event                 Specialized Training                       Currency Requirement
Threat Training       Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific tasks.   Instruct one threat training
                      Pass MQF test (threat specific).           event per three-month
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.              period (Quarterly).
Collection and        Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific tasks.   Instruct one C&R training
Reporting (C&R)       Pass MQF test (C&R specific).              event per 12-month period
Training              Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.              (Annually).
Visual Recognition    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific tasks.   Instruct one VR training
(VR) Training         Pass VR test.                              event per six-month period
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.              (Semi-annually).
Personnel Recovery    Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific tasks.   Instruct one PR training
(PR) Training         Pass MQF test (PR specific).               event per 12-month period
                      Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.              (Annually).
Force Protection      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 6 specific tasks.   Instruct one FPI training
Intelligence (FPI)    Pass MQF test (FPI specific).              event per 12-month period
 22                                                          AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


Training               Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.               (Annually).
5.3. Aerospace Control Alert (ACA). This program establishes the minimum guidelines for
intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an ACA Specialist within the
unit. Only qualified ACA Specialist may conduct unsupervised ACA duties. (T-2)
   5.3.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected as ACA specialist must:
       5.3.1.1. Be mission qualified (CMR or BMC).
       5.3.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
       5.3.1.3. Complete the requirements for the ACA profile listed below.
   5.3.2. ACA Profile - ACA Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution.               Objective:
   Demonstrate an understanding of ACA command and control procedures, the primary
   communication systems and intelligence tasks to support the ACA mission. Specific tasks:
   Describe sectors appropriate to the ACA mission; define specific alert levels and postures;
   describe unit OPLAN tasking to support ACA; retrieve ACA ATO and breakout unit tasking;
   conduct mission planning; identify key areas to defend in area/sector as well as potential
   targets; describe procedures for significant activity; prepare mission materials (smart packs,
   etc.) IAW unit ACA procedures/checklists; conduct ACA debriefing; prepare and submit
   MISREP IAW higher headquarters (HHQ) reporting guidance; operate remote access secure
   program system; describe local chain of command and contact procedures as well as lateral
   and HHQ communications requirements.
   5.3.3. Aerospace Control Alert Evaluation. ACA evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI
   14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as ACA specialists
   upon successful completion of required tasks, an initial ACA evaluation (INIT ACA) and
   endorsement from the SIO.
   5.3.4. Aerospace Control Alert Currency. ACA Specialists must participate in one ACA
   mission planning and intelligence execution event per 12-month period (annually) to remain
   current. ACA Specialists must also successfully complete periodic ACA evaluations IAW
   AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. (T-2)
5.4. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to progress to IE within the unit. Only
qualified evaluators may conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations to grade standardization
and evaluation criteria. (T-2)
   5.4.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel identified by the SIO for progression to IE must:
       5.4.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
       5.4.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
       2F-22, Volume 2.
       5.4.1.3. Meet task certifier requirements as outlined by AFI 36-2201.
       5.4.1.4. Be designated by the SIO.
   5.4.2. IE training consist of two steps; observation and performance demonstration.
   Intelligence evaluator trainees must complete one or more of the observation profiles and the
   proficiency profile listed below. (T-2)
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                               23


     5.4.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Observe a mission evaluation. Specific
     tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
     evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Observation. Objective: Observe an EIT trainer evaluation.
     Specific tasks: Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT EIT Trainer or EIT Trainer evaluation. Identify scenarios for
     intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.3. IE 3 - IE ACA Observation. Objective: Observe an ACA evaluation. Specific
     tasks:    Understand evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form
     preparation for an INIT ACA or ACA evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence
     evaluations, objectivity issues, and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     5.4.2.4. IE 4 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
     conducting an evaluation. Perform the evaluation with the trainer as the examinee in a
     simulated evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
     provide a thorough debrief and critique. Demonstrate knowledge of evaluation criteria,
     grading procedures and proficiency in evaluation form preparation.
  5.4.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
  14-2F-22, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE specialized training is completed.
  The intelligence evaluator is qualified to perform IE duties after completing training,
  successful completion of the initial IE evaluation (INIT IE) and endorsement from the SIO.
  (T-2)
  5.4.4. Intelligence Evaluator Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding
  evaluation annually to remain current. IEs must also successfully complete periodic IE
  evaluations IAW AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2. (T-2)




                                          Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                          Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 24                                                       AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2, F-22 Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria, 28 August 2012
AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 3, F-22 Unit Intelligence Procedures, 28 August 2012
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFTTP 3-1.F-22A, Tactical Employment F-22A, 1 August 2013 (SAP)
AFTTP 3-1.General Planning, General Planning and Employment Considerations, 6 February
2014 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide, 2 May 2014 (S)
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAA—Anti-Aircraft Artillery
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACA—Aerospace Control Alert
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AF—Air Force
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                         25


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BQ—Basic Qualification
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CGS—Common Geo-positioning System
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Courses of Action
CONPLAN—Concept Plan
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DLO—Desired Learning Objectives
DPPDB—Digitized Point Positioning Database
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EPA—Evasion Plan of Action
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
 26                                                       AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
IFTU—Intelligence Formal Training Unit
IIQC—Intelligence Initial Qualification Course
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
INFLTREP—In-flight Report
INIT ACA—Initial Aerospace Control Alert Evaluation
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
IPTPM—Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
JMEM—Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual
MAJCOM—Major Command
METT-T—Mission, Enemy, Troops, Terrain - Time
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Current Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Current Combat Mission Ready
OB—Order of Battle
OCOKA—Observation, Cover/Concealment, Obstacles, Key Terrain, Avenues of Approach
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                 27


QUAL—Qualification Evaluation
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
RQ—Requalification Evaluation
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
ST—Specialized Training
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TAW—Target Application Workstation
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
VR—Visual Recognition
WARNORD—Warning Order
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator

Terms
Aerospace Control Alert—The integrated tasks of surveillance and control, the execution of
which enforces a nation's authority over its territorial airspace. ACA refers to the specialized
training tailored to address specific intelligence requirements to support the ACA mission.
(Previously referred to as Air Sovereignty Alert)
ATO/ACO/SPINS Breakout—Identifying and breaking out the elements of the air tasking
order, airspace control order and special instructions.
Automated OB—Order of battle maintained using intelligence support systems.
Basic Mission Capable (BMC)—The status of F-22 unit intelligence personnel who have
satisfactorily completed MQT, are qualified in the unit mission, but do not maintain CMR status.
Basic Qualification (BQ)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed IQT and are qualified to perform basic duties, but may not perform mission duties
unsupervised. BQ is a prerequisite for all personnel to enter MQT. The member must perform
at a minimum level as established in this volume. BQ is not a long term qualification status.
Certification—Procedure used to document competency in a particular task. Not
interchangeable with “qualification,” which requires Form 4350 documentation.
 28                                                            AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


Changeover Briefing—A briefing to provide incoming personnel a synopsis of events and
issues to prepare them for their shift. Include issues needing immediate attention, pending tasks,
personnel and equipment problems, work center status and briefing times.
Combat Mission Ready (CMR)—The status of intelligence personnel who have satisfactorily
completed MQT and maintain CMR qualification and currency in the appropriate mission
qualification tasks and knowledge outlined in this instruction and other applicable instructions.
Continuation Training (CT)—CT provides the volume, frequency, and mix of training
necessary for intelligence personnel to maintain proficiency, currency and qualification. The
RIP outlines the minimum CT requirements. RIP is designed to focus training on capabilities
needed to accomplish a unit’s core tasked missions. CT is separate from skill level upgrade
training, although CT may fulfill some skill level upgrade training requirements.
Currency—A measure of how frequently and/or recently a task is completed. Currency
requirements should ensure intelligence personnel maintain a minimum level of proficiency in a
given event.
Debriefing—The process to convert mission information into intelligence for dissemination to
affected parties. The intelligence specialist will extract relevant mission intelligence from
aircrew, ask amplifying questions relevant to the mission, identify time-sensitive information and
disseminate appropriately and expediently.
Deployment Briefing—A briefing to provide intelligence information to aircrew, key staff, and
deploying personnel prior to deployment. Intelligence information is tailored to the unit’s
specific mission, roles and combat profiles IAW the unit OPLAN/OPORD tasking. It includes a
synopsis of the military and political situation generating the deployment, enemy/adversary
activity and force disposition (air, ground and naval, as applicable) in the AOR and along
deployment route, enemy tactics and employment strategies, potential and or anticipated enemy
reactions to the deployment, possible en-route hazards to flight, bailout or alternate landing
issues (for hostile, friendly and neutral areas), known threats (terrorist or regular military forces)
in vicinity of bed down location, reporting instructions and EEI and additional items as dictated
by the local situation.
External Intelligence Training (EIT)—Intelligence training given by intelligence personnel to
pilots or other non-intelligence AFSC personnel.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC)
intelligence personnel who have completed the EIT specialized training and maintain currency as
an EIT trainer. Only qualified and current trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence
training for pilots or other personnel with a non-intelligence Air Force Specialty Code.
External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and
maintains EIT trainer qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify
and requalify an intelligence member as an EIT trainer as directed in AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 1.
The designator for the EIT trainer evaluation is “EIT” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF
Form 4350.
Initial Qualification Training (IQT)—Initial training necessary to qualify F-22 intelligence
personnel in a basic F-22 intelligence position without regard to a unit’s specific mission. IQT
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                      29


for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training is completed and consists of the IIQC
conducted by the F-22 IFTU.
Initial Situation Briefing—The briefing conducted at the outset of a crisis that outlines the
initial situation to the commander and staff. It includes the current situation, including major
events leading to the crisis, any national decisions, enemy force disposition, current situation at
deployment location, local area situation (e.g., terrorist activity, subversion threats, etc.),
anticipated enemy reactions, possible en-route flight hazards for previously scheduled and
transient flights.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE)—Current and qualified (CMR or BMC) intelligence personnel who
have completed the IE specialized training. IEs conduct intelligence qualification (mission or
specialized) evaluations (initial or periodic) and support unit Intelligence Stan/Eval functions.
Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the IE
qualification of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an
intelligence member as an IE (i.e., INIT IE and RQ IE) as directed in this volume. The
designator for the intelligence evaluator evaluation is “IE” as used with the AF Form 4349 and
AF Form 4350.
Intelligence Personnel Training Program Manager—The IPTPM is appointed by the SIO to
oversee the execution of the Intelligence Personnel Training Program.
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE)—An analytical
methodology employed to reduce uncertainties concerning the enemy, environment, and terrain
for all types of operations. Intelligence preparation of the operational environment builds and
extensive data base for each potential area in which a unit may be required to operate. The
database is then analyzed in detail to determine the impact of the enemy, environment, and
terrain on operations and presents it in graphic form. Intelligence preparation of the operational
environment is a continuing process.
Intelligence Reports—Reports generated by intelligence personnel to provide information to
higher headquarters (e.g., MISREPs and Intelligence Reports).
Internal Training Program—The internal intelligence training program is a unit-developed and
maintained program. It is intended to facilitate all personnel in maintaining their qualifications
and currencies. This volume provides a basic starting point for F-22 intelligence units and may
be supplemented by the SIO based on the unit’s requirements.
Manual OB—Order of battle maintained using maps and charts without automated intelligence
system support.
Mission Briefing—A briefing to provide unit operators with the latest intelligence affecting the
mission. Accurate and timely intelligence information should be provided on the general
situation since the last briefing, mission information, general situation in the CAP/objective area,
en route and mission area threats (SAMs/AAA/air/naval/laser and spectral interference
threats/etc.), and other factors essential to mission success.
Mission Package Construction—The mission package provides the operator with the
intelligence materials necessary to accomplish the mission. The mission package includes route
maps, threat information and other local mission package requirements.
 30                                                         AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


Mission Planning—The planning accomplished by intelligence personnel to support the
operational mission. Mission planning provides operators with the intelligence materials
necessary to accomplish the mission and may include route maps, imagery, and other local
mission folder requirements. Aircrew should receive the latest intelligence and most accurate
information available on routes, CAP area, targets of strikers being supported, threats, evasion
and recovery and other factors essential to planning the mission.
Mission Qualification Evaluation (MSN)—An evaluation that qualifies and maintains the
qualification (CMR or BMC) of the examinee. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and
requalify an intelligence member (i.e., INIT MSN, RQ MSN). The mission qualification
evaluation is administered to ensure the individual’s ability to support full mission planning and
employment in accomplishing the unit’s operational mission. The designator for the mission
qualification evaluation is “MSN” as used with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Mission Qualification Training (MQT)—Training needed to qualify intelligence personnel to
perform their specific unit mission in an assigned position. This training is a prerequisite for
CMR or BMC status.
Mission Tracking—Maintaining situational awareness of ongoing missions by monitoring
mission execution and communicating with other mission related agencies and coordination
centers.
Personnel Recovery (PR)—The aggregation of military, civil, and political efforts to obtain the
release or recovery of personnel from uncertain or hostile environments and denied areas
whether they are captured, missing, or isolated.
Qualification Evaluation (QUAL)—The qualification evaluation is administered to ensure
basic qualification (BQ) of the examinee in support of the F-22 and duty position of the
intelligence professional. The designator for the qualification evaluation is “QUAL” as used
with the AF Form 4349 and AF Form 4350.
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP)—Task requirements that apply to CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. The RIP outlines minimum CT requirements and is designed to focus
training on capabilities needed to accomplish the F-22 unit’s core tasked missions. The RIP
establishes the minimum number of task requirements per training cycle for BMC and CMR
qualified personnel. All intelligence personnel filling duty positions that are designated CMR or
BMC will accomplish these requirements.
Research, Analysis, Dissemination (RAD)—The ability to brief and report intelligence
concerning major potential threat adversaries, to include military, political and geographic by
researching, analyzing and disseminating tailored intelligence to aircrew, commanders, and base
support agencies.
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO)—The SIO is the highest-ranking Air Force officer holding
the 14N3 or 14N4 AFSC or Series 0132 Civilian serving in an Air Force intelligence position.
The SIO's authority extends to all directly subordinate units. Installations with intelligence
activities in different chains of command will have separate SIOs. In this capacity, the SIO
provides senior guidance on all policy development, interpretations, and applications
Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO). The SIO is defined as the officer responsible for
intelligence functions and operations within an organization. Unless otherwise directed by
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                       31


the Wing Commander, this will be the highest—ranking Air Force Airman that has: 1) been
awarded an Air Force intelligence Specialty Code (or civilian occupational series) and 2) is
serving in an Air Force intelligence position. Installations with intelligence activities in different
chains of command will have separate SIOs, each responsible for the below tasks to their
commander and inspectable by their respective MAJCOM IG.
Situation Briefing—The briefing which provides the latest intelligence to assist commanders,
staff and aircrew in their decision making. It incorporates significant military and or political
events, enemy force disposition (ground, air and air defense, naval, as applicable), indications of
impending enemy attack, enemy tactics and or employment strategies, potential course of enemy
action, local area situation (terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.).
Specialized Qualification Evaluation—An evaluation that qualifies a trainee in a specialized
area. Includes evaluations that initially qualify and requalify an intelligence member for a
particular skill or duty position. Specific types of specialized qualification evaluations are
identified in this volume.
Specialized Training—Training in any skill necessary to carry out the unit’s assigned missions
that is not required for every F-22 intelligence specialist. Specialized training is accomplished
after MQT and after the member has attained CMR or BMC status, and is in addition to CMR or
BMC requirements.
Step Briefing—A briefing given to aircrew immediately prior to departure for tasked mission.
The step briefing provides the aircrew with last minute intelligence affecting their mission and
highlights changes in the intelligence situation since the mission briefing.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA CC level.
Weaponeering—The process of determining the quantity of a specific type of lethal or nonlethal
weapons required to achieve a specific level of damage to a given target, considering target
vulnerability, weapons effect, munitions delivery accuracy, damage criteria, probability of kill,
and weapon reliability.
 32                                                    AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


                                      Attachment 2
                          TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2

FROM: [UNIT]

SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls

1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a major
impact on training.
 EVENT                                 PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE
                                       PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                                            SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                                            CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                                       LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).




                                            SIGNATURE BLOCK


CC: NAF/A2
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                33


                                         Attachment 3
                          F-22 MQT GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. F-22 MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
gradesheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT Gradesheets will be filed in the trainee’s on-line training record.
Intelligence Evaluators will use the MQT gradesheets to assist in the completion of the AF Form
4350, Certification of Intelligence Qualification, IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-22,
Volume 2. (T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of
evaluations.

Table A3.1. F-22 Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
2. General knowledge
2.1. Primary threat countries
2.2. Capabilities and limitations
2.3. Employment characteristics
2.4. Countertactics
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. F-22 Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained situation displays
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines
 34                                                            AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


Table A3.3. F-22 Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
1. Understanding of OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. MGRS and UTM
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained OB on the situation display
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. F-22 Automated OB Grade Sheet Elements.
1. Ability to use automated intelligence systems for OB
1.1. Updated and Maintained OB on the situation display
1.2. Performed coordinate conversion
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. F-22 Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (i.e., air, air defense, ground, naval, etc.)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by
SF or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                           35


Table A3.6. F-22 Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Changes to IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (i.e., air, air defense, ground, naval, etc.)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by
SF or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. F-22 Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Presented situation update briefing
3. Addressed relevant areas
3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
3.3. Reviewed briefing, work, and flying schedules
3.4. Reviewed situation displays
3.5. Reviewed CAT directives Review incoming/outgoing messages
3.6. Reviewed MISREP status
4. Delivery
4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
4.2. Effective use of visual aids
4.3. Appropriate level of detail
4.4. Applicability to audience
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. F-22 Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
 36                                                         AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Unit tasking (i.e., warning order (WARNORD), execution order (EXORD)) and/or Air
2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
and activity
2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployed location (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion
threats, etc.); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
2.7. Personnel recovery
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. F-22 ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents Gradesheet Elements.
1. Access correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document
2. Identify and extract unit specific information using manual and automated processes
2.1. Mission tasking information
2.2. Applicable SPINS information
2.3. Correct ACO information
3. Cross check fixed targets with theater no strike target list, if available
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. F-22 Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
1. Organization/preparation
1.1. ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
1.2. Tactical scenario understanding
1.3. Mission materials required
1.4. Defined gaps intelligence gaps and submit RFI/intelligence products
2. Mission planning situation briefing
2.1 Identified and plotted unit tasking
2.2. Target/objective significance
2.3. Threats/terrain/weather analysis and considerations
3. Route/track recommendations
3.1. Ingress
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                    37


3.2. Target/mission area
3.3. Egress
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. F-22 Weaponeering Gradesheet Elements.
1. Validating weaponeering solutions for tasked targets
1.1. Access target databases
1.2. Developed targeting specific RFIs
1.3. Research of targeting reference documents
1.3.1. Effective use of JMEM
1.3.2. Analysis of imagery and other target materials
2. Use of automated applications
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. F-22 Mission Package Construction Gradesheet Elements.
1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
2. Use of automated applications
3. Identify/obtain applicable mission materials
4.1. Imagery
4.2. GI&S
4.3. DPPDB
5. Coordinated mission materials with mission planners
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. F-22 Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. IPOE
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
2.2. Enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition and
activity
2.3. Target information and tactical situation in the target area
2.4. En route and target area threats (i.e., SAMs, ADA/AAA, air, naval, EW, and DEW
threats, etc.)
2.5. FPI (i.e., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats, etc.); unless briefed by SF or AFOSI
2.6. PR information
 38                                                          AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


2.7. EEIs
2.8. INFLTREP requirements
2.9. Threat Update Code
2.10. Debrief location
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.14. F-22 Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in threat that affects the mission
2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
2.3. PR data changes
2.4. Latest TUC
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. F-22 Mission Tracking Gradesheet Elements.
1. Performed mission tracking
1.1. Monitored and used communication systems
1.2. Maintain situational awareness of ongoing missions
1.3. Reacted as necessary to support the mission
1.4. Logged all communications
1.5. Ensured all missions were debriefed and reported upon
1.6. Made provisions for diverted missions
2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. F-22 Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Debriefing preparation
1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                        39


1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General performance
2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from aircrew
2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information
2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
2.5. Consulted appropriate post flight products
2.6. Controlled the flow and pace of the debriefing
3. Plane-side debriefing additional items
3.1. Effective use of communications equipment to conduct debrief
3.2. Control of classified debriefing materials
3.3. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
4. Flight-line debriefing additional items
4.1. Control of classified debriefing materials
4.2. Communications methods used to pass debriefed information
5. In-flight debriefing additional items
5.1. Use of radio communications
5.2. Brevity and security awareness
6. Time management
7. Adherence to unit standards
8. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.17. F-22 Intelligence Reporting Gradesheet Elements.
1. Report preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Pre-filled report information when available
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Generate reports
2.1. Proficient using computer systems to draft and transmit intelligence reports
2.2. Proficient in drafting and transmitting USMTF intelligence reports
3. Time management
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
 40                                                          AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                    F-22 SPECIALIZED TRAINING (ST) GRADESHEETS

A4.1. F-22 ST Gradesheets. The ST gradesheet tables in this attachment are elements to be
used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF
Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST Gradesheets will be filed in the
trainee’s on-line training record. Intelligence Evaluators will use the ST gradesheets to assist in
the completion of the AF Form 4350 IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2.
(T-2) Refer to AFI 14-2F-22, Volume 2 for a more detailed explanation of evaluations.

Table A4.1. F-22 External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. F-22 ACA Mission Planning and Intelligence Execution Gradesheet Elements.
1.   ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout
2.   Mission planning
3.   Mission materials
4.   Mission briefing
5.   Mission debriefing
6.   Mission reporting

Table A4.3. F-22 Intelligence Evaluator Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines
AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                 41


                                        Attachment 5
                       F-22 MQT, ST, AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1. Consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be
used by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. F-22 MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
Requirement                                          MQT              ST      RIP
                                                     Ops     Tgts             Ops     Tgts
RAD and IPOE                                         X       X        ----    ----    ----
F-22 Weapons Systems Academics                       X       X        ----    ----    ----
Threat Knowledge                                     X       ----     ----    ----    ----
Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                 X       X        ----    ----    ----
Visual Recognition                                   X       X        ----    ----    ----
Personnel recovery                                   X       X        ----    ----    ----
Force Protection Intelligence                        X       ----     ----    ----    ----
Threat Briefings                                     X       ----     ----    ----    ----
Situation Displays                                   X       X        ----    X       X
Manual OB                                            X       X        ----    X       X
Automated OB                                         X       X        ----    X       X
Initial Situation Briefing                           X       ----     ----    X       ----
Situation Briefing                                   X       ----     ----    X       ----
Changeover Briefing                                  X       X        ----    X       X
Deployment Briefing                                  X       ----     ----    X       ----
ATO/ACO/SPINS/Other Tasking Documents                X       X        ----    X       X
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning             X       ----     ----    X       ----
Weaponeering                                         ----    X        ----    ----    X
Mission Package Construction                         X       X        ----    X       X
Mission Briefing                                     X       ----     ----    X       ----
Step Briefing                                        X       ----     ----    X       ----
Mission Tracking                                     X       ----     ----    X       ----
Debriefing                                           X       ----     ----    X       ----
Intelligence Reports                                 X       ----     ----    X       ----
EIT 1 - Concepts and Methods                         ----    ----     X       ----    ----
EIT 2 - Threats and Countermeasures                  ----    ----     X       ----    ----
EIT 3 - C&R Training                                 ----    ----     X       ----    ----
EIT 4 - VR Training                                  ----    ----     X       ----    ----
EIT 5 - PR Training                                  ----    ----     X       ----    ----
EIT 6 - FPI Training                                 ----    ----     X       ----    ----
ACA 1 - ACA Mission Planning/Intel Execution         ----    ----     X       ----    ----
IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                            ----    ----     X       ----    ----
IE 2 - IE EIT Observation                            ----    ----     X       ----    ----
IE 3 - IE ACA Observation                            ----    ----     X       ----    ----
IE 4 - IE Proficiency                                ----    ----     X       ----    ----
42   AFI14-2F-22V1 28 AUGUST 2012
