Administrative Changes to AFI 11-401 AFSOCSUP, Aviation Management

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3T

References throughout to “HQ AFSOC/A3” are hereby changed to “AFSOC/A3”. 18 September
2014

References throughout to “623 AOC/SPDP” are hereby changed to “OC/SODP”. 18 September
2014
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 11-401
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                                        10 DECEMBER 2010
COMMAND (AFSOC)
                                                      AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
                                                                          COMMAND
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                          19 JANUARY 2012

                                                                           Flying Operations

                                                                AVIATION MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3TM                                              Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A3T
Supersedes: AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP,                                    (Col Thomas A. Markland)
            20 February 2008                                                       Pages: 73


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 11-401, Aviation
Management, 10 December 2010, is supplemented as follows: It applies to commanders,
operations supervisors, and aircrew and parachutist members assigned to Air Force Special
Operations Command (AFSOC) and AFSOC gained flying units and Special Tactics units. This
supplement applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG)
upon mobilization. This supplement establishes procedures for managing AFSOC flying
resources and provides guidance to administer aircrew and parachutist management programs.
AFSOC wings or groups may further restrict the provisions of this supplement. Supplements
cannot be less restrictive than the basic publication or the AFSOC supplement. Wings or groups
will coordinate their supplement to this instruction with HQ AFSOC/A3TM before publication
and will forward one copy to HQ AFSOC/A3TM after publication. Subordinated organizations
will coordinate their supplements with parent organizations and will furnish one copy of their
supplement to the next higher headquarters. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to HQ AFSOC/A3TM, 100 Bartley St, Suite 160W,
Hurlburt Field FL 32544-4273 or afsoc.a3tm@hurlburt.af.mil, using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


This supplement is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain
records prescribed in this supplement are in Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013, and 37
U.S.C., 301a. The Privacy Act System Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource
Management System (ARMS), covers required information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include procedures for Chief, Host Aviation Resource Managers (CHARM) to provide HQ
AFSOC/A3TM monthly double-billet reports (paragraph 1.3.7). Deletes mission essential
ground personnel (MEGP) and additional crew member (ACM) guidance and adds mission
essential personnel (MEP) guidance (paragraphs 1.6.2.5 – 1.6.2.6.4). Adds guidance for
publishing simulator flight authorizations (paragraph 1.8.1). Moves the Flight Authorization
Remark Codes (FARC) from Chapter 1 to Attachment 4, Table A4.3. Establishes command
guidance for authorizing Career Enlisted Aviators (CEA) assigned to Operations Group (OG)
superintendent (DAFSC 9G100) positions to perform operational, indoctrination, or non-
interference flying (paragraphs 2.12.3.4 – 2.12.3.4.1). Deletes aeronautical order (AO)
publication and Aviation Service Code (ASC) effective date guidance (moved to AFI 11-
421_AFSOCSUP).
1.1. Overview. This supplement applies to all AFSOC and AFSOC gained flying units and
special tactics units with parachutist assigned. It applies to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG) upon mobilization. AFSOC Host Aviation Resource
Management (HARM) offices servicing tenant units will establish and review annually all host-
tenant support agreements IAW AFI 11-421, Aviation Resource Management.
1.3. Responsibilities of MAJCOMs. The HQ AFSOC Operations Training Division (HQ
AFSOC/A3T) has overall responsibility for the basic instruction and supplements.
1.3.3. When not specifically established by AFI 11-2MDS-Specific, Volume 3 (Operations
Procedures), Operations Group (OG)/CCs are the approval authority for interfly on AFSOC
aircraft under their control. Written approval may be granted via written memo or e-mail.
Verbal approvals will be documented in writing within three duty days. In all cases, interfly
aircrew members will be qualified in the MDS.
1.3.3.1. (Added) Aircrew members assigned to intelligence squadrons (IS) from other
MAJCOMs (e.g., Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency [AFISRA])
required to perform in-flight duties on AFSOC aircraft will ensure attachment for flying request
or memorandum of agreement (MOA) (between IS commander and flying unit commander) is
completed to identify members’ primary unit of support for Aviation Resource Management
(ARM) and flying support matters (e.g., training folder and flight evaluation folder [FEF]
management). Refer to paragraph 2.16 in the basic instruction and this supplement.
1.3.4. OG/CCs (or equivalents), Air Force Special Operations Training Center (AFSOTC)/CC,
other Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) commanders (group equivalents), and HQ AFSOC staff
(three-digit) division chiefs (e.g., HQ AFSOC/A3V) will submit 180/365 day waiver request to
HQ AFSOC/A3TM to coordinate HQ AFSOC/A3T or HQ AFSOC/A3 approval as applicable.
Each period (180/365) requires a separate waiver request with justification. Refer to paragraph
1.4.1.8 in this supplement.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              3


1.3.5. OG/CCs (or equivalents), AFSOTC/CC, DRU/CCs (group equivalents), and HQ AFSOC
staff (three-digit) division chiefs will submit Flying Status Code (FSC) ―K‖ revalidation requests
to HQ AFSOC/A3TM to coordinate HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. Fiscal year revalidation requests
are due NLT 15 calendar days prior to the end of the current fiscal year. Refer to paragraph
1.4.1.9 of this supplement.
1.3.6. OG/CCs (or equivalents), AFSOTC/CC, other DRU/CCs (group equivalents), and HQ
AFSOC staff (three-digit) division chiefs will submit 180 day waiver request to HQ
AFSOC/A3TM to coordinate HQ AFSOC/A3TR or the AFSOC Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA)
Functional Manager (FM) review and HQ AFSOC/A3T approval. Refer to paragraph 1.4.1.6 of
this supplement.
1.3.7. Chief, Host Aviation Resource Managers (CHARM) will submit monthly reports to HQ
AFSOC/A3TM NLT the 10th duty day of the month. As required, HQ AFSOC/A3TM will
coordinate the appropriate aviation management action with the AFSOC Rated Manager (HQ
AFSOC/A3TR), AFSOC CEA FM, and HQ AFSOC/A3T. Monthly reports will include name,
rank, unit, primary Mission Design Series (MDS), current Aviation Service Code (ASC), Unit
Manpower Document (UMD) position number, effective date assigned to position, and remarks
or other rationale explaining the double billet.
1.3.8. AFSOC wings or groups supplementing the AFSOC supplement must rewrite, update
(using an interim change [IC]), or certify supplements as current within 180 days of the
publication of the AFSOC supplement and whenever the supplement is updated (either by an IC
or a rewrite).
1.4.1.5. Commanders will provide written notification through the Squadron Aviation Resource
Management (SARM) office to the servicing HARM office. Example notification includes a
Flying Evaluation Board (FEB) notification letter or an aviation suspension notification letter.
Commanders will take required suspension and disqualification action IAW AFI 11-402,
Aviation and Parachutist Service, Aeronautical Ratings and Aviation Badges.
1.4.1.6. OG/CCs commanders (or equivalents), AFSOTC/CC, DRU/CCs (group equivalent),
and HQ AFSOC staff (three-digit) division chiefs are responsible for notification and waiver
requests to HQ AFSOC/A3T.
1.4.1.6.1. (Added) When an incumbent aircrew member assigned to an active staff flying
position (includes Aviation Position Indicators [API] 6, 8, B, and D) does not fly for a period of
365 days while assigned to the active position, the flying justification on the AF Form 480,
Aircrew AFSC/Active Flying Justification, is invalidated and the HQ AFSOC/A1 in coordination
with HQ AFSOC/A3TR (Rated Management) or AFSOC CEA FM will convert the position to
an inactive API. If a commander or HQ AFSOC (three-digit) division chief requires a staff
position without flight activity to remain active, submit a request prior to the 180 day of
inactivity to HQ AFSOC/A3T with justification that validates the continued need to keep the
position active.
1.4.1.7. Commanders will coordinate disqualification actions through the SARM to the
members’ servicing HARM office.             Refer to AFI 11-402 for guidance on required
disqualification actions and consult with the base CHARM or group 1C0 FM (as required).
1.4.1.8. OG/CCs (or equivalents), AFSOTC/CC, DRU/CCs (group equivalent), and HQ AFSOC
staff (three-digit) division chiefs are responsible for submitting requests for HQ AFSOC
 4                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


approval for individuals in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖ more than 180 days (reference Tables 2.5. and
2.6, and paragraphs 1.3.4 and 1.4.1.8 in the basic instruction) in their respective
groups/directorate. Submit waiver requests IAW paragraphs 1.3.4 and 1.4.1.8.1 of this
supplement.
1.4.1.8.1. (Added) Waiver request must be submitted to HQ AFSOC/A3TM 20 days prior to the
member reaching 180 days in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖ for HQ AFSOC/A3T approval and must be
submitted again (if member is still in ―04‖ or ―S‖ status) 30 days prior to reaching 365 days for
HQ AFSOC/A3 waiver approval. Waiver format is in Attachment 5 of this supplement.
Requests must include name, rank, unit of assignment, current ASC, ASC effective date, number
of days in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖, API, UMD position number, reason for FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖
more than 180 days, rationale why the member is still in suspended status or non-performance
status, and why an FEB or disqualification action has not been completed.
1.4.1.8.2. (Added) SARM, HARM, or current operations ARM function will run a monthly
Oracle browser to identify members within their unit requiring waivers and initiate the waiver
package (Staff Summary Sheet (SSS)/memo) for the commander to process through group/wing
channels to HQ AFSOC/A3T for approval consideration.
1.4.1.8.3. (Added) HARM offices will establish procedures to identify/notify SARM offices of
individuals who reach 150 days in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04.‖ The SARM office is responsible for
notifying the member and informing the member’s commander of waiver requirement
procedures to keep member in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖ past 180 days. The SARM office will
ensure the staff package has all required coordination offices. The commander will ensure all
aviation or parachutist service action waiver requests are coordinated through the servicing
HARM office prior to HQ AFSOC coordination/approval, or for HQ AFSOC directorates
through HQ AFSOC/A3TM, prior to HQ AFSOC coordination/approval. For special tactics and
overseas units, commanders will ensure the group 1C0 functional manager is included in the
coordination process, prior to HARM and HQ AFSOC/A3T coordination/approval.
1.4.1.8.4. (Added) If a waiver request is not received by the 170th day (after the initial
notification to the unit/duty section), the HARM office (for wing/group aircrew) or HQ
AFSOC/A3TM (for HQ staff aircrew) will contact the member’s commander (HQ
AFSOC/A3TM will notify the branch chief for HQ staff aircrew). AFSOC HARM offices will
file the approved FSC ―S‖ waiver in the member’s Flight Record Folder (FRF) in the aviation
service document section. Maintain ASC ―04‖ waivers in the FRF/Jump Record Folder (JRF)
until ASC ―04‖ is revoked.
1.4.1.9. Commanders will ensure FSC ―K‖ status requests are coordinated through the members’
servicing HARM office and forward a copy to HQ AFSOC/A3TM, as required. For special
tactics or overseas units, ensure the group 1C0 functional manager also coordinates on the
request, prior to submitting it to the base HARM office. See FSC ―K‖ request format in
Attachment 10 of this supplement.
1.4.1.9.1. Applies to aircrew members returned to aviation service as the result of a FEB, but are
disqualified from a specific aircraft (or crew position) and are pending assignment or retraining.
The FSC ―K‖ effective date will be the date of the original suspension.
1.4.1.9.1.1. (Added) HQ AFSOC/A3TM will provide a listing monthly to HQ AFSOC/A1K
(rated officer assignments) and the AFSOC CEA FM identifying members requiring an
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             5


assignment to a non-AFSOC aircraft. Group CEA FMs will work with HQ AFSOC/A1K to
coordinate assignments for enlisted members no longer authorized to perform aircrew duties on
AFSOC aircraft.
1.4.1.9.3. Assign FSC ―K‖ effective the day after the date member departs home station as
documented by a MilPDS source, letter certified by the base Personnel Readiness Unit, or a letter
from member’s unit commander depicting date member departed.
1.4.1.9.3.1. Commanders are authorized to issue a Verbal Order of Commander (VOCO) to
authorize the member active flying status pending AOs being published. In this case, the SARM
office must provide a copy of the flight authorization to servicing HARM office to expedite AO
processing. For AO effective dates, see also AFI 11-421, Chapter 2.
1.4.1.9.4. Fiscal year revalidation requests are due NLT 15 calendar days prior to the end of the
current fiscal year. Commanders will coordinate revalidation requests through members’
servicing HARM office before forwarding requests to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for processing to HQ
AFSOC/A3. For special tactics and overseas units, include the group 1C0 FMs in the
coordination.
1.4.1.9.5. (Added) Aircrew members assigned to HQ AFSOC or DRUs and assigned to active
API (8 or D) positions will not be assigned FSC ―K‖ unless their attachment for flying request is
disapproved due to reasons indicated in paragraph 2.16.2 in this supplement. Initial request for
attachment for flying will be submitted to HQ AFSOC/A3TM in accordance with paragraph
2.16.1 in the basic instruction and this supplement.
1.4.2. Commanders will ensure all active and inactive aircrew staff and jump justifications are
coordinated through the SARM office, servicing HARM office and unit personnel office (or
Military Personnel Section [MPS]) prior to assigning and/or changing aircrew and jump
positions. All active and inactive aircrew assigned to HQ AFSOC will coordinate position
number assignment and/or changes through HQ AFSOC/A1K and HQ AFSOC/A3TM to the HQ
AFSOC Commander’s Support Staff (CSS) for update. Include the AFSOC CEA FM in the
coordination when changes involve HQ AFSOC CEA members.
1.4.2.1. Commanders will submit double-billet waiver requests to HQ AFSOC/A3TM to
coordinate HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. Commanders will ensure requests are coordinated with the
servicing HARM office before submitting to HQ AFSOC. Under no circumstances will more
than one member assigned against the same active staff or API 5 position be authorized active
flying status excepted for the provisions noted in paragraph 1.4.2.1 in the basic instruction.
Note: IAW paragraph 1.3.7 in the basic instruction, the CHARM is required to report all staff or
API 5 double-billeting cases to HQ AFSOC/A3T on a monthly basis.
1.4.2.1.1. (Added) The servicing HARM office will review the Unit Personnel Manpower
Roster (UMPR) during the member’s in-processing phase and will not initiate active AOs for
staff or jump personnel in excess of their UMD authorizations. Assignment to a pseudo-8 or
non-aircrew position does not authorize active AOs. Commanders must ensure rated/CEA
personnel are assigned to authorized billets.
1.5.2. For annual records reviews, use the e-mail notification format in Attachment 21 of this
supplement. The HARM office will print copies of the e-mail notifications and file in members’
FRFs/JRFs until receipt of the completed (certified) review from the member. Note: Since
flying time is not entered in ARMS for contract flyers, they are not required to complete records
 6                                                 AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


reviews. The HARM will update the 1st day of the records review phase period on the member’s
NUSIC record to eliminate contractors from showing up on ARMS reports.
1.5.2.1.2. (Added) SARM offices will identify those members who require annual records
reviews and notify them of the requirement to complete the review IAW with the basic
instruction. HARM offices will have written procedures established to notify commanders when
members are overdue a records review.
1.5.2.3. The HARM office will forward the member a copy of his or her suspended or
disqualification Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS) products with a cover letter (or
e-mail notification) requesting the member to review, certify (sign), and return the products to
the HARM office. The HARM office will provide notification IAW paragraph 1.5.2 in the basic
instruction and this supplement.
1.5.5. HARM offices will complete all actions associated with the completion of the
inprocessing in ARMS to include AOs, aviation service history, medical and physiological
qualification, and all flying/jump accountability. Aircrew /parachutists members are restricted
from flying/jumping until the HARM office receives the FRF/JRF to verify medical
certification/qualification, initial medical clearance to base, and AOs.
1.5.7.1. (Added) NLT the 10th duty day of the month, SARM offices will notify members who
are due a periodic flight or jump physical four months out. For example, NLT 14 January 2011
(the 10th duty day of the month), the SARM office notifies members who are due in May 2011.
Use the notification template in Attachment 20 of this supplement. Notifications may be e-
mailed. Mass distribution (―shotgun‖) e-mail notifications are authorized when the blind
courtesy copy (BCC) is used.
1.5.8. When the original AF Form 702, Individual Physiological Training Record, is signed out,
place a copy of the AF Form 702 and AF Form 614, Charge Out Record, in the FRF/JRF until
the member returns from the altitude chamber. The HARM office will develop written
procedures to ensure members return their original AF Form 702. Note: The HARM office may
suspense the AF Form 614 in a suspense file in lieu of filing it in the member’s record.
1.5.10. Process individual attachment for flying or jump requests using Attachments 7 – 9 in
this supplement. Electronic copies are maintained on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM AFSOC Aviation
Resource Managers SharePoint site.
1.6.2.1.1. Refer also to paragraph 3.2.1.5.1 in the basic instruction.
1.6.2.1.2. Refer also to paragraph 3.2.1.5.1 in the base instruction.
1.6.2.3. OG/CCs may approve flights (passenger manifested) in sister service aircraft for special
tactics personnel within their control who are required to perform parachutist operations. Prior
to approval, OG/CCs will ensure a documented review of mission justification, operational
profile, participating aircraft/personnel complement, and a deliberate risk management
assessment is conducted. Members required to perform jump operations from foreign military
aircraft are approved IAW AFI 11-410, Personnel Parachute Operations, Chapter 8. Note:
Refer to AFI 11-410 for general restrictions on using sister service or foreign military parachute
equipment.
1.6.2.3.1. (Added) Aircrew members do not fly as passengers unless traveling on a passenger
carrying aircraft on point to point travel. Aircrew members authorized to fly by the commander
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             7


or authenticating official will be listed on the flight authorization with appropriate duty codes
and comply with the guidance of this instruction for logging of flight time on the AFTO Form
781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document.
1.6.2.5. Mission essential personnel (MEP) status is granted on a case-by-case basis, to
individuals who perform unique support duties for local or off-station flights essential to a
particular aircraft, aircrew, or mission. MEP travel is space required passenger status, only on
aircraft configured for carrying passengers, and MEPs report through the Command and Control
Center to the Pilot in Command (PIC). Exception: MEPs who are mission essential to aircraft
launch/recovery may fly on aircraft not normally equipped for carrying passengers. MEPs who
fly under this exception must be physically and physiologically (when required) qualified and
must complete applicable egress training prior to flight. Do not bump MEPs enroute without
notification of the MEP approving authority.
1.6.2.5.1. The OG/CC (or equivalent) with operational control of the mission being flown, may
authorize blanket letters for MEP status for personnel (military or civilian) required to fly on
their aircraft when performing mission essential duties. Blanket request letters will include
specific AFSCs (or names) and inclusive dates not to exceed one year. Note: IAW paragraph
2.10.4 of the basic instruction, commanders should request noninterference aeronautical orders
for non-aircrew personnel required to frequently perform specific tasks on the aircraft for local
and/or off-station flights.
1.6.2.5.1.1. (Added) Cite MEP approval in travel orders. Following is an example statement:
MEP is authorized by (appropriate OG/CC) on (aircraft number and/or mission number/exercise
or contingency name) for duration, i.e., 22 – 27 June 2011). End the statement with name and
phone number of individual approving MEP status. Note: MEP authority may also be cited in a
letter or message using the statement above.
1.6.2.5.1.2. (Added) Individuals will coordinate their travel with the appropriate current
operations function prior to travel. It is imperative that mission operators and air terminal
operations centers are aware of MEP requirements when scheduling missions and crews.
Individuals joining mission’s enroute will present their travel orders to the appropriate Command
and Control Agency at least three hours prior to intended travel.
1.6.2.5.2. (Added) MEP travel status will be strictly controlled and approved only for those
with a bona fide mission essential purpose – this includes blanket waivers approved IAW
paragraph 1.6.2.5.1 in this supplement. Commanders will ensure that MEP status is not used for
travel at a higher priority than or in lieu of regular passenger travel, for avoidance of travel
expenses, for travel while on leave, to avoid passenger restrictions outlined in AFI 11-2MDS
Volume 3s, or as a substitute for the familiarization and orientation flying program.
1.6.2.5.3. (Added) Civilian government employees or civilian contractors will only be
authorized MEP status if either employment or company contract with the AF verifies
requirement for AF to provide airlift. Submit exceptions to policy through command channels to
HQ AFSOC/A3TM for review and staffing to HQ AFSOC/A3T for approval.
1.6.2.6. OG/CCs (or equivalent) may authorize MEP status for additional aircrew members on
active AOs not required for a particular mission being flown, but are required to pre- or de-
position to or from a deployed/TDY location to perform flight duties in support of mobility
operations. Unit commanders submit MEP requests for aircrew members assigned or attached to
 8                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


their unit to the OG/CC (or equivalent) with justification why members need to travel in MEP
status in lieu of normal passenger status. Once granted, TDY order remarks will reflect OG/CC
approval to travel in MEP status on aircraft under their control otherwise the member will carry a
copy of the OG/CC approval letter with them.
1.6.2.6.2. (Added) Additional aircrew members in MEP status are considered passengers, but
travel in a higher priority over other non-aircrew members traveling in MEP or normal passenger
status. Additional aircrew members in MEP status may be placed in the remarks section of the
flight authorization and are not authorized to log time on the AFTO Form 781.
1.6.2.6.3. (Added) Aircrew members wanting to travel in MEP status on aircraft outside their
operations group (or equivalent) must coordinate with the OG/CC (or equivalent) that owns that
aircraft/mission. Members use their TDY orders (with MEP in the remarks) or approval letter to
show their aircrew member/travel status.
1.6.2.6.4. (Added) MEP status will not be granted to aircrew members who do not meet the
requirements for indoctrination flying status under the provisions in paragraph 2.14 of the basic
instruction or as a substitute for flights under the orientation/familiarization flight program. See
also paragraph 1.6.2.5.2 in this supplement.
1.7.1. Commanders will submit waiver requests for AFSOC/CC approval through their
command channels to HQ AFSOC/A3TM. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will review and staff requests
through HQ AFSOC/A3 prior to AFSOC/CC final coordination. If the situation is time critical,
telephone waivers are authorized, followed by a waiver request via message. Waiver of any
requirement of the basic instruction, or of this supplement, due to combat mission or national
emergency will not automatically entitle an individual to receive Aviation Career Incentive Pay
(ACIP), Career Enlisted Flyer Incentive Pay (CEFIP), Hazardous Duty Incentive Pay (HDIP), or
RPA flight incentive pay, as applicable. To qualify for incentive pay, the member must satisfy
the provisions of paragraph 1.6 in the basic instruction.
1.7.2. Submit waiver requests through HQ AFSOC/A3TM. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will review and
staff requests to the appropriate approval authorities.
1.8.1. AFSOC formal flying training unit (FTU) commanders publish FAs for all dedicated
missions in support their formal training operations regardless of aircraft ownership. The
guidelines in paragraph 1.8.1 in the basic instruction apply. Unit commanders are required to
issue flight authorizations (FA) for simulator missions documenting aircrew members authorized
to credit continuation training and/or evaluations authorized to be credited by AFI MDS-specific
instructions. Exception: AFSOC FTUs are not required to issue flight authorizations for
unqualified aircrew members in student status. Simulator flights will be assigned FA numbers
following the same procedures as actual missions, with the exception that numbers will lead with
an ―S‖ before the fiscal year, e.g., S10-0001, and be tracked in a separate FA log. Units will
ensure go/no-go (GNG) validation is accomplished prior to each simulator flight. FAs will list
members who are non-current with a ―B‖ reason code and non-current events will be listed in the
remarks section. Crew complement requirements listed in MDS specific AFIs are applicable in
the simulator for crediting continuation training and/or evaluations. Individuals may only log
events in which they are current and qualified. Note: Members in DNIF status may perform
simulator duties unless specifically restricted by the DNIF AF Form 1042, Medical
Recommendation for Flying or Special Operational Duty.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             9


1.8.1.1. SARM/TARM offices will establish written GNG procedures to verify all grounding
items and currencies for members placed on flight authorizations. GNG products must be
available to accomplish a check when SARM/TARM personnel are unavailable (left for the day
or off station missions). Non-1C0X2 personnel (e.g., aircraft commander, operations officer)
validating GNG qualification must receive prior training and be designated in writing by the unit
commander. Maintain a copy of the designation letter in the SARM office continuity book.
1.8.2.1. An additional PIC or PIC candidate may be in command on specific route segments for
an evaluation. Designate with a remarks code which pilot is "in-command" for each segment on
the flight authorization. Flying unit commanders may designate on the flight authorization an
instructor pilot or higher in command for specific route segments to perform instructor pilot
duties for general officers and wing commanders, or when special pilot qualification is required.
For augmented crews, designate the operating segments (e.g., Lt Col Kiera Atwell was PIC for
second leg) for each PIC. Notify all members of the crew and the command and control center
when a change of command occurs. More than one additional pilot may be placed in command
on a designated training mission only when a requirement exists (e.g., two instructor pilot
evaluations, a PIC mission evaluation, and a copilot qualification evaluation, etc.). Flying unit
commanders will establish local procedures for changing command. An additional air
refueling/in-flight refueling qualified PIC may be designated in command of air/in-flight
refueling segments if a mission requirement dictates.
1.8.2.1.1. (Added) If an instructor/evaluator assumes command from the PIC during flight,
document this in the remarks section of the AFTO Form 781. This does not apply to formal
training flights conducted by AFSOC formal flying training units. Note: Pilot flight examiners
and instructors have the authority to take whatever action necessary to preclude an unsafe
situation from occurring, including assuming command of the aircraft if conditions warrant such
action. This is not intended to be blanket authority to assume command without cause.
1.8.2.1.2. (Added) AFSOC units use Flight Authorization Remark Code (FARC) ―A‖ for the
primary pilot in command on the first take-off and FARC ―J‖ for pilots in command during other
segments of the mission. Providing another pilot is depicted with a ―J‖, the ―A‖ coded pilot may
deplane on a later mission. Document in remarks, PIC first sortie, PIC command second sortie
for each sortie on the same flight authorization.
1.8.2.1.3. (Added) Instructor aircrew members qualified on basic sortie events only (as
documented on an AF Form 8, Certificate of Aircrew Qualification), but required to perform
flying duties on a mission sortie will be listed on the flight authorization with Aircrew
Qualification Code for crew position designated as ―I‖ and Aircrew Qualification Code for duty
position as ―F‖ IAW Table A2.3 in the basic instruction. The PIC will provide a comment in the
remarks section of the AFTO Form 781.
1.8.2.2. Crew qualification indicators further define the individual crewmember's flight
authorization duty code shown in "Crew Position." For example, the unit uses the fifth position
to define mission qualifications for individuals in the "A" crew position and special
qualifications for all other crew positions. A list of mandatory indicators is included in Table
A2.3 in the basic instruction and this supplement. A list of additional codes used should be kept
on file in squadron and identified on the flight authorization.
1.8.2.6. (Added) AFSOC units will use the FARCs in Table A4.3 of this supplement on all
flight authorizations (including RPA preflight authorizations) as applicable.
 10                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


1.8.2.7. (Added) Preflight authorizations used to document RPA flights will contain the
minimum elements found on the AF Form 4327a, Crew Flight Authorization.
1.8.3. Flight authorizations and AFTO Forms 781, must match with the following information:
ZULU date, names, crew positions, flight authorization duty codes, tail number, aircraft MDS,
mission number, and mission symbol. Exception: Individuals flying IAW paragraphs 2.10.3
and 2.10.4 of the basic instruction.
1.8.3.1. Undergraduate aircrew members attending AFSOC formal flying training courses who
are required to participate in a syllabus-directed, mission-related familiarization (observation)
sortie will be listed on the flight authorization with FARC ―W‖ (see Table A4.3 of this
supplement). Use aircrew qualification code ―U‖ and the appropriate crew position (second
character), e.g., UG, UQ. These members log ―other‖ time on the AFTO Form 781 IAW
paragraph 3.3.5. in the basic instruction and this supplement.
1.8.3.1.1. (Added) Basic qualified formal schoolhouse students on a syllabus-directed ―Mission
Qualification Training‖ familiarization ride are coded with an ―W‖ FARC; however their aircrew
qualification code is an ―F.‖
1.9.4.7. See Attachments 13 through 18 in this supplement.
1.9.4.7.1.2. Non-AFSOC senior officers in active flying positions may fly in the pilot seat on
AFSOC aircraft with HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. An instructor pilot must occupy the other seat.
Groups submit requests through 623 AOC/SPDP to include type aircraft, squadron, date of flight,
name, position, qualification, total hours of senior officer, and reason for flight. HQ AFSOC/A3
will determine which seat the senior officer will occupy and the need for CC/CV approval, if
necessary (see Table 1.1 in the basic instruction). For additional guidelines on rated
officers/CEAs assigned to other MAJCOMs or sister services who are required to fly on AFSOC
aircraft, refer to paragraph 1.10.1.1.4.1 of this supplement.
1.9.4.7.1.4. Spouse orientation flights will include applicable unit/wing briefings and a
debriefing for feedback on the program from the spouses. An escort officer or NCO will
accompany spouses and support personnel at all times. See Attachment 13 in this supplement.
1.9.4.7.1.4.1. Conduct flights in day Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC) unless otherwise
approved by HQ AFSOC/A3. Units will not exceed available training hours to accommodate
spouse orientation flights.
1.9.4.7.3. Wings/groups will publish supplements to this instruction detailing their orientation
flight program, including events and flight profiles. Forward all supplement change requests on
the AFSOC Orientation Flight Program through channels to 623 AOC/SPDP. 623 AOC/SPDP
will coordinate change requests with HQ AFSOC/A3T, for inclusion in the AFSOC supplement.
1.9.4.7.3.1. Wings/groups will track approved orientation flight activity using Attachment 18 in
this supplement.

Table 1.1. Orientation Flight Approval Authorities (by Type of Flight) (Note 1).
 All requests for orientation flights requiring approval above wing level must be coordinated
 with 623 AOC/SPDP. Requests must reach 623 AOC/SPDP no later than 10 working days
 before the flight OR no later than 20 workdays for those requests requiring HQ AF approval.
 Line       A                   B                               C
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                    11


          Type of Flight    Authorized Participants        Approval Authority
 8                          Foreign military (Colonel      Delegated to 23 AF/CC
                            [equivalent] and below or
                            civilian equivalents) Non-
                            DoD Federal government
                            (U.S.) officials (Colonel
                            [equivalent] and below).
 12       Familiarization   Active-duty and Reserve        Delegated to 1 SOW/CC and 27
          orientation       Component military (all        SOW/CC (CONUS); 352
          flight            grades) and DOD civilian       SOG/CC and 353 SOG/CC for
                            equivalents (all grades)       outside the CONUS (OCONUS)
 13                         Service Academy and ROTC       units under their control
                            cadets and midshipmen
                            (Notes 10, 19)
 14                         Junior ROTC, Civil Air
                            Patrol, Explorer Scouts
 15                         FAA employees (comply
                            with DOD 4515.13-R,
                            Chapter 4.)
 16                         Civilian employees of DOD
                            contractors (Note 9)
 18       Incentive         USAF active-duty and ARC       Delegated to 1 SOW/CC and 27
          orientation       military members               SOW/CC (CONUS); 352
          flight                                           SOG/CC and 353 SOG/CC for
                                                           outside the CONUS (OCONUS)
                                                           units under their control
 19       Spouse            Spouses of US active-duty      Delegated to 1 SOW/CC and 27
          orientation       and ARC military               SOW/CC (CONUS); 352
          flight            members                        SOG/CC and 353 SOG/CC for
                                                           OCONUS units under their
                                                           control
 20       Orientation       Active-duty and Reserve        HQ AFSOC/A3. (Note: 1
          flights in non-   Component military (all        SOW/CC and 27 SOW/CC
          USAF aircraft     grades) and DoD civilian       [CONUS] or 352 SOG/CC or 353
                            equivalents (all grades)       SOG/CC [OCONUS] may
                            (Note 17)                      approve flights IAW paragraph
                                                           1.11.3. in this supplement.)
 23      Public Affairs     Prominent US citizens, civic   IAW AFI 35-103
 (Added) & News Media       leaders, news media
         flights            representatives (Note 16)
 12                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


 Notes:

 9. Contractors must have a copy of flying operations procedures (FOP), contract, statement of
 work, or position description on file in the HARM or SARM office. The contractor is
 responsible for providing this data. Contractors authorized an orientation flight may fly on air
 refueling missions. They may fly on a non-interference basis when authorized by their
 contract. Flight limitations listed in AFI 11-202, Volume 3, General Flight Rules, and MDS
 specific Volume 3s (Operations Procedures) must be adhered to. (For example see AFI 11-
 2AC-130V3, AC-130 Operations Procedures)

 16. (Added) Submit request through MAJCOM Public Affairs (PA) channels

 17. (Added) Refer to paragraph 1.11.3. in the basic instruction and this supplement for
 guidance on and approval authorities for familiarization/orientation flights in non-USAF
 aircraft.

 18. (Added) See Attachment 13 in this supplement for additional guidance on the AFSOC
 Orientation Flight Program.
1.10.1. Commanders (including unit commanders) may temporarily restrict members from
flying for Operational Risk Management (ORM) or safety issues of concerns (e.g., loss of family
members, safety). This is not to be used for disciplinary actions. Refer to AFI 11-402 for
authorized reasons to suspend members’ aviation service.
1.10.1.1. AFSOC’s Combat Aviation Advisor (CAA) mission requires appropriately trained
aircrew members to perform duties on leased aircraft. Aircrew members assigned to CAA units
or CAA training pipeline are authorized to perform in-flight duties in leased aircraft in which
they are qualified when flying in CONUS in support of Aviation Foreign Internal Defense
(AvFID) training or operations, and overseas when flying combined joint combined exchange
training (JCET) missions, Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) exercise missions, or in support of security
assistance funded mobility training teams. If the aircraft is not already assigned, members must
submit a commander-approved ―required for the mission‖ letters IAW paragraph 3.2.1.5.1 in the
basic instruction to the HARM office, stating the requirement to perform duties on the mission
and an AF Form 4324, Aircraft Assignment/Aircrew Qualification Worksheet, with aircraft
qualification and duty position for that aircraft.
1.10.1.1.3. (Added) CAA aircrew members are authorized to maintain flying currency and log
events on multiple government and foreign aircraft in aircraft in which they are current and
qualified. Qualification on additional and supplemental aircraft will be IAW AFSOC Instruction
(AFSOCI) 16-101, Volume 1, Combat Aviation Advisor, and AFSOCI 11-219, Volume 1,
Additional Aircraft Training. If not qualified and required for the mission to fly on other CAA
aircraft, CAA aircrew members will use an ―X‖ (e.g., XP, XN, XF) aircrew qualification code
(first character of crew position). A ―required for the mission‖ letter or AF Form 4324 with
commander’s signature IAW paragraph 3.2.1.5.1. in the basic instruction is still required in order
to log ―any‖ time on an aircraft the member is not obtaining/maintaining qualification on (as
validated by an AF Form 4324). In the absence of a published AFI 11-2MDS or AFSOC-
approved guidance memorandum/operating instruction addendum, AFSOC/A3 will determine
appropriate crew complement for leased aircraft in writing and copies will be provided to the
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              13


HARM office, CAA units, CAA training pipeline units, and SARM office. Crew complement
will be within current UMD authorizations.
1.10.1.1.4. (Added) Unit training offices must initiate an AF Form 4324 to initially assign
aircrew training levels, ARMS training profiles, and the aircraft in which the member will
obtain/maintain qualification. Initial aircraft assignment requires a commander’s signature on
the AF Form 4324. The AF Form 4324 must be accomplished and submitted to the SARM
office within 3 days of members’ arrival or changes to their training levels, training profiles
and/or assigned aircraft. Unit Standardization and Evaluation offices must initiate and submit
the AF Form 4324 for any changes to aircrew qualifications to the SARM office within 3 days of
the change. SARM personnel will use the AF Form 4324 to update aircrew certification in
ARMS and validate training assigned. SARM personnel will maintain current AF Forms 4324
on file for all assigned and attached aircrew. Refer to AFI 11-202V1 for more guidance.
1.10.1.1.4.1. (Added) Rated officers/CEAs assigned to other MAJCOMs or sister services may
perform aeronautical/aviation flying duties in AFSOC aircraft only when operationally required
and after obtaining HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. If filling a primary duty station the individual
must be qualified in the mission design series aircraft. An instructor pilot occupying a position
with a set of controls will accompany pilots not current in the aircraft. For additional guidelines
on rated officers/CEAs flying on AFSOC aircraft, refer to AFI 11-202V3.
1.10.1.3. Operational Support Flyer (OSF) duties performed must be annotated in the remarks
section on the reverse of the AFTO Form 781, and certified by the PIC and/or senior OSF on the
mission. During periods when the OSF is not performing in-flight operational support duties,
―other‖ flight time will be logged on the AFTO Form 781. Exception: OSF medics deployed to
support casualty evacuation (CASEVAC) missions, Special Operations Casualty Care
Evacuation Teams (SOCCET), or rescue support missions may log primary time when tasked to
perform CASEVAC, SOCCET, or rescue missions in theater. Note: Remarks for real-world
operational missions will not include air evacuated patients names. Example remark for real-
world operational mission: ―Real-world operational air evacuation (patient transport) mission.
Medics provided advanced medical care using equipment FFQEN to patient.‖ Example training
mission: "Training mission, medics operated aircraft hoist and medical equipment to provide
medical care to simulated patients.‖
1.10.1.5.1. Individual qualifications must satisfy requirements specified in applicable MDS
training guidance. The individual’s Position Description/Core Document will include physical
and physiological qualifications, if required. Contact the Operations and Training Aircrew
Training Branch, (HQ AFSOC/A3TA) for additional guidance concerning required aircrew
training.
1.10.1.6.1. Individual qualifications must satisfy requirements specified in applicable MDS
training guidance. The individual’s employment contract will include physical and physiological
qualifications, if required. Contact HQ AFSOC/A3TA for additional guidance concerning
required aircrew training.
1.10.1.6.2. Contractor aircrew member training requirements and accomplishments may be
entered into ARMS to assist the government flight representative (GFR) and squadron
commander in assessing contractor aircrew readiness, GNG status, and qualification.
 14                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


1.10.1.6.2.1. (Added) To track aircrew training requirements for authorized contractor aircrew
members, the HARM office in coordination from the SARM office will establish an ARMS
―dummy record‖ IAW 11-421 and this supplement. Enter record in ARMS utilizing a Non-U.S.
Idenity Code (NUSIC) (pseudo SSAN) and branch of service of ―FORML‖ (foreign military).
1.10.1.8. Enter these personnel on the flight authorization using crew position ―N/A.‖ These
personnel are not orientation fliers. Flying units will ensure these personnel possess a valid AF
Form 1887, Aeronautical Order Aviation Service (i.e., ―non-interference‖ AO), current flight
physical (AF Form 1042), and physiological training (AF Form 702) before flight.
1.10.2.1. Unit requests for a HQ AFSOC waiver must be submitted through the chain of
command and coordinated through HQ AFSOC/A3TM for final approval of HQ AFSOC/A3.
Requests must explain extenuating circumstances. Squadron commander endorsement is
required on all requests.
1.10.2.2. Unless waived by HQ AFSOC/A3, AFSOC aircrew will not perform aircrew duties on
training flights with family members on board in passenger status. The intent is to allow
legitimate opportune Space-A travel according to DOD guidelines and spouse travel on
invitational travel orders, while preventing inappropriate round-robin and similar flights
designed for the convenience of family members to travel with spouses performing aircrew
duties.
1.11.1. AFSOC’s CAA mission requires appropriately trained aircrew members to perform
duties on foreign aircraft. CAA aircrew members are authorized to perform in-flight duties in
non-US Air Force aircraft per AFSOCI 16-101, Volume 3, Combat Aviation Advisor Operations,
and AFSOCI 11-219, Volume 3, Additional Aircraft Operations Procedures. Aircraft
qualifications are documented via an AF Form 8 (IAW AFI 11-202V2 or AFSOCI 11-219,
Volume 2, Additional Aircraft Aircrew Evaluation Criteria).               Supplemental aircraft
qualifications/certifications are documented via an AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications.
An AF Form 4324 is submitted to the SARM office for processing into ARMS, filing and
forwarding a copy to the member’s HARM office, prior to logging time qualifying for OFDA
credit and flight pay. Excepted as noted in subsequent paragraphs, HQ AFSOC/A3T is the
approval authority for all other flights performed IAW this paragraph. Commanders submit
requests for HQ AFSOC approval through chain of command, coordinated through HQ
AFSOC/A3TM, for HQ AFSOC/A3T final approval. In addition to the justification
requirements outlined in the paragraph 1.11.1 in the basic instruction, requests must include
statements documenting the member’s qualification in the aircraft, so it is evident what aircrew
certification and type time will be logged. HARM offices will permanently file approved
requests in the members’ FRF.
1.11.1.1. (Added) AFSOC’s CAA aircrew members are authorized to maintain flying currency
and log events on foreign aircraft when performing duties in aircraft they are current and
qualified in. If not qualified in the aircraft (or certified for supplemental aircraft), CAA aircrew
members will use an ―X‖ (e.g., XP, XN, XF) aircrew qualification code (first character of crew
position). A ―required for the mission‖ letter or AF Form 4324 signed by the member’s
commander IAW paragraph 3.2.1.5.1 in the basic instruction is also required for any aircraft in
which the member is not obtaining/maintaining aircraft qualification.
1.11.1.2. (Added) Qualified Pararescue Jumper (PJ) and Combat Rescue Officer (CRO)
personnel (assigned to X-prefixed positions) are authorized to perform in-flight duties and
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              15


maintain flying currency on foreign and sister service aircraft in which they are current and
qualified when in performance of their assigned duties. For logging time on aircraft not listed on
the member’s current AF Form 4324, the member must submit a ―required for the mission‖
letter IAW paragraph 3.2.1.5.1 in the basic instruction and signed by the sister service or foreign
flying unit commander and approved by the CJSOAC or member’s OG/CC referencing the
reason (s) the member was required for the mission and listing the member’s current
qualification in that specific aircraft. If not qualified, members must log ―XJ‖ and other time.
An AF Form 4324 (depicting aircrew certification for that aircraft) and an AF Form 1522, ARMS
Additional Training Accomplishment Report, (showing egress and other qualifications) are
required.
1.11.1.2.1. (Added) PJ and CRO personnel are authorized to perform in-flight and parachutist
duties on foreign and sister service aircraft when participating in scheduled bi-/multi-lateral
training, JCET, Partnership Development Program (PDP), and NATO exercises. The provisions
in paragraph 1.11.1.2 of this supplement apply. For orientation flights in non-USAF aircraft, see
paragraph 1.11.3 in this supplement.
1.11.1.3. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons assigned to API-5 coded manpower positions on
active AOs are authorized to perform in-flight duties in non-USAF aircraft under any of the
following circumstances:
1.11.1.3.1. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons, assigned to overseas SOG units, who routinely
augment the local Flight Medicine Element that provides medical support to sister service, North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or other allied aircrews who are collocated on the same
installation. . Qualification in the aircraft is required in order to log crew position FS and
primary time. AF Forms 8 are used to document aircraft qualification IAW AFI 11-202,
Volumes 1 and 2. An AF Form 4324 is also required to be submitted to the member’s HARM
office to update the current aircraft certification code for each aircraft qualification obtained.
1.11.1.3.2. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons participating in a joint service or multinational
exercise (e.g., RED FLAG, EMERALD WARRIOR) required to provide routine medical support
to non-USAF aircrew members. Use an AF Form 8 to document aircraft qualification IAW AFI
11-202, Volumes 1 and 2. An AF Form 4324 is also required to be submitted to the member’s
HARM office to update the current aircraft certification code for each aircraft qualification is
obtained.
1.11.1.3.3. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons deployed to forward locations in support of real-
world operations (e.g., Operation NEW DAWN) and required to provide medical support to non-
USAF aircrew members.
1.11.1.3.4. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons requesting flights in non-USAF aircraft in
situations that do not meet the criteria noted above must request approval through the home
station OG/CC (or equivalent) with coordination through HQ AFSOC/A3TM for HQ
AFSOC/A3 final approval. Sister service or other country’s concurrence must be included in the
request. Once the flying unit commander submits the request, HQ AFSOC/A3TM will process
and submit the request to HQ AFSOC/A3 for approval.
1.11.1.3.5. (Added) In all cases noted in paragraph 1.11, the member must obtain, in writing,
both OG/CC (or equivalent) and sister service (NATO or other allied flying unit) commander
approval before flights occur. Approval is required for each unit tasking for medical support.
 16                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


Once approved, ―required for the mission‖ letters for that unit remain in effect for that location
and/or tasking. The CJSOAC/CC may issue a ―verbal order of the commander‖ if an urgent or
short-notice tasking is received from a sister service or foreign unit commander. A ―required for
the mission‖ letter will be published within three duty days to document the approval. The
member will provide a copy of the approved ―required for the mission‖ letter to the servicing
HARM office for inclusion in the flight record folder. Currency and safety requirements
outlined in AFI 11-202V1 and those of the flying unit apply.
1.11.3. CONUS SOW/CCs and overseas SOG/CCs may approve orientation flights in non-
USAF aircraft for SOG personnel within their control. Flights will be limited to nations and
aircraft directly participating in scheduled bi-/multi-lateral training, JCET, Partnership
Development Program (PDP), and NATO exercises. This includes flights to operational and
remote sites that are participating in the training or exercise as long as missions terminate at the
point of origin. Prior to approval, OG/CCs will ensure a documented review of mission
justification, operational profile, participating aircraft/personnel complement, and a deliberate
risk management assessment is conducted. Notify HQ AFSOC/A3TM via e-mail when flights
are approved.
1.11.3.1. (Added) Forward all other requests to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for review and processing
to HQ AFSOC/A3 for approval consideration.
1.12.2.3. AFSOC aircraft AFI 11-2MDS specific Volume 3s may further define MEPs as
supporting forces and list flight limitations with MEPs on a mission, however, requests are
processed IAW AFI 11-401 and this supplement. MEP is a sub-category of space-required
passengers. Approvals for MEP (including supporting forces) are processed IAW the basic
instruction and this supplement.
1.12.2.3.1. (Added) MEPs may sit on the flight deck/crew compartment, seats permitting,
during takeoff and landing with the concurrence of the PIC. Simulated emergencies, to include
no-flap landings, are prohibited. Touch-and-go landings are allowed.
1.14.1. AFSOC administrative procedures for flights by foreign pilots controlling AFSOC
aircraft must be approved by AFSOC/CC. Process requests through unit, group, HQ
AFSOC/A3TA and HQ AFSOC/A3V for final approval of AFSOC/CC. For AFSOC aircraft
OPCON to subordinate geographic commanders, approval requests must go through AFSOC/CC
with the final approval authority lying with the respective theater special operations command
commander.
1.15.1. Units will coordinate requests with the servicing HARM office and then submit through
command channels to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for further processing.
1.16. Units will submit requests through command channels to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for further
coordination and processing to HQ AF/A3O-A.
2.1. Rated Officer and Career Enlisted Aviator (CEA) Flying Program. IAW AFI 38-201,
Determining Manpower Requirements, any changes, additions, or deletions to rated officer or
CEA inventory must be forwarded through wing/group manpower offices to HQ AFSOC/A3.
HQ AFSOC/A3TR will review and coordinate rated officer changes with HQ AFSOC/A3T and
HQ AFSOC/A1M prior to HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will coordinate CEA
changes with the AFSOC CEA FM, HQ AFSOC/A3T, and HQ AFSOC/A1M prior to HQ
AFSOC/A3 approval. Unit representatives must ensure requests include a new AF Form 480.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                               17


2.1.1. (Added) OG/CCs will appoint a primary and alternate aircrew manager in writing to
serve as the base level OPR for aircrew management issues IAW AFI 38-201. Submit
appointment letters to HQ AFSOC/A3TR (Rated Management), HQ AFSOC/A3TM, and the
base manpower office. HQ AFSOC/A3TR will provide the managers access to the HQ AFSOC
Rated Management AF Form 480 SharePoint page.
2.1.1.1. (Added) OG/CCs and STG/CCs will appoint a primary and alternate parachutist
manager in writing to serve as the group level OPR for parachist program management issues
IAW AFI 11-410. Submit appointment letters to HQ AFSOC/A3TM and the HQ AFSOC/A3
Personnel Parachute Program Manager (PPPM). Note: In addition to group managers, jump
unit commanders are required to assign organizational POCs IAW AFI 11-410.
2.1.1.2. (Added) Aircrew/parachutist managers will ensure staff or ‖J‖ coded positions only
reflect active flying/jump status based on current position duty requirements. Positions will be
changed to an inactive API or have the ―J‖ prefix removed after extended periods (1 year or
more) of non-flying or jumping, when it is clear the current duties of the position do not require
the incumbent to fly/jump. Owning agencies can resubmit a request with a new AF Form 480 or
4322 respectively, to have an active API or ―J‖ prefix assigned if the position’s current duty
responsibilities change to require active flying/jumping again IAW AFIs 11-402 and 410.

Table 2.2. Flying Activity Codes (FAC) (See Note below).
 Notes:

 2. (Added) Permanently disqualified individuals will not be assigned to API 1, 2, 9, or A
 positions.

 3. (Added) Permanently disqualified individuals will not be assigned to API 6, 8, B, C, D, or
 E positions.

 4. (Added) Permanently disqualified individuals will not be assigned to API 5, 6, 8, B, or D
 positions.

 5. (Added) Permanently disqualified individuals will not be assigned to API F positions.

 6. (Added) Permanently disqualified individuals will not be assigned to API 7 or G positions.

Table 2.5. ASC Second Character (Flying Status Code [FSC], Disqualified or Suspended
Status).
 Note: The HARM office will forward a copy of suspension AO and respondent notification
 letter pending a flying evaluation board to HQ AFSOC/A3TM. Refer to AFI 11-402_
 AFSOCSUP for additional information on initial notification of FEB action (including FEB
 waiver and Voluntary Disqualification from Aviation Service in Lieu of FEB [VILO]) to HQ
 AFSOC. Additionally, when disqualification actions are completed on individuals, the HARM
 office will forward a copy of their disqualification AOs to HQ AFSOC/A3TM.
2.6.7.2. If the member is a rated officer, the HARM office will verify the member is not in
Transition Status Code (TSC) D or E. CHARMs will sign the accompanying staff summary
 18                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


sheet and forward the entire waiver package to the member’s OG/CC for release to HQ
AFSOC/A3TM (for AFSOC members). HARM offices who manage rated and CEA aircrew
members from other MAJCOMs will forward the waiver package through the member’s
group/command channels. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will process and staff the package to the approval
authority. HQ AFSOC/A3 may disapprove waiver requests if required criteria are not met.
Reasons for disapproval will be communicated via memo to the member. HARM personnel will
permanently file a copy of this memo in the member’s FRF.
2.7.2.1. The OG/CC (or equivalent) will submit Flying Activity Code (FAC) 6 waiver requests
to HQ AFSOC/A3TM. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will process waiver requests to HQ AFSOC/A3 for
final approval. Processing actions must begin in sufficient time, when possible, to permit HQ
AFSOC/A3 action 30 days prior to the desired start date of active flying duties on an aircraft the
member’s crew position is within the crew complement and be obtaining and maintaining
qualification on. See FAC 6 waiver request format in Attachment 11 of this supplement. Refer
to AFI 11-421 for additional FAC 6 waiver guidance.
2.8.1. When approved by the flying squadron commander, any Air Force flight surgeon assigned
to an active flying (API 5) position may be designated on the flight authorization to perform in-
flight duties if they have a current physical examination, physiological training, egress training,
and flight surgeon examination in accordance with AFI 11-202, Volumes 1 and 2. Flight
surgeons must ensure the appropriate time is logged properly on the AFTO Form 781, to include
night time (when on a night mission). Additionally, flight surgeons must complete and submit a
mission accomplishment report to the SARM office for processing into ARMS following each
mission. Note: IAW AFI 11-202V1, only one sortie per day counts towards members’ annual
sortie requirement.
2.8.1.1. Inactive flight surgeons authorized to fly who are physically and physiologically
qualified will use crew position ―XS‖ and log ―other‖ time on the AFTO Form 781.
2.8.1.3. (Added) AFSOC flight surgeons must have approval in accordance with paragraphs
1.11 and 3.9 in the basic instruction and this supplement to fly and log flying time on non-USAF
aircraft, and paragraph 2.18 in the basic instruction to fly and log flying time on AFRC aircraft,
and paragraph 2.19 in the basic instruction to fly and log flying time on ANG aircraft. Request
will be routed to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for coordination with HQ AFSOC/A3T and HQ
AFSOC/SGP.
2.8.1.4. (Added) During manning shortages, AFSOC unit commanders may substitute assigned
(excess) 48A/48G/48R AFSC flight surgeons to fill vacant UMD DAFSC 48XX/API 5 vacancies
and have active AOs published provided the total number of authorized API 5 DAFSC 48XX
positions on the unit’s UMD are not exceeded. Unit commanders will coordinate substitution
actions with the servicing HARM office before members are placed on active flying status. The
servicing HARM office will monitor subsitition assignments to ensure UMD authorizations are
not exceeded. Note: The servicing HARM office will notify HQ AFSOC/A3TM when
substitutions are made.
2.9.5. The OG/CC (or equivalent) will submit FAC E waiver requests to HQ AFSOC/A3TM.
HQ AFSOC/A3TM will process waiver requests to HQ AFSOC/A3 for final approval.
Processing actions must begin in sufficient time, when possible, to permit HQ AF/A3O action 30
days prior to the desired start date of active flying duties on an aircraft the member’s crew
position is within the crew complement and be obtaining and maintaining qualification on. See
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              19


FAC E waiver request format in Attachment 11 of this supplement. Refer to AFI 11-421 for
additional FAC E waiver guidance.
2.10.2.1. (Added) Operational support flyers (medics) who support CASEVAC missions or are
assigned to SOCCETs are required (mission essential) to be onboard to provide a casualty
evacuation capability, which cannot be accomplished by the standard aircrew on MDS
designated as the SOCCET/CASEVAC platform. These platforms are used during direct action
operations, either dedicated or dual-purpose SOCCET/CASEVAC/infil/exfil, during combat in
low-level, high threat environments.
2.10.4. Examples of members who may fly in non-interference status on AFSOC aircraft
include, but are not limited to SERE specialists supporting personnel recovery and CSAR
activities, intelligence officers, OG superintendents (DAFSC 9G100) or MAJCOM, wing, or
overseas SOG command chief master sergeants (DAFSC 9E100), and first sergeants assigned to
flying unit or groups who fly occasionally with their units to obtain/maintain familiarity of their
flying environment and of their unit members. Do not issue AOs to other non-rated members for
the convenience of transporting individuals in TDY status, or as a substitute for the
orientation/familiarization flight program. Note: CEAs assigned to OG superintendent positions
holding DAFSC 9G100 may be authorized indoctrination flying status (FSC ―T‖ with FAC ―H‖)
or operational flying status (FSC ―A‖ with FAC ―H‖) IAW Table 2.2 in the basic instruction and
AFI 11-402, Chapter 3.
2.10.4.3. (Added) OG/CCs (or equivalents) or HQ AFSOC division chiefs (for HQ staff
personnel) will approve requests to place other non-rated members on AOs. The HARM office
will not publish the AO prior to receipt of commander’s or division chief’s approval letter. Non-
interference AOs will be published using the AF Form 1887 with the effective period of the AO
not exceeding one year. Unit commanders may resubmit requests through operations group
channels (or equivalent) or to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for HQ personnel, if needed, for additional
periods. When not flying in support of high altitude airborne missions, individuals will be
placed on the flight authorization with a duty position of ―XX‖, however, they are not authorized
to log flying time on the AFTO Form 781. Emergency egress training is required before flying
in each airframe. Do not create an individual’s record in ARMS unless member is an inactive
rated/non-rated aircrew or operations support member. See non-interference AO request format
in Attachment 6 of this supplement.
2.10.4.4. (Added) AO termination dates for other non-rated members will not exceed the end of
the period that the performance is required, the expiration of the medical clearance (AF Form
1042), the expiration of physiological training certification (AF Form 702), where required, or
one year from the AO effective date, whichever occurs first.
2.10.4.5. (Added) The SARM office will establish currency folders (or electronic equivalent)
for members on current non-interference AOs. Folders will contain, as a minimum: (1) a copy of
the AO; (2) medical clearance certification (AF Form 1042); (3) physiological training
certification (AF Form 702), where required; (4) record of aircrew flight equipment training; and
(5) record of emergency procedures and aircraft systems training (where required). SARM
personnel will validate the currencies of all required training during GNG procedures. Note: Do
not enter these individuals in ARMS.
2.10.4.6. (Added) Refer to AFI 11-421, Chapter 2 and Table 2.2, for additional guidance on
preparing and publishing non-interference AOs.
 20                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


2.10.5. Students assigned to AFSOC formal training units fly and document time IAW
paragraphs 1.8.3.1 and 3.3.5.3 in this supplement.
2.12.1. Aircrew members assigned to supervisor positions (unit, group, wing, or HQ staff API
positions) must be listed on the flight authorization and AFTO Form 781 when they fly on
aircraft under their control. Use an ―I‖ FARC for flights on aircraft in which the member is not
obtaining/maintain qualification.
2.12.3.4. (Added) Operations Group Superintendent. IAW AFI 11-402, CEAs assigned to OG
superintendent positions (DAFSC 9G100) may be authorized operational (FSC A),
indoctrination (FSC T), or non-interference flying status. In all cases, flying is limited to aircraft
assigned within the incumbent’s group. HQ AFSOC/A3T is the approval authority for
operational flying status. The member’s OG/CC is the approval authority for non-interference
status. With OG/CC concurrence, indoctrination flying status is authorized IAW paragraphs
2.14.1.5.1 and Table 2.9 in this supplement.
2.12.3.4.1. (Added) In all cases, approval must be granted before the appropriate AO is
published and member’s first flight. The appropriate approving authority is responsible for
providing a copy of the approval letter to the servicing HARM office for permanent inclusion in
the member’s FRF and publication of AO (as required). Note: Members previously assigned to
active CEA flying positions still require the appropriate approval before first flight as OG
superintendents (DAFSC 9G100). Submit requests for operational flying status to HQ
AFSOC/A3TM for processing to HQ AFSOC/A3T.
2.12.3.4.2. (Added) OG superintendents approved for operational flying status must be
experienced and be previously qualified in aircraft assigned to their group. Exceptions to this
policy require HQ AFSOC/A3T approval. Forward requests to HQ AFSOC/A3TM for further
coordination with the AFSOC CEA FM and HQ AFSOC/A3TA.
2.13. Supervisory Position Limitations. Each quarter, in conjunction with the quarterly review
of the attached flyers, HQ AFSOC/A3TM will conduct a review of API 8 and D supervisory
flying positions whose incumbents are assigned FSC "K" or if they are in FSC ―A‖ and have not
flown for more than 180 days to determine if the position should be converted to API 4 or E.
HQ AFSOC/A3TR will contact the unit commander or HQ AFSOC branch chief to resubmit the
AF Form 480 to HQ AFSOC/A3. Upon HQ AFSOC/A3 approval, the commander or branch
chief will submit an authorization change request (ACR) to the wing/group manpower office.
The wing/group manpower office will process the ACR as required. The CHARM or group 1C0
FM (overseas SOG) will conduct a review of API 6 and B supervisory positions whose
incumbents are assigned FSC "K" or if they are in FSC ―A‖ and have not flown for more than
180 days to determine if the position should be converted to API 3 or C. The CHARM or group
1C0 FM (overseas SOG) will notify the appropriate unit commander to resubmit the AF Form
480 through command channels to HQ AFSOC A3TR (rated) or HQ AFSOC/A3TM (CEA and
nonrated) to obtain coordination through HQ AFSOC/A3 and HQ AFSOC/A1 to convert to API
3 or C.
2.13.1. (Added) FSC ―K‖ is not authorized for individuals double billeted to an active flying
position IAW paragraph 1.3.5.1 in the basic instruction. Double billeted aircrew and parachutist
will be managed in accordance with paragraph 1.4.2 in the basic instruction.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             21


2.14.1. HQ AFSOC/A3 is the approval authority for indoctrination (indoc) status. Exception:
HQ AFRC/A3 is the final approval authority for indoc status for all mobility assistants
(MA)/individual mobilization augmentees (IMA) assigned or attached to AFSOC units. Indoc
flyers who occupy a duty position must fly under the direct supervision of an instructor. Due to
limited aircrew member training opportunities and flying hours, it is essential for commanders to
personally review each request for indoc flying status to ensure it is in the best interest of the
command. Aircrew members must be assigned to an inactive rated or CEA position to be
eligible (this does not include API 0/Z positions). Submit requests with rationale, through the
group/wing commander, to HQ AFSOC/A3TM. Once approved by HQ AFSOC/A3, HQ
AFSOC/A3TM will maintain a log of approved indoctrination flyers. See indoctrination flying
status request format in Attachment 12 of this supplement.
2.14.1.1. (Added) Indoc AOs will authorize flights on all AFSOC aircraft on a non-interference
basis.
2.14.1.2. (Added) Rated officer incumbents of the following positions, when coded as inactive
(API 4) flying positions, are authorized indoctrination flying status: Deputy Director of
Operations (HQ AFSOC/A31), Chief, Operations and Training Division, (HQ AFSOC/A3T),
AFSOC Inspector General (HQ AFSOC/IG), Operations and Training Division (HQ
AFSOC/A3T) API 4 coded positions and HQ AFSOC Command Staff (HQ AFSOC/A3) API 4
coded positions, Deputy Commander, 23 Air Force (23 AF/CD), Director of Staff, 23 AF
(23 AF/DS), United States Air Force Special Operations School (USAFSOS) Commandant, and
USAFSOS Vice Commander. The HARM office will publish an AO assigning FSC ―T‖ IAW
with AFI 11-421 and this supplement upon assignment.
2.14.1.3. (Added) CEA incumbents assigned to Operations and Training Division (HQ
AFSOC/A3T) positions, when coded as inactive (API E) flying positions, are authorized indoc
flying status. The HARM office will publish an AO assigning FSC ―T‖ IAW with AFI 11-421
and this supplement upon assignment.
2.14.1.4. (Added) The Chief, AFSOC Career Enlisted Flyer (CEA) is authorized indoc flying
status in lieu of operational flying status while assigned to an active API D flying position. If
indoc status is desired, HQ AFSOC/A3TM will notify the HARM office to publish the
appropriate AO. Note: A list of current UMD position numbers authorized indoc status IAW
paragraphs 2.14.1.2 – 2.14.1.4 above is maintained on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM AFSOC Aviation
Resource Managers SharePoint site.
2.14.1.5. (Added) Submit other requests for indoc flying AOs through group channels to the
HARM office for coordination then forward to HQ AFSOC/A3TM. The HARM office will
publish an AO assigning FSC ―T‖ IAW with AFI 11-421 and this supplement upon assignment.
2.14.1.5. 1 (Added) With OG/CC concurrenc, CEAs assigned to OG superintendent positions
(DAFSC 9G100) are authorized indoc flying status. Note: See paragraph 2.12.3.4 for
operational or non-interference flying approval.
2.14.3. Prior to flight, all indoctrination fliers must complete requirements specified in AFI 11-
202V1_AFSOCSUP and AFI 11-2 MDS-specific series (as applicable).
2.14.3.1. (Added) The SARM office will establish folders (or electronic equivalents) for
indoctrination fliers to maintain a copy of the AO authorizing indoctrination status, current AF
Form 1042, current AF Form 702 (if required), and AF Forms 1522 documenting aircrew flight
 22                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


equipment training, emergency procedures, and aircraft systems training (where required).
SARM office personnel will verify (GNG) ’members' AO, medical certification, physiological
training (if required) and all other required training is current prior to each flight. Note: Units
will not assign ARMS aircrew training profiles to indoctrination fliers.

Table 2.9.1. (Added) Approved AFSOC Indoctrination Flying Positions.
 Duty Position or Section         API                              Office Symbol
 AFSOC Commander                  8 (Note 1)                       AFSOC/CC
 AFSOC Vice Commander             8 (Note 1)                       AFSOC/CV
 HQ AFSOC Director of             8 (Note1)                        HQ AFSOC/A3 (23 AF/CC)
 Operations (Commander, 23
 Air Force)
 HQ AFSOC Deputy Director         4                                HQ AFSOC/A31
 of Operations
 HQ AFSOC, Operations and         All 4 and E positions            HQ AFSOC/A3T_
 Training
 HQ AFSOC/A3 Chief,               E                                HQ AFSOC/A3
 Enlisted Aviator
 23 AF Director of Staff          4                                23 AF/DS
 USAFSOS Commandant               3                                USAFSOS/CC
 USAFSOS Vice Commander           3 (N/A if API 6)                 USAFSOS/CV
 OG Superintendent (DAFSC         Z (Notes 2, 3)                   OG/CCC
 9G100)
 Notes:

 1. Unless otherwise directed, AFSOC/CC, AFSOC/CV and HQ AFSOC/A3 will be placed on
 active operational flying AOs. HQ AFSOC/A3 will notify HQ AF/A3/5 and HQ AF/A3O-AT
 when incumbents are placed on indoctrination flying status.
 2. Does not apply to non-CEA Chief Master Sergeants holding the 9G100 DAFSC. Non-
 CEAs filling 9G100 positions may fly on a non-interference basis IAW paragraph 1.6.2.2. in
 the basic instruction.
 3. Requires OG/CC concurrence before being placed on indoc AOs.
2.16.1. All aircrew members assigned to HQ AFSOC staff or an AFSOC DRU active flying or
jump positions will initiate letters of attachment (LOA). Exception: Aircrew members assigned
to active flying positions in AFSOC formal flying flying units (e.g., 19 SOS) do not require
LOAs. Attachment must be to a flying unit that owns aircraft. This ensures the unit is able to
provide flying training, aviation resource management and aircrew flight equipment support.
Fly/jump support must be confirmed with the flying unit commander or operations officer prior
to submission to the headquarters staff division chief or DRU/CC for coordination. Once signed
by the division chief or DRU/CC and the unit manpower information validated is by the division
secretary or the headquarters orderly room staff, submit the LOA package to HQ AFSOC/A3TM
for further processing. HQ AFSOC/A3T is the approval authority for headquarters staff member
attachment requests. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will track all headquarters and DRU attached aircrew
and/or parachutists and submit an updated list at the end of each calendar quarter to HQ
AFSOC/A3T for approval of continued attached flying/jump support. Approved quarterly lists
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              23


will be posted to the HQ AFSOC/A3TM AFSOC Aviation Resource Managers SharePoint site.
HQ AFSOC staff divisions and DRUs will coordinate any changes to the quarterly attachment
list with HQ AFSOC/A3TM prior to the end of the calendar quarter. The approved quarterly list
will be submitted to the appropriate group commander. The HARM will file approved LOAs in
the individual’s flight record and/or jump record folder and forward a copy to the member and
the unit of attachment. HARM personnel will update the unit of attachment in the Flying
Organization field located on the ARMS Aircrew Data screen. Aircrew members use the LOA
templates provided in Attachments 7 through 9 of this supplement. The electronic versions are
located on the AFSOC Aviation Resource Managers SharePoint site.
2.16.1.3. (Added) Intel units (e.g., 25 IS) that support AFSOC’s mission will establish
attachment for flying procedures identifying a primary unit of attachment in their Host Tenant
Agreement, MOA, or individual LOA. Units will also ensure procedures are in place to notify
the AFSOC group OPRs of intel unit aircrew members for inclusion in the consolidated group
quarterly LOA. AFSOC group OPRs will incorporate intel unit aircrew members on their
quarterly. Identify their primary unit of attachment in the primary unit column with ―all
assigned‖ in the other aircraft column. Individual LOA are required if the Host Tenant
Agreement or MOA does not depict a primary flying unit of attachment.
2.16.1.4. (Added) OG/CCs (or equivalents) will determine unit of attachment within their
respective wings/groups. All aircrew and/or parachutists assigned to active flying and/or jump
positions (i.e., APIs 5, 6 or B) at wing level and below and assigned to a unit without ownership
of aircraft (e.g., SOSS, SOG, wing staff agency) must be attached to an operational flying unit
that owns aircraft. The group aircrew training function will manage the internal wing/group
attachment program. OG/CCs (or equivalents) will publish a consolidated attachment letter on a
monthly basis and provide a copy to the servicing HARM office for filing in members’ FRF or
JRF. Provide a copy also to the members’ respective attached flying/jump unit SARM office.
Note: For overseas units, OG/CCs will also provide a copy to the group 1C0 FM. The monthly
letter format will mirror the HQ AFSOC quarterly consolidated attachment for flying roster.
Letters may include projected attachments (e.g., inbounds, PCA action), provided effective dates
of attachments are included on the letters. Flight commanders (or equivalents) are responsible
for notifying group aircrew training function with additions, deletions, and other updates to the
internal wing/group attachment program. Servicing HARM offices will update the unit of
attachment in the Flying Organization field located on the ARMS Aircrew Data screen.
PJs/CROs must have a flying unit of attachment and a jump unit of attachment to ensure proper
aviation management support.
2.16.1.4.1. (Added) If obtaining/maintaining dual qualification that aircraft must be listed in the
remarks of letter of attachment. Qualified instructors assigned to AFSOC formal flying training
units may fly familiarization flights on other student pipeline aircraft and log ―X‖ or ―O‖ if not
obtaining or maintaining qualification. An AF Form 4324 must be submitted to the SARM
office with commander’s signature for members authorized to fly on other aircraft within the unit
on a non-interference basis. Only other time is authorized on the AFTO Form 781.
2.16.2. OG/CCs must generate a letter of exception if they cannot support attached aircrew
and/or parachutist assigned to HQ AFSOC or DRUs. Letters of exception must identify the
unsupportable position, the reason it is unsupportable, and the affected time period. Forward
letters through group channels to HQ AFSOC/A3TM to HQ AFSOC/A3T. A copy of this letter
will be forwarded to the base HARM office to use as justification for possible FSC ―K‖ coding.
 24                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


Denied letters of attachment may also be used to support processing an AO to assign FSC ―K‖,
once verified by the OG/CC.
2.16.2.1. (Added) Unit of attachment SARM offices will ensure ARMS flying and ground
training profiles are assigned to all supported attached flyers. Additionally, SARM offices will
provide attached flyers with ARMS flying and training products on a regular basis. Unit of
attachment SARM offices are responsible for processing and auditing training and flying hour
accomplishments for all attached aircrew. For attached aircrew whose unit of attachment is
geographically separated from the member’s HARM office, ARMS access must be requested
IAW AFI 11-421 for the update of the AFTO Form 781 and training documentation. All HQ
AFSOC staff, AFSOTC staff, and DRU attached aircrew members, except standardization and
evaluation aircrew members, will maintain mission capable status unless mission ready status is
approved by exception by HQ AFSOC/A3. Standardization and evaluation flyers may maintain
mission ready status.
2.16.2.1.1. (Added) HQ AFSOC and DRU attached flyers, except standardization and
evaluation aircrew members maintain mission capable (MC) status unless HQ AFSOC/A3
approves, by exception, mission ready (MR) status. Standardization and evaluation aircrew
members may maintain MR status without HQ AFSOC/A3 approval.
2.16.3. (Added) HQ AFSOC divisions and SARM offices will establish procedures to review
the quarterly AFSOC letter of attachment (posted on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM AFSOC Aviation
Resource Managers SharePoint site) for changes in mission status, additions, and deletions of
aircrew and/or parachutists. Divisions and/or SARM offices will notify HQ AFSOC/A3TM of
any changes. The SARM office will ensure all members assigned/attached to its unit have active
ARMS training profiles assigned. If an aircrew and/or parachutist is no longer assigned or
attached to the unit, generate ARMS training products for inclusion in the member’s personal
information file before deleting his/her training profile from ARMS. If the member PCA’d to an
inactive position, send one copy of the training summary to HARM office for inclusion in the
member’s FRF/JRF. SARM personnel must ensure they delete the ARMS training profiles, so
the members do not continue to display on ARMS or Oracle browser training reports.
3.1. Enter and credit flight time. AFSOC aircrew members authorized to take part in an aircraft
or simulator mission and who meet the criteria for crediting flight time IAW the basic instruction
will document their aircraft and simulator flight time on AFTO Form 781 and/or AF Form 3520,
ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Extract.
3.1.1. (Added) Members will ensure copies of their MARs, AFTO Forms 781 and/or AF Forms
3520 are submitted to their supporting SARM office for ARMS processing. During
deployments/contingency operations where there is no access to ARMS, aircrew members will
fax (or e-mail) a copy of this documentation back to the supporting HARM office or SARM
office for processing into ARMS. Forward the original AFTO Forms 781 back to the aircraft’s
home station at least monthly. SARM personnel will compare the original AFTO Form 781 to
the copy (extract) to make sure no changes were made.
3.1.2. (Added) Aircrew members will document all flying training events completed on a MAR
for each mission flown. IAW AFI 11-202V1, flying training accomplishments are logged by
ZULU date.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                          25


3.2.1.1. Aircrew members may log time in the simulator provided their DNIF does include
simulator restriction (annotated on the AF Form 1042).
3.2.1.5.1. Weapons and Tactics aircrew members, indoctrination flyers and evaluator (stan/eval)
aircrew members required for the mission on aircraft in which they are not qualified do not
require a mission requirement letter. These aircrew members will log aircrew qualification code
―X‖ or ―O‖ IAW Table A2.3 in the basic instruction and ―other‖ time on the AFTO Form 781.
3.2.1.5.1.1. Aircraft commanders will ensure a remark is on the AFTO Form 781 when the crew
complement is exceeded and rationale why (e.g., additional loadmaster on airdrop mission,
additional students receiving instruction on student pipeline missions).
3.2.1.5.1.2. (Added) When a ―required for the mission‖ letter is needed, use the template in
Attachment 19 of this supplement.
3.2.1.5.4. (Added) Battlefield Airmen assigned to authorized jump positions are assigned ASC
―9E‖ (parachutist) and are not included in the authorized aircrew composition. They cannot be
added to the flight authorization or log flight time. Therefore, these members are tracked on a
PAX manifest, DD Form 2131, Passenger Manifest. Exception: Qualified PJ/CRO personnel
(X-coded DAFSC) assigned to special tactics units (including HQ AFSOC and AFSOTC) with
an ASC ―9D‖ will be included on the flight authorization when they are on the mission to
perform in-flight aircrew duties.
3.2.3. Aircrew members performing duties in a simulator will log appropriate time using the
aircrew training device codes in Table 3.1 of this supplement.

Table 3.1. (Added) Aircrew Training Devices.
 MDS                POSITIONS             DEVICE
 SMQ001B            V (pilot and SO)      MQ-1B Predator Mission Aircrew Training System
                                          (PMATS)
 SMQ009A            V (pilot and SO)      MQ-1A PMATS
 SCV022B            P, C, F               CV-22B Operational Flight Trainer (OFT)/Cabin Part
                                          Task Trainer (CPPT)
 MDS                POSITIONS             DEVICE
 SAC130U            P, C, F, N,           AC-130U Weapons System Trainer (WST)
                    W, E, V
 SC130E             P, C, N, F            C-130E OFT
 SMC130E            P, C, N, F, L, E, K   MC-130E WST
 SMC130J            P, C, L               MC-130J WST
 SMC130H            P, C, N, E, F         MC-130H WST
 SMC130P            P, C, N, F            MC-130P WST
 SMC130W            P, C, N, F            MC-130W WST
 SNC130E            P, C, N, F            C130E Satellite Navigator Station (SNS)
 SNC130H            P, C, N, F            C130H SNS
 SPC130E            P, C, N, F            C130E C-130 Cockpit Procedures Trainer (CPT)
 SPC130H            P, C, N, F            C130H C-130 CPT
3.3.1.1.4. When pararescue aircrew members exceed the crew compliment published in AFI 65-
503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, the lead PJ/CRO or PIC will annotate and certify
 26                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


(sign) specific in-flight duties performed and circumstances that required additional pararescue
aircrew members (in addition to basic crew complement) to perform the mission in the remarks
section of the AFTO Form 781. For example, to maximize pararescue training opportunities, a
unit scheduled a simulated mass casualty mission. The mission included six simulated patients
and six PJs. The initial three PJs within the crew complement are authorized to log primary time
the entire mission and the additional three PJs are also authorized to log primary time during the
portion of the mission they provided medical assistance to the simulated patients.
3.3.1.1.4.1. (Added) For aircraft without a pararescue aircrew complement identified in AFI 65-
503, the standard crew compliment is two for rotary wing (to include the CV-22) and three for
fixed wing aircraft. No remarks are required, however, members must turn in MARs to reflect
training or real-world aircrew duties performed. When tasked to fly with sister service Combat
Search and Rescue (CSAR) aircraft, prior approval must be coordinated IAW paragraph 1.11.1.2
in this supplement.
3.3.1.1.7. (Added) Operational support flyers log primary time in AFSOC aircraft only while
performing actual in-flight duties (e.g., testing equipment). Except for the provisions outlined in
paragraph 3.3.1.1.5 in the basic instruction, operational support medics log primary time when
required for the mission to care for actual patients. For non-CASEVAC or SOCCET missions,
annotate a remark on back of the AFTO Form 781 indicating the member performed actual
medical assistance to patients.
3.3.1.1.8. (Added) Flight test engineers (aircrew member or operational support flyers) are
authorized to log primary time only while performing actual directed test and evaluation in-flight
duties (required for the mission).
3.3.1.4. When an instructor is actively performing duties at the established duty station for that
specialty (e.g., demonstrating a maneuver, actually performing the primary duties), the member
being instructed will log secondary time (if still within the crew complement and at a duty station
established for that specialty) or other time when not in a seat established for their specialty,
above the crew complement, and/or not performing duties at all. On rare occasions to optimize
training, excess students may log secondary time in addition to the crew complement. The
aircraft commander must annotate a remark on the AFTO Form 781 when student training
exceeded the crew complement.
3.3.1.5. When a PJ, CRO, and/or flight surgeon is tasked to provide actual medical assistance to
a patient (or downed servicemember) in a deployed location, the member is performing in-flight
duties, regardless of aircraft qualification. The member is authorized to log aircrew certification
code (first character of crew position) ―F‖ and primary time while the patient is on board the
aircraft.
3.3.2.3.2. (Added) If an aircrew member (other than pilot) is upgrading to instructor/evaluator
and the member has exceeded the crew complement for that specialty, the member will log
secondary time. For example, if the aircraft’s crew complement for flight engineers (FE) is one
and the unit has one FE logging primary time and another receiving an instructor upgrade from
an instructor FE, the FE receiving upgrade would log secondary time. Document this scenario in
the remarks section of the AFTO Form 781.
3.3.2.3.3. (Added) On an initial or re-qualification evaluation, instructor examinees will log
time in the crew position in which they are currently qualified (e.g., MF upgrading to IF logs
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                               27


primary time instead of instructor time). Remarks will be added to the back of the AFTO Form
781 explaining the evaluation being completed.
3.3.3.1.1. (Added)) If unlike aircrew specialties have identical training requirements, instructor
time may be logged across those specialties when required. Remarks are required on the AFTO
Form 781 to explain instruction across specialties (e.g., an instructor flight engineer is
simultaneously performing flight engineer duties and instructing two gunners on the same
mission for like training). For non-current members, refer to AFI 11-202V1 and MDS specific
Volume 1s (Aircrew Training) for requirements to regain currency.
3.3.3.2. Instructor time may exceed the crew complement for CAA flight engineer/gunners
providing in-flight instruction on Alternate Insertion Extractions (AIE)/scanner duties to aircrew
students on Integrated Skills Training (IST) flights. If student aircrew members have not started
their flying phase training, list their names in the remarks of the AFTO Form 781, e.g., IFs/IGs
provided in-flight instruction to gunner students Jones/Parkay/Wilson on aircrew AIE duties.
3.3.4.2. (Added) On an initial or re-qualification evaluation, evaluator examinees will log time
in the crew position in which they are currently qualified (e.g., an IF upgrading to EF will not log
evaluator time). Remarks will be added to the back of the AFTO Form 781 explaining the
evaluation being completed.
3.3.4.3. (Added) Evaluators not in the basic aircraft crew complement (AFI 65-503) are
required to annotate students name and type of evaluation on the remarks section of the AFTO
Form 781.
3.3.4.4. (Added) Qualified evaluator pararescue members are authorized to log evaluator time
when conducting an in-flight task evaluation (AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations) on
other pararescue members not in conjunction with formal checkride evaluation (AF Form 8).
However, evaluation time will only be logged for the portion of the task evaluation and remarks
will be added to the back of the AFTO Form 781 explaining a task evaluation was conducted.
3.3.5.1. (Added) Aircrew members assigned to test and evaluation (T&E) organizations (e.g.,
18 FLTS, 413 FLTS, AFOTEC OL-HF) will log ―other‖ time and use aircrew qualification code
―X‖ when performing authorized tests on aircraft in which they are not qualified. T&E aircrew
members qualified in the aircraft will use the appropriate aircrew qualification code (IAW Table
A2.3. in the basic instruction) and log primary time on authorized directed test missions.
3.3.5.2. (Added) Operational support medics log ―other‖ time when required for a mission
where no patients are on board including homestation training missions. Place a remark on back
of the AFTO Form 781 to denote members who flew on a CASEVAC or SOCCET mission with
no patients. Note: Operational support man-months may not be used for home-station training
missions.
3.3.5. 3 (Added) Initial Qualification Training (IQT) undergraduate aircrew members who
perform in-flight syllabus-directed familiarization (observation) duties will log ―other‖ time on
the AFTO Form 781. Basic qualified MQT students may log primary time only when
performing primary duties on basic events. ―Other‖ time is logged during the mission FAM
portion. Provide explanatory remarks on the back of the AFTO Form 781, e.g., ―A1C Snively –
BQ FAM syllabus ride #1 or MSN FAM syllabus ride #1.‖
 28                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


3.3.6.1.1. Contact HQ AFSOC/A3TM for information on current ―hostile airspace‖ designation
letters. Current letters are maintained on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM SharePoint site.
3.3.6.1.1. 1 (Added) RPA aircrew members are not authorized to log combat time.
3.3.6.1.2. (Added) Aircrew members will not log combat time for missions scheduled as
combat missions, but later diverted or aborted prior to entry into the designated hostile airspace
and the requirements for combat time are not met. For these missions, combat support time may
be logged only if conditions for combat support time have been met IAW paragraph 3.3.6.2 in
the basic instruction.
3.6. Logging Flight Time for Pay. In order to credit time for pay, an individual must be
attaining or maintaining qualification in the aircraft and log either primary, secondary, instructor,
or evaluator flight time paragraph 3.3 in the basic instruction and AFI 11-421, Chapter 6.
Simulator time does not count towards OFDA credit or flight pay entitlement.
3.6.1. Key supervisors (APIs 6, 8, B or D) may fly in any aircraft under their supervision
(supervisory flying); however, if not attaining or maintaining qualification in the aircraft and
occupying a primary duty station, they will fly under the supervision of a qualified instructor and
log the duty position ―X‖ or "O" (e.g., XP, OP, XN, ON) and except for pilots, log other time
(not creditable for pay purposes), in accordance with paragraph 3.6.1 in the basic instruction.
Note: Key supervisors assigned to AFSOTC units may fly in any aircraft dedicated to student
pipeline training regardless of aircraft ownership.
3.6.1.1. (Added) Aircrew members who fly IAW the provisions of paragraph 3.6.1 in the basic
instruction must be physically and, where required, physiologically qualified, and complete,
before flight, adequate training on emergency procedures, aircrew flight equipment, and aircraft
systems.
3.15. Quarterly General Officer Flying Hour Information Report. The servicing HARM office
will electronically submit the General Officer Flying Hour Report for all active and
indoctrination fliers to HQ AFSOC/A3TM NLT the 10th of the month following each calendar
quarter.




                                              DANIEL J. SETTERGREN, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Operations
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                      29


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-207, AFSOC Supplement 1, Command Posts, 14 Oct 2008
AFI 11-202, Volume 1, Aircrew Training, 22 Nov 2010
AFI 11-2MQ-1, Volume 1, MQ-1 – Aircrew Training, 21 Jan 2010
AFI 11-2MQ-9, Volume 1, MQ-9 – Aircrew Training, 03 Jun 2008
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory Status, and Utilization Reporting, 09 Apr 2010
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 01 May 2005
AFSOCI 11-219, Volume 1, Additional Aircraft Training, 1 Sep 2003
AFSOCI 11-219, Volume 2, Additional Aircraft Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 15 Jan 2009
AFSOCI 11-219, Volume 3, Additional Aircraft Operations Procedures, 21 Mar 2005
AFSOCI 16-101, Volume 1, Combat Aviation Advisor, 21 Jan 2009
AFSOCI 16-101, Volume 3, Combat Aviation Advisor Operations, 01 Oct 1998
AMC Mission ID Encode/Decode Tables, 01 Nov 2009


Prescribed Forms
None.


Adopted Forms
AF Form 480, Aircrew AFSC/Active Flying Justification, 01 Aug 1998
AF Form 614, Charge Out Record, 01 Apr 1998
AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations, 01 Jun 1984
AF Form 1522, ARMS Additional Training Accomplishment Report, 18 Aug 2003
AF Form 4324, Aircraft Assignment/Aircrew Qualification Worksheet, 27 Aug 2007
AF Form 4348, USAF Aircrew Certifications, 12 Dec 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACR—Authorization Change Request
AIE—Alternate Insertion Extractions
AERPS—Aircrew Eye and Respiratory Protection System
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency
AFSOCI—Air Force Special Operations Command Instruction
 30                                        AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


AFSOTC—Air Force Special Operations Training Center
AMC—Airborne Mission Commander
AO—Aeronautical Order
AST—Advanced Skills Training
AvFID—Aviation Foreign Internal Defense
CAA—Combat Aviation Advisor
CASEVAC—Casualty Evacuation
CoP—Community of Practice
CPPT—Cabin Part Task Trainer
CPT—Cockpit Procedures Trainer
CRO—Combat Rescue Officer
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
DSO—Direct Support Operator
FA—Flight Authorization
FAM—Familiarization
FARC—Flight Authorization Remark Code
FCF—Functional Check Flight
FEF—Flight Evaluation Folder
FOL—Forward Operating Location
FOP—Flying Operations Procedures
FTU—Formal Training Unit
GFR—Government Flight Representative
GMT—Greenwich Mean Time (ZULU)

GNG—Go/No-Go
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
IC—Interim Change
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
IS—Intelligence Squadron
IST—Integrated Skills Training
JSOC—Joint Special Operations Command
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                        31


LOA—Letter of Attachment
MA—Mobility Assistant
MAR—Mission Accomplishment Report
MC—Mission Capable
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MR—Mission Ready
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OEF—Operation ENDURING FREEDOM
OG—Operations Group
OI—Operating Instruction
OL—Operating Location
OFT—Operations Flight Trainer
OND—Operation NEW DAWN
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSF—Operational Support Flying (or Flyer)
PA—Public Affairs
PAX—Passenger
PDP—Partnership Development Program
PIC—Pilot In Command
PJ—Pararescue Jumper
PMATS—Predator Mission Aircrew Training System
SAR—Search and Rescue
SNS—Satellite Navigator Station
SOCCET—Special Operations Casualty Care Evacuation Team
SOG—Special Operations Group
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
STS—Special Tactics Squadron
TAR—Training Accomplishment Report
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TSC—Transitional Status Code
 32                                          AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


TSO—Tactical Systems Operator
UMPR—Unit Manning Personnel Roster
USAFSOS—United States Air Force Special Operations School
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
VOCO—Verbal Order of Commander
VILO—Voluntary Disqualification from Aviation Service in Lieu of FEB
WIC—Weapons Instructor School
WST—Weapons Systems Trainer
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             33


                                        Attachment 2
     INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING AFTO FORM 781, ARMS AIRCREW/MISSION

                               FLIGHT DATA DOCUMENT
A2.3.3. A copy of the AFTO Form 781 may be provided to the Maintenance Plans and
Scheduling Office after the form is processed by the maintenance debrief section. The original
must be delivered to the SARM office. After the form is processed into ARMS, deliver it to the
HARM office IAW paragraph A2.3.3.3 in the basic instruction.
       A2.3.3.2. SARM personnel will conduct a daily mission review in accordance with AFI
       11-421. The purpose of this review is to correct errors on mission paperwork (to include
       inaccurate time and/or mission symbols).
          A2.3.3.2.1. (Added) IAW AFI 11-421, paragraph 1.5.10., SARM personnel will
          review aircraft flying hour and sortie data with the maintance debrief section after the
          AFTO Form 781 has been processed into ARMS and the maintainence system (e.g.,
          IMDS, GO81). The review will ensure AFTO Form 781 data processed into the
          maintainance system accurately reflects what is annotated on the form. The SARM
          office will maintain audits (e.g., Aircraft Utilization Reports [AUR]) on file for two
          years. Note: The CHARM may designate, in writing, an alternate location for file
          maintainance and retention.
       A2.3.3.3. On a monthly basis, the HARM personnel will audit at least 10% of AFTO
       Forms 781 submitted for records staging. The SARM personnel will audit 100% of
       AFTO Forms 781 before staging them at the HARM office.
       A2.3.3.4. Determination can be made by reviewing blocks 4 and 5 of the AFTO Form
       781 and from the unit that signed the flight authorization.
   A2.3.4. (Added) For TDY/deployments, flying units must report flying hour/sortie activity
   to home station in a timely manner (i.e., weekly and NLT three calendar days after the end of
   the month) to ensure accurate reporting of flying hours and aircrew training.
       A2.3.4.1. (Added) At flying TDY/deployment locations where SARM personnel
       support is available, they will process flying hour/sortie data into ARMS within one duty
       day following the flight activity. As a minimum, SARM personnel will forward (hand
       carried or by mail) processed and audited AFTO Forms 781 to home station every two
       weeks.
       A2.3.4.2. (Added) On flying TDYs/deployments not supported by SARM personnel,
       the PIC (or Detachment CC [DETCO]) will ensure flying hour/sortie activity is reported
       to home station NLT 24 hours following each mission termination. PICs (or DETCOs)
       will use the most expeditious means available to report activity. As a minimum, the
       following data must be transmitted:
          A2.3.4.2.1. (Added) Mission Design Series
          A2.3.4.2.2. (Added) Aircraft Serial Number
          A2.3.4.2.3. (Added) Mission Date (Zulu)
          A2.3.4.2.4. (Added) Takeoff Time (Zulu) For Each Mission Leg
 34                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


          A2.3.4.2.5. (Added) Landing Time (Zulu) For Each Mission Leg
          A2.3.4.2.6. (Added) Flight Time in Hours and Tenths
          A2.3.4.2.7. (Added) Total Full Stop Landings
          A2.3.4.2.8. (Added) Total Landings
          A2.3.4.2.9. (Added) Mission Symbol For Each Mission Leg
Note: PICs (DETCOs) will ensure original AFTO Forms 781 and MARs are collected,
maintained, and submitted to the SARM office at the conclusion of the TDY/deployment.

Table A2.1. AFTO Form 781 Entries.
 Item    Enter (The following items are supplemented for AFSOC units)
 6       The mission identifier from the flight authorization.
 7       Use mission symbols listed in Table A2.2. of this attachment or as directed by
         HQ AFSOC/A3TR.
 11      New forms are not required if a flight begins on one ZULU date and terminates on
         the next ZULU date. A new form is required for the next leg of that mission that
         begins on a new ZULU day.
 16      Enter the flying organization that published the authorization for the flight.
 Remarks Remarks must be annotated on the back of the AFTO Form 781 for the following:

           a. Operational support duties performed IAW paragraph 1.10.1.3. of the basic
           instruction. Medical technicians must state whether it is a ―real-world‖ mission
           where care of patients was performed or a training mission, where care of a
           ―simulated patient‖ was performed.

           b. Mission exceeds crew complement for special missions.

           c. An aircrew member performed duties in the next highest crew position
           qualification, but was not qualified, e.g., IP upgrading to EP.

         d. Mass casualty missions.
 Remarks e. An aircrew member performed simulated patient duty (e.g., MSgt Maurice
         Gaines simlulated being sick for PJs to perform medical assistance duties).

           f. PJ/flight surgeons tasked to perform ―real-world‖ in-flight duties in an aircraft in
           which they are not qualified.

           g. PJ/CRO aircrew duties performed when a jump is also performed. A MAR is
           mandatory for flying missions.

           h. When a government contractor flew, annotate the member’s name and last 4 of
           his/her SSAN, and total time flown logged by the member.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                           35


Table A2.2. Authorized Mission Symbols.
 Use the following mission symbols for AFSOC possessed (including leased) aircraft. (Notes 1
 and 2)
 A4C_                     Nonscheduled Logistics Using the C-130 (slick). Flights to move
                          cargo or passengers using an AFSOC-possessed C-130 (slick). The
                          fourth character is assigned to the following squadrons:
                          T – 9 SOS, U – 16 SOS, V – 17 SOS, W – 67 SOS, X – 6 SOS,
                          Y – 73 SOS, and Z – 522 SOS.
 A4N_                     Nonscheduled Logistics Using Non-standard Aviation (NSAv)
                          aircraft. Flights to move cargo or passengers using AFSOC-
                          possessed NSAv. The fourth character is assigned to the following
                          squadrons:
                          B – 34 SOS, C – 319 SOS, D – 318 SOS, and E – 524 SOS. Units
                          may define a fifth character to further define the operating theater,
                          e.g., S – SOCSOUTH.
 A7A                      Command/Operational Control Directed for Army/Army Special
                          Forces. Flights on which the primary objective is the prosecution of
                          higher headquarters directed non-training, non-combat missions in
                          support of Army/Army Special Forces.
 A7F                      Command/Operational Control objective is the prosecution of higher
                          headquarters-directed non-training, non-combat missions in support
                          of AFSOC.
 A7J                      Command/Operational Control Directed for Joint Special Operations
                          Command (JSOC). Flights on which the primary objective is the
                          prosecution of higher headquarters directed non-training, non-
                          combat missions in support of JSOC.
 A7N                      North Aeronautical Space Agency (NASA) Support. Flights on
                          which the primary objective is the support of NASA projects,
                          including deployment and redeployment.
 A7R                      Scheduled Precautionary Search and Rescue (SAR). Flights on
                          which the primary mission is the prosecution of planned
                          precautionary SAR, both orbit and escort.
 A7S                      Support. Flights on which the primary objective is base support to
                          include base evacuation IAW approved AFI 25-201, Support
                          Agreements Procedures.
 A7T                      Unscheduled Air Evacuation. Flights on which the primary
                          objective is the support of air evacuation.
 A7U                      Unscheduled SAR. Flights on which the primary mission is
                          peacetime SAR coordinated through the appropriate rescue
                          coordination center.
 A7V                      Command/Operational Control Directed for Navy/Naval Special
                          Forces. Flights on which the primary objective is the prosecution of
                          higher headquarters directed non-training, non-combat missions in
                          support of Navy/Naval Special Forces.
36                           AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


C2N_   Operation UNIFIED PROTECTOR (OUP) (formerly Operation
       ODDYSEY DAWN [OOD]). All missions flown in support of OUP
       (or OOD). This mission symbol is used from home station departure
       and return and also includes operational/functional check flights.
       The fourth character is assigned as follows: A (Active Duty units); G
       (ANG units); and R (AFRC units). See Note 1 below.
C3N_   Humanitarian Relief Operations – Japan. All missions flown in
       support of the humanitarian efforts in Japan. This code will be used
       from home station departure and return and also includes
       operational/functional check flights. The fourth character is assigned
       as follows: A (Active Duty units); G (ANG units); and R (AFRC
       units). See Note 1 below.
O3O    Aircraft Delivery. Flights flown primarily in support of aircraft
       deliveries.
O4O    Test and Evaluation. Flights to support 18 FLTS directed missions.
O5O    Direct Test Support. Flights to support 18 FLTS directed missions.
O6O    Indirect Test Support. Flight to support 18 FLTS directed missions.
O8F    Functional Check Flights (FCF). Missions to perform FCFs after
       completing inspections or maintenance.
O8P    Operational Checks. Missions to perform operational checks of
       aircraft systems that do not require FCF after completing inspections
       or maintenance.
O8_    Maintenance Tests for AFSOC-Possessed C-130E. Flights for the
       purpose of FCF for C-130E. The third character is assigned to the
       following squadrons: T – 9 SOS, U - 16 SOS, V - 17 SOS, W - 67
       SOS, 6 SOS – X, 73 SOS - Y
P6N    Counter Narcotics Support. Missions flown in support of counter
       narcotics operations.
P7NS   Operation ENDURING FREEDOM (OEF). All missions flown in
       ―support‖ of OEF. This mission symbol is used from home station
       departure and return and also includes operational/functional check
       flights.
P7PA   Operation ENDURING FREEDOM (OEF). All missions flown in a
       combat environment associated with OEF. This mission symbol is
       used from home station departure and return and also includes
       operational/functional check flights.
P9NF   Operation NEW DAWN (OND): All missions flown in a combat
       environment associated with OND. This mission symbol is used
       from home station departure and return and also includes
       operational/functional check flights. Effective 1 Sep 10.
P9NS   Operation NEW DAWN (OND): All missions flown in ―support‖ of
       OND. This mission symbol is used from home station departure and
       return and also includes operational/functional check flights.
       Effective 1 Sep 10.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                    37


 R2AN              Haiti relief support missions. Flights flown in support of the Haiti
                   operations. It includes flights flown from home station and return
                   and operational and functional check flights. Effective 13 Jan 10.
 S5O               Local Search and Rescue. Flights flown primarily in support of
                   search and rescue missions.
 T2O               Formal Training Missions. Flights flown primarily in support of
                   19 SOS, 551 SOS, Weapons Instructor Course (WIC), and 34 WPS.
 T3A               Army/Army Special Forces Training. Flights flown primarily in
                   support of Army/Army Special Forces.
 T3B               Air Force Training. Flights flown primarily in support of non-
                   AFSOC Air Force units.
 T3C               Foreign Military. Flights flown primarily in support of foreign
                   military.
 T3D               Exercises, contingency operations, alert operations to Operating
                   Locations (OL)/Forward Operating Locations (FOL), and aircraft
                   transfers IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory Status, and
                   Utilization Reporting.
 T3E               Special Tactics and Advanced Skills. Flights flown primarily in
                   support of Special Tactics Squadron (STS) and Special Tactics
                   Training Squadron (STTS) advanced Battlefield Airman training.
 T3F               Training Deployment or Redeployment. Flights to
                   position/deposition aircraft to FOLs in order to conduct mission
                   ready continuation training (T3G).
 T3G               MR Continuation Training. Flights for the purpose of unit training.
 T3J               Joint Readiness Training. Flights flown primarily in support of
                   JSOC training.
 T3K               Aerial Demonstrations. Flights flown primarily to demonstrate
                   unit/aircraft capabilities.
 T3N               Navy/Naval Special Forces Training. Flights flown primarily in
                   support of Navy/Naval Special Forces.
 T3O               Cross-Country. Flights flown primarily in support of cross-country
                   missions.
 T3P               Orientation Flights. Flights flown primarily to provide passenger
                   orientation (including DV, FAM, incentive and spouse).
 T3_               Unit training using the C-130E. Also use this symbol for C-130E
                   aircraft delivery. The third character is assigned to the following
                   squadrons:
                   T – 9 SOS, U - 16 SOS, V – 17 SOS, W - 67 SOS, 6 SOS – X, 73
                   SOS – Y
 T3X               JCS Exercises. Missions flown in support of JCS exercises.
 T4O               Special. Flights flown in support of nonmilitary activities such as
                   civil relief, mercy missions, health, communications, public works,
                   and others contributing to the economic and social well being of the
                   nation.
 38                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


 Notes:

 1. For P, R, and C mission symbols, HQ AFSOC/A3TR will provide specific AFSOC mission
 symbol guidance through CHARM/group 1C0 FM channels within 72 hours following the
 designation of a new operation or mission (e.g., Operation NEW DAWN). ARC gained units
 supporting AFSOC missions with AFSOC or SOCOM funding will use AFSOC-directed
 missions symbols.

 2. Current hostile airspace designation messages are maintained on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM
 AFSOC Aviation Resource Managers SharePoint site. When classified, HQ AFSOC/A3TM
 will forward copies through CHARM/group 1C0 FM secure channels.

 3. Unless defined by HQ AFSOC, units may define and implement 4th and 5th characters.
 Group current operations functions will maintain a consolidated list of approved unit-defined
 characters associated with published mission symbols in Table A2.2. of the basic instruction
 and this supplement.

A.2.4.6. AFSOC units will use Flight Authorization Duty Codes IAW AFI 11-401, Table A2.3.
in the basic instruction and this supplement. Groups have the option to specify the third and
fourth character (except for those specified in Table A2.3. in the basic instruction and this
supplement) for their flying units to use. Groups will publish unit unique codes in supplements
to this instruction, group Operating Instructions (O.I.), or in a separate policy memo signed by
the SOG commander. If the third and/or fourth position of the aircrew identifier is used, it must
be identified in the remarks section or back of the flight authorization.
A2.4.6.1. (Added) First Character – Aircrew Qualification Code. This code identifies the
aircrew member’s certification in the unit's aircraft for that specialty (crew position).
A2.4.6.1.1. (Added) The "F" code (qualified in basic weapon system) describes AFSOC
aircrew members who are ―maintaining basic qualification training profiles‖ IAW the
appropriate MDS specific training instruction. For example, a co-pilot in training for upgrade to
pilot who completed pilot basic qualification can log crew position ―FP,‖ but not before the
qualification check ride is complete.
A2.4.6.1.2. (Added) The "M" code (mission qualified) describes AFSOC aircrew members
who are ―qualified and are maintaining mission qualification training profiles‖ IAW the
appropriate MDS specific training instruction. For example, when a basic qualified pilot
completes mission qualification training and the check ride is complete, the member can log
crew position ―MP.‖
A2.4.6.1.3. (Added) The AF Form 4324 is used to document aircrew qualification (crew
position) changes and to update ARMS. Unit Standardization and Evaluation offices will
document the change on an AF Form 4324 and forward the form to the unit SARM office within
five days of change or prior to next flight for aircrew qualification/certification changes (e.g., UP
to FP, FE to ME) whichever is earlier.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                        39


Table A2.3. Flight Authorization Duty Codes.
                   Third Character (If Second Character is “C”) (Note 1)
    A       Aircraft Commander (or PIC) (Note 2)
                    Third Character (If Second Character is “A” or “Z”)
    M       Aero Medical Evacuation Technician (Note 2)
    P       Photographer (Note 2)
    X       Flight Test Engineer / Mission Analyst (Note 2)
                        Third Character (If Second Character is “J”)
    P       PJ (Note 2)
    C       CRO (Note 2)
            Third Character (If Second Character is “U”, “V” or “X”) (Note 3)
    Q       Basic Aircraft Qualification (BAQ) IAW AFI 11-2MQ-1V1 or AFI 11-2MQ-9V1
    B       Basic Mission Capable (BMC) IAW AFI 11-2MQ-1V1, MQ-1--Aircrew Training,
            or AFI 11-2MQ-9V1, MQ-9--Aircrew Training
    A       Combat Mission Ready (CMR) IAW AFI 11-2MQ-1V1 or AFI 11-2MQ-9V1
          Fourth Character (All Crew Positions excluding medics, PJs, and CROs)
    A       Flight Training Level (FTL) ―A‖ IAW AFI 11-2MDS Specific (Note 4)
    B       Flight Training Level (FTL) ―B‖ IAW AFI 11-2MDS Specific (Note 4)
    C       Flight Training Level (FTL) ―C‖ IAW AFI 11-2MDS Specific (Note 4)
               Fourth Character (If Second Character is “A” or “Z”) (Note 5)
    T       Training Mission (Note 2)
    R       Real-World Medical Evacuation. (Note 6)
                                        Fifth Character
    B       Qualified Instructor in Basic Sortie Only
    D       Direct Support Operator (DSO) (1A8X1)
    S       For Simulators Only (Note 2)
    T       Tactical Systems Operator (1A8X2)
 Notes:

 1. Applies to Mobility Pilot Development Program co-pilots only
 2. Must be logged on the flight authorization and AFTO Form 781.
 3. Applies to RPA aircrew members only. These codes must be documented on an AF Form
 4324 and updated in ARMS.
 4. These codes must be documented on an AF Form 4324 and updated in ARMS.
 5. Applies to medic and PJ/CRO aircrew members only.
 6. Medics or PJs/CROs must have performed medical assistance to patients to log this code.
 7. PIC and senior operational support members must ensure the ―R‖ code is logged on ―real-
 world‖ patient evacuation missions only. Medics or PJs/CROs must have performed in-flight
 medical assistance to patients in order to log the ―R‖ code. SARM offices must review
 mission paperwork to include PAX manifest documentation to ensure patients were on board
 when medics or PJs/CROs log the ―R‖ code on the AFTO Form 781. Remarks on the AFTO
 Form 781 must include a statement indicating patient care was provided to members
 documented on PAX manifest forms.
 40                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 4
    INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING AF FORM 4327, ARMS FIGHTER FLIGHT
AUTHORIZATION, AND AF FORM 4327A, CREW FLIGHT AUTHORIZATION (FA)

Table A4.2. AF Form 4327a Entries.
 1           ZULU date the flight authorization is prepared.
 2           Mission Number: Enter the 12-character AFSOC mission identifier from the
             AMC Mission ID Encode/Decode Procedures publication, for AFSOC
             directed/controlled missions. An additional ANG mission number may be added
             for ANG missions and an additional AFRC mission number may be added when
             AFRC crews fly an AFSOC mission. Also reference AFI 10-207_AFSOCSUP,
             Command Posts, for additional information on AFSOC mission identifiers.
             Exception: AFSOC RPA units will define mission numbers of any length up to
             12 characters. Execption: For local FCFs, etc., units may use locally defined
             mission numbers of any length up to 12 characters. Note: The encode/decode
             publication is located on the HQ AMC/A3OC CoP.
 3           Departure location must include the ICAO from which the flight originated.
 4           Destination will be the mission turnaround point (furthermost from departure
             point) by ICAO.
 5           Enter the purpose of the primary mission, i.e., airlift, training, air refueling, etc.,
             then a slash (/), followed by the mission symbol. The mission type may be
             abbreviated and two or more missions may be combined, e.g., AL, AR/T1.
 6           Use ZULU date/Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
 7           Use ZULU date/GMT. This date is for scheduling purposes only and will not be
             used to direct the return of the mission. Actual mission return time is determined
             by mission requirements.
 11          Crew Information:

             A. Enter each member’s last name, first name, and middle initial.


             C. Enter each member’s last four characters of his/her SSAN (e.g., 6940).

             E. Enter each member’s Flight Authorization Duty Code (qualification) for the
             aircraft. As a minimum, the first two characters will be used (e.g., ―MP‖), but
             units may use up to three additional characters (e.g., ―MUCES‖ IAW Table
             A2.3. in the basic instruction and this supplement. For additional guidance, refer
             to Table A2.3. and paragraphs A2.4.6. through A2.4.6.1.3. in the basic
             instruction and this supplement.
 11          Crew Information cont:

             F. Enter the duty (crew) position each member will occupy during the mission.
             The duty position allows unit commanders to limit the activities of their aircrew
             members. For example, if an aircrew member is qualified ―EP,‖ the commander
             can designate the member as ―IP‖ or ―MP‖ on the flight authorization. In this
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                          41


          case, aircrew members may only log ―IP‖ or ―MP‖ time on the AFTO Form 781.
          The duty position cannot be higher than the member's qualification. SARM
          personnel will compare members’ duty positions annotated on the AFTO Form
          781 to their duty positions published on the flight authorization and take
          corrective action (as required) before processing the members’ AFTO Form 781
          data into ARMS.

          1.      Use a duty position of "E" (evaluator) or "I" (instructor) only if the
                  individual is scheduled to perform evaluator or instructor duties.

          2.      If an aircrew member will be acting in a higher duty position for
                  evaluation or certification purposes, use flight authorization remarks code
                  "C" IAW Table 1.2. and paragraph 1.8.2.6. of this supplement. Note:
                  The aircrew member is authorized to perform duties with the authority of
                  that higher duty position (e.g., instructor pilot candidate with an MC/FC
                  with the evaluator standing).

          3.      Do not use Aircrew Certification Code "X" (e.g., XP, XN, XF) for
                  members that are qualified in the aircraft.

          G. AFSOC standard flight authorization codes are listed in Table A4.3. of this
          supplement. Remarks are not limited to only ―remark codes.‖ Units may
          include any other remarks or important flight information as necessary. Units
          may develop codes to meet local needs. Explain codes in the remark section.
          Code "B" (non-current) is used, the unit must specify in remarks what event or
          events in which the aircrew member is non-current to keep PIC informed on
          what type missions in which the member requires an instructor. The only events
          required are the events that require instructor supervision and/or events that limit
          an individual to local training flights. Units may overprint unit-defined code sets
          on the reverse side of the flight authorization.

                As a minimum, designate the PIC of the mission. Use codes "A" or "J"
                  only to designate PICs.

          I. Enter formed crew number (if applicable/unit developed).

          J. All changes must be initialed by an authenticating official. Note: Annotate
          changes in ink on the original file copy.
 12       Remarks are not limited to only ―remark codes.‖ Units may include any other
          remarks or important flight information as necessary.
 14       Use the following format: fiscal year followed by a dash, followed by the four
          digit sequential number. Number flight authorizations sequentially beginning
          with the number 0001. Begin numbering on the first day of each fiscal year. For
          example, the first flight authorization published on 1 October 2011 would be
          numbered 12-0001. Units will use separate flight authorization numbers for
          simulator missions IAW paragraph 1.8.1. of this supplement. Use the ―S‖ prefix
 42                                             AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


             for simulator missions. Example: S12-0001. Units may use alternate flight
             authorization numbers for off-station deployment/contingency missions and
             simulator missions. Use the ―D‖ prefix for deployment/contingency missions.
             Example: D12-0001.
 15          The minimum distribution is as follows:
                  File copy (original).
                  Each aircrew member (as required).
                  Each mission kit (as required).
 16          GNG verification must be accomplished for each aircrew member on the
             mission. The squadron aviation resource manager (i.e., 1C0X2) and PIC initial
             after the GNG verification is complete for ALL aircrew members listed on the
             original flight authorization. When aircrew member additions are made, the PIC
             will validate GNG for ―add-on‖ aircrew members and sign (certify) in the
             Aircraft Commander Signature block.
 17          Enter issuing unit, base, and location.
 18          The OG/CC will designate, by name, in writing, the authenticating officials. The
             authorized authenticating officials are the unit commander, operations officer,
             and assistant operations officers, but the intent is for the unit commander or
             operations officer, when present, to sign flight authorizations. Assistant
             operations officers should not routinely act as an authenticating officials and will
             sign flight authorizations only when both the commander and operations officer
             are not present. The mission commander is authorized to sign flight
             authorizations while deployed. Authenticating officials may sign flight
             authorizations that authorized them to perform in-flight duties.
 19          N/A. Units will not use the AF Form 4327a as a travel order.
 21          This section is optional when not needed and contains no remarks pertinent to
             the front of the flight authorization or mission. If units overprint their code sets
             on the reverse side of the flight authorization, the back becomes mandatory.

Table A4.3. (Added) Flight Authorization Remark Codes (Notes 1 - 4).
 CODE       REMARK
 A          Aircraft Commander (in command of mission) (Including simulator missions)
 B          Non-Current (i.e., currencies, or incomplete end of quarter/half volume
            requirements). Not required for unqualified aircrew members, e.g., crew position
            UP, UL. (Note 5)
 CODE       REMARK
 C          Acting in next higher qualification for evaluation/certification purposes (e.g.,
            initial check-ride for Basic Qualification, Mission Qualification pipeline, in-unit
            initial qualification students, or initial instructor qualification).
 D          Alert Status for mission. (Places member into crew rest for alert purposes).
 E          Primary crewmember in position indicated. (Use when an alert stand-by is ―D‖
            coded).
 F          Mission Commander.
 G          Airborne Mission Commander (AMC).
 H          Aircraft Commander qualified and authorized to perform touch and go landings.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                43


 I           Orientation/observation flight (no instruction for students). Indoctrination flyers,
             aircrew in supervisory positions (APIs 6/8/B/D), are authorized to log other time
             when observing aircraft under their control. Formal schoolhouse ADO/instructors
             (authorized to maintain familiarity of schoolhouse aircraft) and pipeline students
             (receiving their FAM syllabus ride) may log other time. All others are not
             authorized flight time for orientation/FAM flights IAW paragraph 3.2.2. in the
             basic instruction.
 J           In command for alternate mission.
 K           Aircraft Commander restricted, no FC/MC or touch and go landings.
 L           Scheduled annual evaluation (qualification checks: basic, mission, or instrument).
 M           MEP status. Log this code next to member’s name in the remarks section of the
             flight authorization. For example: Huertas, Vanessa (M)
 N            Reserved for future use.
 O           Enplane/deplane. For members scheduled to fly who will enplane/deplane the
             mission.
 P           Pay Code (Reserves) No-Notice Evaluation (Normally added day of mission with
             initials).
 Q           AERPS. Aircrew Eye and Respiratory Protection System.
 R           Facilitator. Mission facilitator not performing primary aircrew duties. Only
             ―other‖ time may be logged unless member occupies primary duty station/duties.
 S           Weapons Safety NCO, e.g., lead gunner for AC130 missions.
 T           Dual Qualification Training (e.g., TV to IR, TSO to DSO).
 U           Upgrade to next higher qualification/certification (e.g., Mission qualification
             upgrading to Instructor qualification, Instructor qualification upgrading to
             Evaluator qualification, or gunner upgrading to lead gunner).
 V           Instructor qualified in basic events only, but performing flying duties on a mission
             sortie.
 W           Orientation, familiarization (FAM), or indoctrination flying status; no instruction.
 Y           Qualified pilot-physician authorized to log crew position ―FS‖ and log time when
             not actively performing pilot duties.
 Z           Reserved for future use.
 1 thru 9    Unit developed codes
 Notes:

 1. As a minimum, designate the PIC of the mission. Use codes ―A‖ or ―J‖ only to designate
 pilots in command. Remarks are not limited to only ―remark codes.‖ Units may include any
 other remarks or important flight information as necessary.
 2. Explain codes in the remark section.
 3. Units may develop codes to meet local needs.
 4. Units may overprint their code sets on the reverse side of the flight authorization.
 5. When the non-current code ―B‖ is used, provide specific remarks describing what event or
 events in which the crewmember is non-current, to keep the PIC informed on what type
 missions in which the member requires an instructor. The only events required are those
 events that require instructor supervision and/or events that limit an individual to local training
 flights.
 44                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 5 (Added)
 FLYING STATUS CODE (FSC) “S” AND AVIATION SERVICE CODE (ASC) “04”180
                        DAY WAIVER FORMAT


MEMORANDUM FOR (Operations Group Commander Functional Address Symbol)
               HQ AFSOC/A3T (180 days) or HQ AFSOC/A3 (365 days)
               IN TURN

FROM: (Unit Commander Functional Address Symbol)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Waiver Request for Non-Performance of Flying

1. Request waiver for Maj Johnny B. Goode to remain in FSC ―S‖ (or ASC ―04‖) beyond a 180
days (or 365 days). The following is submitted IAW AFI 11-401, Table 2.6., for non-
performance of flying.

   a.   Unit:
   b.   ASC:
   c.   ASC Effective Date:
   d.   Days in ASC Status:
   e.   API:
   f.   Rationale: Explain exactly what prevented this member from flying. If the position (staff)
        no longer requires active flying, submit AF Form 480 requesting an API change. If the
        member is not flying for cause (e.g., legal proceedings, unprofessional behavior) Refer
        to AFI 11-402 for FEB required action.

2. Under no circumstances will (aircrew in FSC ―S‖ or ASC ―04‖) remain in FSC ―S‖ or ASC
―04‖ beyond 365 days without an approved HQ AFSOC/A3 waiver. Note: This para is not
required for 365 day waiver requests.

3. My POC for this request is SMSgt Lanny Davis, 1 SOSS/OST, 555-5656.




                                             (Unit Commander’s Signature)
                                             (Unit Commander’s Signature Block)

Attachment
1. Copy of suspension/FSC ―S‖ AO
2. ARMS Individual Data Summary
3. ARMS Aviation Service Worksheet (required for FSC “S”)
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                     45




1st Ind to [Unit CC], [Date], Waiver Request for Non-Performance of Flying

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3

Recommend approval/disapproval



                                           (Operations Group Commander’s Signature)
                                           (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)


2d Ind, MAJCOM/A3T (or MAJCOM/A3)

MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit Commander Functional Address Symbol)

Recommend approval/disapproval




                                           (MAJCOM A3T or A3’s Signature)
                                           (MAJCOM A3T or A3’s Signature Block)

cc:
HQ AFSOC/A3TM
[OG/CC]
 46                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 6 (Added)
         NON-INTERFERENCE AERONAUTICAL ORDERS EXAMPLE LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR (Operations Group Commander Functional Address Symbol)
               (Servicing HARM Office Functional Address Symbol)
               IN TURN

FROM: (Unit CC)

SUBJECT: Non-Interference Aeronautical Orders (AO)

1. Request initiation of non-interference AOs IAW AFI 11-401, para 2.10.4., to authorize Maj
Maurice Gaines to fly in non-interference status. Non-interference status will provide
Maj Gaines, the 44 IS/DO, an opportunity to fly in a similar capacity that is currently authorized
to aircrew commanders, operations officers, and other aircrew member staff officers to obtain
and maintain familiarization of the flying environment. As an intelligence officer, non-
interference flying will enhance his ability to observe assigned aircrew members and also be
instrumental in the execution of intelligence programs that could affect flying operation mission
requirements.

2. The following is submitted to validate the member’s medical and physiological training to
process AOs:

a.   Applicant’s full name, grade, SSAN.
b.   Unit of assignment.
c.   Current UMD DAFSC, position number, and date assigned.
d.   Date current flying Class III physical will expire.

 3. The member has been briefed and understands neither flying incentive pay or flying duty
credit is authorized.




                                                (Unit Commander’s signature)
                                                (Commanders typed name, grade, USAF)

Attachments:
1. AF Form 1042
2. Original AF Form 702
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                     47




1st Ind to [Unit CC], [Date], Non-Interference Aeronautical Orders (AO)

[OG/CC]

MEMORANDUM FOR (Servicing HARM Office Functional Address Symbol)

Approved/disapproved.




                                           (Operations Group Commander’s signature)
                                           (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)
 48                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 7 (Added)
               FLYING LETTER OF ATTACHMENT EXAMPLE LETTER

                                       HQ AFSOC STAFF

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3T

FROM: (HQ AFSOC Staff [3-Digit] Division Functional Address Symbol)

SUBJECT: Attachment for Flying

1. Request attachment for flying and publication of aeronautical orders (as required) to unit,
base and state (country for overseas units) for the following individual:

RANK/NAME:

Capt Jonnathan T. Clay

CREW POSITION:                 SSAN:                     ORGANIZATION:


 Pilot                      xxx-xx-8364           HQ AFSOC/A3V
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                49


                                    Attachment 8 (Added)
                JUMP LETTER OF ATTACHMENT EXAMPLE LETTER

                                HQ AFSOC STAFF OR UNIT

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3T

FROM: (HQ AFSOC Staff [3-Digit] Division Functional Address Symbol) or
      (Unit Commander Functional Address Symbol)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Attachment for Jumping

1. Request attachment for jumping and publication of aeronautical orders (as required) to unit,
base and state (country for overseas units) for the following individual:

RANK/NAME:

SMSgt Russell D. Stevens

DUTY/CREW POSITION:                 SSAN:                    ORGANIZATION:


          TACP                 xxx-xx-6767                 HQ AFSOC/A3O
       00098760V           N/A     HQ AFSOC/A3O              J1C299             01 FEB 11
 50                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                    Attachment 9 (Added)
FLYING/JUMP LETTER OF ATTACHMENT EXAMPLE LETTER HQ AFSOC STAFF
                            OR UNIT

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3T

FROM: (HQ AFSOC Staff [3-Digit] Division Functional Address Symbol) or
      (Unit Commander Functional Address Symbol)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Attachment for Flying/Jumping

1. Request attachment for flying to unit, base and state (country for overseas unit), for jumping
to unit, base, and state (country for overseas unit), and publication of aeronautical orders (as
required) for the following individual:

RANK/NAME:

Capt Sawat Talbert

DUTY/CREW POSITION:                   SSAN:                        ORGANIZATION:

           CRO                     xxx-xx-2186                     HQ AFSOC/A3V

2. He will maintain basic qualification, mission capable or mission ready status in the CV-22.

Note: Add additional aircraft and training levels as required.

3. Maj Taylor Swift, 71 SOS/ADO, concurred with this request on 21 Jun 11.

4. Capt Jason Aldean, 19 STS/DO, concurred with this request on 12 Jun 11.

Note: Requests require concurrence from the attached flying unit and STS commander,
operations officer, or assistant operations officer.

5. Specific information can be found on the attached fact sheet.


                                    (HQ AFSOC Division Chief’s or Unit/CC’s Signature)
                                    (HQ AFSOC Division Chief’s or Unit/CC’s Signature Block)

2 Attachments:
1. Attachment for Jump Fact Sheet
2. MilPDS RIP or CSS Acknowledgement Sheet
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                 51


1st Ind, [Date], Attachment for Flying/Jumping (Capt Sawat Talbert)

HQ AFSOC/A3T

MEMORANDUM FOR (HQ AFSOC Staff [3-Digit] Division Functional Address Symbol) or
               (Unit Commander Functional Address Symbol)

Approved/disapproved.




                                           (HQ AFSOC/A3T Signature)
                                           (HQ AFSOC/A3T Signature Block)

cc:
HQ AFSOC/A3TM

Note: Current headquarters signature blocks are maintained on the HQ AFSOC/A3TM AFSOC
Aviation Resource Managers SharePoint site.
ATTACHMENT FOR FLYING/JUMPING FACT SHEET


NAME: TALBERT, SAWAT

RANK: CAPT

SSAN: XXX-XX-2186

ORGANIZATION/OFFICE SYMBOL: HQ AFSOC/A3V

DUTY PHONE: DSN 555-1234

POSITION NUMBER: 00056540V

API: 0 (Note: PJ is “Z” and CRO is “0”)

DAFSC: 013D3

AERONAUTICAL RATING/BADGE: MASTER PARACHUTIST

AVIATION SERVICE CODE: 9D

PRIMARY AIRCRAFT: CV-22

HALO QUALIFIED: YES
52                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012



CREW POSITION: CRO

REQUESTED FLYING UNIT OF ATTACHMENT: 71 SOS, COMMANDO AB, JAPAN

REQUESTED JUMP UNIT OF ATTACHMENT: 19 STS, COMMANDO AB, JAPAN

EXPECTED DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT: 4 YEARS

DOS: N/A

LAST UNIT OF ASSIGNMENT: 19 STS, COMMANDO AB, JAPAN

DATE LAST FLOWN: 10 MAY 2011

DATE LAST JUMPED: 15 APR 2011
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                               53




MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3TM

FROM: (HQ AFSOC/CSS or HQ AFSOC Staff [4-Digit] Branch Chief)
      (Unit CSS/Orderly Room)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Verification of UMPR Assignment Data

1. The following information is provided to validate position of assignment data:

RANK/NAME:

Capt Sawat Talbert

UMD POSITION NO.           API        DIVISION               DAFSC         EFFECTIVE DATE
    00056540V              N/A       HQ AFSOC/A3V             013D3            01 MAY 11

2. CERTIFICATION STATEMENT: I have reviewed the UMPR and confirm the position
is/is not occupied by another parachutist member on active jump AOs. If occupied by another
member, the member’s name is Capt John D. Doe with a projected departure of DD MMM YY.

Note: If the position is double-billeted and the overlap will exceed 90 days, paragraph 3 must
be included. HQ AFSOC/A3TM will verify double-billeting during the review process.

3. We will/will not pursue a HQ AF/A3O-AT waiver for both members to remain on active
jump status for the entire period of overlap, prior to the 91st day of overlap. We understand
without an approved HQ AFSOC/A3 waiver, the second incumbent’s jump AOs will be
inactivated until an approved waiver is received.




                                     (HQ AFSOC/CSS [or Branch Chief] Signature)
                                     (HQ AFSOC/CSS [or Branch Chief] Signature Block)
                                                     or
                                     (Unit CSS/Orderly Room Signature)
                                     (Unit CSS/Orderly Room Signature Block)


Note: HQ AFSOC division or unit secretaries may certify UMPR data in lieu of CSS, branch
chiefs, or unit orderly CSS/orderly rooms.
 54                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                    Attachment 10 (Added)
                             FLYING STATUS CODE (FSC) “K”

MEMORANDUM FOR (Servicing HARM Office Functional Address Symbol)

FROM: (Operations Group Commander Functional Address Symbol)

SUBJECT: Assignment of Flying Status Code (FSC) ―K‖ (Lack of Support)

1. Request publication of aeronautical orders assigning FSC ―K‖ to Capt Erin Pickering (last
four – 6940) to depict lack of support status effective 18 August 2011.

2. Currently, all the aircraft in Capt Pickering’s unit are deployed to support Operation FACE
BOOK. Capt Pickering also just returned from a remote non-flying tour and requires in-unit
requalification. This letter remains in effect until the return of the unit aircraft or one year,
whichever occurs first.

Note: IAW paragraph 1.4.1.9.4. of the basic instruction, the OG/CC must revalidate “K” status
annually, NLT than 30 days prior to the end of the fiscal year.

3. My POC for this request is CMSgt June Cleaver, 27 SOSS/OSOF, 555-1963.




                                              (Operations Commander’s Signature)
                                              (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)

cc:
HQ AFSOC/A3TM
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                55


                                    Attachment 11 (Added)
                 FLYING ACTIVITY CODE (FAC) “6” OR “E” WAIVER

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3
               HQ USAF/A3O

FROM: (Commander Functional Address Symbol)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: FAC ―6‖ (or ―E‖) Waiver Request

1. Request approval for a FAC ―6‖ (or ―E‖ for career enlisted aviator) waiver for Major Damon
Howell (last four – 6283) for the period of 3 April through 21 July 2011.

Note: FAC 6/E requests cannot exceed 180 days.

2. Major Howell is a flight surgeon, currently assigned to an inactive (API 0) flying position.
Due to high operations tempo, the 1 SOW needs Major Howell to deploy to support Operation
TEA CUP. He will be the only flight surgeon in the AOR and the flying units need him to
perform active flight duties. He has a current physical and altitude chamber.

3. My POC for this request is MSgt Thomas Cruise, 1 SOSS/OSO, DSN 555-5656.




                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature)
                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)


Note: Forward request through command channels with SSS coordination to
HQ AFSOC/A3TM, HQ AFSOC/A3T, and HQ AFSOC/A3
 56                                               AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                    Attachment 12 (Added)
                           INDOCTRINATION FLYING STATUS

                            (FLYING STATUS CODE [FSC] “T”)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3

FROM: (Commander Functional Address Symbol)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Indoctrination Flying Status Request

1. Request indoctrination flying status approval for Major Christine Gault, (last four – 6767) for
the period 15 April through 31 September 2011.

2. Major Gault is an Electronic Warfare Officer, currently assigned to an inactive (API 4) flying
position. Major Gault is the lead project officer on the ALQ-47 pod upgrade system.
Indoctrination flying on test missions will enable her to perform operational function tests of the
system. She has a current physical and altitude chamber. As an indoctrination flyer, she will use
crew position ―XW‖ and log ―other‖ time on the AFTO Form 781.

3. My POC for this request is TSgt Lucile Ball, 353 OSS/OSO, DSN 314-555-1989.



                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature)
                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)


Note: Commanders or HQ AFSOC branch chiefs can identify an inactive rated or CEA position
to be a designated as a continuous indoctrination position. For example, an inactive training
officer position in HQ AFSOC/A3T to that the incumbent could maintain familiarity of the flying
environment, to enhance ability to maintain knowledge, and to effectively write AFSOC flying
instructions.


Note: Forward request through command channels with SSS coordination to
HQ AFSOC/A3TM, HQ AFSOC/A3T, and HQ AFSOC/A3
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             57


                                    Attachment 13 (Added)
                       AFSOC ORIENTATION FLIGHT PROGRAM

A13.1. ((Added).) General Review AFI 11-401 for additional definitions and guidance
regarding all orientation flights. AFI 11-401 is the governing directive and at no time can
AFSOC or unit supplements be less restrictive. 623 AOC/SPDP is the OPR for procedures
outlined in this attachment.
A13.1.1. ((Added)) The purpose of AFSOC’s Orientation Flight Program is to increase an
individual's understanding of AFSOC’s mission (e.g. aircrew flight equipment or aviation
resource management Airmen) and/or reward military members for outstanding service (e.g.,
wing NCO of the quarter/year), and motivate others to similar performance levels. The
Orientation Flight Program is a valuable tool to AFSOC and the Air Force, and effectively
managing the program requires strong leadership at all levels to ensure the Air Force derives the
appropriate benefit. Orientation flights for personnel fully knowledgeable of AFSOC’s role and
mission (e.g., recently separated or retired rated aircrew members) are not appropriate and should
not be approved. An orientation flight participant is defined as any individual flying on an
AFSOC aircraft authorized to fly under the provisions outlined in Table 1.1 in this supplement
(including this attachment). Wing commanders or equivalent are authorized to implement policy
for orientation flights for personnel under their command. Policies must comply with AFI 11-
401 and this supplement. HQ AFSOC/A3 waiver is required for deviations from this
supplement, unless otherwise directed by the basic instruction. Waiver requests arising from
unusual circumstances must provide compelling rationale showing benefit to the Air Force.
A13.2. (Added) Incentive Flights. Most incentive flight participants will not be
physiologically prepared for the stresses that can be encountered; therefore, these flights are
restricted to normal mission training. Flying squadrons may schedule one day a quarter (as a
minimum) as permitted by operational and training requirements, as a possible Orientation Flight
Day to accommodate award winners, DVs, FAM flights, etc. This day will be submitted along
with the five-week outlook provided by each flying squadron each month. The group current
operations function will notify the flying squadrons two weeks prior to the planned orientation
flight day (if the day will be needed). Current operations will provide flying squadrons with
personnel information for the orientation flights at least one week prior to the planned flight.
Civilians are not eligible to participate in Incentive Flight programs. Other means are available
for recognizing civilian performance. See AFI 11-401, Table 1.1, Line 19.
   A13.2.1. (Added) Incentive Flights Flying Schedules. Current operations is responsible for
   coordinating with flying squadron scheduling offices to determine which unit can
   accommodate individual incentive flights, without interrupting mission accomplishments.
   Once coordinated, the current operations function will notify individuals approved for
   incentive flights. Each flying squadron and the Command Post (CP) will highlight
   ―Incentive/DV Flight‖ in the remark section of the printed flying schedule and on the flying
   boards located in each squadron and at the CP. Current operations functions will establish a
   log to track these flights for the year IAW Attachment 20.
   A13.2.2. (Added) Notification. After notification, individuals eligible for an incentive
   flight are responsible for notifying the current operations function within two months if they
 58                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


   desire the orientation flight. If individuals do not notify group current operations within two
   months of notification, they will NOT be a priority for the next scheduled incentive flight.

Table A13.1. (Added) Incentive Flight Allocation Chart.
 Individual                            Allocation     Remarks
 ALS John Levitow Award                7
 Wing Honor Guard Member/Qtr           4              + 1 if year winner is not a quarterly
                                                      winner
 Wing First Sergeant/Year              1
 Wing Amn Mx. Professional/Year        1
 Wing NCO Mx. Professional/Year        1
 Wing Crew Chief/Year                  1
 Wing Weapons Professional/Year        1
 Wing AMMO Professional/Year           1
 SOW Staff Amn/Qtr                     4              SOW Staff - 2 additional annually
 SOW Staff NCO/Qtr                     4
 SOW Staff SNCO/Qtr                    4
 SOW Staff CGO/Qtr                     4
 SOG Amn/Qtr                           4              SOG- 2 additional/squadron annually
 SOG NCO/Qtr                           4
 SOG SNCO/Qtr                          4
 SOG CGO/Qtr                           4
 MSG Amn/Qtr                           4              MSG - 2 additional annually
 MSG NCO/Qtr                           4
 MSG SNCO/Qtr                          4
 MSG CGO/Qtr                           4
 MDG Amn/Qtr                           4              MDG - 2 additional annually
 MDG NCO/Qtr                           4
 MDG SNCO/Qtr                          4
 MDG CGO/Qtr                           4
 MXG Amn/Qtr                           4              MXG - 2 additional annually
 MXG NCO/Qtr                           4
 MXG SNCO/Qtr                          4
 MXG CGO/Qtr                           4
 Notes:

 1. Commanders must ensure incentive flight schedules do not interfere or negatively impact
 the flying unit’s ability to complete aircrew training requirements.
 2. Submit requests through command channels to wing commander (group commander for
 overseas units) for approval of additional allocations.
 Notes:

 3. Commanders and Air Force members must understand during mission constraints (lack of
 flying hours, increase in deployments, or other mission related requirements) incentive flights
 may be suspended.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                            59


   A13.2.2.1. (Added) Individuals have six months after notification to complete their incentive
   flight. After six months, the flight will no longer be available to them. Extenuating
   circumstances will be considered by group current operations on a case-by-case basis, as
   validated by the respective OG/CC.
   A13.2.3. (Added) Medical Evaluation. Following a medical evaluation by a Flight Surgeon
   IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, candidates will hand carry a copy
   of the completed AF Form 1042 to their assigned flying squadron. Medical clearances are
   only valid for 72 hours.
   A13.2.4. (Added) Egress Training. The flight engineer (or other designated aircrew
   member) will brief participants thoroughly on emergency ground egress. The briefer will
   ensure participants are physically capable of emergency ground egress and document
   individuals names on an AF Form 1522 to reflect they were briefed.
   A13.2.5. (Added) Flight Checklist/Absolute Release of Liability. With the exception of
   aircrew members, all individuals participating in this program will complete the ―Flight
   Checklist‖ Attachment 19. All reserve or other non-active duty personnel not on
   aeronautical orders that receive an orientation flight must also complete the ―Absolute
   Release of Liability‖ letter Attachment 18. The ―Absolute Release of Liability‖ letter must
   be signed, completed, and notarized prior to flight. Current operations functions will furnish
   all documents. Turn all documents into the squadron operations center (SOC) desk (or
   SARM office) prior to flight.
       A13.2.5.1. (Added) Following each flight, SARM personnel will forward a copy of the
       completed checklist to the group current operations function for accounting purposes.
       Current operations will maintain a log Attachment 20 along with completed flight
       checklist, AF Form 1042, AF Form 702 (if applicable), and AF Form 1522 (documenting
       egress training completed for passengers) for six months after flight completion.
   A13.2.6. (Added) Profiles. Incentive orientation flights require dedicated profiles will only
   be flown during daylight hours and be planned and executed in a low-risk
   environment. Incentive orientation flights may be flown either single-ship or a two-ship
   formation. With the exception of takeoff and landing, the minimum altitude is 1,000 feet
   AGL (fixed wing) or 500 feet AGL (rotary wing).
       A13.2.6.1. (Added) Flying units will not conduct incentive flights during higher
       headquarters directed exercises.
       A13.2.6.2. (Added) When loading/unloading passengers with aircraft engines running,
       ensure the passengers are briefed on the hazards and exhaust areas, and a qualified
       aircrew member is deplaned to supervise the loading/unloading. For C-130 aircraft (all
       variants), aircraft commanders will ensure engines are in ―low speed ground idle‖ prior to
       on/offloading passengers. For rotary wing aircraft, ensure passengers have approved eye
       protection and are escorted by a qualified aircrew member.
A13.3. (Added) DV Flights. Like incentive flights, most DV flight participants will not be
physiologically prepared for the stresses that can be encountered; therefore, these flights are
restricted to normal mission training. Examples: A member of the House or Senate Armed
Services Committee or civic leader such as the mayor of a city collocated with a USAF base).
 60                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


   A13.3.1. (Added) Profiles. DV flights require dedicated profiles and will be planned and
   executed in a low-risk environment. DV orientation flights may be flown either single-ship
   or two-ship formation. Congressional DV flights require SECAF approval. Flights flown at
   night require wing commander approval on a case-by-case basis. Wing commanders will
   only approve these requests if there is a valid requirement and it serves a specific purpose.
   For example, for flights involving civic leaders and most civilian government employees, the
   benefit gained would not warrant the increased risk exposure. Conversely, members of
   Congress or their staffs, key federal officials, and general/flag officers would be more likely
   to have a valid requirement to fly under the less restrictive criteria, so the increased risk
   might be acceptable. With the exception of takeoff and landing, minimum altitude is 1,000
   feet AGL (fixed wing) or 500 feet AGL (rotary wing).
A13.4. (Added) Familiarization Flights. Familiarization flights are limited to participants
with aviation-related responsibilities or who have a requirement to observe routine training
missions; therefore, the flight profile does not normally restrict mission training. Examples:
United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) or Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
(AFROTC) cadet flying, individuals awaiting permanent change of station training (APT) status
for undergraduate flying training (UFT), a US military aircrew observing a related mission,
Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) employees supporting a local base, or HQ USAF acquisition
personnel observing a mission related to the area.
   A13.4.1. (Added) Wing commanders may provide recurring familiarization flights to APT
   officers who are scheduled to attend either UFT. Units will conduct APT sorties on a non-
   interference basis. Individuals in APT status for UFT, who have a current and certified
   Initial Flying Class I (IFC I) physical examination, do not require recurring physicals for
   each familiarization flight if they are medically followed by the local flight medicine office,
   with a flight surgeon as their primary care manager.               Individuals accomplishing
   familiarization flights in APT status do not accrue OFDA credit or log time on the AFTO
   Form 781.
   A13.4.2. (Added) Rules for familiarization flights during exercises are the same as for DV
   flights.
A13.5. (Added) Spouse Orientation Flights . These flights are limited to spouses of the
following USAF military personnel: aircrew members, aircraft maintainers, and other specialties
in direct support of flying operations. The wing commander will determine eligibility for the
program. Spouses of USAF military personnel in non-AFSOC units collocated with AFSOC
units are eligible to participate in the program. Spouse orientation flights must adhere to the
following additional requirements:
   A13.5.1. (Added) Qualified pilots will occupy both the pilot and copilot's seats.
   A13.5.2. (Added) Spouses are not permitted on the same aircraft when another family
   member is acting as an aircrew member.
A13.6. (Added) Orientation Flight Requirements and Restrictions.
   A13.6.1. (Added) Orientation flights will not be point-to-point flights. An orientation flight
   cannot be used for transporting an individual from one location to another.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                               61


  A13.6.2. (Added) Do not conduct orientation flights on any of the following: Aircraft
  participating in a test program; FCFs; any flight of a special nature where abnormal
  conditions may exist (e.g., first flight over an isolated area, an aircraft just accepted into the
  inventory, etc.); or flights that specifically preclude passengers.
  A13.6.3. (Added) Approval authorities for orientation flights are listed in Table 1.1 in the
  basic instruction. This supplement includes approval levels authorized for delegation.
  Unless authorized by this instruction, units may not delegate lower.
  A13.6.4. (Added) Authority to approve orientation flights for U.S. personnel in foreign
  aircraft under AFSOC OPCON is the same as for U.S. personnel flying in AFSOC aircraft.
  A13.6.5. (Added) For Reserve Associate units, AFRC approves its own orientation flights,
  but obtains owning commander concurrence. AFRC units will follow orientation flight
  guidance in AFI 11-401_AFRCSUP and AFI 35-103, Public Affairs Travel.
  A13.6.6. (Added) Consider foreign national military exchange personnel and their spouses
  who are assigned to AFSOC units as U.S. military for purposes of this instruction, except an
  exchange officer cannot fly in a two-seat, U.S. owned aircraft with another foreign national.
  Only pilots who are U.S. citizens can fly a foreign national on an orientation flight in a two-
  seat U.S. owned aircraft.
  A13.6.7. (Added) See AFI 11-2MDS Specific Volume 3 for additional guidance.
  A13.6.8. (Added) Documentation Requirements: All orientation flight approvals will be
  documented. Participants will be properly manifested on DD Form 2131 and briefed before
  flight. Do not place participants on flight authorizations. Participants will not log time on
  the AFTO Form 781. Hazardous duty incentive pay (HDIP) is not authorized.
  A13.6.9. (Added) All participants will receive applicable aircrew flight equipment, egress,
  and emergency procedures training. Accomplish training hands-on as much as practical.
  Training will be documented on an AF Form 1522.
  A13.6.10. (Added) Participants will not fly in AFSOC aircraft while taking any medication
  (unless specifically approved by a flight surgeon) or while under the influence of alcohol.
  A13.6.11. (Added) For flights in passenger-type aircraft, the wing commander, in
  consultation with base medical personnel, will determine the requirement for medical
  clearance by a flight surgeon.
  A13.6.12. (Added) Unless unusual circumstances dictate otherwise, the aircraft commander
  will shut down all engines before participant loading/unloading. If necessary to keep the
  engines operating, the aircraft commander will ensure participants are briefed on the hazards
  of engine intake and exhaust areas, and will direct a qualified aircrew member to deplane and
  supervise the loading/unloading. For rotary wing aircraft, participants may unload with both
  engines running as long as they have approved eye protection and a qualified aircrew
  member escorts them.
     A13.2.6.2. (Added) When loading/unloading passengers with aircraft engines running,
     ensure the passengers are briefed on the hazards and exhaust areas, and a qualified
     aircrew member is deplaned to supervise the loading/unloading. For C-130 aircraft (all
     variants), aircraft commanders will ensure engines are in ―low speed ground idle‖ prior to
 62                                             AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


      on/offloading passengers. For rotary wing aircraft, ensure passengers have approved eye
      protection and are escorted by a qualified aircrew member.
   A13.6.13. (Added) Civilian personnel receiving orientation flights will not be given control
   of the aircraft or operate any aircraft flight control, aircraft system, or weapon during any
   phase of flight. However, civilian personnel may be required to perform emergency
   operations.
A13.7. (Added) Orientation Flight Request Process:
   A13.7.1. (Added) 623AOC/SPDP is the single OPR for all orientation flight request staff
   packages requiring HQ AFSOC (or higher) approval. HQ AFSOC/PA is the OPR for all
   Public Affairs Travel flights IAW AFI 35-103. When flying units receive approval from HQ
   AFSOC/A3 (if the MAJCOM/A3 is the authorized approval authority), this will constitute
   final and complete approval. For orientation flight requests requiring HQ USAF approval,
   623 AOC/SPDP will notify all parties involved. Group current operations functions (or
   request action officers) will notify all parties involved for requests approved at wing level.
   A13.7.2. (Added) AFSOC units will submit requests a minimum of 10 duty days (20 duty
   days for nationally prominent civic leaders and news media representatives) before the
   desired flight date, and 30 duty days prior to flights requiring MAJCOM or higher approval.
   A13.7.3. (Added) 623 AOC/SPDP will ensure documentation of orientation flights AFSOC
   processes for MAJCOM-level approval is tracked.
   A13.7.4. (Added) Orientation flight approvals obtained at MAJCOM or higher, and delayed
   for a bona fide reason (e.g., weather, maintenance, etc.), are valid for six months from the
   date of approval. If any changes occur between the time of flight approval and execution,
   notify 623 AOC/SPDP. 623 AOC/SPDP will in turn seek revised approval from HQ
   AFSOC/A3 or higher, as required. HQ AFSOC/A3 will be the normal approval level for
   revisions, as well as for extensions beyond the six-month approval window. Submit
   orientation flight requests and revision/extension requests requiring HQ AFSOC or higher
   approval through command channels to 623 AOC/SPDP.
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                               63


                                    Attachment 14 (Added)
                              SAMPLE SUBMISSION LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR [Wing/CC]

FROM: (Requesting Commander’s Office Functional Address)

SUBJECT: Incentive/Familiarization Flight Approval

1. Request Incentive/Familiarization flight approval for the following individual:

SMSgt Krystal Feldmann (last four – 2323), 27 FSS/FSFY, ext 555-7676.

2. SMSgt Feldmann is the 27 SOW SNCO of the Year for 2011. She is most deserving of an
incentive/familiarization flight. An incentive/familiarization flight will reward this outstanding
SNCO for her past performance and provide a better understanding of flying operations.
Request the flight be conducted in (state aircraft type).

OR

2. These/This individual(s) are Junior AFROTC Cadets from Ronald Reagan High School,
Patriot City, FL. All minors will hand-carry a Parental Release form to the flying squadron.

3. SMSgt Feldmann has/has not had a ride in the MC-130 or CV-22 aircraft.

4. Once approved, this memo will be attached to DD Form 2131 and maintained for the same
retention period as the manifest.

5. My POC for this matter is 1Lt Justin Bieber, 31 SOS/DOS, ext. 555-4342.



                                              (Commander’s Signature)
                                              (Commander’s Signature Block)
 64                                              AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012




1st Ind to [Unit/CC], [Date], Incentive/Familiarization Flight Approval

[OG/CC]

MEMORANDUM FOR [Wing/CC]

Concur/Non-Concur.




                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature)
                                             (Operations Group Commander’s Signature Block)

2d Ind, [Wing/CC]

MEMORANDUM FOR Wing or Group Orientation Flight Program Manager

Approved/Disapproved




                                             (Wing Commander’s Signature)
                                             (Wing Commander’s Signature Block)
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                        65


                                    Attachment 15 (Added)
                            DV SAMPLE SUBMISSION LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR Wing/CC or (HQ AFSOC/A3)

FROM: XX/CC (Wing/CC if HQ AFSOC/A3 approval is required)
           (Street Address)
           (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: DV/Civilian Flight Request

1. PURPOSE: To obtain approval for a DV/Incentive/Familiarization flight for Mr. John Doe.

2. SUMMARY/BACKGROUND: Specifications below are submitted for Wing/CC /
HQ AFSOC/A3 consideration:

NAME:

POSITION:

CURRENT FLIGHT PHYSICAL:

DATE REQUESTED:

WHERE:

JUSTIFICATION:

REQUIRED WAIVERS/ADDITIONAL APPROVAL: Any person receiving a flight is required
to have a current flight physical, current egress/hanging harness training, and physiological
training if applicable.

3. RECOMMENDATION: Wing/CC/HQ AFSOC/A3 approve DV/Incentive/Familiarization
Flight Request.

4. My point of contact for this action is X.




                                               (Commander’s Signature)
                                               (Commander’s Signature Block)
 66                                            AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012




1st Ind to [Unit/CC or Wing/CC], [Date], DV/Civilian Flight Request

Wing/CC [or HQ AFSOC/A3]

MEMORANDUM FOR [Unit CC or Wing CC]

Approved/Disapproved.




                            (Wing Commander’s [or HQ AFSOC/A3’s] Signature)
                            (Wing Commander’s [or HQ AFSOC/A3’s] Signature Block)
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              67


                                    Attachment 16 (Added)
                                            SAMPLE

                           ABSOLUTE RELEASE OF LIABILITY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE, THAT I, __________________, a voluntary participant in the
1 SOW Orientation Flight Program, and in consideration of the United States Air Force’s
agreement to allow my participation, do hereby release the United States Air Force, its agents,
employees, and any and all 1 SOW personnel from any future suit or legal action for damages of
any type that may arise from my participation in the 1 SOW Orientation Flight Program. I fully
waive my right to hold any of the above named parties liable in any fashion for any physical
injury, resultant in death, or mental anxiety I may suffer while boarding, riding in, or alighting
from any aircraft belonging to the United States Air Force. I further release the above listed
parties from any suit, claim, action liability, or action of any kind that may be brought by my
heirs, executors, administrators, agents and assigns, and all other persons or corporations who
could bring such actions in my name.

I, the undersigned, hereby declare that I have read the statement in full and that I sign the
Absolute Release of Liability knowingly and intelligently. I realize fully that any military
aircraft involves complex operation and a high degree of personal risk. I knowingly release the
United States Air Force, its agents and employees from any liability for any type of injury
suffered as a result of this orientation flight, to include but not limited to injuries due to:
machinery failure, collision with natural or man-made objects, or human error by either the
Aircraft Commander or Pilot in Command, other aircrew members, maintenance personnel,
ground crew members, air traffic control, or communications personnel at AFSOC bases. This
release is forever and permanent and may be presented in any court at any time to seek dismissal
of any claim or lawsuit filed by the guardian, administrator, executor, or any heir, assignee, or
beneficiary of the undersigned.


__________________________________                                  _______________________
Signature                                                           Date

IF ACKNOWLEDGED BEFORE A NOTARY PUBLIC

State of ____________                        County of _____________

I ________________________________________, a Notary Public in and for the County and
Stat aforesaid, do hereby certify that on the _______ day of ____________, ____________,
before me personally appeared ______________________________, who signed and executed
the foregoing instrument.

In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and official seal on this day and year above.

_________________________________________                   My Commission Expires:
 68                                                 AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


IF ACKNOWLEDGED BEFORE A PERSON AUTHORIZED TO ACT AS A NOTARY
PURSUANT TO TITLE 10 U.S.C. 1044a:

With the United States Armed Forces

At ________________ AFB, __________, I, _______________________________, the
undersigned, do hereby certify that on this _________ day of __________________,
___________, before me personally appeared
_____________________________________________ who signed and executed the foregoing
instrument. I so further certify that I am, on the date of this certificate, a person with the general
power of a notary public described in the Title 10 U.S.C. 1044a of the grade, branch of service,
and organization stated below in the active service of the United States Armed Forces.


________________________________               _______________________________________
Signature                                      Name, Grade, Armed Force, Organization
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                                        69


                                        Attachment 17 (Added)
                                 EXAMPLE FLIGHT CHECKLIST

NAME OF PASSENGER: ________________________                        FLYING SQ:______________

RANK/POSITION:_____________________________ DATE OF FLIGHT:_________

INDIVIDUAL’S UNIT:_____________

TYPE OF FLIGHT: INCENTIVE_____                    DV_____          FAM_____        CADET_____

______________________________________ has been interviewed and medical records annotated that
he/she is/is not medically cleared for an orientation flight. Although this medical clearance remains valid
for a period of 72 hours from evaluation date, it is the individual’s responsibility to notify your squadron
about any changes in medical status that would disqualify the individual.

INDIVIDUAL HAS ACCOMPLISHD HIGH ALTITUDE PHYSIOLOGICAL TRAINING WITHIN
THE PAST THREE YEARS

                         YES             (CIRCLE ONE)              NO


__________________________________
Signature/Stamp/Date of Attending Physician

___________________________ received the following training within 72 hours prior to his/her flight
scheduled with this squadron. (Training maybe modified as required for type of aircraft and flight to be
flown):



          Emergency egress, deployment of flotation             Strap in procedures, oxygen hose, survival
          devices                                               kit, and leads
          Ear protection, airsickes procedures, and             Exit procedures
          hazards
          Interphone procedures (normal and                     Location and operation of alternate gear
          emergency), radio volume control                      handle (where applicable)
          Mission profile                                       Ground emergencies and hazards
          Airborne emergencies
I certify the above named individual received the listed training within 72 hours prior to his/her flight.


_______________________________
Certifying Official/Date

The above named individual received his/her flight on: ____________________________.


____________________________________
Unit Flight Authorization Certifying Official
70                                 AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                        Attachment 18 (Added)
              SAMPLE INCENTIVE/ORIENTATION LOG

     Date   Name/Rank    Type of Mission        Pilot   Duration
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                              71


                                    Attachment 19 (Added)
                       REQUIRED FOR THE MISSION LETTER
                    (FOR FLIGHTS IN SISTER SERVICE AIRCRAFT)



MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/A3

FROM: (Flying Unit Commander’s Office Functional Address)
      (Street Address)
      (Base, State, Zip Code)

SUBJECT: Requirement to Perform Inflight Duties

1. The member(s) listed below are required to perform operational duties (Aeromedical
Evacuation, Combat Search and Rescue, etc.) (in support of patients/rescued personnel/other) on
(list aircraft type) missions. (For evaluators, observers, or AE/PJ/CRO/FSs [authorized to fly
without patients/rescued Airmen] not qualified in aircraft, list evaluator, observer, or PJ/CRO/FS
duties on [list aircraft type] missions.)


                 Rank Name                               Type Flyer             Crew Position
 MSgt Craig McKay                                 PJ                                 IJ
 SMSgt Jesse Taylor                               PJ                                MJ
 Capt Adam Erdmann                                CRO                                XJ
 Capt Rosalia Burgan                              Flight Surgeon                     FS
 Maj Kimberly Coley                               Flight Surgeon                     FS
 Brig Gen Jarslyn Witcher                         Flight Surgeon                    OS
 72                                                AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 20 (Added)
                 MEDICAL CERTIFICATION NOTIFICATION LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR (Member’s Functional Address) (Rank/Name of Member)

FROM: (Servicing SARM Office Functional Address)

SUBJECT: Medical Certification (Flight [or Jump] Physical) Status

1. According to our records, your flight (or jump) physical will expire on 28 February 2011. If
your medical certification expires, the HARM office will publishing an AO assigning ASC ―07‖
(Failure to Maintain Medical Fitness/Certification) effective the day after the expiration date on
the current AF Form 1042 and entitlement to flight (or jump pay) is terminated effective the
expiration date of the AF Form 1042 unless you meet one of the following:

     a. You are scheduled and completed a flight physical and the HARM office receives a
completed flight (or jump) physical documented on an AF Form 1042 prior to expiration date
listed above.

    b. You are in DNIF status (prior to the flight [or jump] physical expiration date) and the
flight surgeon validates the reason for DNIF prevented you from completing a new physical.
The DNIF AF Form 1042 must be accomplished before the current physical expires and include
the remark, ―Member has a medical condition that prevented (or prevents) completion of his/her
flight (or jump) physical.‖

    c. If your medical certification expired due to reasons beyond your control (e.g., FME
administrative delays), the MAJCOM/SG may extend your current medical certification to cover
administrative processing. The FME will inform the HARM office, via an AF Form 1042 with
the extension date, if you should remain medically qualified after your current medical
certification expires. It is your responsibility to contact the physical exam section to see if they
will request extension to document the delays were outside your control).

2. If you are scheduled for a flight (or jump) physical after the date of your current AF Form
1042 and you do not have an AF Form 1042 extending your current certification as described in
paragraphs 1b or 1c above, the HARM office will initiate disqualification action IAW AFI 11-
402, para 3.7.2.2., Failure to Maintain Medical Certification. See AFI 11-402, para 3.8.2., for
requalification requirements.

3. My OPR for this matter is SrA Michael Jordon, ext. 555-6669.



                                                      (SARM NCOIC’s Signature)
                                                      (SARM NCOIC’s Signature Block)
AFI11-401_AFSOCSUP 19 JANUARY 2012                                                             73


                                    Attachment 21 (Added)
           FLIGHT OR JUMP RECORD REVIEW NOTIFICATION LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR (Member’s Functional Address) (Rank/Name of Member)

FROM: (Servicing HARM Office Functional Address)

SUBJECT: Flight (or Jump) Records Review

1. According to our records, you are due an flight (or jump) records review.

2. IAW AFI 11-401, para 1.5.2., active-flying (or jump) personnel must review their flight (or
jump) record folder annually NLT the end of their birth month. Failure to fulfill this requirement
may affect future flight pay entitlements and qualification for advanced ratings, and may cause
incorrect aviation management reporting to HQ USAF.

3. Review the attached ARMS products. If a discrepancy is found, circle it and annotate the
correct information. Acknowledge the review by signing and dating the Individual Data
Summary (IDS). Return the signed IDS to the HARM office through distro or by e-mail.
Include the other ARMS products if they contain discrepancies.

4. The HARM office can be reached at ext. 555-5656 or e-mail: base.harm@commando.af.mil
and is located in building 453, suite 167.




                                             (CHARM or HARM NCOIC’s Signature)
                                             (CHARM or HARM NCOIC’s Signature Block)

3 Attachments:
1. Individual Data Summary (IDS)
2. Flying History Report (FHR)
3. Individual Flight Record (IFR)

Note: Notification letters may be e-mailed in lieu of sending through base postal system.
