BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-104
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              5 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                        Intelligence

                                                             OVERSIGHT OF INTELLIGENCE
                                                                             ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A2ZS                                                                  Certified by: AF/A2Z
                                                                             (Mr. Joseph D. Yount)
Supersedes:    AFI 14-104, 23 April 2012                                                  Pages: 26


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations and is consistent with Executive
Order (EO) 12333 (part 2), United States Intelligence Activities; Department of Defense (DoD)
Regulation 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That
Affect United States Persons; DoD Directive, and (DoDD) 5240.1, DoD Intelligence Activities.
It states the requirements for United States Air Force (AF) intelligence oversight activities and
describes mandatory intelligence oversight-associated training requirements for AF components
that conduct intelligence activities. It also details how to identify, investigate, and report in the
event of possible Intelligence Oversight (IO) violations. In this publication, the term
“intelligence” refers to intelligence and counterintelligence units and associated activities. This
publication does not apply to criminal investigative activities. For purposes of this publication,
the National Guard Bureau is considered to be a major command (MAJCOM). This instruction
applies to all AF, Air Force Reserve Command(AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) [in Title
10 or Title 32 (U.S.C.) status when assigned or attached to intelligence units or staffs]; and
civilian personnel including, but not limited to, civil service, contract, consultants, and Host
Nation employees engaged in or performing intelligence-related activities. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. IAW Air Force
 2                                                                                            AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, tier levels (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-
3”) following compliance statements determine the appropriate authority from which waivers
must be requested. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate
Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It adds risk
factors, known as “tiers” to tasks assigned to organizations below MAJCOM level to depict the
assessed risk of non-compliance. Additional changes within this rewrite include: revising IO
responsibilities, removing annual reporting requirements IAW ATSD (IO) guidance, and
updating Proper Use Memorandum (PUM) guidance. Annual training requirements have also
been substantially revised to eliminate unnecessary duplication of training. AF members
assigned to non-AF agencies are now eligible for exemption from the AF IO computer based
training (CBT) if the non-AF agency requires completion of its formal IO training.

        1.      Overview. ...............................................................................................................     2
        2.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................              3
        3.      Training. .................................................................................................................   6
        4.      Program Inspection Guidance. ...............................................................................                  7
        5.      Identifying, Investigating and Reporting Questionable Activities. ........................                                     8
        6.      DOMESTIC IMAGERY. ......................................................................................                      10
        7.      Force Protection. ....................................................................................................        12
        8.      Procedural Guidance. .............................................................................................            12
        9.      Reporting of Incidentally Acquired Threat Information. .......................................                                18
        10.     The Internet. ...........................................................................................................     19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                20

Attachment 2—PROPER USE MEMORANDUM (PUM) GUIDANCE FOR AIRBORNE
             AND DOD SATELLITE PLATFORMS                                                                                                      26


1. Overview.
     1.1. Purpose. US decision-makers need information about the capabilities, intentions, and
     activities of foreign governments and non-state actors in order to make decisions about
     national defense and foreign relations. IO involves a balancing of two fundamental interests:
     Obtaining the intelligence information required to protect national security while protecting
     individual rights guaranteed by the Constitution and outlined within the laws of the United
     States (US). The primary objective of the AF IO Program is to mitigate infringement upon
     the rights of US persons by ensuring that intelligence personnel at all levels understand IO
     responsibilities.
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                       3


   1.2. Collection. Information is considered “collected” only when it has been received for
   use by an employee of a DoD intelligence component in the course of official duties. Data
   acquired by electronic means is “collected” only after it has been processed into intelligible
   form.
   1.3. Scope.
       1.3.1. This instruction applies to all AF active duty, AFRC, and ANG intelligence units,
       staff organizations, civilian-contracted organizations and non-intelligence organizations
       that perform intelligence-related activities (e.g., Eagle Vision units and cyberspace
       activities) that could collect, analyze, process, retain, or disseminate information on US
       persons.
       1.3.2. This instruction does not apply to criminal investigations conducted by the Air
       Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI). Reference AFI 71-101 Volume 1,
       Criminal Investigations.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Inspector General (SAF/IG). Compiles inputs from SAF/GC, AF/A2, SAF/IGX and
   MAJCOM/Field Operating Agency (FOA)/Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) Inspectors General
   to provide quarterly reports to the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
   Oversight [ATSD (IO)]. Has access to all material necessary to perform responsibilities.
   Chairs the AF IO Panel and has voting privileges on the panel.
   2.2. Air Force Intelligence Oversight Panel. Is the lead AF IO advisory group that
   discusses the legality and propriety of reported AF intelligence activities and reviews current
   AF IO policy to ensure it aligns with US and DoD guidance. Meets, as required, and
   recommends changes to current AF IO policy or procedures to mitigate future IO concerns.
   Includes SAF/IG (chair), SAF/GC, AF/A2 and AF/JA.
   2.3. Secretary of the Air Force, General Counsel (SAF/GC). Legal Counsel for Air Force
   IO issues. Provides legal opinions and advice to intelligence components in coordination
   with the servicing legal office responsible for advising the intelligence component on
   questions of legality or propriety as appropriate. Provides input to SAF/IG in preparation of
   quarterly reports to the ATSD (IO). Has access to all material necessary to perform their
   responsibilities. Voting member of the IO Panel.
   2.4. Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS), Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)
   (AF/A2). Develops AF guidance and policy to ensure the proper supervision and control of
   AF intelligence activities and oversight. Coordinates with the ATSD(IO), the SAF/IG, and
   the SAF/GC on IO matters. Provide IO inspection requirements to SAF/IG for inclusion in
   AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System (AFIS). Voting member of the IO Panel.
   Appoints an IO monitor to manage intelligence oversight policy and concerns on behalf of
   AF/A2.
   2.5. The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA). Provides functional oversight to legal offices
   responsible for advising AF intelligence components. Responsible for IO training of judge
   advocates, civilian attorneys, and paralegals with intelligence activity responsibilities. In
   conjunction with SAF/GC, reviews intelligence related policy directives, regulations, and
   training policies. Voting member of the IO Panel.
4                                                            AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


    2.6. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRU Inspector General.
       2.6.1. Know what intelligence units and/or non-intelligence units that perform
       intelligence activities fall under your Commander’s authorities and understand how the
       procedures of DoD 5240.1-R relate to their missions. (T-1)
       2.6.2. Understand IG’s responsibilities, as highlighted in DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures 14
       and 15. (T-0)
       2.6.3. Appoint, at a minimum, one primary and one alternate IO representative. (T-1)
       2.6.4. Assess IO compliance of subordinate units IAW AFI 90-201. (T-1)
       2.6.5. Ensure organizations that conduct intelligence activities have an established
       mechanism for reporting questionable activities. (T-1)
       2.6.6. Report verified questionable intelligence activities and/or significant or highly
       sensitive matters, as required, to SAF/IG. (T-0)
       2.6.7. Submit quarterly IO reports to SAF/IG. (T-0)
       2.6.8. Complete initial IO training within 60 days of assignment/employment, annual
       refresher training, and any unit-specific training. (T-1)
    2.7. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs.
       2.7.1. Appoint, at a minimum, one primary and one alternate IO manager. (T-1)
       2.7.2. Establish and manage IO programs that affect IO and ensure all personnel
       assigned or attached to their intelligence components receive IO training. (T-1)
       2.7.3. Through their inspector general function, accomplish IO inspections required by
       AFI 90-201. Note: IO inspections of ANG intelligence units and staffs will normally be
       conducted by the gaining MAJCOM. However, they may also be inspected by the
       National Guard Bureau Inspector General when gaining MAJCOM inspection resources
       are insufficient or unavailable. (T-1)
       2.7.4. Understand the responsibilities associated with intelligence oversight as outlined
       in DoD 5240.1-R. (T-0)
       2.7.5. Understand the missions of subordinate organizations and those procedures of
       DoD 5240.1-R that relate to conducting those intelligence activities. (T-1)
       2.7.6. Identify subordinate units with high-risk missions that increase opportunity of IO
       violations and ensure additional training is developed and implemented to mitigate added
       risk. (T-1)
       2.7.7. Report verified questionable intelligence activities and/or significant or highly
       sensitive matters, as required, to the Inspector General IAW DoD 5240.1-R, Procedure
       15. (T-0)
       2.7.8. Must provide guidance to subordinate unit IO monitors on IO-related issues and
       concerns. (T-1)
       2.7.9. Serves as approval authority and/or coordination manager for subordinate unit
       PUMs. (T-1)
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                    5


     2.7.10. Ensure completion of: initial IO training within 60 days of assignment or
     employment; annual refresher training; as well as any unit specific IO training. (T-1)
  2.8. Staff Judge Advocates/Legal Advisors responsible for units that perform
  intelligence activities.
     2.8.1. Know what intelligence units and/or non-intelligence units performing intelligence
     activities fall under your Commander’s authorities. (T-1)
     2.8.2. Understand the legal responsibilities as highlighted in DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures
     14 and 15. (T-1)
     2.8.3. Obtain the necessary clearances in order to provide legal advice on IO issues. (T-
     1)
     2.8.4. Understand the missions of the organizations under your jurisdiction and the
     procedures of DoD 5240.1-R that relate to those missions. (T-1)
     2.8.5. Complete initial IO training within 60 days of assignment or employment; annual
     refresher training; as well as any unit specific IO training. (T-1)
     2.8.6. Report verified questionable intelligence activities and/or significant or highly
     sensitive matters, as required, to your organization’s IG. (T-0)
  2.9. Commanders/Directors of units that perform intelligence activities.
     2.9.1. Appoint, at a minimum, one primary and one alternate IO monitor. (T-1)
     2.9.2. Be familiar with IO responsibilities. (T-1)
     2.9.3. Ensure that IO rules and regulations are followed by subordinate intelligence
     personnel and personnel performing intelligence functions. (T-0)
     2.9.4. Determine when additional unit IO training is required to mitigate increased
     potential for IO incidents related to high-risk missions. (T-1)
     2.9.5. As directed by AFIS, ensure IO program is inspected at least annually. (T-1)
     2.9.6. At a minimum, designate primary and alternate IO monitors in writing. Additional
     IO monitors can be designated as appropriate to unit mission requirements. (T-2)
     2.9.7. Ensure IO training, as required, is conducted. (T-1)
     2.9.8. Complete: initial IO training within 60 days of assignment/employment; annual
     refresher training; as well as any unit specific training. (T-1)
  2.10. Intelligence Oversight Monitors.
     2.10.1. Ensure all personnel who conduct or supervise intelligence activities complete all
     required IO training. (T-1)
     2.10.2. Ensure IO training records are maintained IAW AFI 36-2201. (T-1)
     2.10.3. Ensure copies of Executive Order 12333, DoDD 5240.1, DoD 5240.1-R; DoDD
     5148.11, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight; and this
     instruction are available in hard or electronic copy. (T-1)
 6                                                              AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


        2.10.4. When required, develop additional unit IO training to mitigate increased potential
        for IO incidents related to high-risk missions. (T-1)
        2.10.5. Ensure continual IO compliance by completing required program self-
        assessments. AF-assigned units will use the HAF IO Self-assessment checklist (SAC)
        available on MICT IAW the Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP). Units assigned
        to combat support agencies (i.e. National Security Agency (NSA)) or detailed to other
        organizations outside of the Department of the Air Force will comply with their assigned
        organization’s respective inspection guidance. (T-1)
        2.10.6. Provide assistance in rendering collectability determinations on information
        acquired about US persons within 90 days. IO monitors should utilize their operational
        chain of command if assistance is needed. (T-0)
        2.10.7. For AF-assigned units, IO monitors will report verified questionable intelligence
        activities and/or significant/highly sensitive matters to their respective Wing Inspector
        General and MAJCOM IO managers. (T-0)
        2.10.8. IO monitors assigned to combat support agencies or detailed to organizations
        outside the Department of the Air Force will report verified questionable intelligence
        activities and/or significant/highly sensitive matters IAW the assigned organization’s
        reporting guidelines and up channel to their respective Wing IG and MAJCOM IO
        manager. (T-1)
     2.11. Intelligence Personnel.
        2.11.1. Must know the mission of your organization and the responsibilities in regards to
        IO. (T-1)
        2.11.2. Must know your organization’s IO monitors. (T-1)
        2.11.3. Must be familiar with DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures 1-4, 14 and 15, this instruction,
        and any organization-specific instructions concerning IO. (T-1)
        2.11.4. Complete initial IO training within 60 days of assignment/employment and
        maintain annual currency. Currency should be maintained during deployments, extended
        temporary duty assignments (TDYs). (T-1)
        2.11.5. Assigned to AF-subordinate units will report verified questionable intelligence
        activities and/or significant or highly sensitive matters to their respective AF IO monitor.
        (T-0)
        2.11.6. Assigned to a Combat Support Agency or detailed to organizations outside the
        Department of the Air Force will report verified questionable intelligence activities
        and/or significant or highly sensitive matters IAW the assigned organization’s reporting
        guidelines and up channel to their respective AF IO monitor. (T-1)
3. Training.
     3.1. All personnel assigned to units that perform or support intelligence activities must
     complete IO training. (T-1)
        3.1.1. Completion of the standardized IO CBT module hosted on Advanced Distributed
        Learning Service (ADLS) is the designated course for AF personnel supporting
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      7


      intelligence activities. Requests for alternate IO training must be submitted to the
      MAJCOM IO Manager and approved by the AF/A2 IO manager. AF intelligence
      members detailed to organizations outside of the AF (i.e. National Geospatial-
      Intelligence Agency (NGA), NSA) who complete local IO training may substitute such
      training, as long as it has been approved by the AF/A2 IO manager. Alternate training
      approval will be documented via memorandum for record (MFR) and maintained by the
      AF/A2 IO manager. Approved alternate IO training must be reviewed annually to ensure
      that it continues to meet AF requirements. (T-1)
      3.1.2. AF Unit Training Managers (UTM) monitor all AF and non-AF IO training
      completion. Personnel are responsible for providing proof of non-ADLS IO training to
      UTMs since external training cannot be automatically tracked via ADLS. It is the
      member’s responsibility to maintain IO training currency. Deployed members will
      ensure they remain current through the duration of the deployment. (T-1)
      3.1.3. Annual IO training is a minimum requirement. Commanders are encouraged to
      develop additional training as necessary to meet unique unit mission requirements. (T-1)
   3.2. Initial Training. IO monitors will ensure all AF personnel and other personnel, who
   are assigned or attached to, or employed by, AF intelligence components complete initial IO
   training through ADLS. AF personnel assigned to organizations outside the Department of
   the Air Force will also complete AF IO training via ADLS, unless training substitutions are
   authorized. IO monitors will ensure all intelligence personnel complete appropriate IO
   training within 60 days (NLT 180 days for AFRC/ANG units and assigned or attached
   Individual Mobilization Augmentees) of assignment. IO monitors will also ensure all staff
   judge advocates and inspectors general complete IO training within 60 days of employment
   or assignment. (T-1)
   3.3. Annual Training. IO monitors will ensure all personnel, who are assigned to, attached
   to, or employed by, AF intelligence components complete annual training through ADLS.
   AF personnel who have been authorized training substitutions are required to complete
   formal IO training on an annual basis, regardless of the assigned organization’s periodic
   training requirements. UTMs will utilize the ADLS system to maintain records of personnel
   IO training or locally produced training trackers when conducting additional training
   requirements. (T-1)
   3.4. Mission-Specific Training. Due to unique intelligence missions or specific operational
   requirements, some intelligence personnel may require additional IO training. For example,
   units that conduct collection missions or units responsible for intelligence dissemination are
   at a higher risk of IO violations. MAJCOMS or unit commanders will determine if their
   units have high-risk missions that may increase opportunity for IO violations. If determined
   to be high-risk, unit commanders may mandate additional IO training for unit personnel.
   Mission-specific training is supplemental and does not exempt personnel from completing
   their respective annual IO training. (T-1)
4. Program Inspection Guidance. AF IO inspection guidance is governed by AFI 90-201.
IAW with AFI 90-201, the IO program can be divided into three inspection groups: Unit, IG,
ATSD (IO).
 8                                                               AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     4.1. Unit Inspections. Unit Inspections are conducted at the Wing level on a subordinate
     agency or as part of the CCIP. Commanders are responsible for ensuring compliance within
     their units and inspection frequency within the unit. Wing IG will validate and verify SAC
     responses. (T-1)
     4.2. Air Force Inspector General Inspections. The Wing IG will ensure that unit IO
     programs are assessed annually (by the Wing/IG team, or by the MAJCOM/IG team) IAW
     commander guidance and AFI 90-201. Additionally, the IO program will be externally
     assessed during the 2-year Unit Effectiveness Inspection period. (T-1)
     4.3. ATSD (IO) Inspections. The ATSD (IO) conducts independent inspections of DoD
     Intelligence activities worldwide, ranging from intelligence staffs at strategic headquarters to
     tactical intelligence activities in the field. These inspections are independent of CCIP and IG
     inspection programs and can occur at any time. Inspected units will be notified prior to
     ATSD (IO) inspections.
5. Identifying, Investigating and Reporting Questionable Activities.
     5.1. Identifying and Investigating Questionable Activities. Commanders will report any
     questionable activity and investigate to the extent necessary to determine whether the
     reported activity violates law, executive order, Presidential directive, or DoD directive or
     policy. Officials responsible for investigations may obtain additional assistance from within
     the component concerned or from other DoD components, when necessary, to complete
     investigations in a timely manner. Investigations will be conducted as quickly as possible.
     Violations should not be considered a “questionable activity” in this unless there is some
     nexus between the activity and an intelligence function. SAF/GC, in coordination with the
     servicing legal office or higher legal office, will provide assistance in verifying Questionable
     Intelligence Activities and Highly Sensitive Matters. (T-0)
     5.2. Reporting Questionable Activities and Highly Sensitive Matters. AF agencies, units
     and personnel must report any questionable activity IAW DoD 5240.1-R, Procedure 15 to
     SAF/GC and their servicing or higher legal office. (T-0) Once a questionable activity or a
     highly sensitive matter has been investigated by SAF/IG and verified by legal officials or the
     JA chain, the matters must be reported immediately. DTM 08-052, DoD Guidance for
     Reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters,
     Attachment 2, provides reporting parameters and submission procedures. These reports must
     be filed immediately. (T-0)
        5.2.1. SAF/IG, SAF/GC, and AF/A2 will immediately report verified Questionable
        Intelligence Activities and/or Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters, as required, to the
        Attorney General, the DoD General Counsel and the ATSD(IO). (T-0) Any such reports
        are exempt from Report Control Symbol (RCS) licensing procedures according to AFI
        33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program. (T-
        1)
        5.2.2. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs similarly will report verified Questionable Intelligence
        Activities and/or Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters and crimes to SAF/IG through
        their Inspectors General, providing information copies of the report to SAF/GC and
        AF/A2. (T-1)
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      9


     5.2.3. Air Force agencies, units, and personnel must report verified Questionable
     Activities and/or Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters, and crimes to SAF/GC,
     SAF/IG, AF/JA, AF/A2, the DoD General Counsel or ATSD(IO) using the supervisory
     chain of command when feasible. (T-0) Such reports will be expeditiously provided to
     the inspector general at the first level at which an Inspector General is assigned and not
     associated with the questionable activity, with copies to the Staff Judge Advocate and,
     unless the Inspector General determines such reporting would not be appropriate, to
     senior intelligence officers at the same level. (T-1) This report must be made regardless
     of whether a criminal or other investigation has been initiated. (T-1) Units assigned or
     detailed to non-AF organizations will follow the assigned or detailed organization’s for
     reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities and/or Significant or Highly Sensitive
     Matters. (T-1) If no procedures exist for the assigned or detailed organization, AF units
     will report Questionable Intelligence Activities and/or Significant or Highly Sensitive
     Matters to their Inspector General. (T-1)
  5.3. Submitting Quarterly IO Reports. Each MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Inspector General
  responsible for an AF organization or staff subject to this instruction must submit quarterly
  inputs to SAF/IGI. Inputs are due at SAF/IGI two calendar days after the end of each
  quarter. SAF/IGI will consolidate all inputs into a single AF report, coordinate with SAF/IG,
  SAF/GC, AF/JA and AF/A2, and provide to ATSD(IO). Inputs must include: (T-1)
     5.3.1. A description of each new verified questionable intelligence activity or significant
     or highly sensitive matter identified during the quarter. (T-1)
     5.3.2. Any updates to previously reported verified questionable intelligence activities or
     significant or highly sensitive matters. (T-1)
     5.3.3. A description of corrective actions taken regarding questionable intelligence
     activities or significant or highly sensitive matters. (T-0)
     5.3.4. A list of completed IO evaluations or inspections by unit and location and a
     summary of the results or trends. Include any questionable intelligence activities or
     significant or highly sensitive matters discovered during the inspection, the familiarity of
     personnel with IO requirements, and the adequacy of organization IO programs,
     structure, and processes. If any evaluations or inspections reveal deficiencies, note the
     corrective action taken. (T-1)
     5.3.5. Significant oversight activities undertaken during the quarter and any suggestions
     to improve the IO program. (T-1)
     5.3.6. The MAJCOM, FOA or DRU report will also include a list of the units and staffs
     for which they have IO and inspection requirements (specifying MAJCOM, parent
     organization, unit designation, and location). Note: This list may be classified due to the
     specific unit’s mission. Ensure classified packages follow proper classification
     guidelines IAW DoD 5200.01, Volume 1, Information Security Program: Overview,
     Classification, and Declassification, AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
     Management, DoDM 5105.21, Volume 1, Department of Defense Sensitive
     Compartmented Information (SCI) Administrative Security Manual, Administration of
     Information and Information Systems Security, and Intelligence Community Directive
     710, Classification and Control Markings System. (T-1)
 10                                                             AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


6. DOMESTIC IMAGERY. AF components may, at times, require newly collected or
archived domestic imagery to perform certain missions. Domestic imagery is defined as any
imagery collected by satellite (national or commercial) and airborne platforms that cover the land
areas of the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and possessions of the
US, to a 12 nautical mile seaward limit of these land areas.
   6.1. Collecting information on specific targets inside the US raises policy and legal
   concerns that require careful consideration, analysis, and coordination with legal
   counsel. Therefore, AF components should use domestic imagery only when there is a
   justifiable need to do so, and then only IAW EO 12333; the National Security Act of 1947, as
   amended; DoD 5240.1-R; and this instruction. The following generally constitute legally
   valid requirements for domestic imagery (Note: A legally valid requirement does not
   preclude unit requirement to obtain PUM when mandated by MAJCOM or higher authority.):
         6.1.1. Natural Disasters. Locations in support of government planning for, emergency
         response to, or recovery from events such as tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, mudslides,
         fires, and other natural disasters.
         6.1.2. Counterintelligence, Force Protection, and Security-related Vulnerability
         Assessments. Requirements in support of critical infrastructure analysis on federal or
         private property where consent has been obtained as appropriate.
         6.1.3. Environmental Studies. Requirements in support of studies of wildlife, geologic
         features, or forestation, or similar scientific, agricultural, or environmental studies not
         related to regulatory or law enforcement actions.
         6.1.4. Exercise, Training, Testing, or Navigational Purposes. Requirements in support of
         system or satellite calibration, sensor evaluation, algorithm or analytical developments
         and training or weapon systems development or training.
      6.2. Domestic Imagery from Satellites.
      6.2.1. National Satellites. The NGA is responsible for the legal review and approval of
      requests for the collection and dissemination of domestic imagery from national satellites.
      AF components must follow policy and procedures established in the National System for
      Geospatial Intelligence Manuals (NSGM) FA 1806 Revision 5, Domestic Imagery. AF
      components must submit a PUM signed by the organization’s certifying government official
      each year to NGA. The PUM must define the requirements for domestic imagery, outline its
      intended use, and include a proper use statement acknowledging awareness of legal and
      policy restrictions regarding domestic imagery. NGA will review the PUM to ensure it
      constitutes a legally valid requirement for domestic imagery. AF components must submit a
      Domestic Imagery Request (DIRs) to NGA for any ad hoc domestic imagery requirements
      that fall outside the scope of an approved PUM. (T-0)
         6.2.2. Commercial Satellites. Domestic imagery from commercial systems does not fall
         under the authorities of the Director of National Intelligence, and therefore the use of
         domestic commercial imagery will be dependent upon the authorities and the
         responsibilities of each user organization. For guidance regarding whether or not a PUM
         is required, users must reference the NSGM FA 1806. If no PUM is required, AF units
         must maintain an internal MFR describing the purpose of the domestic imagery and the
         unit official approving the use. At a minimum, approval authority for MFRs will be the
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   11


     unit commander and MFRs will be reviewed on a no less than annual basis while they
     remain applicable. If obtained imagery specifically identifies a US person (include
     private property), then the rules and procedures contained in DoD 5240-1.R, in particular
     those regarding retention, must be followed. AF intelligence units must not conduct or
     give the appearance of conducting collection, exploitation or dissemination of
     commercial imagery or imagery associated products for other than approved mission
     purposes. (T-1)
  6.3. Domestic Imagery from AF Platforms. An approved PUM must be on file with the
  appropriate Combatant Command, per their procedures, or with the appropriate AF
  MAJCOM or FOA (or delegated/designated sub-component PUM authority) before airborne,
  tactical DoD satellite platforms, or ground platforms can be tasked to collect domestic
  imagery. Note that Tactical Satellites are considered “airborne” platforms and so PUM
  approval authority does not reside with NGA. Approval for PUM requests is hereby
  delegated to MAJCOM and FOA commanders. Legal review at MAJCOM/FOA level is
  required before approval and reviews should be filed with the approved PUM requests. In
  the event of an emergency or crisis where US Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) is
  designated as lead DoD Operational Authority, all related requests for domestic imagery
  from airborne or tactical DoD satellite platforms must be coordinated with USNORTHCOM
  to ensure compliance with proper use provisions. AF components must submit a PUM
  request through the MAJCOM to the designated approval authority for any ad hoc DIR.
  These PUMs must be IAW the format instructions found in Attachment 2. (T-1)
  6.4. Distribution of Domestic Imagery. Distribution of domestic imagery to parties other
  than those identified in the approved PUM, DIR, or MFR is prohibited, unless the recipient is
  reasonably perceived to have a specific, lawful governmental function requiring it IAW
  dissemination guidelines. Unless otherwise approved, domestic imagery must be withheld
  from all general access database systems (e.g., Intelink). (T-1)
  6.5. Navigational/Target Training activities.
     6.5.1. AF units with weapon system video and tactical ISR capabilities may collect
     imagery during formal and continuation training missions as long as the collected
     imagery is not for the purpose of obtaining information about specific US persons or
     private property. Collected imagery may incidentally include US persons or private
     property without consent. Imagery may not be collected for the purpose of gathering any
     specific information about a US person or private entity without consent. Any stored
     imagery will not be retrievable by reference to US person identifiers. (T-1)
     6.5.2. Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) activities are highly scrutinized and often require
     higher level approvals to operate. RPAs will not operate outside of DoD Special Use
     Airspace without MAJCOM or higher level approval and will not image outside of DoD
     airspace without specific authorization. (T-0)
     6.5.3. AF Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) operations, exercise and training missions
     will not conduct nonconsensual surveillance on specifically identified US persons, unless
     expressly approved by the Secretary of Defense, consistent with US law and regulations.
     Civil law enforcement agencies, such as the US Customs and Border Patrol, Federal
     Bureau of Investigations (FBI), US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and the US
     Coast Guard, will control any such data collected. (T-0)
 12                                                           AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


7. Force Protection.
   7.1. Intelligence Support to Force Protection. AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force
   Protection (FP), stipulates that intelligence personnel at all levels will work in coordination
   with their cross-functional counterparts (e.g., AFOSI, SF, ATOs, etc.) to ensure FP
   threat/intelligence requirements are satisfied. If during the course of routine, non-force
   protection related, intelligence activities and authorized missions, AF intelligence
   components receive information identifying US persons as an alleged threat to DoD or
   civilian individuals, entities or structures, such threats should be reported IAW the rules
   governing reporting of incidentally acquired threat information. (T-1)
   7.2. AF Intelligence Assets Assigned to FP mission. AF intelligence assets assigned a
   mission to support force protection activities by a governmental entity that has responsibility
   for countering the threat may assist in fusing law enforcement and counterintelligence, with
   intelligence information in support of force protection (e.g., antiterrorism and/or law
   enforcement activities), consistent with IO procedures. AFI 14-119 provides guidance to
   support force protection mission execution.
8. Procedural Guidance. AF intelligence components may only engage in activities involving
the deliberate collection of information about US persons under the procedures set forth in DoD
5240.1-R, AFI 71-101V4, Counterintelligence and this instruction. (T-0)
   8.1. General. Any collection, retention and/or dissemination of US person information must
   be based on a proper function/mission assigned to the component and must follow the
   guidance in DoD 5240.1-R, AFI 71-101V4 and this instruction. (T-0)
   8.2. Collection. Information about US persons may be collected if it falls within one or
   more of the thirteen categories of information specified in DoD 5240.1-R, Procedure 2. (T-
   0)
       8.2.1. Temporary Retention. Information inadvertently received about US persons may
       be kept temporarily, for a period not to exceed 90 days, solely for the purpose of
       determining whether that information may be collected under the provisions of Procedure
       2, DoD 5240.1-R and permanently retained under the provisions of Procedure 3, DoD
       5240.1-R. If there is any doubt as to whether the US person information may be
       collected and permanently retained, the receiving unit should seek advice through the
       chain of command, Staff Judge Advocate, or IO monitor. The unit/MAJCOM IO
       Monitor must provide assistance in rendering collectability determinations. When
       appropriate, assistance may be requested from AF/A2. A determination on whether
       information is collectible must be made within 90 days. (T-0)
          8.2.1.1. If a determination is made that information is not properly collectible before
          the expiration of the 90 day period, it must be purged or transferred immediately. (T-
          0)
          8.2.1.2. Even though information may not be collectible, it may be retained for the
          length of time necessary to transfer it to another DoD entity or government agency to
          whose function it pertains.
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                    13


     8.2.2. Means of Collection. When AF intelligence components are authorized to collect
     information about US persons, they may do so by any lawful means, subject to the
     following limitations.
         8.2.2.1. Least Intrusive Means. Collection of information about US persons shall be
         accomplished by the least intrusive means. To the extent feasible, such information
         shall be collected from publicly available information or with the consent of the
         person concerned. If collection from these sources is not feasible or sufficient, such
         information may be collected from cooperating sources. If collection from
         cooperating sources is not feasible or sufficient, such information may be collected,
         as appropriate, using other lawful investigative techniques that do not require a
         judicial warrant or the approval of the Attorney General. If collection through use of
         these techniques is not feasible or sufficient, approval for use of investigative
         techniques that do require a judicial warrant or the approval of the Attorney General
         may be sought. (T-0)
         8.2.2.2. Foreign Intelligence Collection within the United States. Within the US,
         foreign intelligence concerning United States persons may be collected only by overt
         means except as provided below. Overt means refers to methods of collection
         whereby the source of the information being collected is advised, or is otherwise
         aware, that the information is being provided to the DoD, or a component thereof:
             8.2.2.2.1. The foreign intelligence sought must be significant and not collected
             for the purpose of acquiring information concerning the domestic activities of any
             US person; (T-0)
             8.2.2.2.2. The foreign intelligence cannot reasonably be obtained by overt means;
             8.2.2.2.3. The collection of such foreign intelligence has been coordinated with
             the FBI;
             8.2.2.2.4. The Secretary of the Air Force has approved the use of other than overt
             means and has delegated the authority to approve such action to AF/A2. AF/A2.
             AF/A2 will provide a copy of any such approval to the Undersecretary of Defense
             for Intelligence.
  8.3. Retention. Retention limitations apply to information about US persons that is
  knowingly retained without the consent of the person whom the information concerns. These
  limitations do not apply to information retained solely for administrative purposes or is
  required by law to be maintained. “Retention” refers only to the maintenance of information
  about US persons that can be retrieved by reference to the person’s name or other identifying
  data. Any US person information that is properly collected and retained will be reviewed
  periodically to ensure that continued retention serves the purpose for which it was collected
  and stored, and that retention remains necessary to the conduct of authorized functions of the
  AF intelligence component concerned. (T-0)
  8.4. Dissemination. US person information in the possession of an AF intelligence
  component may be disseminated pursuant to law, a court order, or IAW the following
  criteria:
14                                                          AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     8.4.1. The information was properly collected or retained or both under Procedures 2 and
     3 of DoD 5240.1-R.
     8.4.2. The recipient is reasonably believed to have a need to receive such information for
     the performance of a lawful governmental function and is:
         8.4.2.1. An employee of the DoD or an employee of a contractor of the DoD who has
         a need for such information in the course of their official duties.
         8.4.2.2. A law enforcement entity of federal, state or local government, and the
         information may indicate involvement in activities that may violate laws that the
         recipient is responsible to enforce.
         8.4.2.3. An agency within the intelligence community. Whether the information is
         relevant to the responsibilities of any such intelligence agency is a determination to
         be made by the agency concerned.
         8.4.2.4. An agency of the federal government authorized to receive such information
         in their performance of a lawful governmental function.
         8.4.2.5. A foreign government and dissemination is undertaken pursuant to an
         agreement or other understanding with such government.
  8.5. Electronic Surveillance.
     8.5.1. Electronic surveillance, for counterintelligence purposes must be conducted IAW
     instructions and procedures promulgated by the Commander, AFOSI, approved by the
     Secretary of the Air Force, and contained in AFI 71-101 V4. (T-0)
     8.5.2. Electronic Surveillance targeting U.S. persons and non U.S. persons in and outside
     the U.S. for counterintelligence purposes will be conducted and approved IAW DoD
     5240.1-R and AFI 71-101V4. (T-0)
     8.5.3. Requests to perform electronic surveillance, to include computer network
     exploitation, for foreign intelligence collection or against US persons abroad for foreign
     intelligence purposes, whether consensual or nonconsensual, must be forwarded to the
     AF/A2 for approval. AF/A2 will coordinate with SAF/GCI. (T-0)
 8.6. Concealed Monitoring. Monitoring of individuals within the US or US persons
 outside the United States, where the subject of such monitoring does not have a reasonable
 expectation of privacy and no warrant would be required if the monitoring were undertaken
 for law enforcement purposes, requires the approval of the Commander, AFOSI after
 consultation with AFOSI/JA (for counterintelligence) or the AF/A2 after consultation with
 SAF/GCI (for foreign intelligence).
     8.6.1. Approval officials must determine that such monitoring is necessary to the conduct
     of assigned foreign intelligence or counterintelligence functions and does not constitute
     electronic surveillance. (T-0)
     8.6.2. Within the US, an AF intelligence component may conduct concealed monitoring
     only on an installation or facility owned or leased by DoD or otherwise in the course of
     an investigation conducted for counterintelligence purposes pursuant to the Agreement
     Governing the Conduct of Defense Department Counterintelligence Activities in
     Conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, dated 5 April 1979.
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     15


     8.6.3. Outside the US, concealed monitoring may be conducted on installations and
     facilities owned, or otherwise lawfully occupied by the DoD. Monitoring outside such
     facilities shall only be conducted after coordination with appropriate host country
     officials, if such coordination is required by the governing status of forces agreement
     (SOFA), and with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). (T-0)
  8.7. Physical Searches. A physical search is any intrusion upon a person or a person's
  property or possessions to obtain items of property or information. Examination of areas that
  are in plain view and visible to the naked eye if no physical trespass is required, or of items
  that are abandoned in a public place, does not constitute a physical search. Any intrusion
  authorized as necessary to accomplish lawful electronic surveillance conducted pursuant to
  DoDD 5240.1, Procedure 5, Parts 1 and 2, does not constitute a physical search.
     8.7.1. Physical Searches within the United States. AFOSI is authorized to conduct
     nonconsensual searches in the US for counterintelligence purposes of the person or
     property of active duty military personnel, when authorized by a military judge or
     magistrate, or a military commander empowered to approve physical searches for law
     enforcement purposes, based upon a finding of probable cause to believe that such
     persons are acting as agents of foreign powers. AF intelligence components may not
     conduct nonconsensual physical searches within the US for foreign intelligence or
     counterintelligence purposes.
     8.7.2. Physical Searches outside the United States.
         8.7.2.1. AFOSI may conduct nonconsensual physical searches for counterintelligence
         purposes of persons or property of active duty military personnel outside the US
         when authorized by a military judge or magistrate, or a commander empowered to
         approve physical searches for law enforcement purposes, based upon a finding of
         probable cause to believe such persons are acting as agents of foreign powers.
         8.7.2.2. For foreign intelligence or counterintelligence purposes, other non-
         consensual physical searches of the person or property of US persons, may be
         conducted only pursuant to the approval of the Attorney General or higher level as
         required.
         8.7.2.3. Within a commander’s SOFA authorities, nonconsensual physical searches
         of non-US persons abroad must be IAW any applicable SOFA and approved by the
         Installation Commander. Nonconsensual physical searches of non-US persons abroad
         may be approved by the Commander, AFOSI for counterintelligence purposes and by
         the AF/A2 for foreign intelligence purposes. (T-1)
  8.8. Searches and Examination of Mail.
     8.8.1. Applicable postal regulations do not permit the AF to detain or open first class
     mail within US postal channels for foreign intelligence and counterintelligence purposes,
     or to request such action by the U.S. Postal Service. Searches of first class mail in US
     military postal channels overseas may only be authorized under procedures established in
     DoD 4525.6-M, Department of Defense Postal Manual, Chapter 10.
     8.8.2. AF intelligence components may request that appropriate US postal authorities
     inspect, or authorize the inspection of second, third or fourth class mail in US postal
16                                                          AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     channels IAW applicable postal regulations. Such components may also request that US
     postal authorities detain, or permit detention of, mail that may become subject to search
     under applicable postal regulations.
     8.8.3. AF intelligence components may open mail to or from a US person that is found
     outside US postal channels only with the approval of the Attorney General. Any requests
     for such authorization for foreign intelligence purposes will be forwarded through the
     AF/A2, and for counterintelligence purposes through the Commander, AFOSI. (T-1)
     8.8.4. Mail outside US postal channels when both the sender and intended recipient are
     other than US persons, may be searched if such search is otherwise lawful and consistent
     with any applicable SOFA. For counterintelligence purposes, such searches must be
     approved by the Commander, AFOSI, and for foreign intelligence purposes, by the
     AF/A2. (T-1)
     8.8.5. Mail Covers. The Commander, AFOSI may request US postal authorities examine
     mail in US postal channels for counterintelligence purposes, IAW postal regulations. The
     Commander, AFOSI may also request mail covers from appropriate foreign officials,
     with respect to mail to or from a US person that is outside US postal channels, IAW
     appropriate law and procedures of the host government and any SOFA that may be in
     effect.
 8.9. Physical Surveillance. Physical surveillance means a systematic and deliberate
 observation of a person by any means on a continuing basis, or the acquisition of a nonpublic
 communication by a person not a party thereto or visibly present thereat through any means
 not involving electronic surveillance. Any physical surveillance that occurs outside a DoD
 installation shall be coordinated with the FBI (within the US), CIA (outside the US), or other
 agency as appropriate. (T-0)
     8.9.1. Physical surveillance for counterintelligence purposes, both within and outside the
     US, shall be approved and conducted IAW DoD 5240.1-R, AFI 71-101V4 and
     procedures established by the Commander, AFOSI. (T-0)
     8.9.2. Physical surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes shall be approved and
     conducted IAW DoD 5240.1-R and procedures established by the AF/A2, or his/her
     designee. (T-0)
 8.10. Undisclosed Participation in Organizations. Undisclosed participation that occurs
 outside a DoD installation must be coordinated with the FBI (within the US), through the
 AFOSI, CIA (outside the US), or other agency as required. Intelligence component
 employees do not require permission to participate in organizations for solely personal
 purposes. Participation by an employee of an AF intelligence component, on behalf of an
 intelligence component, in any organization within the US or any organization outside the
 US that constitutes a US person, must be approved IAW the requirements in subparagraphs
 below. (T-0)
     8.10.1. Undisclosed participation, for counterintelligence purposes, must be approved
     and conducted IAW procedures approved by the Commander, AFOSI, and, DoD 5240.1-
     R. (T-0)
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      17


     8.10.2. Undisclosed participation by personnel assigned to AF ISR Agency for foreign
     intelligence purposes must be approved by the AF ISR Agency Commander (or his
     designee) and such participation must be conducted IAW DoD 5240.1-R. (T-0)
     8.10.3. Outside AF ISR Agency, undisclosed participation for foreign intelligence
     purposes must be approved by AF/A2, or its delegate, and IAW DoD 5240.1-R and
     procedures established by AF/A2. (T-0)
  8.11. Contracting for Goods and Services. DoD 5240.1-R, Procedure 11 applies to
  contracting or other arrangements with academic institutions, commercial organizations,
  private institutions, or private individuals within the United States for the procurement of
  goods and services by or for an AF intelligence component. It does not apply to contracting
  with government entities, or to the enrollment of individual intelligence personnel as students
  with academic institutions. When non-disclosure of intelligence component sponsorship is
  necessary in contracts for enrollment of students in academic institutions, the provisions
  related to undisclosed participation in organizations apply. Air Force intelligence
  components may contract with Commercial Organizations, Private Institutions, and
  Individuals within the US without revealing the sponsorship of the intelligence component
  only if the following apply:
     8.11.1. The contract is for published material available to the general public or for
     routine goods or services necessary for the support of approved activities, such as credit
     cards, car rentals, travel, lodging, meals, rental of office space or apartments, incident to
     approved activities; or
     8.11.2. There is a written determination by the Secretary or Under Secretary of the Air
     Force that the sponsorship by an AF intelligence component must be concealed to protect
     the activities of the intelligence component concerned. This authority may not be
     delegated. (T-0)
  8.12. Assistance to Law Enforcement.
     8.12.1. Cooperation with law enforcement authorities. Subject to the limitations detailed
     in DoD 5240.1-R, AF intelligence components may cooperate with law enforcement
     authorities IAW DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies,
     for the purpose of:
         8.12.1.1. Investigating or preventing clandestine intelligence activities by foreign
         powers, international narcotics activities, or international terrorist activities;
         8.12.1.2. Protecting DoD employees, information, property and facilities;
         8.12.1.3. Preventing, detecting, or investigating other violations of law.
     8.12.2. Types of permissible assistance. AF intelligence components may only provide
     the types of assistance to law enforcement authorities delineated above. Assistance may
     not be provided for, or participation in, activities that would not be permitted under this
     instruction.
         8.12.2.1. Violations of US federal law. Incidentally acquired information reasonably
         believed to indicate a violation of federal law must be provided to appropriate federal
         law enforcement officials through AFOSI channels. (T-1)
 18                                                             AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


             8.12.2.2. Other violations of law. Information incidentally acquired during the
             course of AF counterintelligence activities reasonably believed to indicate a violation
             of state, local, or foreign law will be provided to appropriate officials IAW
             procedures established by the Commander, AFOSI. Information incidentally
             acquired during the course of AF foreign intelligence activities reasonably believed to
             indicate a violation of state, local, or foreign law will, unless otherwise decided by
             AF/A2 for national security reasons, be provided to AFOSI IAW procedures
             established by the AF/A2, or his/her designee, for investigation or referral to the
             appropriate law enforcement agency. Information covered by this paragraph includes
             US person information. (T-1)
             8.12.2.3. Provision of specialized equipment and facilities. Specialized intelligence
             equipment and facilities may be provided to federal law enforcement authorities; and,
             when lives are endangered, to state and local law enforcement authorities, only with
             the approval of the SecAF delegated authority and the concurrence of SAF/GC.
             8.12.2.4. Assistance of AF intelligence personnel. AF intelligence personnel may be
             assigned to assist federal law enforcement authorities with the approval of the SecAF
             delegated authority and the concurrence of SAF/GC. Under certain exigent
             circumstances (e.g., when lives are in danger), AF intelligence personnel may be
             assigned to assist state and local law enforcement authorities, provided such
             assistance has been approved by the Deputy Chief for Manpower, Personnel, and
             Services (AF/A1) and SAF/GC.
      8.13. Experimentation on Human Subjects for Intelligence Purposes. AF intelligence
      components do not engage in experimentation involving human subjects for intelligence
      purposes. Any exception would require approval by the Secretary or Under Secretary of the
      Air Force and would be undertaken only with the informed consent of the subject and IAW
      procedures established by AF/SG to safeguard the welfare of subjects.
         8.13.1. Experimentation means any research or testing activity involving human subjects
         that may expose such subjects to the possibility of permanent or temporary injury
         (including physical or psychological damage and damage to the reputation of such
         persons) beyond the risks of injury to which such subjects are ordinarily exposed in their
         daily lives.
         8.13.2. Experimentation is conducted on behalf of an AF intelligence component if it is
         conducted under contract to AF or to another DoD component for the benefit of the AF or
         at the request of the AF regardless of the existence of a contractual relationship.
         8.13.3. For purposes of this instruction, the term “human subjects” includes any person,
         whether or not such person is a US person. No prisoners of war, civilian internees,
         retained, and detained personnel as covered under the Geneva Conventions of 1949 may
         be the subjects of human experimentation.
9. Reporting of Incidentally Acquired Threat Information. During the course of routine
activities and authorized missions, AF intelligence components may receive information
(including information identifying US persons) regarding potential threats to life or property
(whether DoD personnel, installations or activities, or civilian lives or property). Any such
information must be passed to appropriate authorities. (T-0)
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      19


   9.1. If such threat information involves an imminent threat to life or risk of serious property
   damage, the AF intelligence component must immediately notify appropriate entities with
   responsibility for countering the threat (e.g., Base Command Section, Security Forces, FBI,
   Municipal Police Department, etc.). The AF intelligence component must also immediately
   notify AFOSI. In the event immediate notification of the local AFOSI unit is not possible,
   the AF intelligence component will notify the AFOSI Global Watch Center, Commercial
   (571) 305-8484 and DSN (312) 240-8484, or Commercial Toll Free 1-877-246-1453. (T-1)
   9.2. In the absence of an imminent threat, AF intelligence components will limit notification
   to AFOSI who will determine whether further reporting will unacceptably compromise
   potential investigative or operational activities and forward to other authorities as
   appropriate. (T-1)
   9.3. Threat information may only be withheld from dissemination upon the approval of
   AF/A2 for foreign intelligence or Commander, AFOSI for counterintelligence, and only for
   national security reasons.
10. The Internet. While much of the information posted on the Internet is publicly available,
AF intelligence components must have an official tasked mission before collecting, retaining, or
disseminating publicly available information about US persons. Certain internet-based activities
are restricted by the rules requiring disclosure of an individual's intelligence organization
affiliation. This also applies to information found on Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
(SIPRNET) and Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS). (T-1)




                                            ROBERT P. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence
                                            Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 20                                                          AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection (FP), 4 May 2012
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-324, The Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management Program, 6 March
2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 71-101 Volume 1, Criminal Investigations, 8 April 2011
AFI 71-101 Volume 4, Criminal Investigations, 8 November 2011
AFI 90-201, Counterintelligence, 2 August 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Executive Order Number 12333, United States Intelligence Activities, December 4, 1981
National Security Act of 1947, 50 United States Code, Sections 401 et sequentia
DoDD 5148.11, Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight (ATSD(IO)),
April 24, 2013
DoDD 5240.1, DoD Intelligence Activities, August 27, 2007
DoDD 5525.5, DoD Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Officials, January 15, 1986
DoDI 3025.21, Defense Support of Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, February 27, 2013
DTM 08-052 – DoD Guidance for Reporting Questionable Intelligence Activities Significant or
Highly Sensitive Matters, June 17, 2009
DoD 4525.6-M, Department of Defense Postal Manual, August 15, 2002
DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That
Affect United States Persons, December 1, 1982
DoDM 5105.21, Volume 1, Department of Defense Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
Administrative Security Manual, Administration of Information and Information Systems
Security, October 19, 2012
DoD 5200.01, Volume 1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
Declassification, February 24, 2012
United States Signals Intelligence Directive (USSID) SP0018, 25 January 2011
National System for Geospatial Intelligence Manual FA 1806, Domestic Imagery, Revision 5,
March 2009
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   21


Agreement Governing the Conduct of Defense Department Counterintelligence Activities in
Conjunction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 5 April 1979
Intelligence Community Directive 710, Classification and Control Markings System, 21 June
2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advance Distributed Learning Service
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF ISR Agency—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Agency
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AF/SG—Surgeon General
ANG—Air National Guard
ATSD(IO)—Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Oversight
CBP—United States Customs and Border Patrol
CBT—Computer Based Training
CCIP—Commander’s Inspection Program
CIA—Central Intelligence Agency
CoP—Community of Practice
DIR—Domestic Imagery Request
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EO—Executive Order
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IO—Intelligence Oversight
 22                                                             AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JA—Judge Advocate
JAG—Judge Advocate General
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFR—Memorandum For Record
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office Of Primary Responsibility
PUM—Proper Use Memorandum
USD(I)—Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence
USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/GC—Secretary of the Air Force General Counsel
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
T-0—Tier 0
T-1—Tier 1
T-2—Tier 2
T-3—Tier 3
TDY—Temporary Duty
US—United States
USSID—United States Signals Intelligence Directive
UTM—Unit Training Monitor

Terms
Air Force Intelligence Component—All personnel and activities of the organization of the AF
Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, counterintelligence units
of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency, and
other organizations, staffs, and offices when used for foreign intelligence or counterintelligence
activities to which EO 12333 (part 2) applies.
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                         23


Certifying Government Official—A U.S. Government employee in authority over the
requesting individual (i.e., branch chief, chief of collections, requesting military organization,
etc.) who will verify and remain accountable for the accuracy of the request. The official will
ensure that the requested imagery and products derived from domestic imagery are maintained
subject to this policy and all other pertinent security controls.
Computer Network Exploitation—Enabling operations and intelligence collection capabilities
conducted through the use of computer networks to gather data from target or adversary
automated information systems or networks. Also called CNE and network exploitation (Net-
E).”
Counterintelligence—Information gathered and activities conducted to prevent espionage, other
intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers,
organizations, persons, or international terrorist activities, but not including personnel, physical,
document, or communications security programs.
Domestic Imagery Request (DIR)—The request for collection, processing, dissemination,
exploitation, briefing, or publication of domestic imagery when that need falls outside the scope
of an approved PUM and is not a reflection of a change in an organization’s mission. Generally
reflects ad hoc requirements for domestic imagery.
Electronic Surveillance—Electronic surveillance, as defined at 50 USC 1801(f)(1)-(4), and as
conducted by DoD intelligence components targeting US Persons to collect foreign intelligence
information under circumstances in which a warrant would be required for law enforcement
purposes. Note that this includes, per 50 USC 1801(f)(4), the installation or use of an electronic,
mechanical, or other surveillance device in the United States for monitoring to acquire
information, other than from a wire or radio communication (such as oral communications
acquired by hidden microphone, or location information revealed through the use of a
transponder or tracker device), under circumstances in which a person has a reasonable
expectation of privacy and a warrant would be required for law enforcement purposes.
Experimentation—Any research or testing activity involving human subjects that may expose
such subjects to the possibility of permanent or temporary injury (including physical or
psychological damage and damage to the reputation of such persons) beyond the risks of injury
to which such subjects are ordinarily exposed in their daily lives.
Foreign Intelligence—Information relating to the capabilities, intentions, and activities of
foreign powers, organizations, or persons, but not including counterintelligence except for
information on international terrorist activities.
Human Subjects—Any person, whether or not such person is a US person. No prisoners of
war, civilian internees, retained, and detained personnel as covered under the Geneva
Conventions of 1949 may be the subjects of human experimentation.
Intelligence Activities—Refers to all activities that DoD intelligence components are authorized
to undertake pursuant to Executive Order 12333. Note that EO 12333 assigns the Services'
intelligence components responsibility for: 1, "Collection, production, dissemination of military
and military related foreign intelligence and counterintelligence, and information on the foreign
aspects of narcotics production and trafficking;" and 2, "Monitoring of the development,
procurement and management of tactical intelligence systems and equipment and conducting
related research, development, and test and evaluation activities."
 24                                                             AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


Non-United States Person—A corporation or corporate subsidiary incorporated abroad, even if
partially or wholly owned by a corporation incorporated in the United States, is not a United
States person. A person or organization outside the United States is presumed not to be a US
person, unless specific information to the contrary is obtained. An alien in the United States is
presumed not to be a US person, unless specific information to the contrary is obtained.
Organization—Includes corporations and other commercial organizations, academic
institutions, clubs, professional societies, associations, and any other group whose existence is
formalized in some manner or otherwise functions on a continuing basis.
Overt—Methods of collection whereby the source of the information being collected is advised,
or is otherwise aware, that the information is being provided to the DoD, or a component thereof.
Physical Surveillance—A systematic and deliberate observation of a person by any means on a
continuing basis, or the acquisition of a nonpublic communication by a person who is neither a
party thereto nor visibly present thereat, through any means not involving electronic surveillance.
Proper Use Memorandum (PUM)—A memorandum signed annually by an organization’s
Certifying Government Official. The imagery user organization will submit this memorandum
annually. It defines their requirements and intended use, and contains a proper use statement that
acknowledges their awareness of the legal and policy restrictions regarding domestic imagery.
Questionable Activity—Any intelligence activity, as defined in Executive Order 12333
(Reference (f)), that may be unlawful or contrary to Executive Order, Presidential directive, or
applicable DoD policy governing that activity.
Retention—The maintenance of information about US persons that can be retrieved by reference
to the person's name or other identifying data.
Significant or Highly Sensitive Matters—A development or circumstance involving an
intelligence activity or intelligence personnel that could impugn the reputation or integrity of the
DoD Intelligence Community or otherwise call into question the propriety of an intelligence
activity. Such matters might be manifested in or by an activity: (1) Involving congressional
inquiries or investigations, (2) That may result in adverse media coverage, (3) That may impact
on foreign relations or foreign powers, or (4) Related to the unauthorized disclosure of classified
or protected information, such as information identifying a sensitive source and method.
Reporting under this paragraph does not include reporting of routine security violations.
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g., Congress, White House, OSD,
JS). The requirement is external to AF. Requests for waivers must be processed through
command channels to publication OPR for consideration. (AFI 33-360)
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
T-1 waiver requests may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower
than MAJCOM Director, with the concurrence of the publication's approving official. (AFI 33-
360)
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance has the potential to create moderate risk of mission or program
degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers
may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may not be delegated lower than MAJCOM
Director. (AFI 33-360)
AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                 25


Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or
program degradation or failure, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
Waivers may be granted at the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level. (AFI 33-360)
United States Person—A US citizen, an alien known by the DoD intelligence component
concerned to be a permanent resident alien, an unincorporated association substantially
composed of US citizens or permanent resident aliens, or a corporation incorporated in the
United States unless it is directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments.
 26                                                          AFI14-104 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 2
   PROPER USE MEMORANDUM (PUM) GUIDANCE FOR AIRBORNE AND DOD
                     SATELLITE PLATFORMS

A2.1. PUM approval resides with MAJCOM/A2. PUM requests will be submitted to
MAJCOM/A2 or AFISRA/CC via fax or email. MAJCOM/A2 and AFISRA/CC will coordinate
PUM approval with MAJCOM/JA and/or AFISRA/JA. (T-1)
A2.2. PUM requests will include the following information: (1) Units involved (to include units
involved in exploitation, (2) Timeframe, (3) Location, (4) Assets being used to conduct
collection, and (5) Justification. (T-1)
A2.3. MAJCOM/A2 or AFISRA/CC will provide a timely response to requesting units that
include any rules of engagement, if necessary. (T-1)
