BY ORDER OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2EC-130H,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                VOLUME 2

                                                                         28 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                    Intelligence

                                                             EC-130H UNIT INTELLIGENCE
                                                                   EVALUATION CRITERIA

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                    (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                       Pages: 23


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202 Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for evaluating and qualifying personnel performing intelligence duties in EC-130H
units. This publication applies to all Air Force Active Duty, Reserve and Air National Guard
(ANG) intelligence personnel supporting EC-130H operations. ANG will be considered
functionally as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this publication. This
publication requires the collection or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Privacy Act System of Records Notice F011 AF AFMC B, Patriot Excalibur covers
required information. The authority to maintain the records prescribed in this publication are
Title 10 U.S. Code 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records
System and Executive Order 9397, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating To
Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order
9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers. Ensure all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule located in Air Force Records Information Management System at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.              This publication may be
supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes to the
OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847
through the appropriate MAJCOM functional chain of command. Air Combat Command (ACC)
 2                                                                               AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


Directorate of Intelligence (A2) is the waiver authority for this publication. Units will request
waivers through applicable MAJCOM/A2 channels.



Chapter 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                                       3
       1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................           3
       1.2.   Procedures. .............................................................................................................             3
       1.3.   Evaluation Instructions. .........................................................................................                    4
       1.4.   Additional Training. ...............................................................................................                  4
       1.5.   Unsatisfactory Performance. ..................................................................................                        4

Chapter 2—EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                   5
       2.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................           5
Table 2.1.    Intelligence Evaluations - Operations Intelligence. ...............................................                                   5
Table 2.2.    Intelligence Evaluations - Compass Call Analysis and Targeting Team (CCATT).
               .................................................................................................................................    6
       2.2.   Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation. .....................................................                                  6
       2.3.   Specialized Qualification Evaluations. ..................................................................                             9

Chapter 3—EVALUATION CRITERIA                                                                                                                      10
       3.1.   General Evaluation Standards. ...............................................................................                        10
       3.2.   Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                              10
Table 3.1.    Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                              10
       3.3.   Specialized Evaluation Criteria. .............................................................................                       17
Table 3.2.    External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria. ..................................                                       17
Table 3.3.    Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria. ............................................................                             20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                     21
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                              3



                                          Chapter 1

                                GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides intelligence evaluators (IE) and examinees with procedures
and evaluation criteria to be used during knowledge and task phases of initial and periodic
evaluations. All evaluations will be conducted IAW the provisions of AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and this publication.
   1.1.1. Objective. The examinee must satisfactorily demonstrate the ability to perform
   required duties safely and effectively, IAW applicable instructions and directives.
   1.1.2. Waivers. Air Combat Command (ACC) Directorate of Intelligence (ACC/A2) is the
   waiver authority for specific requirements outlined in this publication. ACC/A2 will notify
   AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such correspondence indicates
   the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
   1.1.3. Supplements. AF/A2 delegates approval authority to the MAJCOM/A2 for MAJCOM
   authored supplements to this AFI. MAJCOMs will ensure copies are provided to AF/A2,
   ACC/A2 and all appropriate MAJCOMs upon publication. Per AFPD 14-2, supplements will
   not be less restrictive than the lead AFI and should be limited to unique requirements only.
   1.1.4. Changes. Send recommended changes to this publication on AF Form 847, through
   appropriate channels to ACC/A2.
1.2. Procedures.
   1.2.1. Prior to any formal evaluation conducted by a qualified IE, the examinee must have
   successfully completed (verified by applicable AF Forms 4381) all duty position required
   Mission Qualification Training or Specialized Training requirements outlined in AFI 14-
   2EC-130H, Volume 1, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Training.
   1.2.2. IEs will use the evaluation criteria contained in Chapter 3 for conducting all
   intelligence evaluations. To ensure standard and objective evaluations, IEs will be
   thoroughly familiar with the prescribed evaluation criteria.
   1.2.3. Prior to commencing an evaluation, the IE will brief the examinee on the conduct,
   purpose, requirements and applicable criteria of the evaluation. The examinee will
   accomplish required planning IAW the task being evaluated.
   1.2.4. Conduct and document evaluations IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Evaluations should
   be accomplished in a realistic training environment in conjunction with local events (e.g.,
   actual deployment briefing or post-mission aircrew debrief) to the maximum extent possible.
   When it is impossible to conduct an evaluation in a realistic environment, evaluations may be
   conducted via an alternate method (i.e., simulated, staged, or by verbal examination) in order
   to complete the evaluation. Document the reasons and type of alternate method used in the
   Comments section of the AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification.
   1.2.5. The IE will thoroughly debrief all aspects of the evaluation. This debrief will include
   the examinee’s overall rating, specific deviations, area grades assigned (if other than
   qualified) and any required additional training.
 4                                                    AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


1.3. Evaluation Instructions. Standards and performance parameters are contained in AFI 14-
202, Volume 2, and this publication. The IE will compare examinee performance for each area
accomplished during the evaluation with the evaluation criteria provided in this volume and
assign an appropriate evaluation grade for the area. Use the general area/sub-area grades in AFI
14-202, Volume 2, Chapter 5. Based on a composite of these individual area/sub-area grades,
the IEs will determine the overall qualification level (also found in AFI 14-202, Volume 2,
Chapter 5).
     1.3.1. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, used by the trainer in documenting training
     will be used to assist the IE in determining the overall qualification and for documenting AF
     Form 4350.
     1.3.2. IE judgment must be exercised when the wording for general evaluated areas is
     subjective and when specific situations are not covered.
1.4. Additional Training. IEs are responsible for recommending additional training at their
discretion. Document any additional training and completion IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2.
1.5. Unsatisfactory Performance. Examinees receiving an overall qualification level 3 (―Q-3‖)
will be placed in supervised status until recommended additional training is completed and/or a
reevaluation is successfully accomplished. If an examinee receives a ―Q-3‖ on a mission
evaluation (INIT MSN or MSN), they will not perform mission duties unsupervised until
remedial actions are accomplished. If an examinee receives a ―Q-3‖ on a specialized evaluation,
they will not perform specialized duties until remedial actions are accomplished, but they can
perform basic mission duties unless specifically restricted.
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                             5


                                          Chapter 2

                             EVALUATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General. The intelligence evaluation must include all areas listed in this chapter as they
relate to the examinee’s duty position and as depicted in Tables 2.1, Intelligence Evaluations -
Operations Intelligence and/or Table 2.2, Intelligence Evaluations - Compass Call Analysis and
Targeting Team (CCATT).

Table 2.1. Intelligence Evaluations - Operations Intelligence.
 TITLE                                      INIT MSN      MSN         EIT          IE

 Knowledge Evaluations
 EC-130H Weapon System                       R            R           ----     ----
 Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems        R            R           ----     ----
 Personnel Recovery                          R            R           ----     ----
 Force Protection Intelligence               R            R           ----     ----
 Performance Task Evaluations
 Threat Briefings                            R            R           ----     ----
 Requests for Information                    R            R           ----     ----
 Situation Displays                          R            R           ----     ----
 Manual Order of Battle (OB)                 R            R           ----     ----
 Automated OB                                R            R           ----     ----
 Initial Situation Briefing                  R            R           ----     ----
 Situation Briefing                          R            R           ----     ----
 Changeover Briefing                         R            R           ----     ----
 Deployment Briefing                         R            R           ----     ----
 Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Air Control
 Order (ACO)/Special Instructions
                                             R            R           ----     ----
 (SPINS)/Reconnaissance, Surveillance &
 Targeting Acquisition (RSTA) Annex
 Intelligence Support to MPC                 R            R           ----     ----
 Mission Briefing                            R            R           ----     ----
 Step Briefing                               R            R           ----     ----
 Mission Tracking                            R            R           ----     ----
 Mission Debriefing                          R            R           ----     ----
 Intelligence Reports                        R            R           ----     ----
 Specialized Task Evaluations
 Instructional Ability                       ----         ----        R         ----
 Evaluator Ability                           ----         ----         ----    R
 Note: Gradesheet templates for each area are included in AFI14-2EC-130H, Volume 1.
 Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

 R = Required area of evaluation
 6                                                    AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation

Table 2.2. Intelligence Evaluations - Compass Call Analysis and Targeting Team
(CCATT).
 Knowledge Evaluations
 CCATT Research Methods and
                                             R            R
 Databases
 Performance Task Evaluations
 CCATT Request for Information (RFI)
                                             R            R
 Response
 CCATT Intelligence Reporting                R            R
 Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) Reporting
                                             R            R
 Analysis
 Signals of Interest (SOI)                   R            R
 C3 Diagrams                                 R            R
 C3 Target Nomination List                   R            R
 C3 Analysis Briefing                        R            R
 CCATT Mission Crew Debriefing               R            R
 Instructional Ability                                                R
 Evaluator Ability                                                             R
 Note: Gradesheet templates for each area are included in AFI14-2EC-130H, Volume 1.
 Passing criteria for any knowledge evaluation is 85% of answers correct.

 R = Required area of evaluation
 INIT MSN = Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
 MSN = Mission Qualification Evaluation
 EIT = External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
 IE = Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
2.2. Intelligence Mission Qualification Evaluation.
     2.2.1. Knowledge Evaluation. Knowledge evaluations will be conducted as part of the initial
     and periodic mission qualification evaluations to test the examinee’s understanding of EC-
     130H systems academics, threat knowledge, friendly and neutral weapons systems, visual
     recognition (VR), Personnel Recovery (PR), Force Protection Intelligence (FPI), and CCATT
     research methods and databases. Examinees will complete a knowledge test from the unit’s
     master question file (MQF) for mission qualification evaluation subject areas. Examinees
     will take a separate VR test. Both examinations will be recorded on the AF Form 4350 IAW
     AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Knowledge examinations may also be required during specialized
     qualification evaluations. Basic Intelligence Research, Analysis and Dissemination (RAD)
     and Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE) involve knowledge
     intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the evaluation and will be
     evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area.
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                              7


  2.2.2. Performance Task Evaluation. Use MAJCOM/A2 and/or unit-developed evaluation
  materials based on current intelligence, unit tasking and area of responsibility (AOR)
  scenarios. Units must apply operational risk management principles to evaluations
  conducted during exercises or deployments. The following guidelines are provided to assist
  in constructing evaluation materials:
     2.2.2.1. RFIs. Actual contingency or exercise materials may be used. Evaluate the
     examinees ability to draft an RFI to forward to outside organization. Consider ability to
     provide clear questions, sources checked, realistic latest time intelligence of value,
     product type desired, dissemination method as well as additional items IAW local
     checklists.
     2.2.2.2. Situation displays. The situation for which the display is being built should
     contain enough data for the examinee to make decisions on the best medium to use for
     the creating the display. Include a large variety of items from AFI 14-2(MDS), Volume 3
     that will challenge the examinee to conduct research and analysis to determine the
     relevance of the data to the situation. The number of items to be plotted should be of
     sufficient volume to be challenging, yet not so overwhelming that the time taken is
     beyond that necessary to determine proficiency. The exercise will include both
     geographic coordinates and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) coordinates.
     Evaluate the examinee’s ability to convert coordinates between geographic coordinates
     (DD/MM/SS) and MGRS (NNAAAXXXXXX); and also from geographic coordinates to
     decimal minutes (DD/MM.mm). The scenario may include erroneous information to
     mirror the fog of war by including intentionally incorrect coordinates or types of threats
     for the particular AOR, thereby allowing the IE to assess the examinee’s ability to
     identify errors and question the validity of information. The examinee should use MIL-
     STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine
     Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, FM 1-02, Operational Terms and
     Graphics.
         2.2.2.2.1. Manual OB. The number of OB items in the plotting exercise will be
         sufficient to have a variety of threats to plot to ensure correct symbology is used. The
         examinee must be able to identify critical elements of the table of organization and
         equipment for the OB being used.
         2.2.2.2.2. Automated Order of Battle. Examinee should be provided with a variety of
         OB sources from which to pull data. Evaluate the examinee’s ability to develop and
         save threat files, insert accurate data, update and purge data to ensure quality control
         of the displayed data and question the accuracy of the information for a particular
         AOR.
     2.2.2.3. Intelligence Briefings.       The examinee should assemble briefings from
     information provided by the evaluator; message traffic, intelligence reports, and imagery.
     Evaluated briefings include: initial situation briefing, situation briefing deployment
     briefing, mission briefing, step briefing, threat briefings and changeover briefing.
     2.2.2.4. ATO, ACO, SPINS, RSTA Annex and other tasking documents. Scenario,
     actual contingency or exercise materials may be used for this purpose. Provide enough
     information that the examinee’s unit is not the sole unit tasked on the ATO. Ensure the
     opportunity exists to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in identifying and breaking out
8                                                  AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


    elements of ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex. Include unit tasking, supported missions,
    air space control, personnel recovery SPINS, and Intelligence, Surveillance and
    Reconnaissance (ISR) platform tasking.
    2.2.2.5. Intelligence support to the Mission Planning Cell (MPC). Actual contingency
    planning or exercise materials and imagery may be used. Ensure the opportunity exists to
    evaluate the examinee’s proficiency analyzing threats along ingress/egress routes and
    mission orbits, briefing route planners, providing intelligence support and aiding in
    mission package construction. Include threats that impact mission routing in order to
    evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in recognizing the threat and passing
    recommendations to the MPC.
    2.2.2.6. Mission Tracking. Use scenario or actual exercise to allow examinee to flight
    follow missions in execution. Ensure opportunity exists to evaluate examinee’s
    proficiency to keep abreast of ongoing missions and upcoming debriefs. Examine debrief
    forms to see that information has been filled in to maximum extent prior to engine shut
    down. Present simulated situation where aircraft is diverted. Ensure systems are used if
    available to aid examinee in monitoring progress of fragged missions.
    2.2.2.7. Debriefing. Conduct aircrew debriefings following actual flying missions
    whenever possible. The evaluator may construct inject cards or coordinate with aircrew
    to identify a particular threat scenario for the debriefing. Ensure there is enough activity
    to represent the typical level of detail for a threat scenario commensurate with unit AOR
    tasking. Grade the examinee’s ability to control the debriefing, ask amplifying questions
    and recognize relevant information.
    2.2.2.8. Intelligence Reports. Construct mission reports (MISREPs) and intelligence
    reports (INTREPs) using information provided in aircrew debriefings. Reports should be
    completed IAW MAJCOM/theater/combatant command intelligence reporting directives.
    2.2.2.9. CCATT Intelligence Reporting. Examinee will construct a post mission report
    using information provided in aircrew debriefings and from mission logs. Evaluation
    should ensure reports are completed and disseminated IAW local checklists.
    2.2.2.10. SIGINT Reporting Analysis. Examinee should be provided a target set in order
    to research and analyze SIGINT relevant to COMPASS CALL operations. Examinee
    should have access to real-world databases and systems used by CCATT daily and in
    contingency situations. Evaluator should ensure target set provided has reporting of
    sufficient volume and content to evaluate the examinee’s proficiency in analyzing and
    extracting information. Examinee will be graded on ability to extract COMPASS CALL
    relevant data from available SIGINT reports.
    2.2.2.11. Signals of Interest (SOI). Actual contingency planning or exercise materials
    may be used. Scenario should be of sufficient volume and detail to evaluate the
    examinee’s proficiency analyzing communications nodes and determining potential
    targets. Scenario will not include Mission Crew Commander prioritization requirements.
    Evaluator should consider examinee’s prioritization of target sets and frequencies in
    accordance with provided scenario.
    2.2.2.12. Command, Control, and Communications (C3) Diagrams Analysis. Evaluator
    will provide examinee a target set in order to develop both physical and functional
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                               9


       diagrams portraying C3 links and nodes. Examinee should have access to all CCATT
       resources and target set should have reporting volume sufficient for examinee to
       construct the diagrams with limited questions. Examinee will be graded on ability to
       create correct physical and functional diagrams, including physical locations,
       connectivity methods and redundancy, and nodal criticality and vulnerability ratings.
       2.2.2.13. C3 Target Nomination List (TNL). Examinee should be provided priority
       requirements as would be provided by the Mission Crew Commander during mission
       planning as well as materials from C3 Diagrams and SIGINT Reporting Analysis tasks
       and simulated mission objectives. Examinee should have access to all CCATT resources
       and previously developed targets and be able to develop the TNL with limited support.
       Grade examinee’s ability to prioritize targets in accordance with provided mission
       objectives. Additionally consider prioritization changes recommended from examinee
       after analysis of the target set.
       2.2.2.14. C3 Analysis Briefing. The examinee should assemble briefings from materials
       developed as part of the evaluation (C3 diagrams, SOI worksheet, TNL) or alternately, by
       requirements provided by the evaluator. Audience may include aircrew acting as
       member(s) of MPC in addition to evaluator acting in that capacity. Examinee will be
       graded on ability to present C3 Analysis Briefing IAW local checklist. Grade should also
       consider examinees ability to answer follow up questions.
2.3. Specialized Qualification Evaluations.
   2.3.1. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will
   consist of a knowledge examination and a task evaluation conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
   Volume 2. Only qualified EIT trainers may conduct unsupervised intelligence training.
   Upon completion of EIT trainer profiles, as outlined in AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 1, the
   EIT trainer will demonstrate knowledge of the information presented by successfully
   completing a test based on the questions from the MQF (85 percent minimum to pass), as
   applicable. The EIT trainer will also be evaluated on their ability to present training in each
   applicable profile. Evaluators will give the examinee no less than four hours notice of the
   subject matter or briefing topic for the evaluation.
       2.3.1.1. In certain circumstances it may be beneficial to qualify an individual to conduct
       training in more than one individual EIT event at a time. The individual must complete
       the specific training identified for the event and be evaluated on the task or briefing
       element by an IE. The individual must maintain currency and be reevaluated periodically
       for the subject matter according to AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 1.
       2.3.1.2. Subsequent evaluations may be conducted as part of the periodic mission
       evaluation. All applicable EIT and MSN areas must be evaluated.
   2.3.2. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation. IE evaluations will consist of a performance task
   evaluation and conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2. Subsequent evaluations may be
   conducted as part of the periodic mission evaluation. All applicable IE and MSN areas must
   be evaluated.
 10                                                 AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


                                          Chapter 3

                                EVALUATION CRITERIA

3.1. General Evaluation Standards. The evaluation criteria in this chapter are divided into two
sections: Mission Qualification Training and Specialized Training evaluation Criteria. Use all
sections of criteria applicable to the events performed on the evaluation.
3.2. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria. The evaluation criteria in Table 3.1 applies to
tasks associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain mission qualifications.

Table 3.1. Mission Qualification Evaluation Criteria.
 KNOWLEDGE EVALUATION
 Q           Correctly answers at least 85% of questions in closed-book test based on
             MQF.
 Q-          Not applicable.
 U           Failed to answer at least 85% of the questions correctly.
 VISUAL RECOGNITION (VR)
 Q           Correctly identified 85% of all items in VR test.
 Q-          Not applicable.
 U           Failed to identify correctly at least 85% of all items in VR test.
 THREAT BRIEFINGS
 Q           Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
             sequence. Clear understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE
             concepts. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough delivery.
             Tailored threat briefing to the capabilities of the EC-130H airframe, avionics
             and countertactics. Correct classification and security markings on all
             products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
 Q-          Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered.
             Minor omissions, recovered when prompted. Some comparisons of threat to
             EC-130H, but not many. Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
             Briefing hard to follow, redundant. Provided extraneous information.
 U           Threat was not tailored to EC-130H capabilities. Major gaps in information,
             unable to recover with prompting. Significant lack of analytical ability.
             Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated information. Demonstrated
             lack of understanding of EC-130H mission capabilities. Incorrect
             classification.
 RFIs
 Q           Exhausted all internal resources. Considered time requirements in developing
             written vs. verbal request to higher headquarters. Written request is clear and
             concise. Timeline for information value reasonable and carefully considered.
             Local and theater procedures adhered to. Proper classification on request.
 Q-          Request somewhat disorganized and/or redundant. Requires minor assistance
             but recovers with little prompting.
 U           Request unclear; does not identify information gap. Could have been satisfied
             with available resources. Did not follow established submission procedures.
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                         11


             Improper classification.
SITUATION DISPLAYS (Includes MANUAL and AUTOMATED OB)
Q            Correctly determined the proper medium, including type and scale, for
             creating the best situation display. Researched and analyzed data for
             accuracy, inconsistencies, and relevance to the situation. Used manual and
             automated processes to accurately plot all threats/items within 0.5nm of
             center point of coordinates. Consistently used correct symbology IAW MIL-
             STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field
             Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A,
             FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics. Correctly extracted geographic
             coordinates and MGRSs. Plotted to appropriate level of detail with respect to
             unit requirements. Successfully downloaded, printed, exported and displayed
             data. Able to manipulate data, display appropriate threat rings and perform
             terrain masking analysis. Demonstrated ability to convert various coordinate
             formats. Accurately maintained situation display to unit specifications,
             including classification and currency. Correct classification and security
             markings on all products.
Q-           Did not select the best medium for creating the situation display. Did not
             fully research and analyze data resulting in some minor irrelevant items to be
             included. Plotted 95% of the data within 0.5nm of center point of
             coordinates, the remaining 5% within 1nm. Minor inconsistencies in
             symbology, corrected with little prompting. Needed little assistance with
             coordinate conversions.
U            Errors would have significantly impacted mission success. Unable to identify
             errors or inconsistencies in data. Unable to complete tasks without significant
             supervision or intervention. Incorrect classification.
INITIAL SITUATION BRIEFING
Q            Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
             sequence. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items, and well-
             tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used checklist and
             followed local procedures. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough
             delivery. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in information that had
             potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of research methods and
             sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant
             information. Understood and provided detailed information tailored to the
             audience. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit
             assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
             classification and security markings on all products.
Q-           Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
             mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to
             follow, somewhat redundant.
U            Failed to use checklist. Content poorly organized, not tailored appropriately.
             Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable
             to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE concepts. Missed
             significant information or failed to disseminate information to proper
             audience. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or
12                                                AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


            the impact information may have. Negative impact on the mission.
            Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
SITUATION BRIEFING
Q           Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
            sequence. Appropriate level of detail, covered all applicable items since last
            update, and well- tailored analysis relevant to audience. Effectively used
            checklist and followed local procedures. Effective use of visual aids.
            Concise yet thorough delivery. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in
            information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of
            research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed ability to
            discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
            capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis. Quickly
            identified significant information and rapidly disseminated to appropriate
            audience. Fielded questions correctly. Correct classification and security
            markings on all products.
Q-          Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
            mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to
            follow, somewhat redundant.
U           Failed to use checklist and follow local procedures. Content not tailored
            appropriately. Confusing. Omitted key areas. Significant lack of analytical
            ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of IPOE
            concepts. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information
            to proper audience. Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit
            assets and/or the impact information may have. Negative impact on the
            mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
CHANGEOVER BRIEFING
Q           Well planned, appropriate checklist usage, addressed relevant areas.
            Demonstrated clear understanding of significant events or shortfalls to pass
            on to next shift. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant information.
            Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of unit assets
            when conducting analysis. Quickly identified significant information and
            rapidly disseminated to appropriate audience. Correctly annotated event log,
            identified significant events. Correct classification and security markings on
            all products produced.
Q-          Omitted no more than one key area/issue at changeover, was able to recover
            with prompting or minimal assistance. Errors due to extenuating
            circumstances (e.g. relocation, attacks, etc.) vs. poor planning.
U           Failed to use checklist. Poor planning or preparation and/or inadequate
            checklist usage. Deficiencies not due to extenuating circumstances. Inability
            to recover even with minor prompting. Omissions would have affected next
            shift. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information.
            Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact
            information may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
            classification.
DEPLOYMENT BRIEFING
Q           Professionally delivered, well organized, clear. Effective use of checklist and
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                        13


            followed local procedures. Tailored, relevant content. Easily understood by
            audience. Effective use of visual aids. Classification appropriate for
            audience. Identified key points including synopsis of military and political
            situation generating the deployment, and enemy activity and force disposition
            in AOR and along deployment route. Demonstrated ability to identify gaps in
            information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear understanding of
            research methods and sources. Showed ability to discriminate irrelevant
            information. Demonstrated understanding of capabilities and limitations of
            unit assets when conducting analysis. Fielded questions correctly. Correct
            classification and security markings on all products produced.
Q-          Minor omissions, recovered when prompted with no significant impact on
            mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery.
U           Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, not tailored. Confusing. Omitted
            key areas. Significant lack of analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic
            research. Missed significant information or failed to disseminate information.
            Poor understanding of capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact
            information may have on the mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect
            classification.
ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA ANNEX BREAKOUT
Q           Demonstrated ability to extract relevant information from the
            ATO/ACO/SPINS/RSTA Annex and any changes. Correctly extracted unit
            tasking, supported missions, ISR tasking, airspace control measures and other
            relevant information.
Q-          Some errors or delays in extracting information that did not jeopardize or
            adversely impact intelligence integration in mission planning timeline.
            Accomplished tasks but needed some assistance.
U           Errors, omissions or delays in extracting information that could have
            impacted intelligence integration in mission planning. Unable to accomplish
            tasks without significant intervention.
INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO MPC
Q           Exhibited a thorough understanding of mission tasking. Clear knowledge of
            threats in AOR and potential impact with respect to EC-130H capabilities and
            limitations. Demonstrated ability to relay information succinctly and provide
            recommendations to MPC.
Q-          Minor omissions or errors that did not seriously impact mission planning.
            Able to recover with minor prompting.
U           Made errors or omissions that could have prevented an effective mission.
            Displayed faulty or limited knowledge of factors relevant to the mission.
            Improper use of mission planning tools or materials. Significant lack of
            analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Poor understanding of
            capabilities/limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have
            on the mission. Fabricated information.
MISSION BRIEFING
Q           Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
            sequence. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate
            level of detail, covered all applicable items IAW checklists: takeoff, enroute,
14                                               AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


            track area and appropriate PR considerations. Demonstrated ability to
            identify gaps in information that had potential impact on the mission. Clear
            understanding of research methods and sources and IPOE concepts. Showed
            ability to discriminate irrelevant information. Demonstrated understanding of
            capabilities and limitations of unit assets when conducting analysis.
            Correctly annotated message traffic log, identified significant events and
            relayed Threat Update Codes. Correct classification and security markings on
            all products produced. Fielded questions correctly.
Q-          Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered.
            Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on
            mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to
            follow, somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U           Failed to use checklist. Very confusing or redundant. Major gaps in
            information, unable to recover even with prompting. Significant lack of
            analytical ability. Unable to conduct basic research. Fabricated information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of EC-130H mission capabilities.
            Incorrect classification.
STEP BRIEFING
Q           Well organized and concise; presented relevant facts in timely fashion.
            Appropriate for the particular mission. Highlighted changes and updates since
            mission briefing. Correct classification.
Q-          Made updates with prompting--not proactive. Omissions would not have
            affected mission effectiveness.
U           Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of EC-130H mission capabilities.
            Incorrect classification.
MISSION TRACKING
Q           Used all resources (systems, operations, command post, onboard datalink) to
            track progress of missions. Well prepared to receive information during
            various stages. All relevant mission information pre-filled on debrief forms.
            Aware of all cancelled or diverted missions. Made provisions for debrief at
            diverted location via personnel or other electronic means. All personnel had
            access to mission tracking and could quickly interpret information to derive
            mission status.
Q-          Did not utilize resources well. Made updates to tracking mechanism with
            prompting, not proactive. All personnel could not quickly derive mission
            status. Debrief forms not pre-filled with mission information.
U           No mechanism for effectively updating status of missions. Most personnel
            not capable of interpreting or updating mission status. Unaware of cancelled
            missions. Completely missed an update or passed on erroneous information.
            Demonstrated lack of understanding of EC-130H mission capabilities. No
            plans for contacting divert locations for mission status and reporting
            information.
MISSION DEBRIEFING
Q           Thoroughly prepared and able to extract pertinent mission results in timely
            manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the debriefing.
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                         15


            Quickly identified perishable information and ensured prompt dissemination
            as applicable. Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying questions and
            recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant intelligence with
            sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW checklists and
            theater directives. Correctly annotated event log. Identified significant
            events. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-          Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions
            that would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
U           Failed to use checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify
            perishable information. Completely missed debrief. Not enough detail to
            accomplish reporting requirements.
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS
Q           Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent
            information available with minimal to no extraneous info. Properly formatted.
            Met reporting timelines. Produced report IAW checklists and theater
            directives. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-          Missed timeline but still delivered quality intelligence report. Delay due to
            extenuating circumstances. Minor problems with clarity, organization or
            formatting, but pertinent information was included.
U           Did not complete report within prescribed timelines. Failed to use checklist.
            Incomplete/inaccurate report. Writing skills confused meaning of information
            or omitted critical information. Incorrect dissemination (e.g. not sent to the
            correct users through appropriate channels). Incorrect classification.
CCATT INTELLIGENCE REPORTING
Q           Clearly written with target audience in mind. Summarized all pertinent
            information available with minimal to no extraneous information. Properly
            formatted. Produced report IAW checklists and local directives. Correct
            classification and security markings on all products.
Q-          Minor problems with clarity, organization or formatting, but pertinent
            information was included.
U           Failed to use checklist. Incomplete or inaccurate report. Writing skills
            confused meaning of information or omitted critical information. Incorrect
            dissemination (e.g. not sent to the correct users through appropriate channels).
            Incorrect classification.
CCATT RFI RESPONSE
Q           Information provided is clear and concise. Intelligence is correct and accurate
            with justification and analysis provided. RFI response meets time constraints
            and is correctly formatted in the method requested.
Q-          Information provided is correct but not completely analyzed and applied to
            the specific situation. RFI meets time constraints but there are errors in the
            provided format or delivery method.
U           Information provided is not correct and does not answer the question that was
            asked. Overall timelines were not met and/or RFI answer in incorrect format
SIGINT REPORTING ANALYSIS
Q           Researched all relevant and available reports. Data extracted was correct,
            relevant to COMPASS CALL mission, analysis performed with no errors.
16                                                 AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


Q-           Researched most relevant and available reports. Data extracted was correct
             but no analysis was preformed. Minor errors and typos were noted during
             data extraction.
U            Failed to research relevant and available reports. When reports were
             researched, extracted wrong data. Did not obtain most current SIGINT
             reports, did not look for updates to initial reporting
SIGNALS OF INTEREST
Q            SOI list is complete. Signal data is correct and spreadsheet is usable by MPC
             with no questions.
Q-           SOI list is complete with minor errors and corrections required. SOI is usable
             by MPC but questions are required for clarification
U            SOI is incorrect and/or incomplete. Major errors with signal data and clearly
             identifiable target intel gaps. Products is unusable by MPC.
C3 DIAGRAMS
Q            Functional and geographical links and nodes are correct. Listed complete
             criticality rating for each node and link. Provided analysis and vulnerabilities
             for each node and link
Q-           Functional and geographical links and nodes have minor errors. Criticality
             rankings have minor errors. Provided limited analysis and vulnerabilities for
             each node and link, still requires additional research
U            Functional and geographical links and nodes incorrect. No criticality
             rankings assigned. Limited analysis or vulnerabilities provided for diagrams.
C3 TARGET NOMINATION LIST
Q            No errors in TNL. All targets are properly identified and justification is
             provided for individual targets. All mission requirements are addressed by
             nominated targets
Q-           Minor errors in TNL. All targets are properly identified but justification is
             not complete or through. Does not meet all mission requirements
U            Major errors in TNL. Targets nominated do not meet mission requirements,
             no justifications have been provided.
C3 ANALYSIS BRIEFING
Q            Briefing effectively organized and professionally presented in a logical
             sequence. Effective use of visual aids. Concise yet thorough. Appropriate
             level of detail, covered all applicable items IAW checklist. Demonstrated
             ability to identify gaps in information and glean relevant data through a clear
             understanding of research methods and sources. Identified rationale for target
             selection and how it meets mission objectives. Demonstrated understanding
             of capabilities and limitations of COMPASS CALL.
Q-           Presentation somewhat lacking in quality but all required areas were covered.
             Minor omissions, recovered when prompted, no significant impact on
             mission. Needs improvement in organization or delivery. Briefing hard to
             follow, somewhat redundant. Provided extraneous information.
U            Failed to use checklist. Poorly organized, confusing. Major gaps in
             information. Unable to conduct basic research; lack of analytical ability.
             Unable to recover with prompting. Poor understanding of capabilities and
             limitations of unit assets and/or the impact information may have on the
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                            17


             mission. Fabricated information. Incorrect classification.
 CCATT MISSION CREW DEBRIEFING
 Q           Thoroughly prepared and was able to extract pertinent mission results in
             timely manner. Assembled and brought requisite materials for use to the
             debriefing. Quickly identified perishable information and ensured prompt
             dissemination as applicable. Controlled the debriefing, asked amplifying
             questions and recognized irrelevant information. Collected all significant
             intelligence with sufficient detail to accomplish reporting requirements IAW
             checklists and theater directives. Correctly annotated event log. Identified
             significant events. Correct classification/security markings on all products.
 Q-          Somewhat redundant in questions or failed to ask some amplifying questions
             that would have enhanced detail of information gathered.
 U           Failed to use checklist. Not prepared. Disjointed flow. Failed to identify
             perishable information. Completely missed debrief. Not enough detail to
             accomplish reporting requirements.
3.3. Specialized Evaluation Criteria. The evaluation criteria in Tables 3.3 and 3.4 apply to
tasks associated with the duty positions in which personnel maintain specialized qualifications.

Table 3.2. External Intelligence Training Trainer Evaluation Criteria.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY - GENERAL
 Q     Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
       timely decisions, incorporated and met all objectives. Effectively fielded and
       accurately answered questions from audience. Demonstrated subject matter
       knowledge. Able to quickly retrieve answers/amplifying data from reference
       materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
 Q-    Deficiencies in depth of knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, requirements,
       mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization of instruction.
       Did not adversely affect training.
 U     Inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
       training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
       with procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain
       areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification.
 INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – THREAT SYSTEMS
 Q     Determined appropriate threat training requirements. Used AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide
       as the primary reference for training. Tailored threat training to the unit’s mission
       design series (MDS), mission specific requirements and appropriate audience (e.g.
       aircrews, security forces, etc). Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned
       training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from
       AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively
       fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to
       questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
       security markings on all products.
 Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
       deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
       requirements, mission or threats. Minor problems in communicating or organization
18                                                  AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


      of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide as the primary
      reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, mission or threats. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – COLLECTION AND REPORTING
Q     Determined appropriate collection and reporting training requirements. Included
      aircrew originated reports (in-flight report, etc.), intelligence-generated reports
      (MISREP, INTREP, etc.) and essential elements of information. Demonstrated
      ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3 and the
      appropriate theater reporting directive. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge.
      Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to
      questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or reporting directives. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not use appropriate theater reporting directive as the
      primary reference for training. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H
      Volume 3. Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly
      retrieve answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference
      materials. Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience.
      Did not plan training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected
      training. Unfamiliar with procedures, requirements, or reporting directives. Lack of
      knowledge in certain areas seriously detracted from instructor effectiveness.
      Incorrect classification and/or security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – VISUAL RECOGNITION
Q     Determined appropriate VR training requirements. Included enemy/adversary,
      friendly, and neutral aircraft, surface threat, ground equipment and naval vessel
      recognition features. Incorporated all aspects/angles, theater-specific paint
      schemes/fin flashes, and various configurations along with the name or numerical
      designator of all enemy/blue/gray weapons systems presented. Demonstrated ability
      to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions,
      incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3. Demonstrated
      subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly
      retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct
      classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                            19


      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or items to include in training. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3.
      Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
      answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
      Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
      training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
      with procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
      seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – PERSONNEL RECOVERY
Q     Determined appropriate PR training requirements. Coordinated with tactics, aircrew
      flight equipment (AFE) and survival, evasion, resistance and escape (SERE)
      personnel. Provided academic instruction on PR operational support processes.
      Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively. Planned training efficiently and made
      timely decisions, incorporated all applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume
      3. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge. Effectively fielded, accurately answered
      and/or quickly retrieved answers to questions/amplifying data from reference
      materials. Correct classification and security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or coordination process. Minor problems in communicating or
      organization of instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
      answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
U     Inaccurate information. Did not coordinate with tactics, AFE and SERE personnel.
      Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3. Lack of subject matter
      knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve answers to
      questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials. Overall inability
      to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan training
      efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar with
      procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
      detracted from instructor effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.
INSTRUCTIONAL ABILITY – FORCE PROTECTION INTELLIGENCE
Q     Determined appropriate FPI training requirements. Included intelligence principles
      and procedures for FPI; summary of hostile forces in AOR and other hot spot areas;
      examples of hostile forces’ tactics and weapons employment; FPI resources; terrorist
      threat levels; and unit FPI considerations. Demonstrated ability to instruct effectively.
      Planned training efficiently and made timely decisions, incorporated all applicable
      items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3. Demonstrated subject matter knowledge.
      Effectively fielded, accurately answered and/or quickly retrieved answers to
      questions/amplifying data from reference materials. Correct classification and
      security markings on all products.
Q-    Information correct, but not effectively tailored to the specific audience. Small
      deficiencies in subject matter knowledge, comprehension of unit procedures, training
      requirements or FPI resources. Minor problems in communicating or organization of
 20                                                 AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


         instruction. Somewhat slow in fielding, answering and/or retrieving
         answers/amplifying data. Did not adversely affect training.
 U       Inaccurate information. Missed applicable items from AFI 14-2EC-130H Volume 3.
         Lack of subject matter knowledge. Could not field, answer or correctly retrieve
         answers to questions/amplifying data. Used inappropriate reference materials.
         Overall inability to effectively communicate instruction to the audience. Did not plan
         training efficiently. Made poor decisions that adversely affected training. Unfamiliar
         with procedures, requirements, or sources. Lack of knowledge in certain areas
         seriously detracted from effectiveness. Incorrect classification/security markings.

Table 3.3. Intelligence Evaluator Evaluation Criteria.
 INTELLIGENCE EVALUATOR PROFICIENCY
 Q      Demonstrated ability to evaluate effectively. Planned evaluation efficiently and made
        timely decisions, incorporated all objectives. Displayed thorough knowledge of
        evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation documentation preparation.
        Completed appropriate evaluation records accurately. Adequately assessed and
        recorded performance. Comments were clear and pertinent. Correct classification
        and security markings on all products.
 Q-     Deficiencies in depth of knowledge regarding unit procedures, evaluation
        requirements or documentation. Minor problems in communicating or organization
        of evaluation. Did not adversely affect the evaluation. Minor errors or omissions in
        evaluation records. Comments were incomplete or slightly unclear.
 U      Inability to effectively communicate evaluation procedures to the examinee. Did not
        plan evaluation efficiently and/or made poor decisions that adversely affected the
        evaluation process. Unfamiliar with evaluation criteria, grading procedures and
        evaluation documentation preparation. Lack of knowledge in certain areas seriously
        detracted from evaluator effectiveness. Did not complete required forms or records.
        Comments were invalid, unclear, or did not accurately document performance.
        Incorrect classification.




                                           Larry D. James, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance,
                                           and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012                                                        21


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-2EC-130H, Volume 2, EC-130H Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, 7 September 2010
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection, 4 May 2012
AFI 14-124, Predictive Battlespace Awareness, 25 November 2008
AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 1, EC-130H COMPASS CALL Unit Intelligence Training,
28 November 2012
AFI 14-2EC-130H, Volume 3, EC-130H Unit Intelligence Procedures, 28 November 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-205, Geospatial Information and Services, 5 May 2010
AFI 16-1301, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) Program, 6 September 2006
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 10 July 2010 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.EC-130H, Tactical Employment—EC-130H, 17 December 2010 (S)
FM 1-02, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 04
MIL STD 2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology, 17 November 2008
FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics, 21 September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 4349, Record of Intelligence Evaluation, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4350, Certificate of Intelligence Qualification, 10 March 2008
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet, 10 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2—Directorate of Intelligence
ACC—Air Combat Command
 22                                                 AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012


ACO—Airspace Control Order
AF—Air Force
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATO—Air Tasking Order
C3—Command, Control, and Communications
CCATT—COMPASS CALL Analysis and Targeting Team
EIT—External Intelligence Trainer
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MISREP—Mission Report
MPC—Mission Planning Cell
MQF—Master Question File
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
OB—Order of Battle
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RSTA—Reconnaissance, Surveillance and Target Acquisition
AFI14-2EC-130HV2 28 November 2012               23


SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SOI—Signal of Interest
SPINS—Special Instructions
TNL—Target Nomination List
USAF—United States Air Force
VR—Visual Recognition
