Administrative Changes to AFI 14-205 Check List-1, Geospatial Information and Services

OPR: HQ USAF/A2CG

References to AF/A2CF should be changed to AF/A2CG throughout the publication.

Reference to Certifying Official Brig. Gen. Blair Hansen should be changed to Brig. Gen. Robert
P. Otto.

Reference to AFI 14-126, Target Coordinate Mensuration Training, Qualification and
Certification, 16 Nov 09, should be added to Para. A2.5.14

Reference to AF/A7CI GeoBase function should be changed AF/A7CI Installation GI&S.




1 June 2010
BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-205
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       CHECK LIST-1
                                                                                       28 MARCH 2008

                                                                                             Intelligence

                                                    GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION AND SERVICES
                                                                      (GI&S)/CHECKLISTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil (will convert to
                       www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2CF                                           Certified by: AF/A2C, (Brig. Gen. Blair Hansen)
                                                                                            Pages: 11

This Checklist is developed to support Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-205, Geospatial Information & Ser-
vices. The checklist reflects the frame-work for Air Force requirements for standardization of Geospatial
Information & Services (GI&S) inputs to developing systems under the structure of AFI 14-111, Intelli-
gence in Force Modernization. It also reflects the need for adequacy of GI&S critical requirements as
expressed by the Air Force Inspection Agency’s, Targeting Accuracy Requirements Allocation (TARA)
Eagle Look, (EL) PN06-503, Oct 2006. This checklist covers targeting concerns directly related to GI&S.
Other targeting concerns are covered under the purview of AFI 14-117, Air Force Targeting. AF/A2CF
will validate Air Force GI&S requirements for those GI&S aspects listed as the purview of AF/A2CF per
AFI 14-205, and in accordance with the guidance for the identification and prioritization of GI&S require-
ments as stated in CJCSI 3901.01B, Requirements for Geospatial Information and Services, 15 Jul 2004.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363) Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Pri-
mary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. This publication also applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG) units.

1. Purpose and background: This publication is designed to support the GI&S engineering analysis of
warfighting capability requirements for the purpose of determining, developing and applying the most
appropriate GI&S solutions. The users of this checklist are members of the Air Force requirements and
planning communities and are concerned with operational capabilities. System-level requirements belong
to the System Program Office (SPO) and are not part of this checklist. Operational capability require-
ments must be addressed early, during concept development, and changed throughout the system
2                                                                     AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008


life-cycle process to ensure continued mission success. Systems of interest are defined as weapons,
weapon systems, and Automated Information Systems (AIS).
    1.1. For new warfighting capabilities, it is important to identify new GI&S needs during the Concept
    Development phase of the acquisition process; but definitely no later than Milestone B. Early identifi-
    cation of GI&S requirements during system engineering analysis can: have a profound impact on the
    design, development, testing and performance of a weapon system; and provide the intelligence pro-
    duction community adequate lead time to develop a new GI&S product or capability without impact
    to the program or technology development cost, schedule and performance; and support comprehen-
    sive system of systems analysis to ensure GI&S data standardization and interoperability functionality
    across interfacing systems. The identification and documentation of GI&S requirements across the
    system life-cycle may be reflected in a variety of program and planning documents including the sys-
    tem specification, Life-Cycle Management Plan, Risk Management Plan, Test and Evaluation Master
    Plan, cost and manpower estimates, Requests for Proposal (RFP) and Statements of Work (SOW).
    1.2. In this checklist, some consideration has been given to new digital sources of National Geospa-
    tial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) future programs; however it is expected that the checklist will change
    as those programs mature and more facts are known.
    1.3. The JCS definition of GI&S is the collection, information extraction, storage, dissemination and
    exploitation of geodetic, geomagnetic, imagery, gravimetric, aeronautical, topographic, hydrographic,
    littoral, cultural and toponymic data accurately referenced to a precise location on the earth’s surface.
    GI&S, along with imagery and imagery intelligence, comprise the national level discipline known as
    Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT).
    1.4. GEOINT derived products/data are the products/data resulting from the convergence of GI&S,
    imagery and imagery intelligence. The term GI&S, formerly known as Mapping, Charting and Geod-
    esy, continues to include orthorectified imagery based geospatial products, [e.g. Controlled Image
    Base, (CIB®)], but not imagery intelligence and other intelligence. GI&S is the representation of
    accurate, attributed, geo-referenced data and information, arranged to describe, assess, and visually
    depict physical features and geographically referenced activities on earth in support of Air Force
    missions. It also includes the related Geodesy and Geophysical (G&G) disciplines. The GI&S disci-
    pline is addressed in AFI 14-205. Other GEOINT components are addressed separately.
    1.5. This checklist will primarily be used when preparing functional, operational capabilities oriented
    GI&S requirements documentation. The checklist can also be used in the systems engineering, risk
    assessment, cost/manpower estimate, and contract preparation processes when a variety of key pro-
    gram documents are being prepared. The checklist will have focus as part of the intelligence infra-
    structure/supportability analysis process for new systems and technologies as directed by AFI 14-111.
    However it has value to be used when checking existing system documentation or updating legacy
    systems with new technology. The systems used for requirements generation, such as the Information
    and Resource Support System (IRSS) or other requirements management systems, will generally be
    used to pass and manage the requirements information. When questions are raised during any of these
    reviews, they should be submitted through command intelligence channels to AF/A2CF for resolution
    and validation.
    1.6. Following is an example of checklist usage. HQ ACC, or other AF MAJCOM, is drafting docu-
    mentation to define an operational capability, which will later be translated to system-level require-
    ments by AFMC. If the capability could be dependent upon one or more GI&S data/product inputs,
AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008                                                                             3


   the requirement drafter should use the checklist to make sure all applicable options are considered and
   ensure the requirement meets the standard for critical GI&S information. If questions arise, the writer
   will consult the MAJCOM GI&S office and go through the chain of command to AF/A2CF, as neces-
   sary. It is understood that most GI&S requirements supporting capability/system development will be
   generated during Research, Development, Test, Evaluation and Sustainment activities executed within
   AFMC. The use of this checklist at AFMC is critical to ensuring the proper design, development,
   delivery and maintenance of GI&S products meet the complex GI&S exploitation requirements of the
   AFMC weapon system development community. The final validation authority for all GI&S related
   capabilities and requirements rests with AF/A2CF.

2. Highlights and tenets of GI&S requirements:
   2.1. Generation of target coordinates for Coordinate Seeking Weapons (CSW) will be detailed in a
   future AF checklist in this series.
   2.2. Ensure all software used with standard NGA products and data is NGA certified. Use of
   approved Government-Off-The-Shelf/Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (GOTS/COTS) is mandatory [ e.g.
   Commercial Joint Mapping Tool Kit, (CJMTK) Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI)-FalconView,
   (FV) Geographic Translator (GEOTRANS) and other mission planning or operational related offer-
   ings].
   2.3. Ensure use of all geospatial products and data produced outside of NGA and AF is authorized by
   Air Staff or the appropriate Combatant Command (COCOM).
   2.4. Ensure systems are developed to the extent possible to use standard GI&S data that does not
   require transformation of data for both economy and interoperability. If transformations are not avoid-
   able, ensure they do not impact data fidelity and are made using certified software.
   2.5. Ensure critical/precision measurements are only made from original GI&S products and not
   reproduced copy.
   2.6. Ensure geopositioning software usage is in accordance with AFI 14-205. If Digital Point Posi-
   tioning Data Base (DPPDB) coverage does not exist, request support from NGA, through organiza-
   tional channels. Use Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) to find definitions and
   further information related to GI&S and targeting at:
   http://www.geoint.nga.smil.mil/programs/validation /definitions.html.
   2.7. To learn more about targeting data mensuration, on SIPRNET go to:
   http://www.geoint.nga.smil.mil/programs/ngapoints/precise/nga_ce_leguidance.html
   2.8. Ensure use of World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS84) as the standard Department of Defense
   (DoD) reference system datum. Refer to CJCSI 3900.01B, Position Reference Procedures. If WGS84
   is not possible, NGA software must be used to transform datums and grids. When operating in a
   COCOM area where WGS84 is not available, the COCOM commander will prescribe the interopera-
   ble datum to be used. See: http://www.nga.smil.mil/products /gandg/geotrans/
   2.9. The Navigation Plan (NAVPLAN) series charts used in mission planning is, on the average, 20
   years old. Actual cultural features may not look as they do on the Compressed Arc Digitized Raster
   Graphics (CADRG)-NAVPLAN charts. It is critical that any replacement for the NAVPLAN series
   not sacrifice current aeronautical specifications to the detriment of flight.
4                                                                  AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008


    2.10. Most current vertical obstructions are not considered accurate to Air Force specification and
    navigation allowances must be made accordingly.
    2.11. State actual requirements to drive systems to maximum efficiency rather than requesting infe-
    rior data only because of availability.

3. Checklist for GI&S operational capability requirement establishment:
The checklist in Attachment 2 provides a step by step process to be used by all levels establishing GI&S
operational capability requirements for all new systems under development as well as systems being
upgraded. The checklist can be used in conjunction with AF Form 2519, 11 May 07, All Purpose Check-
list, to record the answers to each checklist item. Follow the instructions on the All Purpose Checklist
Form and use it as needed to document your input to the requirement. Recommendations for changes to
the checklist should be submitted to AF/A2CF.

4. Form Adopted:
AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist.



                                              DAVID A. DEPTULA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                              DCS/Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008                                     5


                                        Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AIS—Automated Information System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
CADRG—Compressed Arc Digitized Raster Graphics
CDD—Capability Development Document
CIB®—Controlled Image Base
CJMTK—Commercial Joint Mapping Tool Kit
COCOM—Combatant Command
COTS—Commercial-Off-The-Shelf
CPA—Cross-Program Analysis
CSW—Coordinate Seeking Weapons
DCGS—Distributed Common Ground System
DPPDB—Digital Point Positioning Data Base
DTED®—Digital Terrain Elevation Data
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EL—Eagle Look
FV—Falcon View
GBS—Global Broadcast System
GBU—Guided Bomb Unit
G&G—Geodesy and Geophysical
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GEOTRANS—Geographic Translator
GIS—Geographic Information System
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
GOTS—Government-Off-The-Shelf
6                                                              AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008


GPL—Geospatial Product Library
GTRI—Georgia Tech Research Institute
HAE—Height Above Ellipsoid
HRTi—High Resolution Terrain Information
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IFM—Intelligence in Force Modernization
IRSS—Information and Resource Support System
ISR—Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance
ISWG—Intelligence Support Working Group
IW—Intelligence Wing
JIVA-V—Joint Intelligence Virtual Architecture-Visualization
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSL—Mean Sea level
NAVPLAN—Navigation Planning
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDT&E—Research Development Test and Evaluation
RFP—Requests for Proposal
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SON—Safety of Navigation
SOW—Statement of Work
SPO—System Program Office
SRTM—Shuttle Radar Topography Mission
TARA—Targeting Accuracy Requirements Allocation
TEM—Technical Exchange Meeting
TM—Target Material
WGS—World Geodetic System
AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008                                                                               7


                                              Attachment 2

  GI&S REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW SYSTEMS UNDER DEVELOPMENT AND EXISTING
                       SYSTEMS BEING UPGRADED

A2.1. Existing capability/requirement review: If the need arises to review an existing system where
requirements documentation already exists in any approved form, such as Initial Capabilities Documents
(ICD), Capabilities Development Documents (CDD), Capability Production Document (CPD), System
Specification, etc., the GI&S analysis should, as a minimum, address the following questions:
   A2.1.1. What subsystems require geospatial data?
   A2.1.2. Are any GI&S terms used? Perform document word searches for: geospatial, geographic,
   Geographic Information System, GEOINT, GI&S, GIS, map, chart, geodesy, geodetic, geophysical,
   geophysics, NGA, point positioning, imagery, (for imagery based geospatial) georectified, georefer-
   enced, coordinates, datum, targeting, grid, elevation data, ellipsoid, gravity, 480IW, WGS84, WGS,
   UTM, INS.
   A2.1.3. Does the use of a GI&S term relate to a GI&S requirement? Analyze word search results for
   GI&S requirements. Understand the purpose and goals of the existing system. Correct and amplify
   requirement as necessary using the following questions to ensure all relevant information is included.

A2.2. To develop a new operational capability using GI&S: Understand the purpose of the system being
developed by reviewing the system’s CONOPS, Analysis of Alternatives report, or similar document.
Conduct a mission decomposition to determine key mission areas and any requisite geospatial inputs/out-
puts. Some early questions include: What is/are the key mission(s) supported by the system? What func-
tions does the weapon, weapon system or AIS support? Who are the end users? Must the system supply
Essential Elements of Information (EEI) derived from or related to the GI&S inputs? Is there an intelli-
gence function or customer receiving input from the system?
   A2.2.1. Ensure program or technology is following the guidance of AFI 14-111, and AFMC/A2 man-
   agement of Acquisition Intelligence Processes, e.g. Intelligence Support Working Groups (ISWG),
   Technical Exchange Meetings (TEM), and Cross- Program Analysis. Ensure program is conducting
   GI&S analysis in other acquisition processes such as systems engineering, risk analysis/management,
   test and evaluation planning, and cost and manpower estimates. Also ensure that documented require-
   ments are consistent regardless of location.
   A2.2.2. It is not expected that the requirement writer will have an in-depth background in geospatial
   sciences; consequently, clarification should be requested through channels as may be necessary.

A2.3. What is/are the GI&S input(s) to the system (i.e., data, products, digital or hardcopy formats, vari-
ous media)? Perform analysis to ensure the latest and best standard geospatial data and products are being
used in support of the functions served. Consider facts such as update cycles (timeliness) accuracy factors,
readability related to colors and lighting, input availability/distribution at various levels of command and
geographic areas where coverage is needed, storage within the Geospatial Product Library (GPL) data
structure, scales, resolution and any relevant factors in the remaining checklist questions. Make sure any
standard products selected are not on any current NGA “Sunset” or “Soon to be obsolete” lists. Answer
the following:
8                                                                   AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008


    A2.3.1. Is/are data/product format(s) compatible with system interface requirements?
    If applicable, ensure the requirement specifies the GI&S related interface need.
    A2.3.2. Will system software properly manipulate geospatial information? Has output been verified
    to ensure no change to basic accuracy is caused by the software? If necessary, request assistance
    through normal channels.
    A2.3.3. Does the requirement state needs for transformation to new NGA feature based map/chart
    environment when NGA production modernization programs are implemented? If so, state that future
    system changes will be necessary to go from legacy GI&S data/products to the new feature based dig-
    ital programs.
    A2.3.4. What is/are the source of the input(s)? Examples would be NGA, USAF production, etc. If
    sources are other than NGA such as native maps or Canadian maps and charts, have Air Staff waivers
    been secured?
    A2.3.5. Are there any proprietary components resulting from vendors actions to repackage and con-
    trol standard products and data? When in doubt, seek assistance through normal channels, and ensure
    standard, non-proprietary NGA data is instead used where possible.

A2.4. Are any GI&S related materials, such as Target Materials ™ or imagery required? The term
GEOINT covers materials outside of the USAF definition of GI&S. GEOINT components such as imag-
ery and imagery intelligence should be cross-referenced.

A2.5. Are geodetic or precise coordinates used by the system?
    A2.5.1. Is the source for coordinate derivation DPPDB? If another source, has approval been
    received?
    A2.5.2. Is use of NGA point positioning support needed? If so, contact AF/A2CF via the GI&S chain
    of command.
    A2.5.3. Is specialized software required for obtaining precise points? Is it approved?
    A2.5.4. Is the new system used for Targeting? If so, reflect the fact in the requirement and perform
    analysis for accuracies to meet specific targeting requirements.
    A2.5.5. If CSW are to be supported, request information from AF/A2CF through the chain of com-
    mand concerning status of the CSW checklist currently in development.
    A2.5.6. Is GI&S data stored on airborne platforms used for coordinate derivation? If so, ensure entire
    data extraction and loading processes are outlined in detail.
    A2.5.7. Have links in the requirements verbiage been made to applicable sensor models? If so, spec-
    ify.
    A2.5.8. If coordinate transformation is applicable, ensure NGA GEOTRANS is used to conduct the
    transformation.
    A2.5.9. What are the relationships of this system to systems acquiring, processing and passing the
    information, (e.g., Distributed Common Ground System and Air and Space Operations Center (AOC)
    weapon systems)? Do these relationships lead to any derived requirements? For example, tailoring
    data and information to better meet other systems’ formats and requirements.
AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008                                                                               9


   A2.5.10. If known, identify the potential similarities of source data input for this system to similar
   platforms, (e.g. the F-22A need for elevation data as might be related to the same general need by the
   Joint Strike Fighter or C-130 programs). Are any economies of effort possible from cross-program
   analysis?
   A2.5.11. What are the relationships of this requirement to specific weapon requirements, (e.g. Guided
   Bomb Unit, GBU-31)? Are there any derived requirements?
   A2.5.12. Has a requirement for Height Above Ellipsoid (HAE) and/or Mean Sea Level (MSL) been
   identified?
   A2.5.13. What type of elevation data best serves this system? Have: Shuttle Radar Topography Mis-
   sion (SRTM); various Digital Terrain Elevation Data (DTED®); High Resolution Terrain Data (HRTi)
   levels; DPPDB and stereo derived elevation data been considered?
   A2.5.14. Does precise coordinate generation require training and certification? (See AFI 14-105, Unit
   Intelligence Mission and Responsibilities, 3 Jun 02). Note: AFI 14-105 is due to be replaced by AFI
   14-202.

A2.6. Is WGS 84 specified in the requirement? If another datum is to be used, check the authorization and
ensure NGA validated GEOTRANS is used for any transformations of datum or grids. No other methods
are authorized. Note that use of WGS 84 is strongly recommended by CJCSI 3900.01B and AFI 14-205.

A2.7. What scale or resolution levels are required by this system? Can they be met by existing data/prod-
uct sources? Regardless of product/data availability, if the mission requires specific scales, state them in
the requirement. For the future GI&S environment, relate legacy products to feature data density levels.
(See #13 below)

A2.8. It is necessary to understand the accuracies and limitations of the legacy products. If legacy prod-
ucts are outdated, and system/mission profile has the need for the latest data, including Vertical Obstruc-
tions, can the mission material be augmented by imagery sources such as special CIB® production and/or
any future feature data available at the proper densities? (See # 13 below). Regardless of data and product
availability, state actual requirements to drive the system to maximum efficiency in the future.

A2.9. Is age of information or specific timeliness required and specified in the requirement? If so, spec-
ify.

A2.10. Are there specialized mission planning system considerations? Describe relationships to mission
planning (i.e., are mission planning systems serving this system capable of ingesting all required data,
including data from future NGA programs)?

A2.11. Are there any relationships to “standard” GI&S and GIS software applications for visualization
and manipulation of GI&S data and products, (e.g. CJMTK)? Does the new system have a need to change
or add requirements to specific software programs? Are other GIS packages used with this system? Notify
AF/A2CF of any new GIS application requirements.
10                                                                    AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008


A2.12. Are accuracy requirements for the GI&S data and products specified in the requirement? Specific
accuracies are stated for most NGA and other products. If avionics or system components can use materi-
als with greater accuracy to enhance performance, those accuracies should be stated in the requirement.

A2.13. If applicable, state special needs for specific levels of emerging Foundation Data and Mission
Specific Data.
     A2.13.1. Low-density: (overview and initial planning 1:500K scale and smaller equivalent)
     A2.13.2. Medium-density: (operational planning, 1:250K scale equivalent).
     A2.13.3. High-density: (tactical operations, 1:100K to 1:50K scale equivalent).
     A2.13.4. Urban High-density: (special operations, disaster relief, 1:25K scale and larger equivalent).

A2.14. Is the geographic area of systems operations specified for translation into geospatial Area
Requirements, when applicable? Ensure the area requirement is submitted through the chain of command
to AF/A2CF for training and Research Development Test & Evaluation (RDT&E) purposes or appropri-
ate COCOM component when data is for use in supporting Operational Plan (OPLAN) commitments.

A2.15. To assist end users, state any special classification or caveats for GI&S material. This includes
program restrictions for mission planning and related systems. It also includes any special distribution
caveats, such as required by NGA bilateral country agreements and NGA “LIMITED DISTRIBUTION”
restrictions.

A2.16. Can the current USAF or future Joint/NGA GPL be used to supply the standard suite of materials
or specialized materials?
     A2.16.1. What are security restrictions for the GPL in the geographic/command environment of the
     system?
     A2.16.2. Can specialized communications such as Global Broadcast System (GBS) be used in this
     support?
     A2.16.3. Make note of frequency of updates required for GPL based information and any other
     sources.
     A2.16.4. Are there any systems/architectures outside of GPL that are required to store and dissemi-
     nate inputs for this system, (e.g. Joint Intelligence Virtual Architecture-Visualization (JIVA-V) etc.)?

A2.17. If GPL is not used, are there specialized distribution networks required for input of geospatial
information, or will standard Defense Logistics Agency distribution support fulfill the need?

A2.18. What are the digital data formats required by the system? Are formats compatible with current
NGA formats and future direction for this material? Every effort should be made to ensure the system
uses standard NGA geospatial data to ensure interoperability and compatibility in operational architec-
tures.

A2.19. If the system produces GI&S data/updates for “upstream” dissemination, are formats specified
and compatible with current geospatial standards?
AFI14-205CL-1 28 MARCH 2008                                                                             11


A2.20. Is special seasonal coverage or any other special attribute to standard geospatial data and products
specified? For example, is seasonal CIB® coverage required?

A2.21. Are there any softcopy or special digital formats required, such as data compression, etc?

A2.22. Are there any Geodesy or Geophysical relationships such as those requiring specialized surveys
to conduct unmanned vehicle operations?

A2.23. Are there requirements for related geospatial materials outside of AF/A2CF responsibility such as
Evasion Charts, Flight Information Publications or Common Installation Picture information? If so, they
should be identified respectively to: Joint Personnel Recovery Agency, Air Force Flight Standards
Agency or AF/A7CI GeoBase function.

A2.24. Is a reproduction policy needed and stated? Are there reproduction restrictions for system output?

A2.25. Are special destruction procedures needed in addition to normal classification policy?

A2.26. Will any specialized geospatial training be needed? (See Para 5n above)

A2.27. Do contractors need access to geospatial data or products? Ensure the provisions of AFI 14-205,
Para 10.4.1 are adhered to.

A2.28. Will use of geospatial data by operating organizations necessitate manpower changes and/or levy
of additional training requirements?
