BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 13-201
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                     SUPPLEMENT

                                                                          1 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                    Certified Current 7 May 2012
                                                       Space, Missile, Command, and Control

                                                                AIRSPACE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A3BA                                             Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A3B
                                                                  (Col Howard A. Shrum, III)
                                                                                  Pages: 15

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 13-201, Airspace Management, 1
December 2006. It prescribes responsibilities and procedures for developing, coordinating, and
managing airspace. It provides guidance for compliance with the environmental impact analysis
process. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command
units and personnel.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of the
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located on the Air Force Portal under the Air Force Information Management
System (AFRIMS).

1.1.1. (Added) Flight Operations/Training. Conduct flight operations/training only in
appropriate SUA/ASU unless authorized by HQ AFGSC/A3. Agencies planning to use
SUA/ASU must be familiar with special procedures/requirements detailed in LOAs/LOPs.
1.2.3.2.1. (Added) HQ ACC/A3BA will provide AFGSC/CC with subject matter expertise and
advice on airspace initiatives.
1.2.3.2.2. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3BA will provide guidance to NAFs/DRUs/Units on DoD,
FAA, USAF airspace policies
2                                              AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


1.2.3.18.1. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3BA is the point of contact for the coordination and
investigation of alleged FAR violations involving AFGSC assets.
1.2.3.23. (Added) The ACC Airspace and Range Conference may be used as a vehicle to
develop AFGSC’s position on various airspace matters.
1.2.3.24. (Added) HQ AFGSC/A3B will coordinate responses to Congressional/SECAF
inquiries/noise complaints.
1.2.3.25. (Added) HQ ACC/A3AA through coordination with HQ AFGSC/A3BA will conduct
Staff Assistance Visits of the unit airspace management function in conjunction with the Air
Traffic Systems Evaluation Program (ATSEP).
1.2.4. (Added) Unit Airspace Manager Responsibilities. Each unit utilizing military airspace
will:
1.2.4.1. (Added) Appoint an airspace manager to serve as the OG/CC point of contact for
airspace issues. Place an appointment letter on file stating accomplishment of the required
training program. Airspace managers are responsible for initiating, processing, monitoring, and
implementing airspace actions/proposals and managing their programs IAW AFI 13-201 and this
Supplement.
1.2.4.2. (Added) Coordinate airspace management activities within their areas of responsibility.
1.2.4.3. (Added) Ensure airspace is used IAW official publications or written agreements.
1.2.4.4. (Added) Ensure assigned aircrews are aware of the DoD speed exemption to FAR
91.117 (Appendix 18, FAAO 7610.4).
1.2.4.5. (Added) Become familiar with all command policies and standards concerning airspace
dimensions.
1.2.4.6. (Added) Become familiar with command and AF policies regarding the preparation of a
Test/ Training Space Needs Statement (T/TSNS) according to AFI 13-201, Chapter 3, for
airspace actions.
1.2.4.7. (Added) Provide HQ AFGSC/A3B and the AFREP with details of any proposed change
in military airspace.
1.2.4.8. (Added) Ensure military airspace utilization data is documented, forwarded, and
maintained IAW this supplement.
1.2.4.8.1. (Added) Retain utilization information on Restricted Areas, MOAs, Air Traffic
Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA), and Military Training Routes (MTRs) for two (2) years
IAW USAF Records Disposition Schedule Table 13-4 rule 4 Exception: Retain data that reflects
an adverse trend for 5 years.
1.2.4.8.2. (Added) The following is the minimum utilization information to be maintained on
each sortie-operation:
    - Aircraft call sign
    - Number and type of aircraft
    - Name of airspace
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                           3


   - Airspace activation time
   - Airspace scheduled entry and exit time
   - Airspace actual entry and exit time
1.2.4.9. (Added) Accomplish SUA utilization reports according to FAAO 7400.2, Procedures
for Handling Airspace Matters (does not apply in areas outside FAA jurisdiction) and submit to
HQ AFGSC/A3BA IAW applicable suspense and procedures.
1.2.4.10. (Added) Become familiar with all directives referenced by this supplement.
1.2.4.11. (Added) Ensure airspace proposals are validated, coordinated with local agencies,
properly formatted and submitted to HQ AFGSC/A3B for processing.
1.2.4.12. (Added) Ensure LOAs are accomplished IAW guidance provided in this supplement.
1.2.4.13. (Added) Ensure procedures established for the development of airspace proposals/
assignments in areas outside FAA jurisdiction are developed and coordinated under international
procedures and practices IAW ICAO region or host nation.
1.2.4.14. (Added) Ensure adequate personnel are assigned to support the airspace management
program. Military members will be awarded the SEI OUL/350 after completion of the USAF
Airspace Management School and six (6) consecutive months of work experience; N/A for
GS/GM positions.
1.2.4.15. (Added) Evaluate effectiveness of existing airspace and, if inadequate, initiate
appropriate airspace actions.
1.2.4.16. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager is a member of the Base Environment, Safety,
and Occupational Health (ESOH) Leadership Council, and Base Airfield Operations Board
(AOB).
1.2.4.17. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager participates in the Mid-Air Collision Avoidance
(MACA) programs IAW AFI 91-202.
1.2.4.18. (Added) Ensure unit officials are knowledgeable of airspace issues that may affect
operations.
1.2.4.19. (Added) Ensure procedures are in place so appropriate LOA/LOP/airspace briefings
are conducted during the scheduling process for users not assigned to the local flying unit.
1.2.4.20. (Added) Ensure assigned aircrews are knowledgeable of airspace requirements
specified in airspace LOAs/LOPs.
1.2.4.21. (Added) Ensure the host wing/unit airspace manager is the focal point for airspace
utilization by tenant units.
1.2.4.22. (Added) Investigate alleged violations to Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs),
airspace spill-outs, airspace intrusions, gross navigational errors, Congressional inquiries, and
noise complaints.
1.2.4.23. (Added) Keep Low Altitude Tactical Navigation Area documentation on file at the unit
level IAW USAF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), Table 13-4 rule 4. Each file will include
the environmental documentation IAW Title 32, Code of Federal Regulation (CFR), Part 989,
4                                              AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


The Environmental Impact analysis Process.
1.2.4.24. (Added) Send Slow Speed Low Altitude Training Route proposals to HQ AFGSC/A3B
using FAA
Form 7110-4. FAA coordination is not required. Keep route documentation on file at the unit
level in accordance with USAF RDS Table 13-4 rule 4. Each file will include environmental
documentation IAW Title 32, CFR, Part 989.
1.2.4.25. (Added) Establish procedures governing the temporary closure of MTRs IAW FAA
Order 7610.4. Address procedures to notify appropriate aircrews and agencies as required (e.g.,
air traffic control, command post, base operations, weather, etc.) to close and open routes in a
timely manner.
1.2.4.26. (Added) Ensure the airspace manager is the focal point for compiling airspace, range,
scoring site data (contact information) to update FLIP AP1/B.
1.2.4.27. (Added) Review all applicable environmental decision documents each year and
ensure that training operations are in compliance with paragraph 7.12. (Added) environmental
analyses requirement (i.e., chaff, flares, weapons, and supersonic operations).
1.2.4.28. (Added) Maintain a copy of the HQ ACC Airspace Master Plan.
1.3.3. Commanders wishing to exempt their unit from council participation must notify HQ
AFGSC/A3B prior to notifying the council chairperson and AFREP.
1.3.3.1.1. (Added) Units planning to present a concept for new or modified test/training airspace
at a regional council meeting must coordinate their presentation with HQ AFGSC/A3BA NLT
one week prior to the meeting date.
1.3.3.2.1. (Added) Airspace managers attending their respective regional management session
will present a short briefing (approximately five minutes) on their typical flight operations,
training requirements, areas commonly overflown, and issues being worked to include current
airspace. Units will coordinate this briefing with HQ AFGSC/A3BA NLT one week prior to the
meeting.
1.3.3.2.2. (Added) Unit airspace managers that are unable to attend their respective regional
session meeting will provide HQ AFGSC/A3BA with a short power-point presentation
(approximately five minutes) on their typical flight operations, training requirements, areas
commonly overflown, and issues being worked to include current airspace. The HQ
AFGSC/A3BA representative attending the meeting will make the presentation.
1.3.3.2.2.1. (Added) ARC memberships at the unit level will consist of, as a minimum,
representatives from operations, environmental, legal, and public affairs. A senior officer,
normally the unit Operations Group commander or equivalent, will chair the ARC.
1.3.3.2.2.2. (Added) Low Altitude Tactical Navigation (LATN) Area Development. LATN areas
are developed for aircraft that normally operate at airspeed of 250 knots or less. LATN areas
should provide pilots with a varying degree of geographical landmarks for navigation,
reconnaissance, low altitude equipment operation/analysis, etc. LATN areas shall, to the
maximum extent possible, include a land mass that will allow aircraft to operate all appropriate
aircraft systems to meet mission requirements and encompass a variety of ground tracks to
ensure that the same ground track is not used on a recurring (daily) basis.
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            5


2.2.3.1. (Added) LATN areas shall normally be established at or below 1500 AGL.
2.2.3.2. (Added) Compliance with all applicable FARs is mandatory. The avoidance of persons,
structures, and obstructions is paramount.
2.2.3.3. (Added) A Test and Training Space Need Statement (T/TSNS) will be initiated for each
new LATN area to be developed. Forward the T/TSNS and a map of the proposed LATN area to
HQ AFGSC/A3BA for evaluation and review. HQ AFGSC/A3BA will provide assistance as
required in the development of the LATN area. The unit’s OG is the approval authority for the
LATN once coordination is accomplished.
2.2.3.4. (Added) Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) documentation will be in
accordance with Title 32, CFR, Part 989. Environmental documentation shall be retained on file
by the proponent and updated as required to reflect current operations.
2.2.3.5. (Added) Documentation establishing LATN areas shall be kept on file by the proponent
in accordance with USAF RDS Table 13. A copy of the approved documentation and area chart
will be provided to HQ AFGSC/A3BA.
2.2.7.1.3.1. Failure to complete the evaluation in the prescribed time limits necessitates closing
the route unless waived by HQ AFGSC/A3B. Units will document and maintain route
evaluations.
2.2.7.1.3.4.1. (Added) Airspace manager should serve as observer on as many evaluation flights
as possible.
2.2.7.2.1.1. (Added) Use FAA Form 7110-4 to identify uncharted obstacles, for inclusion in the
Special Operating Procedures.
2.2.7.2.1.2. (Added) Uncharted obstructions above 200 AGL should be reported to the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) through HQ ACC/A3AA.
2.2.7.3.1. (Added) Route briefing guides’ route deconfliction procedures, special operating
procedures, and/or constraints that are not covered in the FLIP AP/1B.
2.2.7.3.2. (Added) Establish procedures to ensure opposite direction MTRs are not
simultaneously scheduled.
2.2.7.3.3. (Added) An MTR will be used only for those activities for which it was designed and
environmentally accessed.
2.2.8.1. (Added) Slow Speed Low Altitude Training Route (SR) Development. SR’s are
developed for aircraft that normally operate at airspeeds of 250 knots or less.
2.2.8.1.1. (Added) Altitudes and Corridors. SRs shall be established at or below 1500 AGL. SR
widths will be of sufficient size to encompass all planned activities required for the aircraft
training profile. Under no circumstances should the route be wider than 20 NMs.
2.2.8.1.2. (Added) Compliance with all applicable FARs is mandatory. The avoidance of
persons, structures, and obstructions is paramount.
2.2.8.1.3. (Added) Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) documentation will be in
accordance with Title 32, CFR, Part 989. Environmental documentation shall be retained on file
by the proponent and updated as required to reflect current operations.
6                                                AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


2.2.8.1.4. (Added) Documentation establishing SR will be accomplished using a FAA Form
7110-4. Maintain all documents in accordance with USAF RDS Table 13, rule-4.
2.3. (Added) Exercise Airspace. The coordination and or development of airspace to support
special events such as Field Training Exercises, Operational Readiness Inspections, Evaluations,
or Joint Chiefs of Staff Exercises may require the involvement of the unit, NAF, DRU and/or
MAJCOM airspace managers as trusted agents.
2.3.1. (Added) Develop temporary or modify existing airspace for exercises IAW FAAO 7610.4
and/or 7400.2. Use of exercise airspace may require environmental assessment. Conduct
exercise planning with sufficient lead time to meet FAA timelines to secure airspace approval
and notification.
2.4. (Added) Arming of Weapons. The arming of a weapon does not constitute a hazardous
activity because a separate and distinct action must be taken to release the weapon. Therefore, an
armed weapon is considered non-hazardous until the pilot makes a deliberate attempt to release
the weapon.
3.1.2. (Added) Processing Airspace Proposals. Prior to beginning an airspace proposal, unit
airspace managers should review the ACC Airspace Master Plan and contact HQ AFGSC/A3BA
to coordinate the proposal. The unit airspace manager must coordinate with the Airfield
Operations Flight Commander to ensure TERPS considerations are addressed.
3.1.2.1. (Added) Develop airspace proposals IAW the FAAO 7610.4 and/or FAAO 7400.2. Use
the current sectional chart, or full size printed facsimile of the current sectional chart, to depict
the airspace proposal. Submit the proposal through the chain of command to HQ AFGSC/A3BA.
3.1.3. (Added) The airspace management proponent must keep a copy of completed airspace
action (to include the applicable final environmental documentation) for historical records. See
USAF RDS, Table 13-4.
3.1.4. (Added) Development of SUA/ASU. Prior to initiating a new airspace proposal, examine
the suitability of existing SUA/ASU, the capacity of the airspace being examined to
accommodate projected requirements, and coordinate with local air traffic control (ATC)
agencies. Process changes in the same manner as new proposals.
3.5.1.1. (Added) The Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA) should include
all new/ additional flying activities proposed. These activities should be described in sufficient
detail to allow someone reviewing the document to understand the nature and extent of the
proposal. At a minimum, it should include all proposed flying activities, including type and
number of airframes, use rates by day (0700-2200L) and night (2200-0700L), sorties/sortie-
operations per month, and planned profiles (airspeeds and altitudes) to be flown. It should also
include airspace utilization (MOAs and MTRs) where training and proposed flight activities are
to be considered.
3.5.1.2. (Added) The DOPAA should address alternatives to the proposal. NEPA requires that
the environmental analysis include a no-action alternative along with reasonable alternatives to
the proposal. Reasonable alternatives are those that meet mission objectives. The DOPAA
should include all reasonable alternatives. Questions on preparation and content of AF Form 813
should be directed to the local environmental coordinator.
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                             7


3.7.3.1. (Added) Supersonic operations above 30,000 feet mean sea level (MSL), or over water
above 10,000 feet MSL and more than 15 nautical miles from land, may be conducted only after
environmental review in accordance with Title 32, CFR, Part 989 and approval by the
Operations Group Commander. Recurring supersonic operations above 30,000 feet MSL, or over
water as described above, should be documented on an AF Form 813, Request for
Environmental Impact Analysis.
3.7.4.3. (Added) Supersonic operations below 30,000 feet MSL require an environmental
assessment (at a minimum) and Air Staff approval IAW AFI 13-201. This pertains not only to
permanent operations, but also to temporary test/exercises involving supersonic speeds. The
DOPAA to establish/change supersonic flight areas/operations should arrive at HQ AFGSC/A3B
as early as possible prior to its anticipated need. The process to obtain a permanent waiver for
supersonic operations will take approximately 36 months. This will allow for HQ AFGSC/A3B
review and Air Staff review and approval. Proposed changes in supersonic operations due to a
change in unit assigned weapon system(s), or a change in tactics, must be environmentally
assessed prior to implementing the proposed change.
3.7.5.1. (Added) Units will submit a request for renewal to the appropriate civil engineering
activity at least 6 months prior to expiration of the approved 3-year period. Forward a copy of
the locally coordinated renewal request to HQ AFGSC/A3BA
3.7.7.1.1. (Added) Units will document all supersonic flight activities over land or within 15
NM of a coast. Information to be collected for each event will include as a minimum: aircraft
callsign, aircraft type, unit, airspace or location, time of event, altitude of event, and route of
flight. Documentation will be maintained for two years IAW USAF Records Disposition
Schedule Table 13-4 rule 4, Table 13-4. Retain data pertaining to property damage claims
investigation for 5 years.
3.8.4. (Added) Reviewing Special Use Airspace Assignments. Units will forward SUA Review
reports to HQ AFGSC/A3BA NLT 15 Feb each year. Unit airspace managers will maintain
current SUA/MTR review checklists. Maintain documentation for each piece of managed
airspace, to include any authorized changes in the original proposed usage, LOP/LOAs, and
environmental documentation in accordance with USAF RDS, Table 13-4. NOTE: Complete
SUA/MTR review checklists for Restricted Areas, Military Operating Area (MOAs), Air Traffic
Control Assigned Airspace (ATCAA), Instrument Routes (IRs), and Visual Routes (VRs) (AFI
13-201, Attachment 4).
3.8.4.1. (Added) The unit Operations Group Commander will sign out the correspondence.
3.8.4.2. (Added) Participation in Public Meetings. Subordinate units will advise HQ
AFGSC/A3BA of requests to participate in public meetings involving airspace/environmental
issues. Airspace management representatives must ensure their personal comments are not
construed as HQ AFGSC’s official position. The official HQ AFGSC position can only be
determined after proper coordination with HQ AFGSC/A3B. All AFGSC Airspace Management
representatives and operations personnel will accomplish risk communication training prior to
actively participating in public meetings.
4.1.2.1.1. (Added) Units will forward meeting minutes to HQ AFGSC/A3BA if not included in
the Airfield Operations Board minutes.
8                                             AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


4.1.4.1. Noise complaints and Congressional inquiries originating from higher headquarters will
be referred to the appropriate unit for investigation. AFGSC units will establish their own
investigation procedures for handling these matters.
4.1.4.2. (Added) Units will coordinate all responses to Congressional or other higher
headquarters inquiries dealing with military training airspace through AFGSC/A3BA.
4.1.6.1. (Added) FAA Airspace Review/Government Accounting Office (GAO)/Air Force Audit
Agency (AFAA) Visits. HQ AFGSC/A3BA is the central point of contact for coordinating
FAA/GAO/ AFAA inquiries concerning airspace matters. Report unscheduled visits/inquiries
from these agencies to HQ AFGSC/A3BA
4.1.6.1.1. (Added) Flight Operations Into or Within Canadian Airspace. Compliance with the
Canadian and United States governments’ agreement for overflight of Canadian territory by
AFGSC aircraft is mandatory. All flights in Canadian airspace will be conducted IAW Foreign
Clearance Guide and under instrument flight rules (IFR) according to FLIP and AFI 11-202V3.
Formation flights in Canadian airspace will be IAW FLIP AP/1.
4.1.6.1.2. (Added) Airspace Denial Report. Units must document, via a brief narrative, each
airspace denial. If an unsatisfactory trend develops, inform HQ AFGSC/A3BA. HQ
AFGSC/A3B will work with AFREPs and ACC FAA Liaison to resolve the issue. If this fails to
resolve the issue, HQ AFGSC/A3B will forward the report to HQ USAF/A3O-A for resolution.
NOTE: Altitude restrictions are considered airspace denials.
5.3.4. (Added) Reports are due at HQ ACC/A3AA (CAF lead for Airspace management) via
electronic transmission NLT 15 Nov.
5.4.4. (Added) Reports are due at HQ ACC/A3AA (CAF lead for Airspace management) via
electronic transmission NLT 15 Dec.
5.6. (Added) Spill-Out Reports. Units will maintain documentation of alleged DoD spill-outs
from SUA including date, time, type of aircraft, call sign, number of aircraft, airspace
designation, and reason (if known) in a brief narrative. Inform HQ AFGSC/A3BA of alleged
spill-outs that may attract public attention.
5.7. (Added) Airspace Intrusions Reports. Report alleged civil aircraft violations of military
SUA to the FAA Flight Standards District Office (FSDO). FSDO requires nature of the incident,
time of occurrence, and tail number (if known) of the alleged violating aircraft. NOTE: This
report is not a substitute for the USAF Hazardous Air Traffic Report.
6.5.6. (Added) Aeronautical objections are forwarded through HQ AFGSC/A3BA to the
appropriate AFREP and OE/AAA office.
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            9


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 13-201, Air Force Airspace Management, 1 December 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFGSC –Air Force Global Strike Command
MTR-Military Training Route
OGV—Operations Group Standardization and Evaluation

Terms
Bomber Route—A low altitude military training route which has been evaluated for bomber
operations. Bombers may conduct operations on other routes provided a unit assessment of
environmental concerns, BASH, obstruction hazards, turn radius requirements, necessary
climb/descent gradients between route segment altitudes, and minimum clearance plane settings
for TA/TF operations has been accomplished. Bomber schedulers must ensure the safe
separation of aircraft by coordinating deconfliction procedures with the appropriate route
scheduling activity listed in FLIP. Coordination should include at a minimum the airspeeds to be
flown, entry and exit times, deviation allowed from the coordinated times (i.e. +/- 5 minutes) and
separation to be provided from other flights. Weather support provided by the using unit unless
otherwise specified.
Exclusive Use of Airspace—Only participating aircraft engaged in the same mission or activity
are authorized to operate simultaneously within a specified airspace area. This does not prohibit
the scheduling activity/airspace manager from segregating separate missions and/or activities
through airspace subdivisions/altitude blocks to use airspace and support mission requirements
efficiently.
Man-Made Obstructions—Structures which present a hazard to flight. Structure height is
measured from the terrain surface.
Mountainous Terrain—Terrain that varies more than 1000 feet in elevation in 10 NM along
published track (MTR). When the track crosses a narrow gorge in such a way that the aircraft
will not descend into the gorge, the low point of the gorge will not be considered. The approving
authority may consider the route mountainous if certain terrain features present a hazard to
operations.
Mutual/Concurrent Use of Airspace—Participating aircraft can expect to encounter other
military aircraft scheduled to operate within the same airspace boundaries and/or at the same
altitude. When scheduled for mutual use of airspace, pilots must operate their aircraft in visual
meteorological conditions (VMC) and maintain a "see and avoid" posture for other aircraft.
AFGSC units will ensure that aircrews scheduled into mutual/concurrent use airspace are briefed
10                                                AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


accordingly.
Real Time Airspace Use—The time airspace is actually used as opposed to scheduled for use.
When aircraft enter the respective airspace real time or actual use begins. When the aircraft exit
the air space, real time use ends. Real time (or actual use time) tracking is critical to the effective
and efficient evaluation of airspace utilization. Every effort must be made to accurately report
real time airspace use.
Sortie—A single flight, by one aircraft, from takeoff to landing.
Sortie-Operation—A sortie-operation is the use of one airspace area (MOA, MTR, aerial
refueling area, restricted area, etc.) by one aircraft. The number of sortie-operations is used to
quantify the number of uses by aircraft and to accurately measure potential environmental
impacts; e.g., noise, air quality, and safety impacts.
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                         11


                              Chapter 7 (Added)
                TRAINING, ADMINISTRATION, AND MTR CRITERIA

7.1. (Added) Training:

7.1.1. (Added) USAF Airspace Management School. AFGSC airspace managers will attend the
airspace management course prior to assignment as an airspace manager or as soon as possible
thereafter. The course is a 9-day, joint-service, training program conducted at Keesler AFB MS.
The program covers the basics and fundamentals essential for new airspace managers. The
course is funded by HQ AETC. Contact HQ AFGSC/A3BA to schedule attendance.
7.1.2. (Added) Central Altitude Reservation Function (CARF) Indoctrination Course. The
CARF course is designed to familiarize airspace managers with policies, procedures, and
responsibilities applicable to planning, coordination, and approval of altitude reservation
requests. Airspace managers are encouraged to attend the CARF course as soon as practical and
available after assignment. CARF training is essential to combat readiness and each unit should
have at least one person trained on CARF operations. The 3-day course is held in Fairfax, VA
and FAA funded. Units pay per diem and travel expenses. Notify HQ AFGSC/A3BA upon
completion of the course.
7.1.3. (Added) Other Airspace Management Training Courses. Additional courses include Risk
Communications, National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Training, and Description of
Proposed Action and Alternatives (DOPAA) Writing. These classes are occasionally offered by
HQ ACC/A7 or A3A. Dates and locations of the training will be announced via email. The
training is unit funded.
7.1.4. (Added) Airspace Management Training Program. Airspace Management personnel must
complete the training requirements established in AFI 13-201, Attachment 3. The Airspace
Manager should develop a local training program to supplement and expand on the contents of
Attachment 3.
7.2. (Added) Airspace Management Administration. Subordinate units may supplement this
publication. Forward proposed supplements to HQ AFGSC/A3BA for approval. Units must
forward a copy of supplements once published.
7.2.1. (Added) Duty Title. The primary base level airspace manager is the chief of airspace
management. Designate additional personnel as Assistant, Airspace Manager.
7.2.2. (Added) Grade Requirements. The primary Airspace Manager should be at least a Major,
GS-11, or above. The assistant airspace manager should be at least a Captain, GS-7, Master
Sergeant, or above.
7.2.3. (Added) Skill Requirements. Personnel assigned airspace management duties must have
prior airspace management, aircrew, or air traffic control management experience. Special
experience identifier OUL or 350 is required (N/A to GS/GM positions).
7.2.4. (Added) Personnel Retainability. Personnel assigned to airspace management duties must
perform in that function a minimum of 18 months after graduation from Airspace Management
School.
7.3. (Added) Letters of Agreement/Procedures Administration:
12                                              AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


7.3.1. (Added) All units will forward their LOAs/LOPs to HQ AFGSC/A3BA for
review/approval prior to signature.
7.3.1.1. (Added) The NAF/Wing Commander is the authority to sign LOAs for MARSA
procedures for assigned aircraft.
7.3.1.2. (Added) For LOAs negotiated with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), use
format guidance in FAAH 7210.3.
7.3.1.3. (Added) The unit commander will ensure copies of the LOA are distributed to
appropriate units.
7.3.2. (Added) A LOP is required when a Restricted Area is designated as joint-use. The format
for the LOP is in FAAO 7400.2, Part 7. A LOP should be accomplished with the controlling
agency to outline operating procedures within the Restricted Area. LOPs are processed using the
same procedures as LOAs.
7.4. (Added) Waivers. Due to unique local situations, units may request waivers to this
supplement. Forward requests by letter, or message, through the chain of command to HQ
AFGSC/A3BA. Describe the specific factors, which resulted in the request for waiver. If
approved, the waiver stays in effect indefinitely, unless HQ AFGSC/A3BA specifies otherwise,
cancels it in writing, or issues a change that alters the basis for the waiver. The unit OPR must
coordinate with the base publications manager to include the waiver in the applicable base
publication.
7.5. (Added) Alleged Airspace Violations. Document alleged violations of airspace at the time
of occurrence. The unit airspace manager is the point of contact for processing alleged airspace
violations. HQ AFGSC/A3BA will forward alleged violations to the appropriate unit
commander. The unit will investigate the incident and return the results of their investigation to
HQ AFGSC/A3BA. HQ AFGSC/A3BA will review and validate the report and forward a
response to the appropriate Air Force Representative (AFREP).
7.5.1. (Added) Airspace/Federal Aviation Regulation (FAR) Violations. Alleged airspace/FAR
violations and noncompliance with ATC instructions require formal investigation and
documentation. HQ AFGSC/A3BA coordinates responses for HQ AFGSC.
7.5.1.1. (Added) Operations Group Commander (OG/CC). Upon receipt of an alleged FAR
violation, the OG/CC will review and sign each investigation report before forwarding to HQ
AFGSC/A3BA.
7.5.1.2. (Added) Overseas Violation. Send reports on alleged violations involving a unit TDY
overseas to HQ AFGSC/A3BA.
7.5.1.3. (Added) Final Disposition. Forward all reports of investigation, action taken, and
attachments to HQ AFGSC/A3BA.
7.5.2. (Added) Gross Navigation Errors. Units notified of FAA/International Civil Aviation
Organization flight deviations will investigate according to the provisions of AFI 13-201,
Chapter 1 (Military Pilot Deviation). Review of the unit’s over water navigation training
program and crew cross-check procedures employed during the flight will be included as part of
the report.
7.6. (Added) Military Assumes Responsibility for Separation of Aircraft (MARSA). When mis-
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                              13


sions and tactics require aircraft to fly in closer proximity than normal air traffic control (ATC)
approved separation standards, military authorities must accept responsibility for separation of
participating aircraft and ensure implementation with the appropriate ATC facility. A LOA is
required. For air refueling operations, MARSA applies between the tanker and the receivers. An
aircrew does not have the authority to invoke MARSA at any time. Authority to exercise
MARSA is retained by HQ AFGSC except as follows:
7.6.1. (Added) NAF/DRU/wing/group/sector commanders may grant authorization for MARSA
for separation of their unit owned aircraft. MARSA is accomplished through proper mission
planning, adequate aircrew briefings, insistence on proper aircrew technique, and crew discipline
according to the appropriate directive.
7.6.2. (Added) Civilian contract flight operations including remote ground or air controlled
Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), may be authorized to use MARSA by HQ AFGSC/A3 or
NAF/DRU/wing/group/ sector commanders in conjunction with ACC supported or authorized
flight activity. Units shall brief participating pilots on appropriate air safety and LOA airspace
procedures before conducting flight operations.
7.6.3. (Added) Separation Requirements. Specify the provisions for the use of MARSA in a
Letter of Agreement/Letter of Procedure (LOA/LOP) with the appropriate controlling
agency/ATC facility or other appropriate governing document and use MARSA only for
Instrument Flight Rule (IFR) operations. MARSA applies at all times during air refueling,
cell/en route formation, altitude reservation, air intercept training, and formation takeoffs. It is
accomplished through strict adherence to specified procedures. Air-crews not familiar with the
MARSA separation will be provided with a pre-mission brief on the specified separation criteria
by the scheduling unit.
7.8. (Added) Military Training Route and Slow Route Planning Criteria:
7.8.1. (Added) Minimum Altitudes. All MTRs will be designed to place the aircraft at the lowest
altitude necessary to meet mission requirements consistent with flight safety, whether at IFR or
TA/TF altitude. (NOTE: In no case will the floor of a new MTR be established below 100 feet
AGL.) Lateral separation from obstructions will be preferred to higher altitudes over
obstructions. Every effort will be made to design route segments for TFR operations so as to
avoid man-made obstructions. In certain cases, minimum operating altitudes will be dictated by
environmental constraints.
7.8.2. (Added) Top of Block Altitudes. IFR altitudes will be established for each IR segment to
provide a minimum clearance of 1000 ft above the highest obstruction/terrain within the
designated route width and a minimum clearance of 500 ft above the highest obstruction/terrain
within 5 miles beyond the route width on each side.
7.8.3. (Added) TA/TF Clearance Plane Setting (Bombers Only). Individual units will be
responsible for establishing clearance plane settings for training routes/MOAs and restricted
areas for all applicable airspace used by their unit. TA/TF altitudes will be established for each
MTR with every effort to establish the lowest altitude consistent with flight safety. TA/TF
clearance plane setting (CPS) will provide at least 200 feet clearance above known man-made
obstructions within the route corridor. Aircrews are advised that CPSs provide no buffer outside
the route limits; obstructions higher than the approved TA/TF altitudes could be present
immediately adjacent to the route perimeter. Aircrews are advised that not all known vertical
14                                               AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


obstructions are depicted on standard National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Tactical
Pilotage Charts (TPC) due to cartographic limitations. The number of CPSs will be minimized to
balance safety and training benefits.
7.8.4. (Added) Route Width. MTR corridor widths shall be of sufficient size to contain all
planned activities. Unless specifically approved by HQ AFGSC/A3BA the total corridor width
will not exceed 20 nautical miles.
7.8.4.1. (Added) Route Width (Corridor) -- The MTR boundary limits within which aircraft are
restricted to conduct operations. Route width will normally be defined in FLIP AP/1B as a
distance right and left of route centerline. In some cases, when approved by HQ AFGSC/A3B,
the route corridor may be defined as a series of coordinates. Outside turns causing gaps in the
route corridor, when not defined otherwise, will be closed using the following method:
     1. Draw a line perpendicular to the inbound course line from the turn-point towards the
        outside of the corner and mark the spot where it intersects its route width corridor
        (temporarily label as point #1). Draw a line perpendicular to the outbound course line
        from the turn-point towards the outside of the corner and mark the spot where it
        intersects its route width corridor (temporarily label as point #3).
     2. Draw a line outward from the turn-point that bisects the angle formed by the two lines
        defined in steps 1 and 2 above.
     3. Calculate the average route width for the two segments, and mark that distance on the
        line created in step 3 (temporarily label as point #2).
     4. Connect the three points.
7.8.5. (Added) MTR Closure. The originating activity, scheduling unit, or controlling agency
may close a route to all aircraft whenever hazardous conditions, accidents, conflicting traffic
conditions, or environmental concerns warrant. Notify the controlling agency and all scheduled
users of the closure. Aircrews will not enter a low level route after being advised it is closed.
When a MTR has not been closed by one of the above agencies, it is the responsibility of the
using unit to evaluate flight conditions and determine whether or not conditions warrant low
altitude flight. The final decision on whether or not to enter or abort a low level route rests with
the aircrew and will be based on evaluation of forecast or existing conditions. Establish
procedures for closing routes.
7.9. (Added) Low Level Bird Strike Hazards and Aircrew Reporting Procedures. Bird strikes are
a year round hazard and unit planners must consider the bird threat when scheduling low-level
operations. The large number of different bird species with varying flight habits results in bird
activity at all times of day or night. The most hazardous time is sunset to 0100 local during
waterfowl migration season. However, the primary year-around threat is soaring raptors.
Aircrews that observe hazardous low level bird activity must report the bird sighting to their
local safety office and MTR scheduling agency. When possible, the hazardous bird sighting
report should include, as a minimum, the following information: Location, altitude, size of flock,
and type (i.e., small bird, large bird). NOTE: The Chief of Airspace Management should notify
the wing/unit safety office of planned route surveys and dates. This notification will provide the
safety office the opportunity to accomplish their bird hazard survey in conjunction with the
required route survey(s).
AFI 13-201_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                             15


7.10. (Added) Weather Information. Weather support for aircrews flying MTRs will be provided
by the using unit weather shop unless otherwise specified in a letter of agreement or route SOP.
Bomber air-crews will pre-brief Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV) contact in advance. Prior to
penetration to the low altitude route/airspace, bomber aircrews will attempt to contact one of the
weather flight PMSV stations designated during the pre-takeoff briefing for the latest
information of significant en route weather.
7.11. (Added) VFR Traffic Avoidance (See and Avoid). Federal Aviation Administration
Regulation (FAR) Part 91 permits VFR operation in areas outside controlled airspace with flight
visibility down to one mile. This is less restrictive than the requirements of AFI 11-202V3.
Therefore, the responsibility to observe and avoid other traffic is an integral part of flying MTRs
in weather conditions equal to or better than one mile visibility.
7.12. (Added) Review of Environmental Decision Documents. Each AFGSC unit will conduct a
review of all applicable environmental decision documents by 15 Mar each year to ensure that
training operations are in strict compliance with and within the scope of all relevant
environmental analyses, including any existing management actions or mitigations. In addition
ensure similar strict compliance by others using ACC training airspace and assets. This review
should be coordinated through the unit’s installation environmental planning function. Report
compliance to HQ AFGSC/A3BA.




                                                     TIMOTHY M. RAY
                                                     Brigadier General, USAF
                                                     Director of Operations
