BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 10-1212
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                      31 OCTOBER 2001

                                                                                                Operations

                                                             SPACE LAUNCH VEHICLE RETURN TO
                                                                                     FLIGHT


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOSR (Maj John Mitchell)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/XOS
                                                                            (Brig Gen Michael A. Hamel)
                                                                                                  Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 10-12, Space. It establishes safety and mission assurance return to
flight (RTF) policy for Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) and Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC).
It does not apply to Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) Force Development Evaluation (FDE) mis-
sions. This instruction is not intended and should not be constructed to create any rights or benefits, sub-
stantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States, the Air Force, its officers
or any person. It should not be construed to create any substantive or procedural basis on which to chal-
lenge any AF action or inaction, except as set forth in paragraph 5., Grievances, of this instruction. Main-
tain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance with AFMAN
37-139, Records Disposition Schedule. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other
publications, using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
channels to HQ AF/XOSR, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1480. Any organization
may supplement this instruction. Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and
direct reporting units (DRU) send one copy of their printed supplement to HQ AF/XOSR; other organiza-
tions send one copy of each printed supplement to their next higher headquarters.



1. General. This instruction does not apply to the following: Safety and accident investigations for Air
Force pre-launch processing and launch mishaps. These investigations are conducted in accordance with
established AF instructions: AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports; and AFI 51-503, Aircraft,
Missile, Nuclear, and Space Accident Investigations. Air Force systems experiencing minor launch anom-
alies not affecting mission success or pre-launch anomalies are also not covered by this instruction. These
are addressed in accordance with AFPD 63-12/AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability
and Effectiveness. The certification processes in this instruction do not replace or override, but are con-
ducted in addition to those certification processes required during a nominal mission profile.
2                                                                      AFI10-1212 31 OCTOBER 2001


2. Scope. This instruction applies to all (government and commercial) unmanned space launch vehicle
systems (current and future) that have a launch mishap at an AFSPC space launch range, or have com-
monality to another system that has a mishap. There are two RTF certification processes: safety assurance
and mission assurance. Specifically, this instruction outlines the safety and mission assurance RTF pro-
cesses and criteria for resuming launch operations. The Space Wing Commander (SW/CC) is the desig-
nated authority for certifying safety RTF. The Space and Missile Systems Center Commander (SMC/CC)
is the designated authority for certifying mission assurance RTF for USAF missions and USAF managed
payload and launch vehicles in support of non-USAF customers. Following any launch mishap, if the mis-
hap is launch system-related, applicable safety RTF criteria must be addressed before the system in ques-
tion is allowed to launch from an AFSPC space launch range. Additionally, if the mishap is Range
Safety-related or if Range Safety procedures failed to adequately protect the public or government person-
nel during a launch, the safety RTF criteria must be addressed before any launch can occur from an
AFSPC space launch range. Mission assurance RTF criteria must be addressed prior to the next
USAF-supported mission utilizing the launch vehicle, payload, subsystem, component, aerospace ground
equipment or procedure having contributed to a launch mishap. If the mission following a launch mishap
on the system in question is a non-USAF supported mission, the appropriate launch agency/commercial
contractor will use its own RTF certification process for mission assurance issues. However, the SW/CC
must be convinced no later than the mission Launch Readiness Review that any mission assurance issues
which could affect safety, security or resource protection of range assets required to ensure DoD access to
space, have been resolved.

3. Processes. The RTF processes are used to certify the readiness of space launch vehicle and payload
systems to resume flight and to certify the readiness of Range Safety systems and procedures to support
flight following a launch mishap. The RTF processes are conducted independently of other mishap inves-
tigations and certification processes (see paragraph 1. and 6.). However, recommendations from these
investigations/certification processes may influence the RTF decision. This section addresses the pro-
cesses used for safety and mission assurance RTF certification and approval. Responsible agencies pro-
vide analysis of the launch system, range safety system, support infrastructure, payloads, and any
processes related to the mission. These agencies may include the launch vehicle and/or payload contrac-
tor(s), SMC, licensed commercial launch and site operators, wing agencies, or others as defined by the
SW/CC and/or SMC/CC. Other interested agencies not directly responsible for addressing certification
criteria may wish to participate providing input to the process, as necessary. These agencies may include
National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and
others as appropriate.
    3.1. Safety RTF Certification Process. Safety certification demonstrates that range safety systems (if
    activated) functioned properly, and validates any previously conducted hazard/risk assessments.
    Responsible agencies will actively participate in the safety RTF process by providing the SW/CC with
    an analysis, an action plan and written certification that safety RTF criteria have been met. The SW/
    CC will approve and forward the safety RTF certification as soon as it is complete, but no later than
    the Flight Readiness Review (FRR) for the first flight following a launch mishap for the affected
    launch system, through 14 AF/CC to AFSPC/CC or designated representative. If a launch mishap
    involved range safety systems or procedures common to other launch programs (government or com-
    mercial), the SW/CC will approve and forward the safety RTF certification as soon as it is complete,
    but not later than the FRR for the first flight following a launch mishap. If safety RTF certification is
    not complete by the scheduled FRR, the FRR and possibly the launch will be rescheduled to a later
    date.
AFI10-1212 31 OCTOBER 2001                                                                                3


   3.2. Mission Assurance RTF Certification Process. Mission assurance certification demonstrates that
   appropriate corrective actions have been taken to ensure mission success. Responsible agencies will
   actively participate in the mission assurance RTF process by providing the SMC/CC and SW/CC with
   an analysis, an action plan and written certification that mission assurance RTF criteria have been met.
   For USAF-supported missions, the SMC/CC will approve mission assurance RTF certification as
   soon as it is complete, but no later than the FRR for the first flight following a launch mishap for the
   affected launch system. If mission assurance RTF certification is not complete by the scheduled FRR,
   the FRR and possibly the launch will be rescheduled to a later date.

4. Criteria. Safety and mission assurance RTF certification will determine the readiness to resume flight
operations for a space launch vehicle system based on the following criteria.
   4.1. Safety Criteria. The SW/CC applies safety RTF criteria to ensure public safety and protection of
   government and third party resources. Safety criteria are based on ensuring that range safety system
   operation is not affected by the mishap, risk analyses are still valid, and that all other considerations
   which could affect launch risk are addressed and mitigated. As a minimum, certification must address
   the following criteria:
       4.1.1. Verify that the Flight Termination System (FTS) or any other system used to ensure public
       safety functioned properly (if activated) and that any failures in range safety system operation
       have been corrected.
       4.1.2. Verify that the range safety systems did not contribute to or cause the mishap, or that fail-
       ures in these systems have been corrected to eliminate such contributions.
       4.1.3. Ensure that hazard/risk assessments were adequate for the failure modes experienced dur-
       ing the operation and they were adjusted based on relevant failure evidence or corrective action
       changes. In addition, verify that hazard/risk assessments have been appropriately adjusted based
       on failure evidence or based on corrective action changes.
       4.1.4. Verify the conduct of range operations did not contribute to or cause the mishap, correct as
       necessary.
       4.1.5. Ensure that appropriate measures have been taken to control the most likely failure cause(s)
       and to mitigate mishap consequences so as not to expose non-launch agency property/resources or
       any personnel to an unacceptable risk.
   4.2. Mission Assurance Criteria. The SMC/CC is responsible for certifying that mission assurance
   criteria are met for USAF-supported missions. As a minimum, certification must address the follow-
   ing criteria:
       4.2.1. Ensure all failure-related issues involving pre-launch processing are resolved.
       4.2.2. Ensure all failure-related issues involving launch vehicle and/or payload performance go/
       no-go criteria are resolved.
       4.2.3. Ensure all failure-related issues involving launch vehicle and/or payload hardware produc-
       tion, integration and test, vehicle inspection/checkout, or contractor processes/procedures are
       resolved.
       4.2.4. Ensure all failure-related issues involving launch vehicle and/or payload design flaws are
       resolved.
4                                                                    AFI10-1212 31 OCTOBER 2001


5. Grievances. A Safety RTF Certification grievance process exists to allow agencies to air concerns and
questions regarding their launch systems. Grievances shall be submitted to the SW/CC. The Air Force
shall respond to grievance or notify the agency on the status of the grievance within 15 days. Grievances
not resolved by the SW/CC will be submitted to 14 AF/CC for adjudication and final resolution.

6. Interfacing Publications. This instruction interfaces with AFPD 10-12, Space, AFPD 63-12, Assur-
ance of Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness, and AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational
Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness; AFMD 4, Air Force Material Command (AFMC); AFMD 5, Air
Force Space Command; AFI 51-503, Aircraft, Missile, Nuclear, and Space Accident Investigations; AFI
91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.



                                                    ROBERT H. FOGLESONG, Lt General, USAF
                                                    DCS/Air & Space Operations
AFI10-1212 31 OCTOBER 2001                                                                               5


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-12, Space, 1 February 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
DoD—Department of Defense
FRR—Flight Readiness Review
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
RTF—Return to Flight
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center

Terms
Launch Mishap—In accordance with AFI 91-204 and AFI 51-503, Mishaps are defined as any Air Force
launch-related incident which results in damage to government or non-government property, illness or
injury to or the death of government or non-government personnel, or failure of a USAF-managed launch
system to deliver a payload to its intended orbit. This includes but is not limited to catastrophic
destruction of the launch vehicle, failures involving the upper stage delivery system, or an anomaly or
degradation of a component or components resulting in mission failure.
Launch System—Includes the launch vehicle, payload, aerospace ground equipment and associated
procedures.
Mission Assurance—“Mission Assurance” overall is a shared responsibility between all agencies
involved in the generation and execution of the launch mission. In the context of this AFI, mission
assurance relates to providing confidence in the launch vehicle, payload, aerospace ground equipment or
associated procedures to which a failure, malfunction or error may have led to a launch mishap.
Safety Assurance—“Safety Assurance” overall is a shared responsibility between all agencies involved
in the generation and execution of the launch mission. In the context of this AFI, safety assurance relates
to providing confidence in the range safety equipment, hazard/risk assessments or associated procedures
to which a failure, malfunction or error may have led to a launch mishap.
