BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 14-2CRC,
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                 VOLUME 1

                                                                            5 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                     Intelligence

                                                      CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER
                                                    (CRC) UNIT INTELLIGENCE TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: ACC/A2                                                               Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                (Mr. Kenneth K. Dumm, DISES)
                                                                                       Pages: 34


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-2, Intelligence Rules and
Procedures, and is consistent with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence
Training, AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, and AFI 14-
202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules. This publication establishes the minimum Air Force
standards for training personnel performing intelligence duties in CRC units. This publication
applies to all Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard
(ANG) intelligence personnel supporting CRC operations. ANG will be considered functionally
as a major command (MAJCOM) for the purposes of this instruction. This AFI may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be
routed to ACC/A2 for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval
authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System.
 2                                                                                AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


Chapter 1—GENERAL GUIDANCE                                                                                                                   4
      1.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................     4
      1.2.   Waivers. .................................................................................................................      4
      1.3.   Internal Training. ...................................................................................................          4
      1.4.   Qualification Training. ...........................................................................................              4
      1.5.   Documentation. ......................................................................................................            4

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                          5
      2.1.   AF/A2. ...................................................................................................................       5
      2.2.   ACC/A2 Responsibilities. ......................................................................................                  5
      2.3.   Other MAJCOM/A2 Responsibilities. ...................................................................                            5
      2.4.   Unit SIO. ................................................................................................................       6
      2.5.   Work Center Supervisor. .......................................................................................                  6
      2.6.   Intelligence Personnel. ...........................................................................................              7

Chapter 3—INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                      8
      3.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................      8
      3.2.   IQT Requirements. .................................................................................................              8

Chapter 4—MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING                                                                                                      9
      4.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................      9
      4.2.   Knowledge and Performance Task Training. ........................................................                                9

Chapter 5—CONTINUATION TRAINING                                                                                                              16
      5.1.   General. ..................................................................................................................     16
      5.2.   Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. ..................                                             16
      5.3.   RIP. ........................................................................................................................   16
Table 5.1.   CRC RIP and Currency Requirements. .................................................................                            17
      5.4.   Regression. .............................................................................................................       17
      5.5.   Requalification. ......................................................................................................         17

Chapter 6—SPECIALIZED TRAINING                                                                                                               18
      6.1.   Specialized Training. .............................................................................................             18
      6.2.   External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. ........................................................                          18
Table 6.1.   EIT Trainer Events and Currencies. .......................................................................                      19
      6.3.   Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. ..................................................                            19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               21
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                 3


Attachment 2—EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT               25

Attachment 3—CRC MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET
             ELEMENTS                                        26

Attachment 4—CRC ST GRADESHEET ELEMENTS                      33

Attachment 5—CRC MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS                34
 4                                                        AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014



                                            Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. General.
     1.1.1. Scope. This volume provides guidance for training Control and Reporting Center
     (CRC) unit intelligence personnel. With the cited references, it establishes procedures to
     attain and maintain the qualifications and currencies to support CRC unit operations. These
     requirements are the minimum and can be supplemented with unit-level written guidance.
     Unit-level guidance will not be less restrictive.
     1.1.2. References. The primary references for CRC unit intelligence training are AFI 14-
     2CRC, Volume 2, CRC Unit Intelligence Evaluation Criteria; AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 3,
     CRC Unit Intelligence Procedures; Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (AFTTP)
     3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual; AFTTP 3-1.TACS,
     Theater Air Control System (TACS), AFTTP 3-1.CRC, Tactical Employment—Control and
     Reporting Center, and this publication. These references can be supplemented with other
     classified and unclassified authoritative publications such as National Air and Space
     Intelligence Center products, Tactics Bulletins, Tactics Analysis Reports, Country Studies,
     etc. as long as the source is appropriately referenced.
1.2. Waivers. MAJCOM/A2s will courtesy-copy ACC/A2 regarding all waiver requests and
responses. ACC/A2 will notify AF/A2DF of significant trends in waiver correspondence if such
correspondence indicates the need to readdress existing policy and guidance.
1.3. Internal Training. Internal training is a venue intended to facilitate achieving and
maintaining currency status for all intelligence personnel. Training received during internal
training may be achieved via skills practice/demonstration during exercises or special events,
group academics or as otherwise devised by the senior intelligence officer (SIO). The internal
intelligence training plan will include all identified training requirements for the training cycle.
(T-2)
1.4. Qualification Training. Qualification training programs are designed to progress
intelligence personnel from Initial Qualification Training (IQT) through Mission Qualification
Training (MQT) to qualify them to perform duty position tasks and achieve combat mission
ready (CMR) status. Continuation Training (CT) ensures individuals maintain proficiency and
currency. Specialized Training (ST) qualifies individuals to perform specialized functions.
Qualification training can/should be conducted in conjunction with skill-level upgrade training.
For a detailed explanation of IQT, MQT, CT and ST, refer to AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
1.5. Documentation. Units will document qualification training in coordination with AF/A2
approved processes regarding online documentation. (T-2)
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                5


                                          Chapter 2

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AF/A2. AF/A2, through AF/A2D, will review and monitor MAJCOM intelligence training
policies, guidance and supplements to this publication for consistency with the AFI 14-202
program and for standardization across the intelligence mission set.
2.2. ACC/A2 Responsibilities. In addition to the lead MAJCOM responsibilities identified in
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, ACC/A2 will:
   2.2.1. Coordinate with affected MAJCOMs to establish standardized minimum requirements
   for CRC intelligence personnel training.
   2.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop or obtain and provide baseline
   training materials for IQT, MQT, CT, and ST. These materials will include, but are not
   limited to:
      2.2.2.1. In coordination with other organizations develop or maintain and provide a
      training standard, course syllabus, and curriculum for CRC intelligence IQT through
      formal course reviews IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 1.
      2.2.2.2. In coordination with other organizations develop/obtain and provide baseline
      threat capabilities briefings covering worldwide adversary and neutral forces electronic
      warfare (EW), aircraft, air-to-air missiles (AAM), air-to-surface missiles (ASM), anti-
      radiation missile systems (ARMS), surface-to-air missiles (SAM), surface-to-surface
      missiles (SSM), air defense artillery (ADA) , directed energy weapons (DEW), Integrated
      Air Defense Systems (IADS), Command and Control (C2), ground forces and associated
      equipment, naval, cyber and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and employment
      techniques.
   2.2.3. Engage in crosstalk with unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training organizations on the
   defined standardized training requirements. Solicit feedback on other MAJCOM-developed
   training materials; discuss applicability of emergent training tools, techniques and
   procedures. Assist units in identifying changes in requirements and potential training
   opportunities. Foster unit-level “best practices” exchanges for intelligence personnel
   training.
   2.2.4. Assist subordinate units in developing training programs.
   2.2.5. Assist other MAJCOMs with CRC units in providing support to unit training
   programs.
2.3. Other MAJCOM/A2 Responsibilities. In addition to the lead command responsibilities
identified in AFI 14-202, Volume 1, MAJCOM/A2s with unit-level intelligence personnel
providing support to CRC units will:
   2.3.1. Coordinate with ACC/A2 to establish standardized minimum training requirements for
   intelligence personnel and for supporting training materials.
   2.3.2. Provide support to subordinate units in developing their training programs.
   2.3.3. Submit requests for training program support to ACC/A2.
 6                                                        AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


2.4. Unit SIO. If assistance from the host base/wing or nearby base/wing unit is
needed/required, the SIO should coordinate a memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the
organization. The SIO will:
     2.4.1. Execute mission qualification, continuation and specialized qualification training
     programs with sufficient frequency, consistency and accuracy, to ensure personnel
     knowledge, skills and abilities remain current in accordance with locally developed standards
     and this publication. Provide written guidance detailing how programs will be conducted.
     Review training programs annually. (T-2)
     2.4.2. Designate the qualifications to which each intelligence position will train. Upon
     request, provide MAJCOM/A2 and operational commander(s), as appropriate, with a list of
     CMR and Basic Mission Capable (BMC) manning positions. Review this designation
     annually. (T-3)
     2.4.3. Assign intelligence personnel under the direct supervision of qualified and current
     intelligence personnel when required to participate in operational events or perform tasks for
     which they are not qualified and current. (T-3)
     2.4.4. Identify and report training shortfalls having a negative impact on operations to
     MAJCOM/A2 and courtesy copy Numbered Air Force (NAF)/A2, as applicable. See
     attachment 2 for an example report. (T-3)
     2.4.5. Participate in crosstalk with other unit SIOs and MAJCOM/A2 training organizations
     to address standardized training requirements, training tools, techniques and procedures.
     Identify changes in requirements and potential training opportunities to MAJCOM/A2.
     Participate in unit-level “best practices” exchanges for intelligence personnel training. (T-3)
     2.4.6. Develop and manage an intelligence qualification training program. Design training
     programs to achieve the highest degree of mission readiness consistent with safety and
     resource availability. Training must balance the need for realism against the expected threat,
     unit mission and capabilities. (T-2)
     2.4.7. Use lead command-developed training materials to assist in the development and
     conduct of unit training programs, as applicable. Modify these baseline training materials
     and augment with locally-derived products to meet unit needs. (T-3)
     2.4.8. Monitor intelligence personnel currencies and requirements and notify/coordinate with
     individual’s chain-of-command on all training issues, to include delays, CMR status, and
     selection for upgrade training. (T-3)
     2.4.9. Execute unit intelligence training with sufficient frequency, consistency and accuracy,
     in accordance with locally developed standards and this AFI, to ensure personnel knowledge,
     skills and abilities to the CRC mission remain current. (T-3)
     2.4.10. Ensure written evaluation of the intelligence personnel training program is conducted
     at the end of each training cycle. Submit reports as required by local procedures for tracking
     overall training status of intelligence personnel. (T-3)
2.5. Work Center Supervisor. Intelligence work center supervisors will:
     2.5.1. Ensure assigned intelligence personnel attain and maintain the qualification status
     determined by the SIO. (T-2)
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      7


   2.5.2. Assist the trainer in developing and executing unit intelligence qualification training
   and other required training programs. (T-3)
   2.5.3. Review training and evaluation records of and interview newly assigned personnel and
   those completing formal training to determine the training required for them to achieve the
   qualifications required for their assigned duty position. (T-2)
   2.5.4. Provide a copy of individual qualification training records upon member’s change of
   station or assignment to assist the gaining unit in assessing current qualifications and training
   requirements. (T-3)
2.6. Intelligence Personnel. Assigned intelligence personnel will:
   2.6.1. Complete training and currency requirements within the guidelines of this instruction
   and applicable AF/MAJCOM training standards. (T-2)
   2.6.2. Notify supervisor of any issues that affect training events, qualification status, or the
   ability to participate in training. (T-2)
   2.6.3. When changing station or assignment, ensure qualification records are delivered to the
   gaining unit. (T-3)
 8                                                     AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                           Chapter 3

                          INITIAL QUALIFICATION TRAINING

3.1. General. IQT for intelligence personnel begins after initial skills training (i.e., the Air
Force Specialty Code awarding courses), or after Permanent Change of Station (PCS), and
concludes with successful completion of the requirements outlined in the IQT syllabus.
3.2. IQT Requirements.
     3.2.1. Minimum IQT requirements are documented in the IQT Syllabus developed by
     ACC/A2 in coordination with USAFE/A2 and NGB/A2. IQT will be completed within the
     time specified by the IQT syllabus. Failure to complete training within the specified time
     limit requires notification to owning MAJCOM/A2 with person's name, rank, reason for
     delay, planned actions and estimated completion date. Evaluation and certification will be
     annotated IAW AF/A2 guidance and approved processes regarding online documentation.
     (T-2)
     3.2.2. Upon completion of IQT the member attains Basic Qualification (BQ) status.
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  9


                                          Chapter 4

                         MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING

4.1. General. MQT provides intelligence personnel the training needed to perform in their
assigned duty positions supporting CRC missions/operations. This chapter provides guidance to
assist SIOs in developing and executing their MQT program. MQT execution will take into
account assigned duty position, current qualifications, prior experience and training, currency,
documented performance and/or formal training achieved by each individual. Accomplish MQT
through one-on-one instruction from a qualified trainer, external courses, or other training
opportunities that satisfy the requirements for MQT. Use applicable portions of MQT to create a
requalification program for personnel who are non-CMR (N-CMR) or non-BMC (N-BMC). (T-
2)
   4.1.1. Concurrent IQT/MQT. MQT should typically begin upon completion of IQT;
   however, in situations determined by the SIO, intelligence personnel may begin MQT before
   completion of IQT, if training events and timelines make this option more practical. Member
   must complete IQT before fully completing MQT and being awarded BMC/CMR. (T-3)
   4.1.2. MQT begins within 45 days (90 days for ANG) of the individual’s first duty day at the
   gaining unit or immediately after the completion of IQT if training events and timelines make
   this option more practical. Timelines for completion of MQT for each MAJCOM and
   reporting requirements are specified in the following paragraphs. (T-3)
       4.1.2.1. Active duty units will complete MQT within 120 days after start.         Notify
       MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
       4.1.2.2. ANG units will complete MQT within 120 days with seasoning days. If no
       seasoning days are available, complete MQT within 180 calendar days, or the execution
       of one year’s cycle of Inactive Duty for Training and Annual Training. Notify the
       NGB/A2 and gaining MAJCOM/A2 if training exceeds this timeline. (T-2)
   4.1.3. MAJCOM/A2s will consolidate unit reporting of personnel exceeding allowable
   timelines and notify ACC/A2 on an annual basis. (T-2)
   4.1.4. AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet. Use the AF Form 4381 to document the
   trainee’s progression through each individual training item. Specific MQT gradesheet
   elements are located in attachment 3. (T-2)
   4.1.5. Personnel are qualified CMR upon successful completion of MQT, a successful Initial
   Mission Qualification Evaluation (INIT MSN) IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2, and AFI 14-
   2CRC, Volume 2, and SIO endorsement.
4.2. Knowledge and Performance Task Training. Units will develop blocks of instruction
covering areas pertinent to the mission and derived from lead MAJCOM-provided and unit-
developed training materials. Unit MQT programs will include all unique local area procedures
and will ensure the trainee is able to demonstrate knowledge/performance task proficiency. The
MQT program for CRC intelligence personnel will include, but not be limited to the following
areas and concepts based on their assigned duty position. Attachment 5 lists the minimum MQT
requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
10                                                     AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


  4.2.1. Research, Analysis, and Dissemination (RAD). RAD involves imparted knowledge
  and performance that intelligence personnel should be applying throughout all areas of the
  training and will be evaluated as subsets of each applicable graded area. (T-2)
     4.2.1.1. Basic Intelligence Research.        Objective:    Demonstrate ability to apply
     intelligence sources to unit operations, mission and Area of Responsibility (AOR), and
     the ability to identify/extract relevant intelligence for CRC operations. Specific tasks:
     Identify unit hardcopy and softcopy intelligence resources. Explain the strengths and
     weaknesses of specific types of intelligence in the context of the CRC weapons system
     and the unit mission. Identify Intelligence Community analysis centers and intelligence
     producers useful for intelligence applications at the unit level. Demonstrate use of
     intelligence information systems and software to request intelligence from outside
     sources when unit intelligence holdings have been exhausted. Produce correspondence
     using theater directives to HHQ or outside organizations with detailed specific
     intelligence queries to satisfy requests for information (RFI). Track RFI and production
     requirement status. Draft and transmit RFIs using US Message Text Format (USMTF)
     when reporting directives do not exist or when intelligence information systems are
     unavailable.
     4.2.1.2. Mission-Related Analysis. Objective: Demonstrate ability to discern what
     intelligence applies to the unit mission, (e.g., what is useful to unit mission crew, mission
     planners, squadron and wing leadership and what intelligence is not useful). Specific
     tasks: Describe intelligence needed by CRC mission crew and mission planners for
     operations, wing commander, operations group commander and other functional areas
     supported by intelligence. Define rules of engagement and operations security.
     Demonstrate knowledge of general intelligence requirements of the wing commander,
     operations group commander and other functional areas supported by wing intelligence.
     Describe the intelligence requirements established by the SIO to support the unit’s AORs.
     Describe the impact of the operational environment, evaluating the adversary, and
     determining adversary courses of action (COA) to support the unit’s mission.
     4.2.1.3. Dissemination Techniques. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of unit-level
     resources, points and methods of dissemination to mission crew, mission planners,
     operations group and wing leadership and other end-users of intelligence as determined
     by the unit mission and AOR. Specific tasks: Describe the use of intelligence systems
     and information displays to disseminate data. Describe use of collaborative chat tools,
     secure video teleconference, and/or other interactive communications and dissemination
     systems used by the unit. Identify mission crew, mission planner and squadron and wing
     leadership information resources and ways to securely integrate updated intelligence into
     the information flow. Describe the use of record message traffic reporting as required for
     unit operations by AOR, as applicable. Describe methods to identify currency and
     expiration of intelligence provided to end users. Identify fundamentals of information
     security, classification marking and controls and knowledge of sources of authoritative
     guidance. Describe rules, procedures and restrictions for secure transfer of intelligence
     from various levels of classified intelligence and information networks.
  4.2.2. Knowledge-based Tasks. Trainees must demonstrate knowledge specific to the unit’s
  missions for the areas listed below by successfully completing a test from the unit master
  question file (MQF) (85 percent minimum to pass). (T-2)
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   11


     4.2.2.1. CRC Weapons Systems Academics. Objective: List the steps to accomplish the
     CRC operational mission (e.g., Pre-deployment preparation; conduct analysis of theater
     guidance, threat, operating environment, established TTPs, and mission rehearsal).
     Demonstrate an understanding of the unit’s specific CRC assigned mission areas at their
     home unit. Specific tasks: Describe the unit's specific CRC mission areas and roles in
     support of pertinent AORs. Identify the roles and responsibilities of friendly assets
     involved in the various CRC missions (e.g., ground forces combat support, C2 network).
     Identify the relationship between crew coordination practices for the various CRC
     missions and successful mission completion. Describe how Air Force and joint doctrine
     drive the unit’s missions, employment, and CRC missions in applicable AORs. Describe
     and identify Intel support to CRC mission crews during execution of any assigned
     missions.
     4.2.2.2. Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of applicable AOR
     enemy/adversary threats. Specific tasks: Identify details of aircraft, AAMs, ASMs,
     ARMS, SAMs, SSMs, ADA, EW, DEW, IADS/C2, ground forces and associated
     equipment, naval systems, cyber and asymmetric threat capabilities, limitations and
     employment techniques of threat forces that may be encountered in the operational
     environment based on unit mission, CRC capabilities and limitations, and AOR.
     Describe how these threats could affect unit mission accomplishment.
     4.2.2.3. Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of
     applicable AOR friendly and neutral defensive weapons systems. Specific tasks:
     Identify details of EW, aircraft, AAMs, ASMs, SAMs, SSMs, ADA, DEW, ground and
     naval forces and associated equipment, cyber and asymmetric capabilities and limitations.
     Describe the employment techniques of friendly and neutral forces that may be
     encountered in the operational environment based on unit mission, CRC capabilities and
     limitations, and AOR.
     4.2.2.4. AOR C2 Structure. Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of specific Air Force
     and joint C2 and Battle management (BMC2) units assigned to specific AORs.” Specific
     task: Describe how the CRC interacts with these organizations.
     4.2.2.5. Personnel Recovery (PR). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the role
     intelligence personnel play in preparing CRC personnel for the possibility of survival,
     evasion, resistance, escape (SERE) and recovery in hostile territory. Specific tasks:
     Describe specific PR materials intelligence provides. Describe intelligence’s role in
     Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP) support and maintenance. Identify environmental,
     operations and combat search and rescue (CSAR) information contained in the special
     instructions (SPINS) that will drive intelligence requirements during PR operations, as
     applicable. Describe and identify Intel support to CRC mission crews during execution
     of PR missions.
     4.2.2.6. Force Protection Intelligence (FPI). Objective: Demonstrate knowledge of the
     principles and procedures of FPI relevant to the unit mission. Specific tasks: Coordinate
     with host unit to facilitate FP briefing requirements and information. Identify
     irregular/guerrilla/terrorist forces in tasked AORs and other hot spot areas, as appropriate.
     Give examples of hostile forces tactics and weapons employment. Identify intelligence
     FP resources. Describe terrorist threat levels and FP conditions. Describe unit FP
12                                                    AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     considerations. State the facts concerning base-specific and regional threats. Describe
     and identify CRC FP equipment, procedures and structure for main, forward and bare
     bones operating bases. Reference: AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection
     (FP).
     4.2.2.7. Mission Principles and Engagements.              Objective: Understand typical
     engagements that the CRC may control. Specific Tasks: Describe basic air-to-air, air
     refueling, air-to-ground, and surface-to-surface engagements based on the crew
     debriefing. Interpret and comprehend the crew’s event reconstructions and be able to
     convert this intelligence into the appropriate report, as necessary.
 4.2.3. Performance-based Tasks. Training will ensure the trainee is able to accomplish tasks
 IAW evaluation criteria outlined in AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 2. (T-2)
     4.2.3.1. Threat Briefings. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in researching specific
     threat systems and tailoring the information to the CRC mission. Specific Tasks:
     Conduct research on specific threat systems. Compile data and develop a concise
     briefing with focus on the threat to the CRC mission. Tailor information to the CRC.
     Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Present a threat briefing.
     4.2.3.2. Situation Displays. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in constructing,
     posting, updating and maintaining quality situation displays with and without intelligence
     system support IAW standards established by the SIO. Specific tasks: Select the proper
     medium to use for constructing a situation display. Identify the proper components to be
     included on a situation display IAW AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 3. Research, analyze and
     plot situation display elements using correct symbology (MIL-STD-2525C, Common
     Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field Manual/US Marine Corps Reference
     Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms and Graphics).
     4.2.3.3. Manual Order of Battle (OB). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in updating
     and maintaining OB on situation displays without the assistance of intelligence systems
     IAW OB standards established by the SIO. Specific tasks: Identify OB production
     sources for the AOR. Research and analyze OB data. Identify critical elements of the
     table of organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Differentiate
     between coordinate systems. Plot OB using the correct symbology.
     4.2.3.4. Automated OB. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in utilizing intelligence
     support systems to download, update, purge and quality control automated OB used on
     situation displays. Specific tasks: Identify OB production sources for the AOR.
     Research and analyze OB data. Identify critical elements of the table of organization and
     equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations. Use intelligence software applications
     to post and maintain OB.       Verify accuracy of computer generated symbology. Use
     intelligence software applications to convert between coordinate systems.
     4.2.3.5. Situation Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a situation briefing IAW unit standards. The
     situation briefing has two distinct phases: 1) the initial situation briefing, and 2) the
     follow-on situation briefing, commonly referred to as the situation update briefing. The
     basic information for both is very similar; however, the initial briefing details the
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  13


     background, events and decisions leading up to the crisis, while the situation update
     briefing highlights changes and newly emerging information potentially impacting the
     operational environment. Specific tasks: Conduct effective research and analysis and/or
     extract relevant updates from unit products. For the initial situation briefing, identify
     significant events leading to the crisis. For the situation briefing identify significant
     changes in the operational environment since the last update.               Identify any
     enemy/adversary, friendly, neutral, and/or US political decisions or diplomatic initiatives
     that affect the unit’s operational environment, the mission, or the deploying/deployed
     unit. Identify subsequent changes to enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber
     and irregular force disposition and activity. Determine most dangerous and most likely
     enemy/adversary COAs for the next 12, 24, and 25-96 hours. Tailor information in the
     briefing based on unit mission and the audience. Identify FPI for the local area. Identify
     intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps. Use computer, web-
     based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Construct
     and deliver a situation briefing (initial and update).
     4.2.3.6. Changeover Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting a changeover briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Organize and
     prioritize key information. Identify issues needing immediate attention. Compile data
     and develop a concise briefing with focus on events to prepare personnel for their shift.
     Include a situation update, review of threat levels/conditions, briefing schedules, work
     and flying schedules, OB display, crisis action team (CAT) directives, Situation Reports
     (SITREP) input status of reports, and other pertinent items (e.g., intelligence report
     [INTREP], Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution [JSIR] reports, Tracks of Interest
     [TOI], story board). Tailor information in the briefing based on unit mission. Use
     computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination
     tools. Construct and deliver a changeover briefing.
     4.2.3.7. Deployment Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a deployment briefing IAW unit standards and the
     requirements of the deploying commander. Specific tasks: Identify unit taskings (e.g.,
     warning order (WARNORD), execution order/deployment order (EXORD/DEPORD))
     and/or Air and Space Expeditionary Forces (AEF) tasking, as applicable. Conduct
     effective research and analysis. Develop a synopsis of political-military situation
     generating the deployment. Identify relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space,
     cyber and irregular force disposition and activity along deployment route. Determine the
     most dangerous and most likely enemy/adversary COAs in reaction to the deployment.
     Identify FPI for the local area and deployment location. Determine en route hazards to
     convoys from point of debarkation to initial site location. Identify reporting instructions,
     essential elements of information (EEI), and additional items as dictated by the local
     situation. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps.
     Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and
     dissemination tools. Tailor information for the briefing based on unit mission, AOR, and
     the audience. Construct and deliver a deployment briefing.
     4.2.3.8. Air Tasking Order (ATO)/Airspace Control Order (ACO)/SPINS and Other
     Tasking Documents. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in obtaining, identifying, and
     extracting applicable elements of tasking documents IAW unit procedures. Specific
14                                                     AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     tasks: Locate and obtain correct ATO/ACO/SPINS or other tasking document as
     applicable. Determine unit tasking, airspace control, PR information and intelligence
     related data from tasking documents. Breakout unit tasking from tasking documents
     using manual and automated techniques and tools.
     4.2.3.9. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
     in providing intelligence support to mission/deployment/convoy planners IAW unit
     procedures. Specific tasks: Describe the mission planning process. Review the tactical
     problem/scenario. Analyze the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout and derive specified and
     implied intelligence requirements (including mission materials). Plot unit tasking.
     Analyze operating area threats deployment/convoy routes (e.g., IADS, air, SAMs, ADA,
     etc.) tactics and terrain, as applicable. Identify intelligence gaps and any assessments of
     likely answers to the gaps. Submit collection requirements and/or RFI as appropriate.
     Coordinate with operations to recommend mission route based on threat and terrain
     analysis. Identify other mission support assets. Construct and deliver mission planning
     situation/ deployment/convoy route briefings, as applicable.
     4.2.3.10. Mission Materials Construction. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in the
     intelligence role in mission materials construction. Specific tasks: Identify and obtain
     required imagery and geospatial information and services (GI&S) products to build
     mission materials. Use mission planning software to construct mission necessary
     materials.
     4.2.3.11. Mission Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and
     presenting the intelligence portion of a mission briefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant
     updates from unit products and/or conduct effective research and analysis (as required to
     fill intelligence gaps).      Identify and present changes in the operational/tactical
     environment. Present any enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular
     force disposition and activity; relevant FPI; and tactical situation in the mission area.
     Brief overall situation, BMC2 structure and lines of authority. Present AOR threats (e.g.,
     SAMs, ADA, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats), FPI for the local area, PR information
     EEIs, call signs (package and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance [ISR]
     supporting), inter-plane frequencies, or Voice Product Network (VPN) between ISR
     assets for threat notification or situational awareness, debrief location, and other factors
     essential to mission success. Use computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual
     information display and dissemination tools as applied by the unit. Tailor information in
     the mission briefing IAW standards established by the SIO and commander’s
     requirements based on unit mission and the AOR. Construct and deliver a mission
     briefing.
     4.2.3.12. Step Briefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in preparing and presenting
     an intelligence step briefing IAW unit standards. Specific tasks: Identify critical last
     minute changes in threats (e.g., air, air defense, and ground), new tactics, PR data, latest
     threat update code (TUC), and any other changes impacting the mission. Tailor
     information in the briefing to the period the CRC crew will be on shift. Use computer,
     web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools.
     Construct and deliver a step briefing.
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                15


     4.2.3.13. Debriefing. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in planning, coordinating and
     conducting a post-mission debriefing. Specific tasks: Extract relevant mission
     intelligence from mission crew. Identify time-sensitive information and disseminate
     appropriately and expediently per local/theater guidance. Prioritize questions to focus on
     priority intelligence requirements. Identify key points and develop intelligence by asking
     amplifying questions relevant to the mission. Control the flow and pace of the
     intelligence portion of the debriefing as needed to ensure thorough and accurate
     information collection without wasting time. Be aware and control environmental factors
     that may distract mission crew or impede the debriefing process. Use computer, web-
     based, audiovisual and/or manual information display and debriefing tools.
     4.2.3.14. Intelligence Reports. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing and
     transmitting intelligence reports (e.g., Intelligence Summary (INTSUM), Daily
     Intelligence Summaries (DISUMs), story boards, SITREP and JSIR reports) IAW unit
     standards and theater reporting directives. Specific tasks: Describe the purpose and
     content of theater reporting directives. Analyze and extract information from applicable
     reports. Generate intelligence reports/story boards using computer and/or manual
     information systems applied by the unit. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports.
     Draft, validate and transmit appropriate USMTF intelligence messages when applicable
     reporting directives do not exist.
 16                                                       AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 5

                                  CONTINUATION TRAINING

5.1. General. This chapter outlines intelligence CT requirements for CMR and BMC
intelligence personnel. There are two aspects of CT. The first consists of basic intelligence
knowledge and performance training items. These training topics ensure familiarization with
CRC capabilities, threat systems, and unit intelligence functions. The second aspect of CT is the
Ready Intelligence Program (RIP) which consists of specific mission-related training required to
accomplish the unit’s assigned missions.
5.2. Continuation Training for Basic Knowledge and Performance Tasks. This guidance is
intended to provide a baseline and may be supplemented by the SIO based on unit requirements.
Trainers will use lead-MAJCOM provided training materials and other resources as needed to
provide the most effective and efficient training. CT must reinforce MQT tasks and facilitate
RIP requirements. Basic knowledge examinations will be compiled from the unit MQF.
Completion of CT tasks will be annotated using the online training documentation system. At a
minimum, the following topics will be covered during CT. (T-2)
   5.2.1. CRC Weapons systems and Operations – to include capabilities and limitations,
   employment and tactics, radar and communications, and crew coordination practices.
   5.2.2. Threat Knowledge – to include potential AOR enemy/adversary aircraft and
   armaments, SAMs, ADA, IADS/C2 structure, naval, ground and cyber threat system
   capabilities and limitations with respect to CRC operations.
   5.2.3. PR – to include intelligence PR support procedures, theater ISOPREP requirements
   and other PR information contained in the SPINS.
   5.2.4. FPI – to include intelligence support to FP principles; irregular/guerrilla/terrorist
   forces and organizations; force protection conditions and terrorist threat levels and unit force
   protection considerations.
   5.2.5. Situation Displays – to include unit procedures/checklists and standards for creating
   and maintaining situation displays (e.g., manual and automated OB).
   5.2.6. Briefing – to include preparing and presenting the various in-garrison and employment
   operation required briefings.
      5.2.7. Intelligence Support to Mission Planning – to include tasking order/SPINS breakout,
      mission planning software applications and route/Combat Air Patrol analysis, GI&S
      familiarization to determine product requirements (e.g., quantity, chart type, appropriate
      scale), acquisition, receipt, storage and maintenance for mission package construction.
      5.2.8. Debriefing – to include preparing for and techniques for conducting a debriefing,
      handling time-sensitive information, and proper debriefing tools/products.
      5.2.9. Reporting – to include types of intelligence reports and formats, theater intelligence
      reporting requirements, software applications and transmission methods.
5.3. RIP. The intent of RIP is to ensure intelligence personnel perform specific mission
essential tasks with sufficient frequency to maintain proficiency in their duty positions. In order
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     17


to maximize training opportunities and minimize artificiality, conduct RIP tasks in conjunction
with day-to-day missions or exercises as much as possible. (T-2)
   5.3.1. The task requirements listed in Table 5.1., CRC RIP and Currency Requirements,
   establish the minimum frequency requirements for CMR and BMC for intelligence. Failure
   to accomplish these requirements will affect the individual’s CMR or BMC status and
   additional training will be required as determined by the SIO. (T-2)
   5.3.2. Intelligence personnel must complete appropriate RIP tasks to maintain currency. If
   an intelligence specialist loses currency in a particular area, the individual may not perform
   that task unsupervised until currency is regained. Individuals are responsible for
   documenting RIP task completion. (T-2)

Table 5.1. CRC RIP and Currency Requirements.

                                                Frequency to Maintain     Frequency to
SUBJECT
                                                CMR Status                Maintain BMC Status
Situation Display                              Semi-Annually              Annually
Manual OB                                      Semi-Annually              Annually
Automated OB                                   Semi-Annually              Annually
Situation Briefing                             Semi-Annually              Annually
Changeover Briefing                            Annually                   Annually
Deployment Briefing                            Semi-Annually              Annually
ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking                                           Annually
                                               Semi-Annually
Documents
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning       Semi-Annually              Annually
Mission Material Construction                  Semi-Annually              Annually
Mission Briefing                               Semi-Annually              Annually
Step Briefing                                  Semi-Annually              Annually
Debriefing                                     Semi-Annually              Annually
Intelligence Reports                           Semi-Annually              Annually
Note: Semi-annually is defined as once every 6 months and annually is defined as once every 12
months.
5.4. Regression. If personnel do not meet currency requirements throughout the training cycle,
they will be regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC, as applicable. The SIO will direct the member who
fails to demonstrate proficiency in a given task to be regressed. Document regression and the
steps required to correct the situation in the individual's training record. Intelligence personnel
regressed to N-CMR/N-BMC must complete a SIO-approved recertification program to return
them to CMR/BMC standards. The tasks accomplished during the re-certification program are
credited toward task requirements for the training cycle. (T-3)
5.5. Requalification. For intelligence personnel whose qualification has expired, refer to AFI
14-202, Volume 1.
 18                                                        AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                              Chapter 6

                                   SPECIALIZED TRAINING

6.1. Specialized Training. This chapter outlines ST for the specialized qualifications necessary
to achieve specific unit mission requirements. Not all intelligence personnel are required to
complete ST. These ST program requirements are for individuals without previous ST
qualifications. Tailor these requirements for intelligence personnel with current qualifications,
prior experience, currency, documented performance or formal training. Unless governed by a
formal syllabus, these programs will consist of unit-developed academics and scenarios.
Document ST on the AF Form 4381 (see Attachment 4 for the appropriate grade sheet elements).
Attachment 5 lists the minimum ST requirements outlined in the following paragraphs. (T-2)
6.2. External Intelligence Training (EIT) Trainer. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform duty as an EIT trainer
within the unit. Only qualified EIT trainers will conduct unsupervised EIT. (T-2)
      6.2.1. Prerequisites. Any intelligence personnel selected to be an EIT trainer must:
         6.2.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
         6.2.1.2. Be designated by the SIO.
         6.2.1.3. Complete the requirements for EIT 1 and one or more of the remaining profiles
         listed below.
      6.2.2. EIT Trainer Profiles: (T-2)
         6.2.2.1. EIT 1 – EIT Concepts and Methods. Objective: Effectively apply appropriate
         instructional concepts and methods to fulfill EIT requirements. Specific tasks:
         Demonstrate ability to modify training to the specific audience. Demonstrate methods of
         delivering training using visual, auditory and physical application. Demonstrate one-on-
         one, small group and large audience training techniques. Define methods to verify
         trainee achievement.
         6.2.2.2. EIT 2 – Threat Knowledge. Objective: Demonstrate ability to provide threat
         training based on the minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 3. Specific
         tasks: Tailor information in the briefing to the audience. Use computer, web-based,
         audiovisual and/or manual information display and dissemination tools. Prepare and
         deliver an instructional session for a threat based on unit mission and AOR.
         6.2.2.3. EIT 3 – Collection and Reporting (C&R). Objective: Demonstrate proficiency
         in establishing C&R training requirements. Specific tasks: Be familiar with the
         requirements and security concerns regarding intelligence-generated reports. Be
         knowledgeable of theater reporting directives. Develop training that enhances unit ability
         to use intelligence-generated reports (e.g., INTREP, story board, SITREP, JSIR,
         INTSUM, Close Air Support Summary [CASSUM], etc.). Prepare and deliver an
         instructional session on C&R based on unit mission and AOR.
         6.2.2.4. EIT 4 – PR. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in developing ISOPREP
         instructional material. Specific tasks: Provide academic instruction on ISOPREP
         preparation as required.
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                       19


         6.2.2.5. EIT 5 – FPI. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in establishing FP threat
         training requirements (to include minimum standards cited in AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 3).
         Specific tasks: Prepare and deliver an instructional session for FP threats based on unit
         mission and AOR.
      6.2.3. EIT Trainer Evaluation. EIT trainer evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202,
      Volume 2 and AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 2. Personnel are qualified as EIT trainers upon
      successful completion of required tasks, an initial EIT trainer evaluation (INIT EIT) and
      endorsement from the SIO. (T-2)
      6.2.4. EIT Trainer Currency. Table 6.1, EIT Trainer Events and Currencies, defines the
      currency requirements for all intelligence personnel required to maintain EIT trainer status.
      EIT trainers must also successfully complete periodic EIT trainer evaluations IAW AFI 14-
      2CRC, Volume 2. If an EIT trainer loses currency in a particular area, the individual will not
      conduct EIT unsupervised until currency is regained. Trainers who are non-current must
      satisfy overdue training requirements while supervised by another current and qualified EIT
      trainer in the same training event. (T-2)

Table 6.1. EIT Trainer Events and Currencies.
Event                   Specialized Training                     Currency Requirement
Threat Knowledge        Complete EIT 1 and EIT 2 specific        Instruct one threat training
                        tasks.                                   event quarterly.
                        Pass threat-specific MQF test.
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
C&R                     Complete EIT 1 and EIT 3 specific        Instruct one C&R training event
                        tasks.                                   annually.
                        Pass C&R-specific MQF test.
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
PR                      Complete EIT 1 and EIT 4 specific        Instruct one PR training event
                        tasks.                                   annually.
                        Pass PR-specific MQF test.
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
FPI                     Complete EIT 1 and EIT 5 specific        Instruct one FPI training event
                        tasks.                                   annually.
                        Pass FPI-specific MQF test.
                        Complete INIT EIT Evaluation.
6.3. Intelligence Evaluator (IE) Specialized Training. This program establishes the minimum
guidelines for intelligence personnel identified by the SIO to perform IE duties within the unit.
IE trainees must be immersed in the knowledge of governing directives and task procedures. IE
training consist of two steps; observation and performance proficiency. Only qualified
evaluators will conduct unsupervised intelligence evaluations. (T-2)
      6.3.1. Prerequisites. Intelligence personnel selected by the SIO for progression to IE must:
         6.3.1.1. Be mission (CMR or BMC) qualified.
         6.3.1.2. Meet evaluator requirements as outlined in AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI 14-
         2CRC, Volume 2.
20                                                    AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


     6.3.1.3. Complete one or both of the IE observation profiles and the proficiency profile
     listed below.
  6.3.2. IE Training Profiles:
     6.3.2.1. IE 1 – IE MSN Observation. Objective: Through observation of a qualified
     evaluator conducting a mission evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation techniques and
     procedures. Specific tasks: Observe a mission evaluation. Describe the evaluation
     criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT MSN or MSN
     evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues, and
     techniques for conducting evaluations.
     6.3.2.2. IE 2 – IE EIT Trainer Observation. Objective: Through observation of a
     qualified evaluator conducting an EIT Trainer evaluation, gain knowledge of evaluation
     techniques and procedures. Specific tasks: Observe an EIT Trainer evaluation. Describe
     the evaluation criteria, grading procedures and evaluation form preparation for an INIT
     EIT or EIT evaluation. Identify scenarios for intelligence evaluations, objectivity issues,
     and techniques for conducting evaluations.
     6.3.2.3. IE 3 - IE Proficiency. Objective: Demonstrate proficiency in successfully
     conducting an evaluation. Specific tasks: Under observation, conduct an evaluation and
     provide a thorough debrief with the person being evaluated. Use evaluation criteria,
     grading procedures and proper techniques in documenting evaluation forms.
 6.3.3. IE Evaluation. IE evaluations will be conducted IAW AFI 14-202, Volume 2 and AFI
 14-2CRC, Volume 2. The IE evaluation will occur after IE ST is completed. The IE is
 qualified to perform IE duties after completing training, successful completion of the initial
 IE evaluation (INIT IE) and SIO endorsement. (T-2)
 6.3.4. IE Currency. IEs must conduct at least one corresponding evaluation annually to
 remain current. IEs must successfully complete periodic IE evaluations IAW AFI 14-2CRC,
 Volume 2. If an IE loses currency, the individual will not perform IE duties unsupervised
 until currency is regained. To regain currency, non-current IEs must satisfy overdue training
 requirements while supervised by another current and qualified IE. (T-2)




                                          ROBERT P. OTTO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                          Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                             21


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-1CRC, Volume 1, Control and Reporting Center (CRC)-Training, 29 October 2009
AFI 14-119, Intelligence Support to Force Protection, 4 May 2012
AFI 14-202, Volume 1, Intelligence Training, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 2, Intelligence Standardization/Evaluation Program, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-202, Volume 3, General Intelligence Rules, 10 March 2008
AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 2, Control and Reporting Center (CRC) Unit Intelligence Evaluation
Criteria, 5 November 2014
AFI 14-2CRC, Volume 3, Control and Reporting Center (CRC) Unit Intelligence Procedures, 5
November 2014
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 14-2, Intelligence Rules and Procedures, 29 November 2007
AFTTP 3-1.CRC, Tactical Employment—Control and Reporting Center, 23 August 2013 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.TACS, Theater Air Control System (TACS), 1 February 2013 (S)
AFTTP 3-1.Threat Guide, Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics Manual, 3 December
2012 (S)
US Army Field Manual MIL-STD-2525C, Common Warfighting Symbology and US Army Field
Manual/US Marine Corps Reference Publication, FM 1-02/MCRP 5-12A, Operational Terms
and Graphics, September 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4381, Intelligence Gradesheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAM—Air-to-Air Missile
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Airspace Control Order
ADA—Air Defense Artillery
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Forces
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
 22                                               AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARMS—Anti-Radiation Missile Systems
ASM—Air-to-Surface Missile
ATO—Air Tasking Order
BMC—Basic Mission Capable
BMC2—Battle Management Command and Control
BQ—Basic Qualification
C2—Command and Control
C&R—Collection and Reporting
CAP—Combat Air Patrol
CASSUM—Close Air Support Summary
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CMR—Combat Mission Ready
COA—Courses of Action
CRC—Control and Reporting Center
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CT—Continuation Training
DEPORD—Deployment Order
DEW—Directed Energy Weapons
DISUM—Daily Intelligence Summary
EEI—Essential Elements of Information
EIT—External Intelligence Training
EW—Electronic Warfare
EXORD—Exercise Order
FP—Force Protection
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                              23


IAW—In Accordance With
IE—Intelligence Evaluator
INIT EIT—Initial External Intelligence Trainer Qualification Evaluation
INIT IE—Initial Intelligence Evaluator Qualification Evaluation
INIT MSN—Initial Mission Qualification Evaluation
INTREP—Intelligence Report
INTSUM—Intelligence Summary
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISOPREP—Isolated Personnel Report
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JSIR—Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGRS—Military Grid Reference System
MQF—Master Question File
MQT—Mission Qualification Training
MSN—Mission Qualification Evaluation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
N-BMC—Non-Basic Mission Capable
N-CMR—Non-Combat Mission Ready
OB—Order of Battle
PR—Personnel Recovery
RAD—Research, Analysis and Dissemination
RFI—Request for Information
RIP—Ready Intelligence Program
SAM—Surface-to-Air Missile
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape
SITREP—Situation Report
SF—Security Forces
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SPINS—Special Instructions
SSM—Surface-to-Surface Missile
 24                                                   AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


ST—Specialized Training
TACS—Theater Air Control System
TOI—Tracks of Interest
TUC—Threat Update Code
USMTF—US Message Text Format
UTM—Universal Transverse Mercator
VPN—Voice Product Network
WARNORD—Warning Order

Terms
Tier 2 (T-2)— Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers may be granted at the MAJCOM/CC level, but may
not be delegated lower than MAJCOM Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)— Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal
jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waivers may be granted at the
Wing/DRU/FOA/CC level.
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                            25


                                      Attachment 2
                    EXAMPLE TRAINING SHORTFALL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Example Training Shortfall Report
[DATE]
MEMORANDUM FOR MAJCOM/A2
FROM: [UNIT]
SUBJECT: Intelligence Training Shortfalls
1. TRAINING SHORTFALLS. (Only report those shortfalls that the SIO feels will have a
major impact on training.)

EVENT                                       PERCENT OF CMR/BMC INTELLIGENCE
                                            PERSONNEL AFFECTED

                                            SPECIFIC REASON FOR SHORTFALL

                                            CORRECTIVE ACTION (IF ANY)

                                       LIMFACS
2. SIO’S COMMENTS (Open forum for comments to improve the training reporting system).



SIGNATURE BLOCK

cc:
NAF/A2
 26                                                    AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 3
      CRC MISSION QUALIFICATION TRAINING GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A3.1. CRC MQT Performance Task Gradesheet Elements. The MQT performance task
grade sheet elements in this attachment are to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381.
Intelligence qualification trainers will use the AF Forms 4381 to record the trainee’s progress
through MQT. The MQT grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s training record.

Table A3.1. CRC Threat Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
2. General knowledge
2.1. Primary threat countries
2.2. Capabilities and limitations
2.3. Employment characteristics
2.4. Countertactics
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.2. CRC Situation Displays Gradesheet Elements.
1. Understanding of current situation and creating situation displays
2.1. Research of sources and analysis for situation display data
2.2. Selected the proper medium to use for constructing a situation display
2.3. Identified proper components to be included on a situation display
3. Plotting abilities
3.1. Geographic coordinates
3.2. Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) and Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM)
3.3. Coordinate conversion
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained situation displays
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.3. CRC Manual OB Gradesheet Elements.
1. Identified OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Plotting abilities
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                         27


3.1. Differentiated between coordinate systems
3.2. Geographic coordinates
3.3. MGRS/UTM
4. Correct use of symbology
5. Updated and maintained on the situation display
6. Adherence to unit standards
7. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.4. CRC Automated OB Gradesheet Elements.
1. Identified OB production sources
2. Research of OB sources and analysis of OB data
2.1. Identified organization and equipment for potential enemy/adversary nations
3. Used intelligence systems to post and maintain OB
3.1. Verified accuracy of computer-generated symbology
3.2. Performed coordinate conversion
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.5. CRC Initial Situation Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments or major events leading to crisis
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.6. CRC Situation Update Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Changes to analysis
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
 28                                                       AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


2. General knowledge
2.1. Significant political/military developments impacting the mission
2.2. Any national decisions impacting unit mission, if known
2.3. Current enemy force disposition (e.g., air, air defense, ground, naval)
2.4. Potential enemy COAs for the 12, 24, and 25-96 hours
2.5. Relevant intelligence gaps and assessments
2.6. FPI for the local area (e.g., terrorism, sabotage, subversion threats); unless briefed by SF
or AFOSI
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.7. CRC Changeover Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. Presented situation update briefing
3. Addressed relevant areas
3.1. Issues requiring immediate attention
3.2. Reviewed threat levels/conditions
3.3. Reviewed briefing, and work schedules
3.4. Reviewed OB displays
3.5. Reviewed CAT directives
3.6. Review incoming/outgoing messages
3.7. Reviewed Report/TOI status
4. Delivery
4.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
4.2. Effective use of visual aids
4.3. Appropriate level of detail
4.4. Applicability to audience
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.8. CRC Deployment Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.4. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General knowledge
2.1. Unit tasking (e.g., WARNORD, EXORD, DEPORD, AEF tasking)
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     29


2.2. Political-military situation generating the deployment
2.3. Relevant enemy/adversary air, ground, naval, space, cyber and irregular force disposition
and activity
2.4. Relevant intelligence gaps and any assessments of likely answers to the gaps
2.5. Relevant FPI for local area and deployment location
2.6. Most likely enemy/adversary COA in reaction to the deployment
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to audience
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.9. CRC ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Located and obtained correct tasking documents
2.   Determined unit tasking, airspace control, PR information and intelligence related data
3.   Extracted unit data using manual and automated processes
4.   Adherence to unit standards
5.   Followed security guidelines

Table A3.10. CRC Intelligence Support to Mission Planning Gradesheet Elements.
1. Provide intelligence support to mission planner
2. Described the CRC mission planning process
3. Reviewed tactical problem/scenario
4. Analyzed the ATO/ACO/SPINS breakout and plotted unit tasking
4.1. Determined intelligence requirements
4.2. Determined mission material requirements
5. Identified intelligence gaps and made assessments
6. Analyzed operating area threats and terrain
7. Presented Mission Briefing
8. Coordinated with operations to recommend mission route
8.1. Ingress
8.2. Objective/Mission Area
8.3. Egress
9. Indentified other mission support assets
10. Adherence to unit standards
11. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.11. CRC Mission Materials Construction Gradesheet Elements.
1. Mission materials construction
1.1. Conducted appropriate research and analysis
1.2. Identified and obtained mission materials
1.3. Used mission planning software
 30                                                   AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


2. Adherence to unit standards
3. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.12. CRC Mission Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Changes in the operational/tactical environment
2.2. Mission area threats (e.g., SAMs, air, naval, EW, and DEW threats)
2.3. FPI for the local area
2.4. PR information
2.5. EEIs
2.6. SITREP/INTREP requirements
2.7. TUC
2.8. Debrief location
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability to mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.13. CRC Step Briefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Briefing preparation
1.1. Research
1.2. Analysis
1.3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General Knowledge
2.1. Last minute changes in threat that affects the mission
2.2. New threats and/or threat tactics
2.3. PR data changes
2.4. Latest TUC
3. Delivery
3.1. Effective verbal and non-verbal communication
3.2. Effective use of visual aids, if required
3.3. Appropriate level of detail
3.4. Applicability/relevance to the mission
4. Adherence to unit standards
5. Followed security guidelines
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                 31


Table A3.14. CRC Debriefing Gradesheet Elements.
1. Debriefing preparation
1.1. Prepared appropriate sections of the debrief form/checklist
1.2. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
2. General performance
2.1. Extracted relevant mission intelligence from mission crew
2.2. Identified and disseminated time-sensitive information (e.g., TOIs from initiation to
termination)
2.3. Prioritized questions to focus on priority intelligence requirements
2.4. Asked amplifying questions relevant to the mission to develop intelligence
2.5. Consulted appropriate post mission products
3. Mission Principles and Engagements
3.1. Understood mission crew language for engagement
3.2. Able to comprehend crew’s sketches and convert into applicable report
4. Time management
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.15. CRC Intelligence Reports Gradesheet Elements.
1. Described the purpose and content of theater reporting directives
2. Analyzed and extracted information from various report formats
3. Use of computer, web-based, audiovisual and/or manual information tools
3.1. Validate accuracy and completeness of reports
3.2. Draft and transmit intelligence reports using theater reporting directives
4. Time management
5. Adherence to unit standards
6. Followed security guidelines

Table A3.16. CRC Intelligence RFI Processing Gradesheet Elements.
 1. RFI Processing preparation - internal
 1.1. Research
 1.1.1. Local resources exhausted.
 1.2. Analysis
 1.3. Response compilation using theater directives
 2. Request to HHQ for information
 2.1. Effective verbal request
 2.2. Effective written request
 2.3. Request tracking
 3. Dissemination
 3.1. Effective verbal and/or written communication
 3.2. Appropriate level of detail
 3.3. Applicability to original query
 4. Adherence to unit/local standards
 5. Followed security guidelines
32   AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014
AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                33


                                        Attachment 4
                             CRC ST GRADESHEET ELEMENTS

A4.1. CRC ST Gradesheet Elements. The ST task gradesheet elements in this attachment are
to be used when filling out the AF Forms 4381. Intelligence trainers will use the AF Forms 4381
to record the trainee’s progress through ST. The ST grade sheets will be filed in the trainee’s
training record.

Table A4.1. CRC EIT Trainer Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines

Table A4.2. CRC IE Gradesheet Elements.
1.   Preparation
2.   Decision making
3.   Objectives
4.   Communication skills
5.   Knowledge
6.   Organization
7.   Documentation
8.   Follow security guidelines
 34                                                  AFI14-2CRCV1 5 NOVEMBER 2014


                                      Attachment 5
                      CRC MQT, ST AND RIP REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. Table A5 1 consolidates the MQT, ST, and RIP training items. It is meant to be used
by unit training personnel as a quick reference tool in developing unit training programs.

Table A5.1. CRC MQT, ST, and RIP Requirements.
                                                           MQT        ST        RIP
RAD                                                        X          ---       ---
CRC Weapons Systems Academics                              X          ---       ---
Threat Knowledge                                           X          ---       ---
Friendly and Neutral Weapons Systems                       X          ---       ---
AOR C2 Structure                                           X          ---       ---
PR                                                         X          ---       ---
FPI                                                        X          ---       ---
Mission Principles and Engagements                         X          ---       ---
Threat Briefings                                           X          ---       ---
Situation Displays                                         X          ---       X
Manual OB                                                  X          ---       X
Automated OB                                               X          ---       X
Initial Situation Briefing                                 X          ---       X
Situation Update Briefing                                  X          ---       X
Changeover Briefing                                        X          ---       X
Deployment Briefing                                        X          ---       X
ATO/ACO/SPINS and Other Tasking Documents                  X          ---       X
Intelligence Support to Mission Planning                   X          ---       X
Mission Materials Construction                             X          ---       X
Mission Briefing                                           X          ---       X
Step Briefing                                              X          ---       X
Debriefing                                                 X          ---       X
Intelligence Reports                                       X          ---       X
EIT 1 - Concepts and Methods                               ---        X         ---
EIT 2 - Threat Knowledge                                   ---        X         ---
EIT 3 - C&R Training                                       ---        X         ---
EIT 4 - PR Training                                        ---        X         ---
EIT 5 - FPI Training                                       ---        X         ---
IE 1 - IE MSN Observation                                  ---        X         ---
IE 2 - IE EIT Trainer Observation                          ---        X         ---
IE 3 - IE Proficiency                                      ---        X         ---
