                                  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                       HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND


                                                            AFI20-110_AFGSCSUP_AFGSCGM1

                                                                                      23 May 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR AFGSC UNITS

FROM: HQ AFGSC A4/7
      841 Fairchild Avenue
      Barksdale AFB, LA 71110

SUBJECT: Air Force Global Strike Command Guidance Memorandum AFI20-
110_AFGSCSUP_AFGSCGM1, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management (NWRM)

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this Guidance Memorandum.

1. By Order of the Commander of Air Force Global Strike Command, this is an Air Force Global
Strike Command Guidance Memorandum immediately implementing AFGSC clarified guidance for
AFI20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management. Compliance with this guidance
memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AFGSC
supplements, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

2. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are maintained
IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

3. This guidance memorandum provides AFGSC policy clarification for AFI 20-110, Chapters 2, 7
and 8 for the management of Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel. AFGSC LRS and MUNS units
have identified a policy shortfall due to the absence of clear guidance regarding when and how
NWRM assets must be placed into an Accountable Property System of Record (APSR).
Additionally, there have been instances of delayed reporting of potential NWRM discrepancies.
AFGSC has developed the attached supplemental guidance to ensure full NWRM asset
accountability and to ensure every potential discrepancy is reported within a timely manner.

4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this memorandum,
or upon release of an AFGSC publication incorporating the guidance, whichever is earlier.




                                              LAWRENCE S. KINGSLEY, SES, DAF
                                              Director, Logistics, Installations
                                               and Mission Support

Attachment:
Guidance Changes

                                      To Deter and Assure
                                           Attachment

                                       Guidance Changes
This attachment provides AFGSC policy clarification and implementation of Chapter 2 – Roles
and Responsibilities, Chapter 7 - Field Level Maintenance Processing and Chapter 8 -
Inventories and Audits for AFGSC's wings in the management of Nuclear Weapons-Related
Materiel IAW AFI 20-110. The following paragraphs are supplemented to read as follows:


                  Chapter 2: Roles and Responsibilities Guidance Changes

(UPDATE) 2.15.10. Develop local procedures/operating instructions to ensure NWRM is placed
on the APSR IAW paragraph 7.1. At a minimum, the local procedures/operating instructions
will meet the following objectives:

(ADD) 2.15.10.1. Cover normal and after hours operating procedures.

(ADD) 2.15.10.2. Identify contact information for primary and alternate points of contact.

(ADD) 2.15.10.3. Define procedures to establish an APSR for NWRM meeting the criteria of
paragraph 7.1.1.1, to include:

(ADD) 2.15.10.3.1. NWRM that can be physically transferred to NWRMAO/MASO’s
possession.

(ADD) 2.15.10.3.2. NWRM that cannot be physically and safely transferred to the NWRMAO/
MASO’s possession.

  Chapter 7: Depot/Field/Contractor Level Maintenance Processing Guidance Changes

(UPDATE) 7.1.1.1 Any NWRM not subsequently reinstalled or reassembled in the same
maintenance action, regardless of ETAR, PQDR or DR actions, will be placed on an APSR to
update the stock record account (a change of physical possession is not required to place items
on APSR) within 24 hours of disassembly or removal. (Note: The Integrated Maintenance Data
System (IMDS) does not meet the criteria of an APSR and is not acceptable for maintaining
accountable property records as outlined in DODI 5000.64, Enclosure 3.) MUNS must notify
the appropriate accountable officer as soon as the decision is made to not reinstall or reassemble
the NWRM. Notification should be timely to allow the accountable officer sufficient time to
establish the link to the supply accountable records and still meet the 24 hour requirement stated
above. The 24 hour clock starts when the decision to not reinstall or reassemble is made and not
when the accountable officer is notified. Local procedures/operating instructions will be
developed to ensure NWRM is placed on the APSR.
(ADD) 7.1.1.1.3. Overages resulting from maintenance turn-ins due to scheduled weapon system
deactivations and modifications shall be considered resolved discrepancies. Maintenance
activities shall provide documentation directing the deactivations and or modifications as
justification for resolution and the supply activity will pick the items up on the APSR via a turn-
in/receipt transaction vice an inventory adjustment transaction.

(ADD) 7.1.1.1.4. If the documentation cannot be provided, the overages will be considered
unresolved and causative research must be accomplished to determine the appropriate corrective
action. An unresolved discrepancy is any discrepancy that cannot be corrected by re-processing
a transaction to correct the system balance. To ensure asset accountability while waiting for
report of survey determination, overages must be picked up to record by using the appropriate
procedure.

                    Chapter 8: Inventories and Audits Guidance Changes

(UPDATE) 8.1.1.1.6. NWRM assets accounted for as installed but disassembled as part of an
on-going maintenance action IAW Chapter 7 are subject to inventory. These assets will not be
on the APSR and will appear to be overages when inventory counts are reconciled. These
assets will be added to the serial number worksheet pending research and reconciliation.
Research must be conducted with the unit possessing these items to determine if they are in
maintenance/ install status and therefore being accounted for/tracked according to AFI 20-110
chapter 7. Items in this status will not be added to the serial number worksheet as overages so
long as all of the following conditions exist:

(ADD) 8.1.1.1.6.1. The required work for the end-item identified in the on-going maintenance
action requires the installation of the inventoried NWRM item

(ADD) 8.1.1.1.6.2. Maintenance activities shall provide documentation confirming the
inventoried NWRM item was previously installed on the end-item in the on-going maintenance
action or the APSR auditable files confirm the inventoried NWRM was marked for the end-item
identified in the ongoing maintenance action.

(ADD) 8.1.1.1.7. NWRM assets accounted for as installed but disassembled as part of an on-
going maintenance action that do not meet the above criteria will be considered a potential
discrepancy and must be reported IAW procedures in chapter 11. Reference this Guidance
Memorandum, paragraphs 7.1.1.1.3 and 7.1.1.1.4 for guidance on establishing accountability on
the APSR.
