BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 25-202
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               26 JUNE 2012

                                                                               Logistics Staff

                                                SUPPORT OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF
                                               UNIFIED COMBATANT COMMANDS AND
                                                 SUBORDINATE UNIFIED COMBATANT
                                                                      COMMANDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A8PE                                                            Certified by: AF/A8P
                                                                    (Maj Gen Jack Weinstein)
                                                                                      Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI 25-202, 1 September
              2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 25-2, Support Agreements, and
is consistent with Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5100.03, Support of the Headquarters
of Combatant and Subordinate Unified Commands. It provides guidance for Air Force (AF)
support of the Headquarters of Unified Combatant Commands and Subordinate Unified
Combatant Commands. It identifies the unified combatant commands and subordinate unified
combatant commands that are supported by the Air Force. This Instruction applies to United
States Air Force, Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) activities that
provide combatant command (CCMD) headquarters support. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
 2                                                                    AFI25-202 26 June 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include OPR change from HQ USAF/XOPS to AF/A8PE; deleted US Space Command; added
HQ US Northern Command; added MAJCOM responsibilities for unified combatant commands
and subordinate unified combatant commands including theater special operations commands
(TSOC); and added AF support process and specific organizational responsibilities for CCMD
headquarters support.
1. 1. Program Overview.
        1.1.1. Statutory Authority: DoDD 5100.03
        1.1.2. Objective: Identify the processes and responsibilities required for AF personnel
        to provide required support to the headquarters of unified combatant commands and
        subordinate unified combatant commands for whom the Air Force has been designated as
        the Service Combatant Command Support Agent (CCSA).
     1.2. Process for Support of the Headquarters of Unified and Subordinate Unified
     Combatant Commands.
        1.2.1. The AF’s administrative and logistical support of the headquarters of the unified
        combatant commands, the U.S. Element of the North American Aerospace Defense
        Command (USELEMNORAD), and the subordinate unified combatant commands in
        Table 1, AF CCSA Support Responsibilities, will be through interservice support
        agreements and funding for operation and administration of the CCMD headquarters
        staff.
        1.2.2. Interservice support agreements conforming to AFI 25-201, Support Agreement
        Procedures, will be between the AF installations hosting the headquarters facilities and
        tenant CCMD. Common-use facility construction, operations, maintenance and repair
        are the responsibility of the CCSA and are “customarily non- reimbursable.”

Table 1. AF CCSA Support Responsibilities.
                       COMMAND                                     Supporting MAJCOM
     HQ US Central Command                                         Air Combat Command
            HQ Special Operations Command Central                  Air Combat Command
     HQ U.S. Element, North American Aerospace
     Defense Command                                               Air Combat Command
     HQ US Northern Command                                        Air Combat Command
                                                               Air Force Special Operations
     HQ US Special Operations Command                                    Command
     HQ US Strategic Command                                 Air Force Global Strike Command
            HQ US Cyber Command                                  Air Force Space Command
     HQ US Transportation Command                                 Air Mobility Command
        1.2.3. Operation and administration support of the CCMD headquarters in Table 1 will
        be funded as follows:
AFI25-202 26 June 2012                                                                       3


          1.2.3.1. If there are any CCMD headquarters support bills funded by the AF, they
          will be identified in the Operating Budget Review Committee (AFI 65-601, Vol. 3,
          The Air Force Budget Corporate Process). All funds will be distributed via the
          Automated Funds Management System.
          1.2.3.2. The CCMDs will annually submit their unfunded headquarter’s support
          requirements (funding and endstrength) to their supporting MAJCOM listed in Table
          1. The unfunded CCMD headquarters support requirements will be compiled,
          coordinated and submitted by the MAJCOM as part of its Program Objective
          Memorandum (POM) development.
          1.2.3.3. The MAJCOM’s POM will be submitted to the AF/A8P for deliberations by
          the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS).
          1.2.3.4. CCMD’s have access to their programmed financial data in the AF’s
          database after the POM is finalized.
          1.2.3.5. The CCMD may submit headquarters support requirements which the AFCS
          was unable to fund during POM deliberations to the Office of the Secretary of
          Defense (OSD) for adjudication as Program and Budget Review (PBR) issues
          nominations.
   1.3. Responsibilities.
      1.3.1. Headquarters United States Air Force, Director of Programs (AF/A8P) will:
          1.3.1.1. Serve as AF focal point for support of headquarters of the unified combatant
          commands and subordinate unified combatant commands for which the AF has
          CCSA responsibility.
          1.3.1.2. Provide annual POM programming instructions describing the process for
          support of the headquarters of the unified combatant commands and subordinate
          unified combatant commands.
          1.3.1.3. Receive CCMD headquarters support requirements in MAJCOM POM
          submissions to inform AFCS deliberations.
          1.3.1.4. Verify Air Force program conforms to combatant command business rules in
          AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services.
      1.3.2. Headquarters United States Air Force, Director of Manpower, Organization
      and Resources (AF/A1M) will:
          1.3.2.1. Serve as focal point for AF military endstrength support to the headquarters
          of the unified combatant commands and subordinate unified combatant commands.
          1.3.2.2. Verify AF military endstrength requirements for administrative and logistic
          support of the CCMD headquarters.
          1.3.2.3. Accept endstrength requirement options for the headquarters of unified
          combatant commands and subordinate unified combatant commands from the
          MAJCOMs.
4                                                                 AFI25-202 26 June 2012


       1.3.2.4. Verify unfunded CCMD endstrength requirements included in POM
       deliberations have been validated by the Joint Manpower Validation Board and are
       consistent with DoD endstrength guidance.
    1.3.3. Headquarters United States Air Force, Air Force Civil Engineer (AF/A7C)
    will:
       1.3.3.1. Provide annual MILCON programming instruction describing the process
       and timeline for development and submission of MILCON projects that support the
       headquarters of the unified combatant commands and subordinate unified combatant
       commands for which Air Force is CCSA.
       1.3.3.2. Validate and prioritize CCMDs’ unfunded headquarters MILCON
       requirements, submitted through the hosting installations’ MAJCOMs, as part of their
       POM development. AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction
       (MILCON) Projects, provides guidance for developing MILCON projects for
       submission to AF/A7C, and approval process through the AFCS, OSD, and Congress.
    1.3.4. Secretary of the Air Force, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Budget
    (SAF/FMB) will:
       1.3.4.1. Prepare a budget estimate for funding to support the operation and
       administration of the CCMD headquarters staff, including civilian pay, travel,
       supplies, and training.
       1.3.4.2. Provide a planning number based on the budget estimate and the projected
       congressional marks, allowing an opportunity for redistribution of funding as
       appropriate.
       1.3.4.3. Establish Air Force budget policies and procedures for preparing, justifying,
       and executing budgets. Provides guidance on organizational and appropriation
       funding responsibilities and appropriate/proper use of funds. Refer to AFI 65-601,
       Vol. 1, Chapter 1, Section 1.3, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
       1.3.4.4. Provide an Operating Budget Authority (OBA) to the CCMDs. The CCMDs
       will subdivide the OBA to installations including the same content as the OBA
       received. Refer to AFI 65-601, Vol. 2, Chapter 3, Section 3.1, Budget Management
       for Operations.
    1.3.5. Major Commands will:
       1.3.5.1. Administer, as applicable to MAJCOMs with CCMD tenants on their
       installations, the Command support agreements program for the interservice
       agreements between their installations and the tenant unified combatant
       commands/subordinate unified combatant commands headquarters on the
       installations conforming to AFI 25-201.
       1.3.5.2. As assigned in Table 1, compile, coordinate and submit unfunded CCMD
       headquarters logistics and administrative support requirements to AF/A8P in
       accordance with annual POM Preparation Instructions (PPI).
AFI25-202 26 June 2012                                             5


                         CHRISTOPHER D. MILLER, Lt General, USAF
                         DCS, Strategic Plans and Programs
 6                                                                   AFI25-202 26 June 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5100.03, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Unified Commands,
9 February 2011
AFPD 25-2, Support Agreements, 1 November 2001
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 July 2010
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects, 14 June
2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 13 October 2011
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 10 August 2011
AFI65-601V2, Budget Management for Operations, 21 October 1994
AFI 65-601V3, The Air Force Budget Corporate Process, 8 August 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
CCMD—Combatant Command
CCSA—Combatant Command Support Agent
OBA—Operating Budget Authority
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPI—POM Preparation Instructions
TSOC—Theater Special Operations Command

Terms
Administrative And Logistic Support. Professional, technical, administrative, logistical, and/or
base operating support (to include necessary infrastructure) that is performed in, or provided
directly to, the headquarters of a Combatant Command, USELEMNORAD, or subordinate
unified combatant command to perform the headquarters assigned mission effectively, and as
otherwise directed.
Combatant Command (CCMD). A unified or specified command with a broad continuing
mission under a single commander established and so designated by the President, through the
AFI25-202 26 June 2012                                                                        7


Secretary of Defense and with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. Combatant commands typically have geographic or functional
responsibilities.
Combatant Command Support Agent (CCSA). The Secretary of a Military Department to whom
the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense has assigned administrative and
logistical support of the headquarters of a Combatant Command, USELEMNORAD, or
subordinate unified command.
Operating Budget Review Committee (OBRC). The OBRC oversees the Active Air Force
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) appropriation and advises the Air Force Board and the Air
Force Council on all issues related to O&M program budgeting and execution.
Subordinate Unified Combatant Command. A command established by commanders of unified
commands, when so authorized by the Secretary of Defense through the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to conduct operations on a continuing basis in accordance with
the criteria set forth for unified commands.
Support Agreement. An agreement to provide recurring support to another DoD or non—
DoD Federal activity. Support agreements define the support to be provided by one supplier to
one or more receivers, specify the basis for calculating reimbursement charges (if any) for each
service, establish the billing and reimbursement process, and specify other terms and conditions
of the agreement.
Theater Special Operations Command (TSOC). The subordinate unified command established by
a Combatant Command to plan, coordinate, conduct, and support joint special operations.
