BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-123
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          3 OCTOBER 2002

                                                                         AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                     Supplement 1
                                                                                  1 NOVEMBER 2005

                                                                                          Maintenance

                                                             AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT
                                                                           PROGRAM (AFREP)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILMM (Maj Hoffman)                               Certified by: HQ USAF/ILM (Mr Dunn)
Supersedes AFI 21-123, 19 September 2001.                                                 Pages: 26
                                                                                     Distribution: F

                                                (AMC)
OPR: HQ AMC/A44MP (MSgt David Rhine)                                      Certified by: HQ AMC/A44
                                                                         (Col Bradford M. Reinert, Sr.)
Supersedes AFI21-123_AMCSUP1,                                                                  Pages: 7
           15 May 1999                                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance, by providing
guidance and procedures to increase wing-level repair capability of aerospace parts and equipment. It
describes the initiation, evaluation and implementation of locally-generated maintenance initiatives for
base level or base contract repair. Major Commands may supplement this instruction to provide tailored
guidance and procedures. Waiver authority for this instruction is HQ USAF/ILMM.

(AMC) AFI 21-123, 3 October 2002, is supplemented as follows. This supplement applies to all Air
Mobility Command (AMC) units. It does not apply to US Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units.
Send change proposals to AMC Phoenix STAR Section, HQ AMC/A44MP, 402 Scott Dr, Unit 2A2, Scott
AFB IL 62225. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer commercial product, commod-
ity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure all records are
maintained and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2002-1 TO AFI 21-123. Interim change (IC) 2002-1 revises
policy in the 19 Sep 01 edition of AFI 21-123. Major changes include: Submission procedures for Source,
2                                                                         AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


Maintenance and Recoverability (SMR) change requests (4.11.); clarification of the quality verification
process for contract repairs (5.4.); and definitions of cost savings and avoidance (7.3.). A “|” indicates
revised material since the last edition.
(AMC) This publication (to include the basic Air Force Instruction) has been substantially revised,
please read it its entirety. The scope of the Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP) is to iden-
tify the AMC tailored Gold Program. Implementation of this program is at the unit MXG/CC discretion.
It is an optional program. This program identifies possible base level repair and contract initiatives. Once
all the requirements of the Gold process (see Attachment 2 of AFI 21-123) have been accomplished and
the repair initiative is formalized, establishing the repair capability is authorized. Once the repair capabil-
ity is established, AFREP should continue to monitor the repair actions for at least one year to ensure the
repair initiative still meets the requirements of Attachment 2 of AFI 21-123. All paragraph numbering
has been updated to align with the current AFI.
      1.      Program Objectives. ...................................................................................................          3
      2.      Program Scope. ..........................................................................................................        3
      3.      AFREP Requirements. ...............................................................................................              3
      4.      Roles and Responsibilities. ........................................................................................             4
      5.      Program Process. .......................................................................................................        10
      6.      Deficiency Reporting Process. ...................................................................................               13
      7.      Financial Process. ......................................................................................................       13
      8.      Reporting. ..................................................................................................................   13
      8.      (AMC) Reporting. ......................................................................................................         14
      9.      Forms Prescribed: ......................................................................................................        14

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               15

Attachment 2— AFREP PROCESS FLOW CHART                                                                                                        20

Attachment 3— DUE-IN PROCESS FLOW CHART                                                                                                       21

Attachment 4— IC 2002-1 TO AFI 21-123 AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT
             PROGRAM                                                                                                                          22

Attachment 5—(Added-AMC) AFREP ISSUE/TURN-IN PROCEDURES                                                                                       24

Attachment 6—(Added-AMC) AFREP PROCEDURES                                                                                                     25

Attachment 7—(Added-AMC) AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT (AFREP)
             METRICS REPORTING DATA                                                                                                           26
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                          3


1. Program Objectives. The Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP) optimizes Air Force
resources by increasing the wing-level repair capability of aerospace parts and equipment. AFREP
enables the repair of certain items if the repair of the item is cost effective without risk to mission perfor-
mance. Items must be considered for repair when warranted by mission requirements. Repair cost/benefit
analysis must consider the total costs to the Air Force as outlined in Air Force Technical Order (TO)
00-20-3.

2. Program Scope. AFREP encourages innovation, ingenuity and resourcefulness by allowing organiza-
tions to identify consumable items (primarily coded XB3 and XF3) and non-consumable items (XD2) for
base level or contract repair. Any unit repair of XB3 items will be accomplished under the AFREP. Any
repair of XF3 items that are not currently authorized for repair, or beyond the capability of the work cen-
ter, will be an AFREP repair initiative. Further, any XD2 item that is approved for unit level repair in
accordance with (IAW) TO 00-25-195 will be accomplished under the AFREP. Program participation can
come from any wing and base activity, including other wing functional groups. The AFREP is not
intended to replace any formal repair process but to enhance localized repair capability.
   2.1. (Added-AMC) MXG/CC or equivalent assigns a unit AFREP Manager to maintenance group
   quality assurance and requests the MSG/CC assign an AFREP point of contact within the Logistics
   Readiness Squadron. The unit AFREP manager should be a senior noncommissioned officer with a
   strong maintenance or supply background. The AFREP manager is the central focal point for all
   AFREP initiatives throughout the AFREP process. The unit AFREP management office composition
   is limited only by the available wing resources. Recommended participation or composition in the
   AFREP office should include the unit AFREP manager, supply technician, two circuit card repair
   (CCR) technicians (if applicable), and one mechanical technician. Due to the critical link between
   AFREP and SBSS, a dedicated supply technician should be located within the AFREP management
   office. This is not a manpower earning work center.

3. AFREP Requirements.
   3.1. Make every effort to establish repair of expendables without creating an excess in the Standard
   Base Supply System (SBSS). Once local repair of an expendable item is authorized, change the
   Expendability, Reparability, Recoverability Category (ERRC) code (IAW AFM 23-110, Vol II, Part 2,
   chapter 27) locally from XB to XF if item is reoccurring and supported by supply demand data. Refer
   to Chapter 5., Program Process.
       3.1.1. (Added-AMC) XB3 (Expendable) items will be processed and controlled through normal
       maintenance functions using specific procedures outlined in T.O. 00-20-3, Section I. When it is
       determined to be cost effective (IAW T.O. 00-20-3) to continue repair of an XB3 item, the user
       must initiate action to change the expendability, recoverability, reparability code (ERRC) to XF3.
       Assigning ERRC XF3 will allow the tracking and accumulation of repair data for the item. Proce-
       dures for changing the ERRC are located in AFMAN 23-110, Volume II, Part Two, Chapter 27.
       3.1.2. (Added-AMC) Units will identify their AFREP section as a repair center for their base in
       the Standard Base Supply System (SBSS). Unit AFREP Manager monitors parts in the repair
       cycle evaluation process and ensures accurate tracking and accountability.
   3.2. Do not duplicate procurement by establishing backorders to commercial vendors. Defense Reuti-
   lization Marketing Office (DRMO) requirements will be requisitioned in coordination with base sup-
4                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


    ply and processed into the AFREP account to verify serviceability before returning to supply. Refer to
    Chapter 5., Program Process.
    3.3. Review stock levels in base supply, past consumption data and cross-tell correspondence to pro-
    actively alleviate anticipated shortages. However, assets on-hand in base supply must be used before
    those obtained from AFREP or other alternate sources. Refer to Chapter 5., Program Process.
    3.4. Ensure items repaired under contract are inspected/tested by the base or contractor organization.
    All repairs must be in accordance with technical data, per the specific procedures outlined in Chapter
    5., Program Process.
       3.4.1. (Added-AMC) See Attachment 5 (Added) and Attachment 6 (Added) (of this supple-
       ment) for AMC AFREP Issue/Turn-In procedures.
    3.5. Closely monitor AFREP Operating Costs. AFREP Operating Costs include the following: man-
    power (positions previously authorized and funded for AFREP), technician training, TDY, equipment,
    equipment upgrades, tools, repair parts, software, contract repair, administration supplies, etc. Review
    all operating costs to ensure they are for mission-related expenses. Also, AFREP credits must be
    closely managed and applied only to mission-related requirements. Refer to Chapter 7., Financial Pro-
    cess.

4. Roles and Responsibilities.
    4.1. HQ USAF/ILM:
       4.1.1. Establishes policy and oversees management of the AFREP.
       4.1.2. Designates the HQ USAF AFREP Program Manager.
    4.2. HQ USAF AFREP Program Manager:
       4.2.1. Administers/manages the AFREP for Air Staff/ILM.
       4.2.2. Develops, reviews and coordinates AFREP policy, including this AFI. Reviews this AFI
       annually with MAJCOMs and other agencies.
       4.2.3. Organizes and chairs AFREP Conference at least annually.
       4.2.4. Designates an OPR to establish and maintain a centralized AFREP Web Site which
       includes:
           4.2.4.1. Repair initiatives and items repaired by unit, weapons system, stock number, etc.
           4.2.4.2. Links to programs (e.g., Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Materiel Shortages,
           Government Industry Data Exchange Program) to locate alternate repair sources and certified
           vendors.
           4.2.4.3. Links to points-of-contact (e.g., item managers) for national stock numbers.
       4.2.5. Maintains and distributes list and email group of MAJCOM AFREP Program Manager(s)
       (POCs). May include representatives from other agencies (e.g., DLA or ALCs) on this list.
       4.2.6. Tracks, consolidates and reports metrics data from MAJCOMs. Evaluates data against pro-
       gram objectives and proposes changes in policy or responsibility, as necessary. Refer to Chapter
       8., Reporting.
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                 5


  4.3. MAJCOM:
     4.3.1. Determines whether or not to participate in AFREP. Notifies Air Staff (AF/ILM) if deter-
     mines not to participate in AFREP.
     4.3.2. Ensures compliance with established directives.
     4.3.3. Approves and issues MAJCOM supplement to this AFI, as required.
     4.3.4. Designates MAJCOM AFREP Program Manager(s). HQ AFMC also designates the USAF
     Gold Disc Program Manager.
  4.4. MAJCOM AFREP Manager:
     4.4.1. Develops and coordinates policy/guidance for participating units.
        4.4.1.1. (Added-AMC) HQ AMC/A44MP is the AMC AFREP Manager.
     4.4.2. Maintains, updates and distributes list of Wing/Unit AFREP Managers.
     4.4.3. Reviews and recommends approval/disapproval of item repair process requests (e.g.,
     AFTO Form 135) and forwards to Single Manager organization responsible for the item to be
     repaired. MAJCOMs may delegate this authority IAW TO 00-25-195.
     4.4.4. Provides direction to participating units based on the process described in this AFI.
     4.4.5. Collects data and reports to HQ USAF AFREP Program Manager. Refer to Chapter 8.,
     Reporting.
     4.4.6. Provides AFREP Web Site Manager with program initiatives for AFREP database. This
     data will include: MDS, NSN, Part Number, MAJCOM, Base and POC (with phone number).
     4.4.7. Coordinates with Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), Product
     Centers and other agencies as required.
     4.4.8. Coordinates with MAJCOM SMAG Manager on all policies and procedures affecting stock
     fund.
  4.5. AF Gold Disc Program Manager:
     4.5.1. Manages Memorandum of Agreement with U.S. Navy Gold Disc Program Office
     (NUWC).
        4.5.1.1. Includes managing all financial aspects of this agreement.
     4.5.2. Ensures Gold Disc Development Database and Web Site are kept current and available to
     participating units. This database includes Gold Discs and Silver Discs.
     4.5.3. Updates MAJCOMs/Units on all new developments with the Gold Disc Program. Serves as
     liaison for the Air Force, as the Navy is the primary manager for the Gold Disc Program.
     4.5.4. Provides guidance for Circuit Card Repair (CCR) equipment and training related to the
     Gold Disc program.
     4.5.5. Ensures there is an avenue for Gold/Silver Disc verification and validation.
  4.6. Single Manager (SM) Organization:
6                                                     AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


       4.6.1. Evaluates and approves/disapproves item repair process requests (e.g. AFTO Form 135)
       IAW TO 00-25-195.
           4.6.1.1. Approves contract source of repair when Source Maintenance Recoverability (SMR)
           code does not authorize repair. This approval includes technical data used to perform repair, to
           include first article requirements and acceptance criteria.
       4.6.2. Ensures that SMR code and technical orders are updated, excluding individual base waiv-
       ers.
       4.6.3. Maintains and distributes list of single managers, items managers and equipment specialists
       assigned to manage specific national stock numbers.
    4.7. Wing/Unit:
       4.7.1. Participates in AFREP based on MAJCOM guidance.
           4.7.1.1. Designates AFREP Manager.
           4.7.1.2. Provides resources for program to ensure compliance with this AFI.
    4.8. Wing/Unit AFREP Manager. The Wing/Unit AFREP Manager has wide-ranging responsibilities
    for the success of the program. Depending on the local AFREP office, the AFREP Manager may also
    fulfill the duties of Supply Liaison, Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR) or Techni-
    cian. The key responsibilities are outlined below:
       4.8.1. Implements repair process described in this AFI.
       4.8.2. Serves as the POC for all AFREP initiatives, including CCR.
           4.8.2.1. Locates and assigns who can best evaluate the initiative.
           4.8.2.2. After a thorough evaluation by the evaluator or evaluation team, submits AFREP ini-
           tiative package to applicable approving authority.
       4.8.3. Establishes appropriate Project Fund Management Record (PFMR) account(s) for financial
       accountability.
       4.8.4. Oversees management of all AFREP tracking records.
           4.8.4.1. Tracks status of AFREP initiatives through completion. Tracking may be accom-
           plished in partnership with Quality Assurance (QA), using their expertise and programs.
       4.8.5. Assists technicians by interfacing with Single Manager Organizations, Base Supply and
       Transportation, Quality Assurance and other agencies.
       4.8.6. Accumulates and forwards data requested by MAJCOM concerning AFREP program.
       4.8.7. For repairs not currently authorized per the SMR code, ensures formal repair authorization
       is granted by the Single Manager Organization prior to implementing the proposal/initiative.
       4.8.8. Ensures subsequent repair of assets does not create excess within the Standard Base Supply
       System (SBSS).
           4.8.8.1. (Added-AMC) Unit AFREP managers will ensure supply demand data and service-
           able balances are checked to prevent the repair or accumulation of items that have excess Air
           Force stock levels. Supply procedures for AFREP items must be utilized to ensure AFREP ini-
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                  7


        tiatives are documented and demand/repair cycle data recorded to ensure visibility within the
        supply system.
     4.8.9. Attends Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program (IREP) meetings.
     4.8.10. Promotes AFREP and advertises local and alternate source repair capability to potential
     base customers.
     4.8.11. Ensures contract repairs are completed according to technical data to meet or exceed mil-
     itary specifications. Ensure companies are registered with the Central Contracting Register
     (http://www.ccr.gov) and make facilities/products available for inspection by a Government
     Inspector (e.g., Defense Contract Management Agency).
     4.8.12. Maintains all AFREP records, including AFTO Forms 135, Initiatives, Statements, Sup-
     ply Documents and Metrics.
     4.8.13. Ensures individuals assigned to AFREP obtain a minimum of a five-skill level, unless
     waived by the MAJCOM.
     4.8.14. Submits and monitors Deficiency Reports. Refer to Chapter 6., Deficiency Reporting Pro-
     cess, and TO 00-35D-54, Air Force Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System.
     4.8.15. Requests and reviews AWP lists from maintenance activities to determine if the AFREP
     office can repair any of the AWP items.
     4.8.16. Ensures the duties of the Supply Liaison, Technician, COTR and/or CCR Repair Techni-
     cian are fulfilled consistent with program objectives. These duties are described in the following
     paragraphs.
     4.8.17. (Added-AMC) Ensures AFREP will not interfere with warranty and the DR processes
     IAW 00-35D-54.
     4.8.18. (Added-AMC) Forwards to the AMC AFREP Manager their name, rank, office symbol,
     phone number, and e-mail address.
     4.8.19. (Added-AMC) Sends items to appropriate repair shop for evaluation.
     4.8.20. (Added-AMC) Assists shops in obtaining required technical data, equipment or parts to
     support the evaluation process.
     4.8.21. (Added-AMC) Ensures all supply DIFM and tracking requirements are maintained.
     4.8.22. (Added-AMC) Seeks off-base sources if no on-base capability exists.
     4.8.23. (Added-AMC) Contacts Single Manager concerning repair feasibility, pending modifica-
     tions, or other initiatives.
     4.8.24. (Added-AMC) Inquires about civilian contractors.
     4.8.25. (Added-AMC) Provides the AMC AFREP Manager with a quarterly report.
     4.8.26. (Added-AMC) Reevaluates the initiative after repair capabilities are determined and con-
     sider cost effectiveness of repair and mission requirements.
     4.8.27. (Added-AMC) Notifies the AFREP lead units of recommended new repair method or
     reasons to discontinue initiative. (See paragraph 7.3.1. (Added)).
8                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


    4.9. Wing/Unit Supply Liaison:
       4.9.1. Processes all assets to and from the AFREP program.
           4.9.1.1. Ensures appropriate Transaction Identification Codes (TRIC) are assigned.
       4.9.2. Ensures a SBSS demand level requirement exists for approved initiatives prior to repairing
       consumable items.
       4.9.3. Sends items to the appropriate work center for evaluation/repair.
       4.9.4. Assists work centers in obtaining required technical data, equipment or parts to support the
       evaluation process. NOTE: Depot-level TOs may be requisitioned and used to develop local repair
       procedures. These repair procedures must be approved by the Single Manager Organization.
       4.9.5. Ensures all Due In From Maintenance (DIFM) and tracking requirements are maintained.
       4.9.6. Monitors status of items sent to alternate repair sources.
       4.9.7. Recommends process improvements to the Wing/Unit and/or MAJCOM AFREP Manager.
       4.9.8. Ensures alternate repair source identification and contract number (if available) is dis-
       played on serviceability tags and/or marked on the asset when returned by the alternate repair
       source prior to use or supply turn in.
       4.9.9. Provides the AFREP manager with information concerning SBSS valid requirements and
       AFREP item repair status.
       4.9.10. Screens asset availability through DRMO IAW AFM 23-110, Vol II, Part 2, Chap 9.
    4.10. AFREP Technician:
       4.10.1. Evaluates potential AFREP initiatives and determines if repair of item is feasible.
       4.10.2. Prepares an AFREP tracking record for each initiative, assigns an AFREP control number
       and tracking folder and/or data base. This tracking folder and/or database will include all informa-
       tion associated with the AFREP repair process.
       4.10.3. Sends items to appropriate repair shop for evaluation if repairs exceed technician capabil-
       ity.
       4.10.4. Reevaluates the initiative after repair to determine the cost effectiveness of the repair
       compared to the original evaluation.
           4.10.4.1. Notifies AFREP Manager of recommendation to continue/discontinue repair.
    4.11. Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR). The COTR works with the local con-
    tracting office to ensure contract administration procedures are closely followed for all AFREP con-
    tract actions. This position may be filled by AFREP personnel (e.g., Wing AFREP Manager), Quality
    Assurance or designee.
       4.11.1. Explores off-base sources if no on-base repair capability exists.
       4.11.2. Works with local contracting office to establish contracts using approved procedures (i.e.,
       purchase orders or other applicable method).
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                   9


         4.11.2.1. Ensure companies contracted for repairs are registered with the Central Contracting
         Register (http://www.ccr.gov). Contractors must provide access to a certified Government
         Inspector to inspect all parts and verify the company is complying with quality requirements.
         4.11.2.2. Ensures contractor identification is on serviceability tags prior to return of items
         from off-base repair sources.
         4.11.2.3. Repair contracts may stipulate that the contractor will supply warranty repair infor-
         mation to the initiating AFREP Office for deficiency tracking purposes.
         4.11.2.4. Establish contractual arrangements for all recurring purchases/services.
     4.11.3. Inspects/tests contract repair items IAW technical data through the AFREP office or base
     maintenance organization. The COTR may accept written documentation from the contractor indi-
     cating the inspection/test was completed IAW technical data.
     4.11.4. Evaluates and/or processes the AFTO Form 135.
         4.11.4.1. Maintains a file copy of each AFTO Form 135.
         4.11.4.2. Forwards the completed SMR change request through the Product Improvement
         Office for processing to the MAJCOMs.
         4.11.4.3. Track AFTO Form 135s to ensure they are completed in a timely manner and fol-
         low-up on overdue submissions, as needed.
         4.11.4.4. Delete.
     4.11.5. Meets qualifications and training requirements established by local contracting office.
     This training should include an overview of local contracting procedures (e.g., “Phase I”), pro-
     vided by the Quality Assurance Program Coordinator (QAPC).
  4.12. Circuit Card Repair (CCR) Technician:
  4.12. (AMC) Circuit Card Repair (CCR) is an optional program under AFREP.
     4.12.1. Completes standardized “Huntron” (or equivalent) users development training course.
     4.12.2. Completes Gold Disc development training course.
     4.12.3. Maintains soldering certification to Miniature/Micro-miniature (2M) or Depot standards
     of electronic re-work.
     4.12.4. Utilizes standard CCR equipment (AS 783 part F) and develops Gold and Silver Disc
     CCR candidates.
     4.12.5. (Added-AMC) For units performing CCR, the MXG/CC or equivalent will appoint a
     CCR POC. The unit AFREP Manager has oversight responsibility for CCR, ensuring that their
     unit CCR personnel meet training certification/re-certification requirements identified in para-
     graph 4.12.5.1. (Added) Units will forward their CCR candidates to the USAF Gold Disk Man-
     agement Office. The unit AFREP manager and CCR POC ensures required circuit card analysis
     and repair tools are available, acts as base/wing central point of contact for Silver and Gold Disk
     development packages, and ensures unit end item test capability exists before repairs are per-
     formed.
10                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


            4.12.5.1. (Added-AMC) Initial certification for technicians will be awarded upon successful
            completion of CCR training. Technicians certified in the basic requirements for CCR are
            authorized to repair single and double-sided circuit card assemblies (CCAs) and other elec-
            tronic assemblies, up to and including the removal and installation of multilead integrated cir-
            cuits. Authorized repairs include surface repair of CCA laminate and printed circuit wiring,
            removal and application of conformal coatings and installation of wires to terminals. CCR
            technicians will be re-certified by the end of the eighteenth month after their initial certifica-
            tion or task recertification date. Listed below are the basic requirements for CCR Certification.
                4.12.5.1.1. (Added-AMC) Proficiency tasks.
                4.12.5.1.2. (Added-AMC) Introduction to soldering, including Electrostatic Discharge
                Precautions.
                4.12.5.1.3. (Added-AMC) Identification of conformal coating.
                4.12.5.1.4. (Added-AMC) Removal of conformal coating.
                4.12.5.1.5. (Added-AMC) Removal/desoldering of components.
                4.12.5.1.6. (Added-AMC) Preparation of components.
                4.12.5.1.7. (Added-AMC) Installation of components.
                4.12.5.1.8. (Added-AMC) Laminate repair, (patch repair).
                4.12.5.1.9. (Added-AMC) Repair of printed circuit conductors.
                4.12.5.1.10. (Added-AMC) Wire preparation and installation on terminals.
                4.12.5.1.11. (Added-AMC) Removal and installation of multilead components.
                4.12.5.1.12. (Added-AMC) Inspection and analysis of work.
                4.12.5.1.13. (Added-AMC) Knowledge Tasks.
                4.12.5.1.14. (Added-AMC) Safety precautions.
                4.12.5.1.15. (Added-AMC) Use and maintenance of tools and equipment.
                4.12.5.1.16. (Added-AMC) Conformal coating reapplication.
                4.12.5.1.17. (Added-AMC) Laminate repair of edge/corner, warped, cracked, and
                through the board defects.
                4.12.5.1.18. (Added-AMC) Wire splicing.
                4.12.5.1.19. (Added-AMC) Limitations of the CCR technician.

5. Program Process.
     5.1. Initiative Submission. Anyone may submit an initiative. Typically, a maintenance technician
     starts the process by questioning the rationale for discarding, condemning or returning an item as Not
     Repairable This Station (NRTS). Sources of ideas may include IREP meetings, DRMO visits,
     waste-busters, the AFREP website master database or personal observations of the work environment.
     Initiatives will be forwarded to the AFREP office for evaluation.
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                       11


  5.2. Initiative Evaluation. The most qualified person at base-level will evaluate the initiative. The
  evaluator should reference the AFREP Web Site master database to prevent duplication of prior initia-
  tive submissions and verify authorized level of repair via SMR codes. Perform the evaluation to deter-
  mine the feasibility of repair. Repair will be based on local supply consumption data, mission
  requirements, worldwide asset availability and cost/benefit analysis. Assess on-base repair capability,
  including the availability of technical data, repair parts, tools, test equipment and training. If the part
  is repairable and the SMR code authorized repair, units may proceed with the repair. If no on-base
  capability exists, qualified and approved government or contractor repair sources will be used to pro-
  vide parts and services. If the SMR code prohibits repair, a SMR code change request will be submit-
  ted if the evaluation determines the part can be repaired. If the SMR code change request is approved,
  the repair may be completed at the shop level or through an approved contractor repair facility.
     5.2.1. Establish a tracking system which includes: Initiative Control Number, Supply Document
     Number, NSN, Part Number, Supply Inquiry (consumption data), Cost/Benefit Analysis, Mission
     Impact Statement, brief description of discrepancy, parts replaced/repaired and repair procedures
     (tech data or locally developed). Tracking system must also include information concerning safety
     of flight items. Also include any other pertinent information in the tracking system. If repair will
     be contracted, the tracking system will also include DD Form 1149, payment procedures (e.g., AF
     Form 9 or Government Purchase Card), justification/approval for contractor repair and any addi-
     tional contract documentation (i.e., warranty, statement of work, FAA certification, etc).
  5.3. Approval Process. The approval process only pertains to new initiatives. Initiate the approval
  process by submitting an AFTO Form 135, Source Maintenance and Recoverability (SMR) Code
  Change Request. Initiatives will then be routed to the appropriate level for approval. For base repair-
  ables, initiatives are approved locally, using general technical order guidance. For all other items, the
  appropriate Single Manager Organization is the approval authority. Route AFTO Form 135 IAW
  applicable guidance. Provide sufficient detail to give the approval authority a clear sense of the initia-
  tive, attaching local forms, drawings and video tapes, as appropriate. If the initiative is disapproved,
  process rebuttal IAW TO 00-25-195, para 4-5.
  5.4. Level of Repair.
     5.4.1. Base Level Repair. Units must ensure AFTO Form 350 is completed and attached to item
     by the owning work center. Route item to appropriate repair location and repair item IAW applica-
     ble technical data, to include end system inspection/functional test. All items (including service-
     able tag) will be identified as an AFREP repaired asset with a stamp, decal or sticker. This
     identification must include the repair location, office symbol, phone number and date. When
     repaired or condemned, item will be processed through normal supply channels.
         5.4.1.1. (Added-AMC) As a minimum, each AFREP repaired part will be marked with a
         mailing label type sticker to include, originating unit/office symbol, DSN, and warranty expi-
         ration date. If unable to place on part, attach label to DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag - Mate-
         rial. Each sticker will be clearly visible and preferably color coded.
     5.4.2. Contractor Repair. All repairs must be completed according to technical data. Contractors
     must be registered through the Central Contracting Register (http://www.ccr.gov). The unit
     should coordinate shipment to and from the contractor. The local transportation office will assign
     a Transportation Control Number to the DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice Shipping Docu-
     ment, which will accompany the asset. The contractor will acknowledge receipt. Following repair,
12                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


        the contractor will inspect/test the item. A record of the repair and test results will be provided to
        the AFREP office and made available for the Government Inspector (e.g., Defense Contract Man-
        agement Agency). If documentation is not provided, the AFREP office or base maintenance orga-
        nization must inspect/test the item. A quality verification may also be performed on the first article
        to ensure compliance with the established test criteria and serviceability. All AFREP items will be
        clearly identified with a tag, stamp, decal or other means. This identification will include repair
        location, office symbol, phone number and date. When repaired or condemned, the item will be
        processed through normal supply channels.
     5.5. Supply Process.
        5.5.1. Arrange, coordinate and store AFREP candidates and/or approved initiatives as required.
        5.5.2. Upon approval of AFREP initiative, assign the AFREP “Exception Code” per the applica-
        ble MAJCOM. This code is assigned by MAJCOMs to applicable NSNs IAW AFM 23-110, Vol
        II, Part 2, Chapter 11, Attachment 11A-9.
        5.5.3. Submit a request to locally assign ERRC for recurring initiatives that have a demand level
        established (XB3 to XF3 only).
        5.5.4. Update the Repair Cycle record (TRIC FRR1) to identify the AFREP office as the repair
        facility.
        5.5.5. All XD/XF assets will be picked-up on the organizational supply account for the AFREP
        office. This will be reflected on the D23, Repair Cycle Asset Management List.
        5.5.6. Assign DIFM status to AFREP assets repaired IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol II, Part Two,
        Chap 24. NOTE: XF/XD AFREP repair actions will be tracked under DIFM control.
        5.5.7. An unserviceable XF3 asset turned in with a DIFM detail that is identified as an AFREP
        repairable item will be placed in the designated repair cycle support holding area. If the AFREP
        manager determines they can repair the asset, process a TIN using TEX code “1” to clear the orig-
        inal DIFM detail and prevent shipment to DRMO.
        5.5.8. Check due-in status prior to turn-in. Refer to Due-In Process Flow Chart if due-in status
        affects turn-in.
        5.5.9. Turn-in (TIN) actions will be processed as appropriate.
            5.5.9.1. Serviceable assets will be turned in for credit under appropriate AFREP organization
            and shop code IAW AFM 23-110.
            5.5.9.2. Unserviceable assets will be turned in under appropriate AFREP organization and
            shop code.
            5.5.9.3. Credit for turned-in assets is determined under program control. Credit policy is pro-
            vided in AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 13, Attachment 13A-4, Standard Base
            Supply Credit Policies. NOTE: Forced credit is only authorized through coordination with the
            appropriate SMAG Manager.
        5.5.10. Review supply reports (D04, D11 or D23) and local management products (QLPs, Surge
        listings or ASNUDs) to ensure the AFREP account is current and new initiatives are not over-
        looked. Request others as needed.
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                    13


           5.5.10.1. Approved AFREP initiative transactions within the SBSS can be reconciled against
           existing unit requirements.
           5.5.10.2. AFREP serviceable XB3 assets will be kept in stock IAW AFM 23-110, Vol II, Part
           2, Chap 13, Para 22.
       5.5.11. Prepare and process DRMO withdrawals IAW prescribed directives and instructions.

6. Deficiency Reporting Process. Refer to TO 00-35D-54, Air Force Deficiency Reporting and Investi-
gating System, to identify, report and resolve deficiencies on items repaired under AFREP. This ensures
problems are formally communicated for resolution. Deficiency Reports (DR) are created and submitted
using the SF 368, Product Quality Deficiency Report, or equivalent worksheet and submitted to the appro-
priate INFOCEN/ASE database by approved automated means. The AFREP office that initiated the repair
(i.e., “action point”) will perform the investigation. The action point will assign as “support point” the
activity that repaired, overhauled or manufactured the item. The screening point/action point updates the
database with additional information. Refer to 00-35D-54 for DR processing and resolution procedures.

7. Financial Process. AFREP costs, funding and credits must be carefully managed consistent with
guidance in this instruction and financial guidelines. Operating costs must be closely monitored and
directly attributable to the local AFREP office. In addition, credits must be applied to mission-related
requirements and managed as follows:
   7.1. Wings/Units will establish at least one PFMR account, with the appropriate financial
   sub-accounts, to capture AFREP credits. Credits earned through the repair of XD2 (flying hour) assets
   are retained in a PFMR “fly” account. Credits earned through the repair of XB3/XF3 (expendable)
   items may be retained in a PFMR “non-fly” account.
   7.2. All AFREP credits (minus AFREP Operating Costs) generated by the repair of an item will be
   captured within the AFREP PFMR(s). These AFREP credits are to be retained by the Wing/Unit.
   Credits generated by the repair of XD2 (flying hour) assets must be used for flying hour-related
   requirements. Credits generated by the repair of XB3/XF3 (expendable) items may be used for flying
   hour or other mission-related requirements.
   7.3. Cost savings or “credits” are earned when a repaired item is turned into supply and a credit is
   captured in the AFREP PFMR account. In contrast, “cost avoidance” refers to items repaired and
   returned either using a maintenance to maintenance or supply transaction with no credit captured in
   the AFREP PFMR account. AFREP offices will track all savings and avoidance repair actions.
       7.3.1. (Added-AMC) Cost savings are defined as PFMR credit minus repair cost and transporta-
       tion cost. Cost avoidance is defined as Air Force initial replacement cost. Units may elect to col-
       lect cost savings for XB3/XF3 (expendable) item fund distributions in an account dispersed by the
       maintenance group commander as determined most advantageous for the unit mission or quality
       of life for assigned personnel. Credits generated by the repair of XD2 (flying hour) assets must be
       used for flying hour-related requirements.

8. Reporting. The HQ USAF, MAJCOM and Wing/Unit Program Managers will track, monitor and
report metrics data to evaluate and improve the program. MAJCOM AFREP Managers will consolidate
Wing/Unit AFREP data quarterly and report to the HQ USAF Program Manager. This data should be for-
warded NLT the 15th of the month following each quarter, using the format provided on the AFREP Web
14                                                     AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


Page. The HQ USAF Program Manager will provide a spreadsheet format to assist Units/Wings/MAJ-
COMs in tracking/reporting program data. As a minimum, the format will include the following for each
AFREP unit:
8. (AMC) Reporting. AFREP units will report program activity and savings to HQ AMC/A44MP quar-
terly or when requested. Cost savings data and the unit AFREP status report will be filed with two-year
suspense for possible audits. The approved status report format for submission is specified in Attachment
7 (Added).
     8.1. Total items processed, repaired on-base and repaired via contract
     8.2. Total number of MICAPS complete (satisfied) with AFREP-repaired item
     8.3. Total initiatives (AFTO Form 135) submitted and approved
     8.4. Total Cost Savings.
     8.5. Total Cost Avoidance.

9. Forms Prescribed:
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AFTO Form 22, Technical Order Improvement Report and Reply
AFTO Form 135, Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability Code Change Report
AFTO Form 350, Repairable Item Processing Tag
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice Shipping Document
SF 368, Product Quality Deficiency Report



                                                MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                Deputy Chief of Staff/Installations and Logistics

                                                (AMC)

                                                DANNY STEELE, Col, USAF
                                                Deputy Director of Logistics
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                              15


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft
AFI 33-360V1, Publications Management Program
AFI 63-111, Contract Support for Systems and Equipment
AFI 63-124, Performance-Based Service Contracts (PBSC)
AFI 63-1201, Assurance Of Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 37-139, Record Disposition Schedule
AFPD 20-3, Air Force Weapon System Reparable Asset Management
AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
AFPD 63-12, Assurance Of Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation
TO 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable Property and Repair Cycle Asset Control System
TO 00-25-195, AF T.O. SMR Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipment
TO 00-35D-54, Air Force Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFREP—Air Force Repair Enhancement Program
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ASE—Application Support Equipment
ASNUD—Automated Stock Number User Directory
AWP—Awaiting Parts
BRT—Base Repair Time
CCA—Circuit Card Assembly
CCR—Circuit Card Repair
CIC—Customer or Controlled Identification Code
CND—Cannot Duplicate
COTR—Contracting Officer Technical Representative
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
16                                               AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DIFM—Due-In From Maintenance
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLR—Depot Level Reparable
DRMO—Defense Reutilization Marketing Office
EM—Electronic Module
ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (Code)
ES—Equipment Specialist
GPC—Government Purchase Card
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IEX—Issue Exception (Code)
INFOCEN—Information Central
IM—Item Manager
IREP—Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program
LRU—Line Replaceable Unit
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDR—Materiel Deficiency Report
MDS—Mission, Design, Series
MICAP—Mission Capability (Part Missing From Aircraft)
MRO—Materiel Release Order
MTTR—Mean Time To Repair
NMCM—Not Mission Capable Maintenance
NMCS—Not Mission Capable Supply
NRTS—Not Reparable This Station
NSN—National Stock Number
O&ST—Order and Shipping Time
OCCR—Organization Cost Center Record
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PBR—Percent Base Repair
PFMR—Project Fund Management Record
POC—Point Of Contact
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                      17


QA—Quality Assurance
QAPC—Quality Assurance Program Coordinator
QLP—Query Language Processor
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
REX—Requisition Exception (Code)
RDO—Redistribution Order
RR—Remove, Replace
RRR—Remove, Repair, Replace
RTS—Repairable This Station
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
SM—System or Single Manager
SMAG—Supply Management Activity Group
SMR—Source, Maintenance, Recoverability (Code)
SN—Stock Number
SNUD—Stock Number User Directory
SPD—System Program Director
SPM—System Program Manager
SRU—Shop Replaceable Unit
TEX—Transaction Exception (Code)
TIN—Turn-In
TNMCM—Total Not Mission Capable Maintenance
TNMCS—Total Not Mission Capable Supply
TO—Technical Order
TRIC—Transaction Identification Code

Terms
Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP)—Formerly known as the Air Force “Gold”
Program, AFREP identifies consumable and non-consumable items for base level or contract repair.
AFREP optimizes Air Force resources by increasing the wing-level repair capability of aerospace parts
and equipment.
Awaiting Parts (AWP)—The condition or status of an item (equipment) needing additional part(s) to
repair it or make it serviceable for use. Also sometimes used to describe the elapsed time a repairable item
spends awaiting parts while in the repair cycle.
Consumable Items—Also known as “Consumption” or “Expendable” Items designated XB3. Items
which are consumed in use or which lose their original identity during periods of use by incorporation into
18                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


or attachments upon another assembly. Issued on an as required basis and consist of such supplies as
maintenance parts or office supplies.
Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR)—Individual trained to prepare, track and/or
evaluate contract repair actions. This individual works closely with the local base contracting
organization and may be assigned to the AFREP office or Quality Assurance.
Cost Avoidance—Recorded value for a local AFREP repair. A part is needed on an aircraft and AFREP
determines that a repair will return the asset to service in less time and cost than procuring a new item.
The part is repaired locally, returned to the aircraft, and a cost avoidance is realized.
Cost Savings—Credited value for an item repaired by AFREP. Repaired item is turned-in to SBSS for
credit, minus repair expenses. Cost savings are recorded as credits in the appropriate PFMR account.
Demand Level—A term used to identify a requirement for stocks based upon demands.
Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (ERRC)—Code A single digit or three-digit
supply oriented code used to classify AF items of supply into various management groupings. These
groupings determine the type of management used throughout the logistics cycle, designate the process to
be used in computing requirements and are used in the collection and reporting of asset and usage data.
Examples of ERRC codes include “N” (Designator: XB3) and “T” (Designator: XD2).
Gold Disc—A diagnostic troubleshooting routine used to isolate faulty components on a CCA or EM. It
includes four logistics tools: Assembly drawing, Schematics, Logistics Data for the Circuit Card under
test and three merged Analog Diagnostic Signature Database.
Government Purchase Card—Government-wide commercial purchase card, similar in nature to a
commercial credit card, issued to authorized agency personnel to use to acquire and to pay for supplies
and services. Formerly known as “IMPAC” card.
Initiative—An idea or proposal to repair an item that is not currently repaired or beyond the capability of
the work center. An AFREP initiative is staffed through the applicable Wing, MAJCOM and/or Single
Manager Organization. The staff package includes an AFTO Form 135 (or AFTO Form 22), Technical
Order references and/or a DCMA Statement of Qualification.
Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program—A forum for wing senior leadership to evaluate current
aircraft weapons systems resource and support status, highlight specific problem areas, focus on local
repair initiatives to include AFREP processes, and discuss ways to improve the overall repair cycle
process.
Non-Consumable Item—Also referred to as a “Non-expendable or Equipment” item. Durable items that
are capable of continuing or repetitive use by an individual or organization.
Operating Costs—Costs or expenses to administer a given program. AFREP operating costs are closely
controlled to ensure they are for mission-related requirements. These operating costs include manpower,
training, equipment, tools, parts, contract repair, software and administrative supplies.
Order and Shipping Time (O&ST)—The time interval (days) between the initiation of stock
replenishment action by a specific activity and the receipt of the materiel by the base or specific activity.
Project Fund Management Record (PFMR)—A customer fund control record that provides for
monitoring and control over each responsibility center manager’s financial plan programmed for purchase
of expensed materiel by cost center managers. The PFMR is a control record for one or more organization
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                      19


cost center records (OCCR). The OCCR to PFMR system relationship is similar to that between a cost
center and a responsibility center.
Redistribution Order (RDO)—An order issued by a responsible materiel manager upon an accountable
supply distribution activity within the supply distribution complex directing release of materiel to another
supply distribution activity within the same supply complex. An RDO may be used to direct release and
shipment of materiel from one accountable unit to another to satisfy a specific demand.
Repairable—Unserviceable items that can be economically repaired and restored to a serviceable
condition.
Silver Disc—A diagnostic troubleshooting routine used to isolate faulty components on a CCA or EM. It
includes two logistics tools: Assembly Drawing and an Analog Diagnostic Signature Database.
Single Manager Organization—A Single Manager refers to a System Program Director (SPD) or
Product Group Manager (PGM). The “Single Manager Organization” also includes Item Managers (IM),
Equipment Specialists (ES) and other personnel to support weapon systems and components.
Source, Maintenance, Recoverability (SMR) Code—A code assigned to parts/assemblies that provides
maintenance activities with repair level responsibilities, support method (i.e., procure, manufacture, etc.)
and disposition instructions. The SMR codes are also input into the supply and maintenance automated
data system. The assignment of a SMR code reflects the operational requirements of an item and present
and programmed capabilities of maintenance organizations supporting the end item.
Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)—An accounting system consisting of standardized computer
equipment, programs, procedures and supply policy. This system provides base activities with their
supply needs and employs an account for items, supplies, equipment, etc.
Supply Reports—There are many examples of “Supply Reports” used to record supply transactions. The
Daily Document Register (D04) provides a means for organizations to review all document numbers
processed during the day by the SBSS. The PFMR and Organization Cost Center Record Update and
Reconciliation (D11) shows the current status and internal balance of the PFMR by supplies and
equipment.
Technical Order (TO)—An AF publication that gives specific technical directives and information on
inspection, storage, operation, modification, and maintenance of given AF items and equipment.
Transaction Exception (TEX) Code—A supply code (single digit) assigned as a record of a supply
transaction. TEX code “D” is assigned to issue documents to free issue SMAG inventory in stock, causing
the issue to process without charge to the customer. TEX code “A” is assigned under program control by
the DOR program, indicating the transaction was a free issue of an unfunded or unobligated due-out.
Transaction Identification Code (TRIC)—A code that identifies the transactions processed against a
customer’s organization code. For example, “DOR” indicates Due-out Release.
XB3—An ERRC designator (Code “N”) for an item that is expendable, but normally not repairable and
condemned or disposed of at base (user) level.
XD2—An ERRC designator (Code “T”) for an item that is expendable, repairable and condemned or
disposed of at depot level.
XF3—An ERRC designator (Code "P") for an item that is expendable, repairable and normally
condemned or disposed of at intermediate level.
20                 AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


            Attachment 2

     AFREP PROCESS FLOW CHART
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005               21


                               Attachment 3

                      DUE-IN PROCESS FLOW CHART
22                                                      AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


                                              Attachment 4

         IC 2002-1 TO AFI 21-123 AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM


3 October 2002


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2002-1 TO AFI 21-123. Interim change (IC) 2002-1 revises
policy in the 19 Sep 01 edition of AFI 21-123. Major changes include: Submission procedures for Source,
Maintenance and Recoverability (SMR) change requests (4.11.); clarification of the quality verification
process for contract repairs (5.4.); and definitions of cost savings and avoidance (7.3.). A “|” indicates
revised material since the last edition.


3.4. Ensure items repaired under contract are inspected/tested by the base or contractor organization. All
repairs must be in accordance with technical data, per the specific procedures outlined in Chapter 5., Pro-
gram Process.
4.2.4.2. Links to programs (e.g., Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Materiel Shortages, Govern-
ment Industry Data Exchange Program) to locate alternate repair sources and certified vendors.
4.2.4.3. Links to points-of-contact (e.g., item managers) for national stock numbers.
4.6.3. Maintains and distributes list of single managers, items managers and equipment specialists
assigned to manage specific national stock numbers.
4.8.11. Ensures contract repairs are completed according to technical data to meet or exceed military spec-
ifications. Ensure companies are registered with the Central Contracting Register (http://www.ccr.gov)
and make facilities/products available for inspection by a Government Inspector (e.g., Defense Contract
Management Agency).
4.11.2.1. Ensure companies contracted for repairs are registered with the Central Contracting Register
(http://www.ccr.gov). Contractors must provide access to a certified Government Inspector to inspect all
parts and verify the company is complying with quality requirements.
4.11.2.4. Establish contractual arrangements for all recurring purchases/services.
4.11.4.2. Forwards the completed SMR change request through the Product Improvement Office for pro-
cessing to the MAJCOMs.
4.11.4.3. Track AFTO Form 135s to ensure they are completed in a timely manner and follow-up on over-
due submissions, as needed.
4.11.4.4. Delete.
5.2. Initiative Evaluation. The most qualified person at base-level will evaluate the initiative. The evalua-
tor should reference the AFREP Web Site master database to prevent duplication of prior initiative sub-
missions and verify authorized level of repair via SMR codes. Perform the evaluation to determine the
feasibility of repair. Repair will be based on local supply consumption data, mission requirements, world-
wide asset availability and cost/benefit analysis. Assess on-base repair capability, including the availabil-
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                        23


ity of technical data, repair parts, tools, test equipment and training. If the part is repairable and the SMR
code authorized repair, units may proceed with the repair. If no on-base capability exists, qualified and
approved government or contractor repair sources will be used to provide parts and services. If the SMR
code prohibits repair, a SMR code change request will be submitted if the evaluation determines the part
can be repaired. If the SMR code change request is approved, the repair may be completed at the shop
level or through an approved contractor repair facility.
5.4.2. Contractor Repair. All repairs must be completed according to technical data. Contractors must be
registered through the Central Contracting Register (http://www.ccr.gov). The unit should coordinate
shipment to and from the contractor. The local transportation office will assign a Transportation Control
Number to the DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice Shipping Document, which will accompany the
asset. The contractor will acknowledge receipt. Following repair, the contractor will inspect/test the item.
A record of the repair and test results will be provided to the AFREP office and made available for the
Government Inspector (e.g., Defense Contract Management Agency). If documentation is not provided,
the AFREP office or base maintenance organization must inspect/test the item. A quality verification may
also be performed on the first article to ensure compliance with the established test criteria and service-
ability. All AFREP items will be clearly identified with a tag, stamp, decal or other means. This identifi-
cation will include repair location, office symbol, phone number and date. When repaired or condemned,
the item will be processed through normal supply channels.
5.5.7. An unserviceable XF3 asset turned in with a DIFM detail that is identified as an AFREP repairable
item will be placed in the designated repair cycle support holding area. If the AFREP manager determines
they can repair the asset, process a TIN using TEX code “1” to clear the original DIFM detail and prevent
shipment to DRMO.
7.3. Cost savings or “credits” are earned when a repaired item is turned into supply and a credit is cap-
tured in the AFREP PFMR account. In contrast, “cost avoidance” refers to items repaired and returned
either using a maintenance to maintenance or supply transaction with no credit captured in the AFREP
PFMR account. AFREP offices will track all savings and avoidance repair actions.
8.4. Total Cost Savings.
8.5. Total Cost Avoidance.
24                    AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


         Attachment 5 (Added-AMC)

     AFREP ISSUE/TURN-IN PROCEDURES
AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005                 25


                         Attachment 6 (Added-AMC)

                           AFREP PROCEDURES
26                                          AFI21-123_AMCSUP1_I 1 NOVEMBER 2005


                               Attachment 7 (Added-AMC)

      AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT (AFREP) METRICS REPORTING DATA


1. Report date:
2. Unit ID/DSN Number/E-Mail Address:
3. Personnel Full-Time:
4. Items Processed:
5. Items Repaired Base:
6. Items Repaired Contract:
7. Initiatives Submitted:
8. Initiatives Approved:
9. MICAPS Complete AFREP:
10. Operating Costs:
11. Cost Savings:
12. Cost Avoidance:
