BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-113
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             23 MARCH 2011
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 31 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                              AIR FORCE METROLOGY AND
                                                                CALIBRATION (AFMETCAL)
                                                                          MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LF                                                              Certified by: AF/A4L
                                                                 (Maj Gen Robert H. McMahon)
Supersedes:    AFI21-113,                                                             Pages: 10
               12 November 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, relative to United States
Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL) management requirements. It applies to all
military and civilian AF personnel and calibration activities who design, develop, acquire, use,
operate, maintain, or manage test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment (TMDE), including
Air National Guard (ANG) units and Air Force Reserve. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF
FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Supplements to this publication must be
sent to the OPR for coordination prior to publication. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change deletes the requirement for AFMETCAL to assess PMELs and corrects
language for centrally-procured TMDE funded by the working capital fund. A margin bar
indicates newly revised material.
1. Requirements. The AFMETCAL Program is a hierarchical system of calibration
laboratories, personnel, equipment, and procedures to ensure systems and equipment
 2                                                                  AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011


measurements are safe, accurate, uniform, reliable and traceable to either the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) or AFMETCAL-approved sources. All TMDE used to make
or verify meaningful (quantifiable) measurements shall be calibrated.
     1.1. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) is designated as the executive agent for
     establishment, oversight, processes, and procedures for AFMETCAL. AFMC shall appoint
     an AFMETCAL Director, who will also function as the Product Group Manager (PGM) for
     Air Force calibration standards and systems.
     1.2. The AFMETCAL Director/PGM shall:
        1.2.1. Plan, program, and budget for:
           1.2.1.1. Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL) and Air Force
           Primary Standards Laboratory (AFPSL) calibration standards/systems acquisition.
           1.2.1.2. AFMETCAL Research and Development requirements to develop adequate
           National and Air Force calibration standards.
           1.2.1.3. Calibration and maintenance services provided through the AFPSL, or
           centrally funded as designated in published AF calibration determinations contained
           in Technical Order (TO) 33-K-1-100-1, Calibration Procedure for Maintenance Data
           Collection Codes and Calibration Measurement Summaries, TO 33-K-1-100-2,
           TMDE Calibration Interval Technical Order and Work Unit Code Reference Guide,
           and/or applicable Calibration and Measurement Summaries (CMSs).
           1.2.1.4. Development and maintenance of AF Calibration Technical Orders (33K
           Series).
           1.2.1.5. Development and maintenance of AFMETCAL automated calibration
           procedures used by PMELs to calibrate TMDE.
        1.2.2. Review MAJCOM (or equivalent) requests to establish or close PMELs and
        forward a recommendation on the request to AF/A4L for a decision.
        1.2.3. Provide cradle-to-grave management of Air Force calibration standards and
        systems, which include:
           1.2.3.1. PMEL Base Measurement Standards and equipment for field-level PMELs
           cataloged in the Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS) Allowance
           Source Code (ASC) 734.
           1.2.3.2. AFMETCAL PGM developed PMEL calibration systems cataloged in
           various ASCs.
           1.2.3.3. Air Force measurement standards and equipment for the AFPSL.
        1.2.4. Manage operation and maintenance of the AFPSL.
        1.2.5. Be the AF technical authority on metrology issues and the single point of contact
        for calibration services and traceability of measurements to NIST.
        1.2.6. Represent the Air Force to the Joint Technical Coordination Group for Calibration
        and Measurement Technology (JTCG-CMT) and provide support to sub-group activities.
AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011                                                                      3


     1.2.7. Provide metrology technical and engineering support to MAJCOMs (or
     equivalent) to resolve metrology problems and/or improve calibration techniques.
     Coordinate with MAJCOM (or equivalent) Functional Managers to:
        1.2.7.1. Establish calibration facility requirements/standards for PMELs.
        1.2.7.2. Identify home station and deployed requirements for new and replacement
        calibration standards, considering equipment for effectiveness and productivity
        improvement.
        1.2.7.3. Identify metrology training requirements.
        1.2.7.4. Identify applicable ASC entries to the ASC manager.
        1.2.7.5. Redistribute excess PMEL calibration standards.
        1.2.7.6. Evaluate TMDE calibration software developed by PMELs for potential Air
        Force wide use.
     1.2.8. Coordinate annual equipment buys with the support equipment PGM.
     1.2.9. Develop and publish an AFMETCAL master plan to program and budget for
     AFPSL and PMEL calibration standards/systems acquisitions.
     1.2.10. Serve as the AF metrology focal point for countries participating in the Security
     Assistance Program. Coordinate the use of PMEL services to support security assistance
     activities. Support Air Force Security Assistance Programs for metrology and calibration
     requirements as stipulated in Government to Government agreements.
     1.2.11. Develop, publish and maintain TO 00-20-14, AF Metrology and Calibration
     Program, in coordination with MAJCOM (or equivalent) PMEL functional managers.
     1.2.12. Develop, publish and maintain AF Calibration Technical Orders (33K Series) and
     coordinate their validation and verification.
     1.2.13. Develop metrology support concepts and acquire/provide calibration equipment
     to support Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) and Systems (ATS) in coordination with
     System Program Managers (SPMs), Program Managers (PMs), and the support
     equipment PGM.
     1.2.14. Make calibration responsibility determinations, establish initial calibration
     intervals, and adjust calibration intervals for TMDE and publish in TO 33K-1-100-1/2 or
     Air Force CMSs.
     1.2.15. Be the AF approval authority for requests to obtain calibration services from a
     commercial or other non-AF laboratory.
     1.2.16. Certify USAF calibration entities, including contractors operating AF-owned
     calibration laboratories.
     1.2.17. Void or withhold a calibration laboratory’s certification for such reasons as
     inability to show traceability to NIST, lack of technical capability required to calibrate
     customer TMDE, failure to provide adequate facilities and controlled environment for
     those facilities, or failure to satisfy AFMETCAL certification criteria contained in TO
     00-20-14.
4                                                              AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011


          1.2.17.1. In extreme cases, support may be discontinued for base measurement
          standards after coordination with the owning MAJCOM (or equivalent) functional
          manager.
       1.2.18. Recommend action, including closure, for laboratories unable to achieve
       certification to AF/A4M and the owning MAJCOM (or equivalent).
       1.2.19. Collaborate with all product centers, sustainment centers, test centers and Air
       Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) to identify new or increased measurement
       capabilities.
       1.2.20. Collaborate with the Missile Defense Agency (MDA) to identify metrology
       needs and manage development of National and DOD measurement standards and
       calibration services.
       1.2.21. Interface with SPMs, PMs, PGMs, Air Force support contractors, MAJCOM (or
       equivalent), and other DOD agencies to:
          1.2.21.1. Evaluate and report deficiencies and recommend changes to weapon system
          and equipment calibration support concepts throughout their life cycle.
          1.2.21.2. Provide AFMETCAL data requirements for weapon system and equipment
          acquisition data calls, and centrally-procured TMDE funded by the working capital
          fund data calls.
          1.2.21.3. Evaluate and make approval recommendations for contractor prepared
          Calibration Measurement Requirement Summary (CMRS) data, Support Equipment
          Requirements Document (SERD) or equivalent document relative to calibration and
          measurement traceability requirements.
          1.2.21.4. Participate in SPM, PM and PGM system/product life cycle planning and
          technical interchanges.
          1.2.21.5. Provide metrology-related Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), when
          available, to Air Force contractors as required for calibration support development.
       1.2.22. Chair AFMETCAL Advisory Group meeting, as required, and be responsible for
       its charter.
          1.2.22.1. Chair a PMEL Management Information System (MIS) Configuration
          Control Board (CCB), when required, and co-chair, as necessary, with the AFMC
          PMEL functional manager, an Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL)
          Material Group Product Improvement Working Group (PIWG) in conjunction with
          AFMETCAL Advisory Group meetings.
       1.2.23. Provide guidance, in conjunction with the PMEL MIS CCB, to the Maintenance
       Information Technology Program Management Office for the development and
       maintenance of a PMEL MIS.
       1.2.24. Collaborate with AF/A4/7 and MAJCOMs (or equivalent) to identify PMEL
       management information system requirements.
    1.3. Acquisition of systems and equipment shall include assessment of calibration and
    measurement requirements. For additional information see MIL-HDBK-1839, Department
AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011                                                                      5


   of Defense Handbook Calibration and Measurement Requirements. Acquisitions requiring a
   CMRS shall comply with MILSTD-1839, Calibration and Measurement Requirements.
   1.4. PMELs shall be established at selected installations to serve as the single base-level
   AFMETCAL focal point.
   1.5. Activities planning to establish or close a PMEL shall request approval by submitting a
   written request through their parent MAJCOM (or equivalent) to AF/A4L with a parallel
   courtesy copy to the AFMETCAL Director.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff , Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7):
       2.1.1. Advocate for AFMETCAL requirements.
       2.1.2. Authorize the establishment or closure of AF calibration laboratories. Prior to
       authorizing, solicit input from the AFMETCAL Director on impact establishment/closure
       would have on AF calibration support capabilities, processes, and/or costs.
       2.1.3. Acquire, modify and sustain the PMEL Automated Management System software.
   2.2. Commander, Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC/CC), provides the AFMETCAL
   Director with resources and operation support.
   2.3. MAJCOMs (or equivalent):
       2.3.1. Operate and maintain certified PMELs IAW TO 00-20-14 to provide calibration
       and maintenance support for TMDE operated by users within their area of responsibility.
       2.3.2. Support the AFMETCAL Director as requested by providing a member for the
       AFMETCAL Advisory Group, PMEL MIS CCB, and AFMETCAL Material Group
       PIWG.
       2.3.3. Appoint a PMEL Functional Manager to coordinate implementation of the
       AFMETCAL requirements.
       2.3.4. Ensure users/owners of AF TMDE comply with the requirements detailed in
       TO 00-20-14 and have TMDE calibrated IAW published calibration schedules, TO 33K-
       1-100-1/2, and appropriate CMSs.
   2.4. SPMs/PMs/PGMs:
       2.4.1. Integrate metrology, calibration and alignment requirements in system and
       equipment acquisition planning processes, statements of work, and requests for proposal.
       2.4.2. Include AFMETCAL Director in system and equipment sustainment planning,
       support equipment integrated product development, CMRS development, and technical
       interchanges. Identify metrology-related GFE/CFE requirements to the AFMETCAL
       Director.
       2.4.3. Include AFMETCAL Director on system and equipment acquisition data calls, and
       funded by the working capital fund centrally procured TMDE data calls.
       2.4.4. Coordinate with AFMETCAL Director during system and equipment design
       reviews.
 6                                                            AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011


       2.4.5. Coordinate requirements for contracted calibration services through the
       AFMETCAL Director (including Interim Contract Support, Contract Logistics Support or
       when managing SE as spares when acting as the Inventory Control Point).
       2.4.6. Include MIL-STD-1839, Calibration and Measurement Requirements, for new
       systems and equipment acquisitions that require a CMRS.

3. Prescribed Forms:

None

4. Adopted Forms:

AF FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                          LOREN M. RENO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011                                                                   7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFMAN 23-110, CD Basic USAF Supply Manual, 1 Apr 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-150, Management of Communications Activities, 26 Nov 2008
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 Apr 2009
MIL-HDBK-1839A, Department of Defense Handbook Calibration and Measurement
Requirements, 27 November 2000
MIL-STD-1839D, Calibration and Measurement Requirements, 12 May 2010
TO 00-20-14, Air Force Metrology and Calibration Program, 30 June 2009
TO 33K-1-100-1, Calibration Procedure for Maintenance Data Collection Codes and
Calibration Measurement Summaries, 30 November 2010
TO 33K-1-100-2, TMDE Calibration Interval, Technical Order and Work Unit Code Reference
Guide, 1 January 2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMETCAL—Air Force Metrology and Calibration
AFPSL—Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory
ANG—Air National Guard
AS—Allowance Standard
ASC—Allowance Source Code
ATE—Automatic Test Equipment
ATS—Automatic Test Systems
CFE—Contractor Furnished Equipment
CMRS—Calibration and Measurement Requirements Summary
CMS—Calibration and Measurement Summary
DOD—Department Of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
 8                                                               AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011


GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
IAW—In Accordance With
JTCG-CMT—Joint Technical Coordinating Group (for) Calibration and Measurement
Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDA—Missile Defense Agency
MIL—Military
NIST—National Institute of Standards and Technology
PGM—Product Group Manager
PM—Program Manager
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
SERD—Support Equipment Recommendation Data
SPM—System Program Manager
STD—Standard
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Air Force Metrology and Calibration (AFMETCAL)—Refers to measurement standards and
TMDE, professional and technical metrologists, performing work centers, a system of worldwide
laboratory facilities, TMDE users, calibration data, and integrated planning. The program
provides for maintenance and calibration of TMDE to verify the reliability and ensure the
accuracy of systems, subsystems, and equipment.
Air Force Primary Standards Laboratory (AFPSL)—The highest level calibration standards
laboratory in the AFMETCAL Program. It maintains Air Force measurement standards certified
by the NIST or other nationally recognized standards. The AFPSL (located at Heath, Ohio) uses
these measurement standards to calibrate base level or PMEL measurement standards and
equipment for Air Force customers.
Alignment—The physical, electrical, or software action that enables a calibration technician to
adjust TMDE so that performance will be within required operational parameters/accuracies.
Calibration—A comparison between equipment items, one of which is a measurement standard
of known accuracy, to detect, correlate, adjust and report any variations in the accuracy of the
other item.
Calibration and Measurement Requirement Summary (CMRS)—A three-category, in-line
summary of measurement parameters. A CMRS identifies all measurement requirements within
a specific system or item of equipment. The CMRS further displays the contractors' proposed
AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011                                                                        9


solutions for maintaining the system measurement requirements within the stated limits. It is
also used to identify the need for new calibration standards.
Calibration and Measurement Summary (CMS)—A technical order which identifies
calibration support necessary to ensure the operational readiness of a specific weapon system,
subsystem or mission. The summary describes the calibration concept and is the calibration
authority for the applicable weapon system, weapon subsystem or mission.
Certification—The documented designation that standards and TMDE have been calibrated and
meet established technical requirements. When used to refer to a calibration laboratory (PMEL
or AFPSL), certification means the laboratory fulfills AFMETCAL assessment criteria.
MAJCOM (or equivalent)—This term refers to all Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs)
and includes the Air National Guard (ANG), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), and Direct
Reporting Units (DRUs).
Metrology—The science or system of weights and measures used to determine conformance to
technical requirements. This includes the development of standards and systems for absolute and
relative measurements.
Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory (PMEL)—A laboratory authorized to own
and use Air Force base measurement standards to maintain working standards. The working
standards are used along with PMEL-owned TMDE to maintain (troubleshoot, align, repair, and
calibrate) TMDE designated as PMEL responsibility.
Support Equipment Recommendation Data (SERD)—A contractual data item submitted by
the contractor to identify weapon system support equipment requirements.
Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE)—Those devices used to maintain,
evaluate, measure, calibrate, test, inspect, diagnose, or otherwise examine materials, supplies,
equipment, and systems to identify or isolate actual or potential malfunctions, or decide if they
meet operational specifications established in technical documents.
Traceability—The ability to relate individual measurement results to national standards or
nationally accepted measurement systems through an unbroken chain of comparisons all having
stated uncertainties.
Types of Standards Used in Measurement and Testing—The term "standard" means
equipment or physical constants serving as the basic means by which we derive accurate and
traceable precision measurements. These standards include:
a. National Measurement Standards—Equipment or physical constants identified by NIST to
serve as a basic measurement reference throughout the United States.
b. Air Force Measurement Standards—Equipment certified by NIST or AFMETCAL-
approved sources, and used by the AFPSL as a basic measurement reference for the US Air
Force.
c. Air Force Base Measurement Standards—Equipment certified by the AFPSL or
AFMETCAL-approved sources for use by an Air Force PMEL as a measurement reference.
d. Calibration Systems—A collection of calibration standards and ancillary equipment
uniquely configured to support a specific workload or multiple measurement parameters.
(Calibration Systems may be developed for use in either an automated or manual mode.
 10                                                           AFI21-113 23 MARCH 2011


AFMETCAL retains engineering and configuration authority for Calibration Systems identified
with an AFMETCAL cage code.)
e. Working Standards—PMEL-certified TMDE used to calibrate other TMDE.
