BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-302
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)
                                                                  CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               Supplement
                                                                            13 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                   Transportation

                                                                    VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 27 SOLRS/LGRV                                                   Certified by: 27 SOMSG/CC
                                                                          (Col Heather L. Buono)
                                                                                         Pages: 4
Supersedes:    CANNONAFBI23-302,
               1 February 2008


AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management is supplemented as follows. This supplement establishes
policies and procedures for implementing and managing the installation's vehicle abuse and
accident program. It applies to all squadron commanders, vehicle control officers (VCOs),
vehicle control noncommissioned officers (VCNCOs), and vehicle operators assigned to host and
mission partners on Cannon Air Force Base (CAFB). Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from the
field through the appropriate chain of command to the local publications/forms manager.

1.13.1.1 (Added) To establish an effective accident and abuse program, the following additional
guidance applies to the Cannon AFB vehicle fleet. This additional guidance outlines
responsibilities, reporting procedures and financial liability for repairs. Visibility and emphasis
is placed at the unit level and under the direct control of the unit commander to foster better
operator care and to improve the overall condition of the Cannon AFB vehicle fleet. Accident
and abuse vehicles may not be counted toward a unit’s minimum essential level (MEL) and
temporary vehicle replacements will be considered on a case-by-case basis based on mission
 2                                      AFI24-302_CANNONAFBSUP 13 FEBRUARY 2014


requirements. Vehicle Management leadership will consider maintenance priority and temporary
replacement vehicle issue if available.
1.13.1.2. (Added) The Government Owned Vehicle/Equipment (GOV/E) using organization
will reimburse 27 SOLRS/LGRV for material costs and civilian labor to repair accident and
abuse related damages. In the event repairs are accomplished by local area vendors, the full cost
of repairs is reimbursable. The assigned organization will be charged for the repair costs,
regardless of who caused the damage. In the case of U-Drive-It (UDI) vehicles assigned to 27
SOLRS, the organization of the individual signing out the UDI will be charged for repairs.
Personnel TDY from other bases who use GOV/Es assigned to Cannon Air Force Base will be
responsible for vehicle damage caused by accident and/or abuse. The TDY member’s home unit
will be charged for any such damages. Reimbursement will be made regardless of determination
of individual pecuniary liability.
1.13.1.3 (Added) The commander of the assigned or using organization will, upon receipt of
accident or abuse notification from 27 SOLRS/LGRV, or when provided other information
concerning a lost, damaged or destroyed GOV/E, appoint an investigating officer to conduct a
preliminary investigation IAW AFMAN 23-220, paragraph 18.4.2. Should the GOV/E be
required for additional investigative purposes or the determination is made that a Report of
Survey (ROS) will be initiated, the unit commander, VCO or investigating officer will contact 27
SOLRS/LGRV within five duty days of notification to hold the GOV/E for exhibit. If 27
SOLRS/LGRV is not notified of the request of an ROS within this timeframe, repairs will
commence to avoid further mission impact. If the organization’s commander feels the GOV/E
accident/abuse case is not justified, a written response must be forwarded to 27 SOLRS/CC and a
courtesy copy sent to 27 SOLRS/LGRV. If 27 SOLRS/CC agrees, the case will be dropped. If
27 SOLRS/CC does not agree, the case will be forwarded to 27 SOMSG/CC for the final
decision.
1.13.4.1. (Added) Determinations concerning the classification of vehicle damage will be
handled at the lowest possible level, with the 27th Special Operations Mission Support Group
Commander (27 SOMSG/CC) having final authority.
1.13.5. (Added)     Roles and Responsibilities:
1.13.5.1. (Added)    27 SOLRS/LGRV will:
1.13.5.2. (Added) Electronically send accident or abuse notification memorandum, a copy of
the estimate work order and photos of vehicle damages to the using organization’s squadron
commander, Vehicle Control Officer (VCO), 27 SOLRS/CC, 27 SOW/SEG and 27 SOW/JA.
Labor charges will be included in the estimate for in-house repairs of vehicles/equipment.
NOTE: Accident and abuse repairs will commence as early as 5 duty days after notification to
allow the unit time to conduct a preliminary investigation. If it is determined the vehicle is not
needed for this investigation, the ROS Officer, unit’s commander or unit’s VCO should notify 27
SOLRS/LGRV as soon as possible, so work can commence. If the vehicle is needed for
additional investigation, the ROS Officer, unit’s commander or unit’s VCO/VCNCO shall notify
27 SOLRS/LGRV within this 5 day window.
1.13.5.3. (Added)     Upon final repair, forward the amount of the total repair cost to 27
SOLRS/LGLOR for recoupment of funds. All costs for vehicle accident and abuse repairs,
including labor and/or contract cost, will be reimbursed to Vehicle Management by the owning
AFI24-302_CANNONAFBSUP 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                          3


organization, or the organization responsible for the damage, if not the owner. An AF Form 20,
Repair Cost Reparable Value Statement, will be provided upon request when the using
organization has determined pecuniary liability is to be assessed or voluntary payment is to be
made.
1.13.5.4. (Added) In the case of accident or abuse involving the UDI fleet, obtain a copy of
the Transportation Request Form for the member who signed out the vehicle from the Vehicle
Operations Element (27 SOLRS/LGRDDO). Information from the Transportation Request Form
will be used to notify the requesting member’s unit of reimbursement action.
1.13.5.5. (Added) Use contract/Government Purchase Card (GPC) with local area vendors
when feasible for accident and abuse repairs, as determined by the Vehicle Fleet Manager or
Vehicle Management Superintendent (VFM/VMS). Vehicle Management will conduct quality
control inspections of all contractor repaired vehicles and equipment prior to returning to the
using organization.
1.13.5.6. (Added)    In cases involving accidents, the operator will:
1.13.5.7. (Added)    Stop immediately.
1.13.5.8. (Added)    Render first aid to injured persons if needed.
1.13.5.9. (Added) Notify 27 SOSFS or local law enforcement personnel immediately, prior to
moving the vehicle.
1.13.5.10. (Added)    Notify the operator’s supervisor and unit VCO/VCNCO.
1.13.5.11 (Added) Complete an SF 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident.
1.13.5.12. (Added) Complete a DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, if a privately
owned vehicle (POV) or private property is involved.
1.13.5.13. (Added) Turn vehicle and a copy of the completed SF 91 into Vehicle Management
within 24 hours of release from the accident scene, if the vehicle can be driven safely. Contact
27 SOLRS/LGRDDO at (575) 784-2833 if wrecker service is required.
1.13.5.14. (Added) If the accident involves a Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) or private
property, the assigned or using organization will provide the Judge Advocate Office (27
SOW/JA) with a copy of the Accident Investigation Report or sufficient information about the
accident to determine if collection from the POV or property owner’s insurance company is
warranted. Should a claim be required, 27 SOW/JA will pursue repairs through the private
insurance company.
1.13.5.15. (Added) In the case of accidents involving multiple units, each unit will be charged
the cost of repairs on their respective assigned vehicle. Commanders of the involved units will
arrange for transfer of funds between the units based upon liability determinations as set forth in
the ROS findings, if an ROS was processed.
 4                                      AFI24-302_CANNONAFBSUP 13 FEBRUARY 2014


1.13.5.16. (Added) Unit VCO/VCNCO will: Maintain an accident/abuse case file containing,
at a minimum, copies of Accident/Abuse Notification and SF 91 (only in the case of accidents).
These files will be retained for a minimum of three years and are subject to inspection as part of
the VCO Staff Assistance Visit.




                                             TONY D. BAUERNFEIND, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
