                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-226
AIR FORCE                                                                                  1 MAY 1997
                                                                         Certified Current 25 June 2010
                                                                                                 Supply

                                                               CHEMICAL WARFARE DEFENSE
                                                            EQUIPMENT (CWDE)CONSOLIDATED
                                                                 MOBILITY BAG MANAGEMENT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ ACC/LGSSM                                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/ILSP
     (SMSgt Charles W. Lewis)                                                     (Major Jorge Acevedo)
                                                                                              Pages: 27
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive AFPD (23-2), Supply and Material Management.
This instruction establishes policy and procedures for equipping individuals based within the Continental
United States (CONUS) with chemical warfare defense equipment (CWDE) required for wa r mobiliza-
tion. It also provides policy for determining requirements, storing, issuing, assembly, disassembly and
centralization of mobility bag items. This instruction applies to groundcrew chemical mobility bags
within the CONUS only and does not apply to other types of mobility bags.
                                               Chapter 1

                                    GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Policy. Air Force Instruction 32-4001, Disaster Preparedness Planning and Operations, prescribes
chemical warfare defense equipment (CWDE) requirements based on Annex S, of the HQ USAF War and
Mobilization Plan (WMP-1). These requirements form the basis for the CWDE requirements and man-
agement of CONUS stored CWDE given in this publication.
   1.1.1. Each Air F orce military member and emergency-e ssential civilian deployable t o Chemical/
   Biological (CB) threat areas will be equipped with four operational sets of groundcrew individual pro-
   tective equipment (IPE).
   1.1.2. People on temporary duty (TDY) to CB thr eat areas take CWDE to TDY location, when the
   following conditions are met:
       1.1.2.1. The commander requesting or directing the TDY orders it. The commander should spec-
       ify whether the requirement is for groundcrew or aircrew operational equipment, for training
       equipment, or for both.
       1.1.2.2. The people traveling are not expected to return to the home station on declaration of an
       increased state of readiness in the TDY area.
       1.1.2.3. The governing operations order or equivalent directs it.
   1.1.3. The Air Force Consolidated Mobility Bag Con trol Center (CMBCC) will centrally store and
   manage chemical warfare defense equipment (CWDE) mobility bags consisting of the third and
   fourth set of IPE (minus gas mask/web belt/canteen/M-1 canteen cap/helmet) for all CONUS-wide
   requirements. The first and second set of groundcrew IPE (to complete the total requirement of four
   per authorized mobility position number) will remain at each CONUS AF base.

1.2. Objective. Implementation of the CMBCC concept will accomplish the following objectives:
   1.2.1. Standardize mobility bag configuration in accordance with the WMP goal.
   1.2.2. Create consolidated storage locations for both CWDE built-up bags and bulk assets.
   1.2.3. Operate under a central funding concept.
   1.2.4. Implement the Mobility Auto-mated I nventory and Tracking System (MAITS) to maintain
   asset availability/ visibility; including items that have been deployed.
   1.2.5. Provide an effective and responsive reconstitution of assets returned from deployments.

1.3. Scope. The C MBCC concept as a wh ole must provide C-bag support (see Attachment 4) for
approximately 127,000 mobility authorization s. To accomplish this, the CMBCC storage requirements
will be divided between two locations, one east coast base and one west coast base.
   1.3.1. CMBCC-West will support Major Regional Contingency (MRC) west and will store/maintain
   approximately 55,000 C-bags for this purpose.
   1.3.2. CMBCC-East will support MRC east and will store/ maintain approximately 72,000 C-bags.



                                                2
1.4. Terms/Definitions
   1.4.1. Operational Groundcrew Ensemble: A n operational groundcrew ensemble consists of a pro-
   tective masks, two filter sets/canisters, chemical protective overgarment, two pair of footwear covers
   or one Green/Black Vinyle Overshoe (GVO/BVO), two pair of glove sets and two protective hoods.
   1.4.2. Individual Protective Equipment: In nuclear biological and chemi cal warfare, the personal
   clothing and equipment required to protect an individual from biological and chemical hazards and
   some nuclear effects. (Joint Pub 1-02). An individual protective equipment set consists of one opera-
   tional groundcrew ensemble (see 1.4.1.), winterization kit (if required), M8 detector paper booklet,
   M9 detector paper roll, M258A1 or M291 decontamination kit, M295 decontamination kit, web belt,
   canteen,
   M1 canteen cap, and helmet.
   1.4.3. Ditty Bag: An extract of the IPE consisting of the web belt, canteen, M1 canteen cap, canteen
   cup/cover and helmet.
   1.4.4. Supporting MAJCOM. The major c ommand charged with ensur ing the The ater Commander
   (Supported CINC) receives support as necessary to carry-out contingency operations.

1.5. Applicability
   1.5.1. The procedures in this instruction apply only to t hose MAJCOMs that have units assigned to
   CONUS bases, including DRUs, FOAs, etc.
   1.5.2. USAFE and PACAF will continue managing their programs according to existing procedures.
   Occasionally, information might be r equested from these two commands concerning AF "census"
   data, i.e., authorizations, troop strength, CWDE assets visibility, etc.

1.6. Relationship to Other Directives. This AFI provides primary guidance for managing CWDE
under the CMBCC central storage and control. Other directives may also apply, as appropriate.

1.7. Organizational Structure
   1.7.1. The CMBCC management is under the direct jurisdiction of HQ Air Combat Command (HQ
   ACC) as the Executive Agent for HQ USAF.
   1.7.2. HQ USAF must provide Air Force policies/procedures to ensure compliance with the consoli-
   dation concept.
   1.7.3. MAJCOMs in-turn will be responsible for providing information to the CMBCC when needed,
   or on an as requested basis, to include force structure changes.
   1.7.4. Each CMBCC Storage location will have an independent stock record account number
   (SRAN). Host base Chief of Supply will provide the daily administrative control of the two CMBCC
   storage locations.




                                               3
                                              Chapter 2

                           ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Purpose. This chapter provides general information on the US Air Force CMBCC organization and
lists responsibilities required to carry out the consolidated CWDE storage program at each level of com-
mand. The Director of Civil Engineering (HQ USAF/ILE) is the Air Staff agent for Air Force disaster pre-
paredness. The Deputy Chief of Staff Installations and Logistics (HQ USAF/IL) manages the Air Force
CMBCC program through an executive agent located at HQACC/LGS. Additional HQ USAF staff func-
tional responsibilities for the Air Force CWDE program are outlined in AFI 32-4001.

2.2. HQ USAF Responsibilities. HQ USAF/IL is the office of primary responsibility for making poli-
cies, procedures and directing the overall US Air Force CMBCC program. HQ USAF/ILEOR is the Pro-
gram Element Monitor (PEM) for PE 27593, Chemical and Biological Defense Equipment and will
budget (through the POM process) for CWDE requirements.
   2.2.1. HQ USAF/ILS will:
       2.2.1.1. Establish policy for the centralization of CWDE in the CONUS.
       2.2.1.2. Provide procedures to program for the resources necessary to achieve required mobility
       capability.
       2.2.1.3. Identify requirements to Joint Services Coordination Committee (JSCC).
   2.2.2. HQ USAF/ILEOR will:
       2.2.2.1. Obtain the necessary funds required to meet mobility commitments.
       2.2.2.2. Review the overall requirements projected by the CMBCC storage locations.

2.3. CMBCC Executive Agent Responsibilities. HQ ACC/LGS is the CMBCC Execut ive Agent for
the Air Force and provides overall management of the CMBCC program. Funding requirements are
determined jointly between HQ ACC/LGS/CEX.
   2.3.1. Provide HQ USAF/ILEOR information to support CWDE Program Objective Memorandum
   (POM) submission.
   2.3.2. Recommend policy and procedure changes to HQ USAF/ILS.
   2.3.3. Provide guidance on tariff sizing and configuration of CWDE mobility bags remaining at each
   CONUS Air Force base (C-1 bag). See Attachment 5, C-1 Bag Content Chart.
   2.3.4. Establish guidance on operation of CWDE central storage and issue procedures.
   2.3.5. Provide tasking requests to appropriate CMBCC storage location as directed by Supporting
   MAJCOM Battle Staff.

2.4. CMBCC Responsibilities. Maintains authorizations and availability of required CWDE and sup-
plies to ensure the prescribed levels of operational mobility support.




                                               4
   2.4.1. Centrally store and manage the assets needed to equip the entire CONUS forces with C-bag
   support based on the most stringent tasking for each CMBCC storage location. See Attachment 4/5,
   C-Bag Content Chart.
   2.4.2. Report asset status and availability to HQ USAF/ILS in accord ance with Chapter 8, this
   instruction.
   2.4.3. Report UTC availability to HQ ACC/LGS when requested to update the WMP 3.
   2.4.4. Implement operating procedures, policies for storage and control of CWDE for assets under
   CMBCC control.
   2.4.5. Provide bases with shelf-life replacement items/additional authorizations to ensure 100 percent
   of authorizations are maintained to meet C-1 bag requirements for most stringent tasking. An addi-
   tional 10 percent may be provided to each installation to permit sizing.
   2.4.6. Support real-world contingency requirements as directed by CMBCC Executive Agent or Sup-
   porting MAJCOM Battle Staff.
   2.4.7. Use MAITS to maintain asset availability/visibility; including items that have been deployed.

2.5. MAJCOM LGS Responsibilities
   2.5.1. MAJCOM LGS (with assistance from LGX) will aid bases in determining most stringent task-
   ing requirements to compute primary mobility position numbers (MPNs).
   2.5.2. Provide annual validated c ommand authorizations, by base, to the appropriate CMBCC loca-
   tion, for planning purposes.
   2.5.3. Coordinate contingency requirements with the CMBCC Executive Agent or Supporting MAJ-
   COM Battle Staff to ensure essential CWDE support is available.
   2.5.4. Validate shortages and o verages submitted by bases and forward to the app ropriate CMBCC
   storage location.

2.6. Base Responsibilities
   2.6.1. Maintain all C-1 bag assets at 100 percent of authorized MPNs.
   2.6.2. Report status of on-hand assets when required in accordance with Chapter 8, this instruction.
   To include all host, tenant, GSU etc.
   2.6.3. Manage shelf-life program in conjunction with CMBCC and report annually to the appropriate
   CMBCC storage location, with information copy to the respective MAJCOM.
   2.6.4. Maintain and use MAITS data base to account for on hand assets.
   2.6.5. Report all sh ortages and overages to th e respective MAJCOM. U nits storing their own bags
   (CE, SP, EOD, ALCE, e tc.) will continue to provide quantities to the supply function for consolida-
   tion into the base report.




                                               5
                                             Chapter 3

                                     BAG CONFIGURATION

3.1. USAF Responsibilities
   3.1.1. Bag configuration will be standard throughout the Air Force IAW AFI 32-4001.
   3.1.2. The C/C-1 bag configurations are listed in Attachment 4/5 of this AFI.

3.2. CMBCC Responsibilities: Ten percent of total authorized bags at each CMBCC location will be
maintained in built up C-bag configuration. To build these bags the CMBCC will use the tariff sizing
guide in Attachment 3.

3.3. Base Responsibilities
   3.3.1. All bags will be maintained in established C-1 bag configuration. See Attachment 4/5.
   3.3.2. Develop local procedures to ensure ditty bag components are part of the C-1 bag.




                                              6
                                             Chapter 4

                                  FUNDING/REQUISITIONING

Section 4A—Funding

4.1. General.
   4.1.1. CMBCC funding will come fr om two sources: F unding for requisitioning CWDE assets will
   be budgeted by HQ ACC/CEX/LGS and forwarded to HQ USAF/ILEOR and included in their budget
   submission for P rogram Element Code (PEC) 27593 that provides funds for Chemical-Biological/
   Disaster Preparedness items. This funding will be loaded in two Project Funds Management Record
   (PFMR), one for each CMBCC location and maintained by the Air Force Contingency Supply Squad-
   ron (AFC SS). F unding for the day-to-day operation of the CMB CC Storage Locations will be
   included in the host base O&M financial plan.
   4.1.2. New Development Items: New development items are not covered under CMBCC funding
   procedures. These items will continue to be funded through the Research and Development (R&D)
   process, i.e., Operational Requirements Document (ORD), Mission Area Plan (MAP), etc. CMBCC
   funding procedures only apply to items which have already been through the R&D process and have
   been successfully included in the Air Force inventory.
   4.1.3. Ditty Bag Equipment: Ditty Bag equipment will not be budgeted and centrally funded by the
   CMBCC. MAJCOMs should ensure their units include the annual dollar requirements for these items
   in their Operations and Maintenance (O&M) budget financial plan.
   4.1.4. Funding is not required for Air Force centrally procured CWDE since these assets are budget
   code "M" items which are funded by Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and not base level Bud-
   get Activity Code (BAC) 01 funds.
   4.1.5. CWDE Training items will be acquired from unserviceable CWDE and will not be funded.

4.2. HQ USAF Responsibilities: Funding for CWDE mobility assets is accomplished in BAC 01, PEC
27593. HQ USAF/ILEO/ILS will validate the CMBCC budget and forward to the Joint Services Coordi-
nation Committee for inclusion in the annual POM submission.

4.3. CMBCC Executive Agent Responsibilities: H Q ACC/LGS will collect, validate and compile
annual requirements from each CM BCC storage location and provide one Budget/POM submission to
HQ ACC/CEX to be entered into the FIN PLAN/POM submission to HQ USAF/ILEO. The budget sub-
mission from the C MBCC storage l ocations will include existing shortfalls and shelf-life replacement
items.

4.4. AFCSS Responsibilities:

4.5. AFCSS will establish separate PFMRs and Organization Codes for ea ch CMBCC storage location
and will coordinate the loading of O & M supply funding with the Defense Finance Accounting Service.
Funding will be received from HQ ACC /FMA based on request from the appli cable CMBCC storage
location.


                                              7
   4.5.1. AFCSS will provide CMBCC storage locations with daily, monthly, and as required computer
   products to monitor fund usage.
   4.5.2. AFCSS will request funding data from the CMBCC storage locations twice annually for inclu-
   sion in the General Support Division Operating Program (GSOP).
   4.5.3. AFCSS funds management personnel will coordinate stock fund purchases with CMBCC stor-
   age locations to insure adequate stock fund authority is available for CMBCC purchases. Addition-
   ally, AFCSS stock fund manger will coordinate stock fund authority shortfalls or overages with HQ
   ACC stock fund managers.

4.6. CMBCC Responsibilities
   4.6.1. CMBCC storage locations will monitor, budget, and for ecast for shortfalls, shelf-life replace-
   ment items and transportation cost based on unit inputs and provide total requirements to HQ ACC/
   LGS for F IN PLAN/POM submission. S tock fund requisitioning authority must be provi ded to
   AFCSS twice a year (January and May).
   4.6.2. CMBCC storage locations will provide their annual operating budget financial plan (to support
   their day-to-day operations) to the host base Chief of Supply to be included in the base O&M budget
   submission.
   4.6.3. CMBCC storage locations r equirements must be review ed and prioritized. Wh en BAC 0 1
   funds are provided, ensure these funds are loaded to the designated PFMR located at the AFCSS and
   firm-up any existing memo due-outs based on available funds.
   4.6.4. When funds are not available, establish new memo due-outs using transaction exception (TEX)
   code "H" for all unfunded requirements. The dollar value of these memo due outs is used as a baseline
   to budget for and fund CWDE requirements.

4.7. MAJCOM Responsibilities: Each MAJCOM LGS should provide data concerning force structure
changes affecting the annual budget submission to the respective CMBCC storage location.

4.8. Base Responsibilities: Bases will monitor and forecast their shelf-life replacements for 1st and 2nd
ensembles directly to their respec tive CMBCC storage location with an information copy to their MAJ-
COM. Any other shor tfall requirements (i.e., force structure changes, unserviceable for other than
shelf-life) will be provided, via quarterly MAITS reports, directly to their MA JCOM for validation and
forwarding to their respective CMBCC Storage Location.

Section 4B—Requisitioning

4.9. CMBCC Responsibilities
   4.9.1. Each CMBCC storage location will be connected to the AFCSS via a remote computer termi-
   nal. The CMBCC storage locations will use normal MILSTRIP requisitioning procedures through
   AFCSS IAW AFMAN 23-110, Volume II, Part Two, Chapter 9. The following information must also
   be manually entered into requisitions for CWDE items:
       4.9.1.1. If the source of supply is the Defense Personnel Support Center (DPSC), routing identi-
       fier S9T, the required delivery date in positions 62-64 must be "S24".


                                                8
       4.9.1.2. If the r equisition is submitted to WR- ALC, routing identifier FLZ, the requisition must
       contain the applicable 6 series advice code for equipment items.
   4.9.2. Before any requis itioning actions are taken, t he CMBCC storage locations must coordinate
   their requirements to ensure excesses are fully utilized and prevent unnecessary requisitioning.

4.10. AFCSS Responsibilities: The AFCSS will provide the CMBCC with all required reports to
ensure CMBCC stock control personnel have the tools to monitor due-in requirements.

4.11. Base Responsibilities
   4.11.1. MAITS is the primary means of reporting base level overages/shortages of CWDE require-
   ments, through respective MAJCOMs, to the CMBCC. MAITS asset reporting will not eliminate the
   need for bases to continue SORTS capability reporting. See Chapter 8, Reporting and Accountability
   of Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment.
   4.11.2. Requesting Out-Of-Cycle Requirements: If bases have unexpec ted requirements between
   MAITS reports, they should notify their parent MAJCOM. The MAJCOM will validate the require-
   ment and contact the appropriate CMBCC for action.




                                               9
                                               Chapter 5

                                    STORAGE AND HANDLING

5.1. General
   5.1.1. MAJCOMs will continue to maintain a writ ten policy that will provide desired storage and
   handling of C-1 bags for their units.
   5.1.2. Assets stored at the CMBCC storage locations will be maintained in a manner so as to be able
   to perform inventory, determine condition (service-ability), and provide inspection and maintenance
   as prescribed by applicable directives. Storage configuration will permit ease of access and expedi-
   tious retrieval for preparation, processing, and shipment to satisfy any contingency.
   5.1.3. Familiarization with all other chapters in this AFI is necessary to the success of all storage and
   handling functions performed by the CMBCC.

5.2. CMBCC Storage
   5.2.1. Warehousing methods will conform to acceptable Air Force standards. Safe and efficient
   methods of operation are fundamental in accomplishing every task. The following minimum require-
   ments should be maintained:
      5.2.1.1. Provision of inside storage to protect CWDE from weather.
      5.2.1.2. Provision of secure storage for custodian to maintain accountable control.
      5.2.1.3. Meeting required warehouse standards for storage.
      5.2.1.4. Facilitating inspection of items requiring frequent inspections for serviceability.
   5.2.2. The relationship of bulk s tored to tariff-sized built up bags shoul d be carefully considered.
   Therefore, at least 90 percent of CMBCC assets will be bulk stored and the remainder shall be stored
   in tariff-sized built up configuration. Bag inventory content and other pertinent data will be affixed to
   each bag for the percentage of built up bags being maintain.
   5.2.3. Property will be p repalletized to the maximum extent feasible to satisfy UTC configurations
   listed below. The majority of the prepalletized assets should be in support of ’bulk’ UTCs.


UTC            JFCH2                CMBCC                    130 Person Bulk/Woodland
UTC            JFCHB                CMBCC                    130 Person Bulk/Desert
UTC            JFCH1                CMBCC                    120 Person Built/Woodland
UTC            JFCHA                CMBCC                    120 Person Built/Desert

NOTE:
UTC JFZ99(NONSTANDARD) can be built upon demand and consist of whatever items are required.




                                                10
                                               Chapter 6

                                    INSPECTION/SHELF-LIFE

6.1. General
   6.1.1. Bases/units will continue to follow inspection guidance as prescribed by their MAJCOM. The
   procedures in this chapter apply to CMBCC storage locations only.
   6.1.2. Inspect and repair CWDE assets in accordance with the applicable technical order (TO) at the
   interval specified therein. Each CMBCC storage location will maintain the following TOs:
       6.1.2.1. TO 14P3-1-141, Groundcrew Chemical Defense Ensemble.
       6.1.2.2. TO 14P4-1-151, Chemical-Biological Filter Elements Serviceability List.
       6.1.2.3. TO 11D1-1-111, Decontamination Kit, Skin M258/M258A1.
       6.1.2.4. TO 11D1-1-131, Decontamination Kit, Skin M291
       6.1.2.5. TO 00-20K-1, Inspection and Control of USAF Shelf-life Equipment.
       6.1.2.6. TO 11H2-2-21, M-8 Detector Paper
       6.1.2.7. TO 11H2-14-5-1, M9 Detector Paper
       6.1.2.8. TO TM 3-430-235-10, Operators Manual for Decontamination Kit, Individual Equip-
       ment M295
       6.1.2.9. Document CWDE Inspections on AFTO Forms 152, Chemical Defense ensemble Inspec-
       tion Record, or DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag materiel. MAITS will also be updated.

6.2. Inspection of CWDE (except the protective mask and filter elements). Inspect CWD ground-
crew ensembles, gloves, and footwear IAW TO 14P3-1-141 before placing the equipment in the bag/bulk
storage. Hood inspections are in the applicable mask TO. Additional inspections are
not normally required except as follows:
   6.2.1. When the bag/bulk is returned after deployment.
   6.2.2. If the condition of the contents is in question (such as if bags/bulk are exposed to moisture,
   infestation, etc.).
   6.2.3. When required by TO or other directive.

6.3. Filter Elements. Fi lter elements should be st ored in bulk by lot number whenever possi ble and
should be readily available for issue and deployment in the event of a contingency tasking. Prepalletized
filter elements are exempt from bulk storage.
   6.3.1. Review the serviceable list in TO 14P4-1-151 periodically and upon receipt of TO changes to
   ensure the serviceability of on-hand lot numbers.
   6.3.2. Document reviews on DD Form 1574, Serviceable Tag material, and attach it to each separate
   lot of filter elements.



                                               11
6.4. Decontamination Kits (M258A1/ M291/M295). I nspect the M258A 1 IAW TO 11D 1-1-111,
M291 IAW TO 11D1-1-131 and the M295 IAW TO TM3-3-430-235-10.
   6.4.1. Review the serviceable list in TO 14P4-1-151 and Service Bulletin
   3-30-2 upon receipt and periodically to ensure the serviceability of on-hand lots.

6.5. Shelf-Life Responsibilities and Procedures. It is the responsibility of each CMBCC storage loca-
tion to perform required shelf-life inspections IAW TO 00-20K-1. Outdated items will be disposed of
IAW established regulations/procedures. Replacements will be re quisitioned as required. Some key
points to remember are:
   6.5.1. Shelf-life is defined as a period of time beginning with the date of manufacture/cure/assembly
   that an item may remain in the combined wholesale and retail storage system and still remain suitable
   for issue/use by the end user.
   6.5.2. Service life is a measurement of an anticipated total in-use time.
   6.5.3. Shelf-life/Shelf-life extensions for all IPE shelf life items are derived from test results of the
   stockpile surveillance program. This is the only basis for extension or expiration of shelf-life for these
   items. The AF Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) translates this guidance into Air Force pol-
   icy and in turn notifies the MAJCOMs. The MAJCOMs then relay this information to the field. No
   GCE (BDO or CPO) or IPE will be rendered unserviceable unless directed to do so by AFCESA. The
   Executive Agent will send written guidance to the CMBCC storage locations upon receiving AFC-
   ESA policy.

6.6. Shelf-Life/Lot Expirations. CMBCC personnel will regularly review applicable management list-
ings to ensure all items stored in the CMBCC have not exceeded applicable shelf-life criteria. All items
that have expired or are no lon ger considered serviceable will be turned in to the local DRMO a nd
dropped off MAITS/accountable records.
   6.6.1. At the option of the CMBCC Executive Agent, assets may be shipped to units and used for
   "training use only."
   6.6.2. Normal turn-in procedures for EAID items will be used by the CMBCC when turning property
   in to the DRMO. Non-EAID items will be turned in using off-line procedures.




                                                12
                                              Chapter 7

                             RECEIPT/ISSUE/TURN-IN/SHIPMENT

Section 7A—Receiving Procedures

7.1. General. The receiving procedures in this chapter pertain only to the CMBCC.
   7.1.1. The standard AF procedures pertaining to the r esponsible physical protection and processing
   care to be afforded AF property and resources are contained in AFI 31-209, The Installation and
   Resources Protection Program, and are applicable to all AF activities, unless prescribed otherwise.
   7.1.2. CMBCC will ensure receipts are processed f or all property marked for the CMBCC stock
   record account.
   7.1.3. Procedures listed in AFMAN 23-110, Vol II, Part Two, and AFM 67-1,Vol I, Part One will be
   used for receipt of property unless otherwise listed in this chapter.

7.2. Receipt of Property
   7.2.1. From Depots. P roperty received from the de pots will be processed using nor mal Standard
   Base Supply System (SBSS) procedures. As a gene ral rule, each receipt processed shoul d have a
   matching issue/due-out release transaction. See Section B, Peacetime Issue/Transfer Procedures.
   7.2.2. From Air Force Units. All CWDE shipped from bases will be in-checked using standard pro-
   cedures and loaded directly into MAITS. Any assets found to be unserviceable will be transferred to
   the local Defense Reutilization and Marketi ng Office (DRMO). Assets found to have expi red lot
   numbers will be segregated and disposed of IAW applicable Technical Orders (TOs).
   7.2.3. From Other Sources (DOD Agencies, Foreign Services, Con-tractors).
       7.2.3.1. All assets received from sources other than depot or bases will be processed using proce-
       dures listed in AFMAN 23-110, Vol II, Part Two , Chapter 10 and AFM 67 -1, Vol I, Part One,
       Chap 5.
       7.2.3.2. All property received from these sources will be inspected prior to receipt processing by
       CMBCC inspectors. Any prope rty identified a s being unservic eable will be transferred to t he
       local DRMO. Expired property will be segregated and disposed of IAW applicable TOs.

Section 7B—Peacetime Issue/Transfer Procedures

7.3. General. This section provides peacetime procedures for the issue/ transfer and shipment of CWDE
assets from the CMBCC to units, depots and other sources. All procedures in AFMAN 23-110/AFM 67-1
apply except in cases prescribed in this section.

7.4. Issues/Due-Outs/Due-Out Cancellations
   7.4.1. Due outs will be established when the CMBCC determines a requirement. When funds are not
   available establish a memo due out using TEX code "H" for all u nfunded requirements. Obligated
   due-outs will not be canceled without prior approval of the Executive Agent.


                                               13
   7.4.2. Issues: Item record balances should not be maintained against CMBCC items. Issues should
   be processed whenever possible to remove any item record balances, i.e., differences caused by quan-
   tity unit pack shipments. This may require coordination with funds personnel.

7.5. Issues to Units: Equipment Authorized Inventory Data (E AID) equipment (Mask) should not be
applicable during peace-time operations. All CWDE that is non-Equipment a ccountable will be shipped
to units using DD Form 1149.

7.6. Transfers to DRMO: Transfers of non-EAID items will be accomplished using off-line proce-
dures. EAID items will still be processed using normal SBSS procedures IAW AFMAN 23-110, Vol II,
Part Two, Chapter 15.

7.7. Material Returns: CMBCC personnel will only return assets to other sources when d irected by
item managers, i.e., if CM BCC is in an excess p osition with no projected near-term requirements. All
returns will be coordinated with the Executive Agent.

Section 7C—Turn-Ins

7.8. General. This section prescribes procedures for property returning after deployments and for assets
that have expired while being stored in the CMBCC. Normal turn-in procedures in AFMAN 23-110, Vol
II, Part Two, Chapter 13 apply unless otherwise prescribed in this chapter.
   7.8.1. Upon return of assets from deployment, CMBCC personnel will perform a complete inventory/
   inspection of all assets used duri ng the deploym ent for ser viceability/expired lot numbers prior to
   re-stocking.
   7.8.2. MAITS database will be adjusted accordingly after inventory is complete.




                                              14
                                               Chapter 8

                       REPORTING AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF CWDE

8.1. General. HQ USAF/ILEO/ILS maintain overall responsibility for reporting to Joint Chiefs of Staff
(JCS) on AF CWDE status/shortfalls as required. MAITS will be the primary means for re porting this
information. Status reports are due qu arterly, NLT the 15th of January, April, July and October.
Shelf-life reports are due annually in c onjunction with the budgetary submission. Copie s of all reports
will be provided by the CMBCC or HQ ACC/LGS to MAJCOMs when reque sted. See Attachment 2,
Peacetime Reporting Flow Chart.

8.2. CMBCC Executive Agent Responsibilities. HQ ACC/LGS collects quarterly MAITS reports (to
include shelf-life requirements) from the two CMBCC storage locations and forwards to Air Staff.

8.3. CMBCC Locations. The CMBCC storage locations will report status/shortfalls of CWDE to HQ
ACC/LGS using two reports:
   8.3.1. Quarterly (NLT the 15th of January, April, and October) provide an availability report in two
   parts:
       8.3.1.1. Part 1 should show availability of the required C-bags stored at the res pective CMBCC
       location to meet their total authorization.
       8.3.1.2. Part 2 should consolidate C-1 bag inputs from bases under their jurisdiction.
   8.3.2. The CMBCC will also submit an annual shelf-life report in two parts;
       8.3.2.1. Part 1 should show the shelf-life visibility for assets stored at the respective CMBCC.
       8.3.2.2. Part 2 should consolidate C-1 bag inputs from bases under their jurisdiction.
   8.3.3. Various miscellaneous reports may be required at the request of the CMBCC Executive Agent
   or HQ USAF.
   8.3.4. Any excesses/shortages identified by base level reports will be redistributed via message, with
   an information copy to each MAJCOM.

8.4. MAJCOM Responsibilities
   8.4.1. Quarterly Status Reports: MAJCOMs LGS will receive and validate installation MAITS data
   and forward to the respective CMBCC.
   8.4.2. Annual Shelf-Life Visibility Report: Th e annual Shelf-L ife visibility report does not require
   MAJCOM validation; however, MAJCOMs may request an information copy.
   8.4.3. Out-of-Cycle Reporting: If unexpected requirements arise between quarterly reports, the host
   base MAJCOM will validate the requirement and then forward to the respective CMBCC for action.

8.5. Base Responsibilities. Host bases will report on all assigned/supported units regardless of owning
MAJCOM.




                                               15
8.5.1. Quarterly Status Reports: Each base will use standard MAITS reporting procedures to submit
MAITS status reports to their parent MAJCOM. Reports can be sent in any form that can be uploaded
into the MAITS data base, i.e., floppy disk, electronic mail, etc.
8.5.2. Annual Shelf-Life Visibility Report: The annual S helf-Life visibility report will be sent
directly to the respective CMBCC storage location with information copy to the parent MAJCOM.
8.5.3. Out-of-Cycle Reporting: If unexpected requirements arise between quarterly reports, contact
your host base MAJCOM wh o will validate the requirement and then forward to the respective
CMBCC for action.




                                          16
                                                Chapter 9

                          CONTINGENCY/WARTIME MOBILIZATION

9.1. General. The purpose of this chapter is to clearly identify those actions required to effectively ini-
tiate the deployment of the Air Force CMBCC chemical warfare defense equipment.

9.2. Deployment Tasking Orders Overview. All tasking orders are developed at J CS level and con-
sists of four stages: Warning orders, planning orders, alert orders and execution orders. These orders will
flow through the Supported CINC (to determine requirements) and the Supporting CINC (to determine
how to meet requirements) to the units and CMBCC storage locations. See Attachment 6, Generic Over-
view of CMBCC Tasking. During the alert stage, the C MBCC should receive notification of possible
deployment taskings. The execution order is the movement directive that specifies which UTCs will be
deployed, the location and the quantities required.

NOTE:
The CMBCC Storage Locations will only react to taskings received from the Supporting Command Battle
Staff or the CMBCC Executive Agent.

9.3. AFRES Augmentation. Augmentation requirements vary based on the operation being supported.
For planning purposes. HQ AFRES will augment each CMBCC storage location with additional
man-power during real-world contingencies, 2 UTC (JFBHJ) will deploy to CMBCC-WEST and 3 UTCs
(JFBHJ) will deploy to CMBCC-EAST, for a total of 25 manpower positions. Notification of the deploy-
ing unit will be received through Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES).

9.4. Supporting Command Responsibilities. T he Supporting Command Battle Staff will notify the
CMBCC storage locations (either directly or by contacting the Executive Agent) during the alert and exe-
cution stages as appropriate. Supporting Command Battle Staff will:
   9.4.1. Update deployment information in the Joint Operation Planning and E xecution System
   (JOPES) deployment data base to indicate specified CWDE taskings have been levied to the CMBCC.
   9.4.2. Push specific taskings to the appropriate CMBCC storage location as the requirement is levied.
   9.4.3. Coordinate sustainment requirements.
   9.4.4. Report the status of critical items to the Supported CINC (Theater Commander).

9.5. CMBCC Storage Location Responsibilities. Eac h CMBCC storage location should deve lop a
mobility base support plan in conjunction with the host base Logistics Plans Element. This support plan
should meet the requirements to assemble, process, and transport CWDE cargo to the port of embarkation
in support of deploying forces.
   9.5.1. Establish a mobility control center (MCC) for the overall control, direction and supervision of
   CWDE deployments. It is a local wing commander option to collocate this mobility control center
   with the base MCC.
   9.5.2. As property is deployed, the MAITS database must be updated to reflect the deployment.


                                                17
9.6. Redeployment/Reconstitution. The Supporting Command Battle Staff retains overall responsibil-
ity for the disposition of assets during redeployment/reconstitution.
   9.6.1. Unit commanders should ensure each individual handcarries C-1 bags back to h ome station
   upon redeployment. MAITS reports will reflect assets required at each base to reconstitute C-1 bags.
   9.6.2. Any bulk/built up assets remaining at the contingency area will be directed to a CMBCC stor-
   age location by the Supporting Command Battle Staff (in coordination with the Executive Agent) for
   reconstitution.




                                        WILLIAM P. HALLLIN, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Installations and Logistics




                                              18
                                           Attachment 1

       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Program
AFI 32-4001, Disaster Preparedness Planning and Operations
AFM 67-1, Volume I, Part One, Basic Air Force Supply Procedure
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
TO 00-2-K-1, Inspection and Control of USAF Shelf-Life Equipment
TO 14P3-1-1-141, Groundcrew Chemical Defense Ensemble
TO 14P4-1-151, Chemical-Biological Filter Elements Serviceability List
TO 14P4-9-31, Masks, Protective Field M17, M17A1, M17A2 and Accessories
TO 14P4-15-1, Chemical-Biological Mask Type MCU-2/P, MCU-2A/P
TO 11D1-1-111, Decontamination Kit, Skin M258/M258A1
TO 11D1-1-131. Decontamination Kit, Skin M291
TO 11H2-2-21, M-8 Detector Paper
TO 11H2-14-5-1, M9 Detector Paper
TO TM 3-430-235-10, Operators Manual for Decontamination Kit Individual Equipment M295

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFCSS—Air Force Contingency Supply Squadron
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
BAC—Budget Activity Code
BDO—Battle Dress Overgarment
CINC—Commander of a Combatant Command
CMBCC—Consolidated Mobility Bag Control Center
CONUS—Continental United States
CPO—Chemical Protective Overgarment
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
DPSC—Defense Personnel Support Center
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office

                                             19
DRU—Direct Reporting Units
EAID—Equipment Authorization Inventory Data
FOA—Field Operation Agency
GCE—Groundcrew Ensemble
GSOP—General Support Division Operating Program
IPE—Individual Protective Equipment
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
MAITS—Mobility Automated Inventory and Tracking System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAP—Mission Area Plan
MCC—Mobility Control Center
MPN—Mobility Position Number
MRC—Major Regional Contingency
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPORD—Operational Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORD—Operational Requirement Document
PACAF—Pacific Air Force
PEC—Program Element Code
PFMR—Project Funds Management Record
FIN PLAN—Financial Plan
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
SRAN—Stock Record Account Number
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
UTC—Unit Type Code
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan

Terms
Contingency—An emer gency involving military forces caused by natural disasters, terrorists,
subversives, or by required military operations. Due t o the uncertainty of the situation, contingencies
require plans, rapid response, and special procedures to ensur e the safety and r eadiness of personnel,
installations, and equipment. (Joint Pub 1-02).

                                               20
Contingency Operations—Operations conducted across the range of military operations involving the
use of US military forces to achieve US objectives or protect national interests, usually in response to a
sudden short-notice crisis or emergency. Contingency operations may be terminated in their own right or
evolve into sustained military operations.
Deployment—The relocation of forces and materiel to de sired areas of operations. (Joint Pub 1- 02
definition)
Operation plan—Any plan, except for the S ingle Integrated Operation Plan, for the conduct of military
operations. Plans are prepared by combatant commanders in response to requirements established by the
Chairman of t he Joint Chiefs of S taff and by commanders of subordinate commands in respo nse to
requirements tasked by the establi shing unified comm ander. Opera tion plans are prepared in either a
complete format (OPLAN) or as a concept plan (CONPLAN). The CONPLAN can be published with or
without a time-phased force and deployment data (TPFDD) file.
   a. OPLAN--An opera tion plan for the c onduct of joint oper ations that ca n be use d as a basis f or
       developing an operation order (OPORD). An OPLAN identifies the forces and supplies required
       to execute the CINC’s Strategic Concept and a movement schedule of these resources to the the-
       ater of ope rations, The force s a nd supplie s a re ide ntified in (TPF DD) file s. OPLANs will
       include a ll phases of the tasked ope ration. The plan is prepared with the a ppropriate anne xes,
       appendixes, and TPFDD files as described in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
       manuals containing planning policies, procedures, and formats. Also called OPLAN.
   b. CONPLAN--An operation plan in an abbre viated format that would require considerable expan-
       sion or alteration to convert it into an O PLAN or OPORD. A CONPLAN contains the CINC’s
       Strategic Concept a nd those annexes and a ppendixes deemed necessary by t he combatant com-
       mander to complete planning. G enerally, detailed support re quirements a re not calculated and
       TPFDD files are not prepared. Also called CONPLAN.
   c. CONPLAN With TPFDD--A CONPLAN with TPFDD is the same as a CONPLAN except that it
       requires more detailed planning for phased deployment of forces. (Joint Pub 1-02).
Unit Type Code (UTC) —A five-character, alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies each type unit of
the Armed Forces. (Joint Pub 1-02).
War And Mobilization Plan (WMP) —The Air Force supporting plan to the Joint Strategic Capabilities
Plan. The si x volumes of th e WMP extends t hrough the Future Years Defense Program t o provide
continuity in short- and m id-range war and mo bilization planning. It provides current planning cycle
policies and planning factors for the conduct and support of wartime operations. It establishes
requirement for development of mobilization and pr oduction planning pr ograms to su pport sustained
contingency operations of the p rogrammed forces. The WMP encompasses all functions necessary to
match facilities, manpower, and materiel with planned wartime activity. (AFDD 100 Proposed Pub
definition).




                                               21
                         Attachment 2

               PEACETIME REPORTING FLOW CHART

Figure A2.1.




                          22
                                           Attachment 3

                                     TARIFF SIZING CHART



The CMBCC storage locations will use the following guide when bags or bulk must be tariff-sized.



X-Small 2%



Small 14%



Medium 60%



Large 22%



X-Large 2%




The following tariff will be used for the new chemical boot (GVO/BVO):



X-Small Bag Size 3 = 33%

   Size 4 = 33%

   Size 5 = 34%



Small Bag Size 6 = 15%



                                             23
   Size 7 = 15%

   Size 8 = 40%

   Size 9 = 30%



Medium Bag Size 9 = 10%

   Size 10 = 25%

   Size 11 = 35%

   Size 12 = 30%



Large Bag Size 12 = 35%

   Size 13 = 55%

   Size 14 = 10%



X-Large Bag Size 14 = 100%




NOTE: The CMBCC will also maintain a small percentage of odd sized items, i.e., XXS, XXXL,etc.




                                           24
                                          Attachment 4

                                     C-BAG CONTENT CHART


                     ITEM                  UNIT OF ISSUE NUMBER PER BAG
Decon Kit M258A1/M291                          Each             2
C-2 Canister                                   Each             4
MCU-2A/P Hood                                  Each             4
Paper Detecting M8                               *
Tape Detecting M9                                *
Cotton Inserts                                  Pair            4
Protective Overgarment                         Each             2
Glove, .14 mil                                  Pair            4
Black Protective Overboot                       Pair            4
                        or
Green/Black Vinyl Overshoe                       Pair                    2
Kit Bag (if in built-up configuration)           Each                    1

The basic C-bag configuration support the MCU 2A/P mask. The above items constitute a groundcrew
C-bag composition for one person as it pertains to CMBCC storage.
* M8 and M9 are maintained at individual units with the C-1 bag. However, follow-on stocks will be
available at the CMBCC storage locations and provided upon request.




                                            25
                                           Attachment 5

                                  C-1 BAG CONTENTS CHART
Each Air Force base must maintain C-1 bag for each mobility position number (MPN) assigned. The fol-
lowing items constitute a C-1 bag to be handcarried by the individual upon deployment.


                     ITEM                          UNIT OF ISSUE NUMBER PER BAG
Decon Kit M258A1/M291                                  Each            2
Decon Kit M295                                         Each            2
C-2 Canister                                           Each            4
MCU-2A/P Hood                                          Each            4
Paper Detecting M8                                     Book            1
Tape Detecting M9                                       Roll           1
Cotton Inserts                                          Pair           4
Protective Overgarment                                 Each            2
Gloves, .14 mil                                         Pair           4
Black Protective Overboot                               Pair           4
                        or
Green/Black Vinyl Overshoe                               Pair                  2
Protective Mask, MCU-2A/P                                Each                  1
Kit Bag                                                  Each                  1

The following items must be deployed with the C-1 bag and these item are commonly referred to as ditty
bag/A-1 bag items. These items must be maintained by the base for each MPN IAW AFI 32-4001.


            ITEM                      UNIT OF ISSUE             NUMBER PER BAG
Web Belt                                  Each                           1
Canteen                                   Each                           1
Canteen Cup                               Each                           1
Canteen Cover                             Each                           1
M1 Canteen Cap                            Each                           1
Helmet, Ground Troop                      Each                           1




                                              26
                            Attachment 6

               GENERIC OVERVIEW CMBCC TASKING FLOW

Figure A6.1.




                             27
