BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         AFI 21-101_AMCSUP_CL-2
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                             14 February 2011


                                                                   Maintenance



                            KC-10A DEBRIEFING
                                CHECKLIST


COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or
ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
OPR: HQ AMC/A4MMP
Certified by: HQ AMC/A4M (Col James C. Howe)
Supersedes: AFI21-101 AMCSUP CL-2, KC-10A Debriefing Checklist,1 January 2008
Pages: 49
This checklist complements AFI 21-101 MAF Supplement, Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance Management, is formatted so that it may be trimmed to fit aircrew
style binders. It applies to all Air Mobility Command units. This publication is
applicable to AMC Air Reserve Component (ARC) Classic Associate units. It
also applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) during United States Title 10 status
on AMC deployments/missions and ANG TFI classic associations. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
                   KC-10A DEBRIEFING CHECKLIST


                              INTRODUCTION


This debriefing checklist will be used as a guide to assist the maintenance
debriefer in ensuring that all pertinent information on a system malfunction is
included on the AFTO Form 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work
Document. This checklist is considered minimal and is not intended to replace
systems knowledge or common sense. The debriefer is charged with the
responsibility of questioning the aircrew to make sure that all symptoms of a
malfunction are known and recorded on the AFTO Form 781A. Remember this is
the only information the technician will have to determine the source of the
problem.
Recommended changes to this form must be forwarded through channels to HQ
AMC/A4M.
                              INSTRUCTIONS


I.    Prior to debriefing:
      A. The debriefing team members will review past debriefing
         forms, logs, or files to acquaint themselves with any previous
         repeat/recurring discrepancies.
      B. The appropriate maintenance specialty should be represented at the
         debriefing to help clarify discrepancies.
II.   Debriefing Procedures:
      A. The debriefing team leader will take charge of the debriefing and
         debrief the aircrew, utilizing this checklist as a guide.
      B. Review all AFTO Forms 781A for the mission(s).
         (1) Check AFTO Form 781H, Aerospace Vehicle Flight Status and
             Maintenance for flight time(s), total landings, sorties, the number
             of discrepancies, and pilots’s signature.
         (2) Review AFTO Form 781A for discrepancies that occurred during
             the mission(s). Make special note of repeated or recurring
             discrepancies.
         (3) Remove engine coupons from 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight
             Data Document forms binder.
         (4) Annotate the number of refueling contacts as a tanker and/or
             receiver.
         (5) Annotate the number of centerline drogue and wing aerial
             refueling pods (WARP) contacts.
      C. Ensure all discrepancies are described as clearly as possible.
      D. Identify and annotate discrepancies that require follow-on action, (i.e.,
   reportable flight control malfunctions, dropped objects, and flight
   incidents). Request required support from appropriate agency.
E. Determine if aircraft was flown low level over salt water and act as
   necessary to comply with T.O. 1-1-691, Aircraft Weapon System
   Cleaning and Corrosion Control.
F. Ensure ALL locations where the aircraft stopped and was chemically
   disinfected for Foot and Mouth Disease, that an entry is made in the
   781A’s. Debriefers will document this information in G081 using
   screen 9051, with work unit code (WUC) 02400 to create the Foot and
   Mouth Decontamination discrepancy; G081 will automatically enter
   this information in the aircraft history. Report this information to HQ
   AMC/ A4MJS; DSN 779-2622 / Commercial 618-229-2622. Due to
   the potentially damaging long-term effects of the decontamination on
   sensitive aircraft parts, accurate tracking is essential.
G. Determine if aircraft was flown through predicted areas of low
   volcanic ash, an entry is made in the 781A’s. Debriefers will
   document this information in GO81 using screen XXXX, with work
   unit code XXXX to create the volcanic ash discrepancy; G081 will
   automatically enter this information in the aircraft history.
                           TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                  SECTION I


                  AIRCRAFT GENERAL DEBRIEFING


                                  CHECKLIST


1. Air Conditioning (System 11)                          12
  a-i. System in General                                 12
  j.   Lavatory Ventilation Problems                     12
  k.   Avionics Compartment Ventilation                  12
  l.   Aerial Refueling Operator Equipment Ventilation   13
  m. Center Accessory Compartment Ventilation            13
  n.   Cabin Pressurization Control                      14
  o.   Air Conditioning Cooling                          14
  p.   Air Conditioning Temperature Control              14
2. Auto Flight (System 22)                               14
  a-c. System in General                                 14
  d. Autopilot                                        14
  e. Yaw Dampner Control and Rudder                   15
  f. Autothrottle Speed Control                        16
3. Communications (System 14)                          17
  a-c. System in general                               17
  d. High Frequency (HF)                               17
  e. HF Will Not Transmit and Will Not Key             17
  f.HF Will Not Receive or Receives Weak               17
  g. HF Noisy                                          18
  h Very High Frequency (VHF) Inoperative              18
  i. VHF Will Not Transmit                             18
  j. VHF Will Not Receive                              18
  k. VHF Noisy                                         18
  l. Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Inoperative            19
  m. UHF Does Not Transmit                             19
  n. UHF Will Not Receive                              19
  o. UHF Noisy                                         19
  p. AFSATCOM                                          20
  q. AFSATCOM Will Not Transmit                        20
  r. AFSATCOM Will Not Receive or Faulty Reception     20
  s. AFSATCOM Printer Inoperative                      21
  t. Passenger Address Inoperative                     21
  u. Passenger Address Noisy                           21
  v. Interphone/Audio Integrating Will Not Transmit    21
  w. Interphone/Audio Integrating Will Not Receive     21
  x. Interphone/Audio Integrating Noisy                21
  y. Secure Voice Will Not Load Code or Will Not
       Transmit                                       22
  z. Secure Voice Will Not Receive                    22
  aa. Secure Voice Noisy                              22


4. Electrical Power (System 24)                       23
  a-c. System in General                              23
  d. Generators                                       23
5. Flight Controls (System 27)                        23
  a-l. Systems in General                             23
  m. Elevator Load Feel (ELF) and Flap Limit System   24
  n. Auto Spoiler                                     24
  o. Spoilers                                         24
  p. Elevator Load Feel and Flap Limit System         24
  q. Surface Position Indicating                      24
   r. Auto Spoiler                                    25
   s. Spoiler                                         25
6. Fuel (System 28)                                   26
  a-c. System in General                              26
  d. Fuel Quantity Indicating                         26
  e.    Fuel Temperature Indicating                   26
  f.    Boom Extend and Retract                       27
  g. Boom Signal Coil                                 27
  h. Universal Aerial Refueling Receiver Slipway      28
  i. Drogue                                           28
  j. Wing Mounted Refueling Pods                      29
7. Hydraulic Power (System 29)                        29
  a-m.System in General                               29
  n. Hydraulic Pressure Indicating                30
8. Ice and Rain Protection (System 30)            30
  a-c.System in General                           30
  d. Wing Anti-Icing                              30
  e. Engine Nose Cowl Anti-Icing                  31
  f. Number 2 Engine and VHF Antenna Anti-Icing   31
  g. Window Heat                                  31
9. Landing Gear (System 32)                       31
  a-i.System in General                           31
  j. Anti-Skid                                    31
10. Navigation (System 34)                        32
  a-c.System in General                           32
   d. Inertial Navigation System (INS) General    32
   e. INS Control Display Unit (CDU) Blanks,
     Warning Light On                             32
  f. INS Flashing Display                         32
  g. INS Heading                                  32
  h. INS Ground Speed                             33
  i. Tacan Update Annunciation                    33
  j. Tacan Update triple Mix                      33
  k. Tacan Update Winds                           33
  l. Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)           34
  m. I and J Band                                 34
  n. Instrument Landing System (ILS)              35
  o. Tacan                                        35
  p. Automatic Direction Finding (ADF)            36
  q. Radio Altimeter                              37
  r. Variable Omni Range (VOR)                     37
  s. Radar                                         38
  t. Marker Beacon                                 39
  u. Flight Director Display                       39
  v. Altitude Advisory                             39
  w. Compass                                       39
  x. Pilot Static                                  40
  y. Thrust Rating                                 40
11. Oxygen (System 35)                             41
  a-c.System in General                            41
  d. Regulator                                     41
  e. Crew Mask                                     41
  f. Oxygen Quantity Indicator                     41
12. Pneumatic (System 36)                          42
  a-l.System in General                            42
  m. Manifold Fail                                 42
13. Water/Waste (System 38)                        42
  a-c.System in General                            42
  d. Potable Water                                 42
  e. Waste Disposal                                42
14. Airborne Auxiliary Power (APU) (System 73)     42
  a-c.System in General                            42
  d. APU Hard To Start, No Start, or Hung at 20%   43
  e. APU Auto Shut Down                            43
  f. APU Low Duct Pressure                         43
15. Engine Controls (System 76)                    44
  a-c.System in General                            44
  d. Throttle Alignment             44
16. Engine Indicating (System 77)   44
  a-c.System in General             44
  d. Engine Vibration               45
  e. Engine Instruments             45
17. Exhaust (System 78)             45
  a-c.System in General             45
  d. Thrust Reverser                45
18. Engine Oil (System 79)          46
  a-c.System in General             46
  d. Oil Pressure Problem           46
                            SECTION III
                   POSSIBLE OPERATING CONDITIONS



1. Weather                                47
 a. Lightning Strike                      47



2. Flight                                 47
  a. Bird Strike                          47


3. Foot and Mouth Decontamination         48


4. Volcanic Ash                            49
                                  SECTION 1
                 AIRCRAFT GENERAL DEBRIEFING
                              CHECKLIST


1. Air conditioning (System 21)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in the
      aircraft 781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Which pack has the malfunction?
   d. Does pack work in auto or manual?
   e. Does pack temperature indicator indicate hot or cold?
   f. Was low airflow or no flow noticed in-flight or on the ground?
   g. What was the inlet temperature?
   h. What was the manifold pressure?
   i. Were there fault symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   j. Lavatory Ventilation Problems
   (1) Were odors in toilet area?
   (2) Was air exhausting out lavatory vent?
   (3) Did the lav/gallery vent circuit breaker trip?
   (4) Was the lav/gallery vent circuit breaker reset?
k. Avionics Compartment Ventilation
   (1) Were avionics flow off & INS flow off lights on; center panel ball at
       off?
   (2) Did avionics venturi valve & control circuit breaker trip (aircraft on
       the ground)?
   (3) Was INS flow light on?
   (4) Did inertial aural warning horn sound?
   (5) Did navigation system fan circuit breaker trip?
   (6) Was avionics flow off light on?
   (7) Did avionics flow off light cycle on and off?
   (8) Did avionics compartment fan circuit breaker trip?
   (9) Did radio rack fan circuit breaker trip?
 (10) Was center instrument panel indicator ball at off?
 (11) Were all flow lights off (aircraft on ground)?
 (12) Was airflow present?
l. Aerial Refueling Operator Equipment Ventilation
  (1) Were avionics flow off & AR avionics flow off lights on?
  (2) Did equipment rack cooling fan circuit breakers trip?
  (3) Was avionics airflow present?
m. Center Accessory Compartment Ventilation
   (1)   Was center access compartment flow off light cycling on and off?
   (2) Was center access compartment flow off light on and fan circuit
       breaker tripped/not tripped?
   (3)   Was there airflow?
   n. Cabin Pressurization Control
      (1)    Was auto, semi-auto, or manual selected?
      (2) What were the differential pressure, barometric pressure, and rate of
          climb?
      (3)    What was cabin altitude rate set at?
      (4)    Did cabin over-pressurize in-flight?
      (5)    Did pressure relief valves open prior to 9.10 PSID?
      (6) Did auto manual pressure control wheel cycle from open to close?
          What rate?
   o. Air Conditioning – Cooling
      (1)    Was there low or no airflow?
      (2) Was turbine inlet and pack discharge temperature high, low or
          fluctuating?
      (3) Was turbine inlet low-discharge temperature high?
      (4) Did packs work in auto and manual?
      (5) Does pack position indicator indicate cold or hot?
      (6) Were ther smoke/fog-like vapors and/or odors in cockpit/cabin area?
      (7) How much pressure was there on the manifold?
   p. Air conditioning – Temperature Control
      (1) Was trim air switch on or off?
      (2) Was temperature control selector switch in auto or manual?
      (3) Was trim air valve position indicator in cold or hot position?
      (4) Did zone and duct indicators show high or low temperature
          indication?
      (5) Was cockpit cooler or warmer than forward cabin or cargo
          compartment?


2. Auto Flight (System 22)
a. Is the turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in the aircraft
   781A forms?
b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in the 781 A forms/
c. Were there symptoms not listed in TAFI?
d. Autopilot
   (1)    When did malfunction occur?
   (2)    How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Was any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) Which autopilot system was engaged?
   (5) Was manual Trim required to maintain straight and level flight
       without autopilot engaged?
   (6) Did malfunction affect other autopilot system?
   (7) What function of autopilot was being used?
   (8) What position was inertial navigation system select switch in?
   (9) Were auto throttles also engaged?
   (10) What mode of auto throttles were being used?
   (11) Would autopilot remain engaged in both command wheel steering and
        command?
   (12) Were autopilot engaged levers locked off at anytime?
   (13) Were any warning flags in view?
   (14) Was the flight director switched on?
   (15) Could malfunction be described as a pitch or a roll problem?
   (16) Did any yaw dampner fail light illuminate during flight?
   (17) Were command bars in view or out of view?
   (18) Did autopilot follow selected bank?
   (19) Did flight mode annunciation test properly?
   (20) Was pitch wheel stiff or feel “spring loaded” to the alt hold detent?
   (21) Did malfunction occur during or after change in aircraft flight
         altitude?
   (22) When banking in turns, are turns coordinated? Slip/skid ball
        centered?
e. Yaw Dampner Control and Rudder
   (1)      When did malfunction occur?
   (2)      How long did malfunction occur?
   (3) Was any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) Did yaw dampners self test during preflight?
   (5) Were hydraulic systems pressurized?
   (6) Did rate of turn flags appear in view?
   (7) Was aircraft in straight and level flight or maneuvering when
       malfunction occurred?
   (8) Did autopilot disengage due to malfunction?
   (9) Were rudder position indications normal?
   (10) Were any yaw dampner channels turned off to isolate failed channel?
f. Autothrottle Speed Control
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) Were any warning flags in view?
   (5) Did flight mode annunciation test properly?
   (6) Did autothrottles engage and disengage properly?
   (7) Were both #1 and #2 autothrottle systems engaged?
   (8) If only one system was affected, did other system operate correctly?
   (9) What malfunction of autothrottle was being used?
   (10) If autopilot was engaged, what mode was being used?
   (11) Did slow/fast test switch work correctly?
      (12) Did speed bugs agree with selected speed?
      (13) Did speed bugs agree on pilot and copilots air speed indicators?
      (14) What indications did slow/fast pointers give?
      (15) What was the configuration of flaps and slats?
      (16) Did takeoff/go-around button work for both functions?


3. Communications (System 23)
 a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in the aircraft
    781A forms?
 b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
 c. Were there symptoms not listed in TAFI?
 d. High Frequency (HF)
    (1) What frequencies were used?
    (2) Was communication made on the frequencies using the other HF
        system?
    (3) Was the radio keyed from another position?
    (4) Was sidetone present?
    (5) Were circuit breakers checked?
 e. HF Will Not Transmit and Will Not Key
    (1) Was a tune, tone or tune present? If yes, did it cease after a few
        seconds, or did you have to recycle the frequency knobs to stop it? If
        no, did the receive audio come back immediately, or did it blank out for
        a few seconds?
    (2) Was sidetone present?
    (3) Did radio receive okay?
    (4) Was radio keyed from another position?
    (5) Was contact made on the same frequency with other HF system?
 f. HF Will Not Receive or Receives Weak
   (1) Did radio seem to transmit okay?
   (2) Was reception good using the other HF system
   (3) If garbled audio, what position was HF-1 comm control panel mode
       switch set (USB, LSB, AM)? Note: HF system will bleed over to the
       other HF system regardless of frequency when system is keyed. This is
       a preventative measure of the key interlock relay.
g. Noisy
h. Very High frequency (VHF) Inoperative
   (1) What frequencies were used?
   (2) Was communication made on the same frequencies using the other VHF
       system?
   (3) Was radio keyed from another position?
   (4) Was communication attempted using both frequency select windows?
   (5) Were circuit breakers checked?
i. VHF Will Not Transmit
   (1) Was radio keyed from another position?
   (2) Was sidetone present?
   (3) Did radio receive okay?
   (4) Was communication attempted using both frequency select windows?
   (5) Was contact made on the same frequency using the other VHF system?
j. VHF Will Not Receive
   (1) Did radio seem to transmit okay?
   (2) Was reception tried on several frequencies?
   (3) Was reception attempted using both frequency select windows?
   (4) Was reception good using other VHF system?
   (5) Were you able to receive by disabling the squelch?
k. VHF Noisy
   (1) What kind of noise was heard?
   (2) If scratchy, was the squelch on or disable?
l. Ultra High Frequency (UHF) Inoperative
   (1) What frequencies were used?
   (2) Was communication made on the same frequencies using other UHF?
   (3) Was radio keyed from another position?
   (4) What position was antenna switch (lower, auto, or upper)?
   (5) Was sidetone present?
   (6) Were circuit breakers checked?
m. UHF Does Not Transmit
   (1) What position was antenna switch (lower, auto, or upper)?
   (2) Was radio keyed from another position?
   (3) Was sidetone present? If no, was KY-58 control set to CRAD 1 or
       CRAD 2?
   (4) Did radio receive okay?
   (5) Was contact made on the same frequency with other UHF system?
   (6) How did radio bit test? (UHF #2 only)
n. UHF Will Not Receive
   (1) What position was antenna switch (lower, auto, or upper)?
   (2) Did radio seem to transmit okay?
   (3) Was reception tried on different frequencies?
   (4) Was reception good using other UHF system?
   (5) How did radio bit test? (UHF #2 only)
o. UHF Noisy
   (1) What kind of noise was heard?
   (2) If scratchy noise, was squelch switch in the on or off position?
   (3) If switching sound, was fault light detected when radio was bit tested?
       (UHF #2 only)
   (4) If switching sound, was the antenna switch in auto position?
   (5) If chirping sound or cycle sound, were emergency locator transponder
       checked?
p. AFSATCOM
   (1) Was more than one fault code displayed?
   (2) Were fault lights illuminated on the modem control? A brief flashing of
       “rcv flt”and “xmt flt” on SATCOM modem control panel during bit
       test is normal?
   (3) Were circuit breakers checked?
   (4) Except for the fault code, did the system operate normally?
q. AFSATCOM Will Not Transmit
   (1) When attempting to transmit, was message printed out?
   (2) Did the “message sent” light illuminate?
   (3) Was the header printed out without the remainder of the message?
   (4) If yes to question 3; was the “los preempt” light illuminated?
   (5) If yes to question 3; was No.2 UHF turned off?
   (6) If yes to question 3; was the message routed through the Kg-35 crypto
       unit? A delay in the message transmission of one minute or more is
       normal when KG-35 is in use.
   (7) Were there any fault codes displayed during the bit test?
   (8) Were any fault lights illuminated?
   (9) Did the system receive okay?
r. AFSATCOM Will Not Receive or Faulty Reception
   (1)       Were any fault codes displayed during bit test?
   (2)       Were any fault lights illuminated?
   (3)       Did system transmit okay?
   (4)       Did “receiver busy” light illuminated at any time?
   (5)       Was anything printed out? If yes, what was printed?
   (6)       Was KG-35 crypto in use?
s. AFSATCOM Printer Inoperative
   (1) Did the printer make any unusual noises?
   (2) Was the “print ready” light illuminated?
   (3) When the system was first turned on, did the memory display on the
       keyboard display a zero or a dash?
t. Passenger Address Inoperative
   (1) Was the operation attempted from all positions?
   (2) If a squeal, was it from all positions, or just when the cargo
       compartment hand mic was used?
   (3) Did the squeal vary depending on the direction of the mic?
u. Passenger Address Noisy
v. Interphone/Audio Integrating Will Not Transmit
   (1) Which mic inputs were affected?
   (2) Could the system be keyed from another crew position?
   (3) Did you try to key the system from the switch on the audio select panel?
   (4) Did you try another headset?
   (5) Was the headpiece of the oxygen mask closed?
   (6) Did you try another oxygen mask?
w. Interphone/Audio Integrating Will Not Receive
   (1) Which receive signals were affected?
   (2) Did all the other positions receive okay?
   (3) Did you try another headset?
   (4) Did you try another oxygen mask?
x. Interphone/Audio Integrating Noisy
   (1)       What kind of noise was heard?
   (2) If hum or buzz, was the volume control on the secure voice isolation
       panel turned down?
   (3) Was noise heard with all the volume control levers turned down?
   (4) Did you try another headset?
   (5) Did you try another oxygen mask?
   (6) Was noise heard at more than station?
   (7) Did noise exist when engines were not running?
y. Secure Voice Will Not Load Code or Will Not Transmit
   (1) Did the red light on the KYK-13 fill device flash when you tried to load
       the code?
   (2) Was a fill cable used?
   (3) What was the serial number of the KYK-13 that was used?
   (4) Before transmitting for the first time, what was heard in the headset?
   (5) After keying the system, what was heard in the headset?
   (6) Did you try another KYK-13 fill device?
   (7) Did you attempt to load more than one storage register?
   (8) Did the system operate the same with both UHF systems?
   (9) Did you have Bee-bops?
   (10) Did Bee-bops clear?
   (11) Was KY-58 turned on?
 z. Secure Voice Will Not Receive
    (1) Was the volume on the secure voice isolation panel turned up?
    (2) Was the volume on the KY-59 crypto unit set to midrange?
    (3) Did transmit seem to be okay?
    (4) Did the system operate the same with both UHF systems?
 aa. Secure Voice Noisy
    (1) What kind of noise was heard?
    (2) Was the noise heard during transmit or receive?
4. Electrical Power (System 24)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) Code entered in          the
      aircraft 781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in the 781A forms?
   c. Were there symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Generators
        (1) Did generator fail light illuminate? Which one?
        (2) Did generator fail light come on during engine start or while in-
            flight?
        (3) Were you able to parallel the generator? If not, did you try moving
            the throttles forward? Did you add more load, i.e., hydraulic
            pumps?
        (4) Did generator power its bus? Did it carry a load?
        (5) What were the frequencies and volts? Was it fluxing?
        (6) Did you try to reset generator? What were the results?
        (7) Did other generators take over the the bus? If not, did bus go to
            isolate?


5. Flight Controls (System 27)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) Code entered in the
      aircraft 781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. When did malfunction occur?
   d. How long did malfunction continue?
   e. Were any circuit breakers reset?
   f. Did malfunction occur with autopilot engaged or disengaged?
   g. Did autopilot work properly?
   h. Did aircraft take excessive manual trim?
   i. Was aircraft trimmed without autopilot?
j. Were surface position indications normal?
k. Was hydraulic indication normal?
l. Were there symptoms not listed in TAFI?
m. What altitude did the malfunction occur?
n. What were the configuration and center of gravity of the aircraft?
o. What was the fuel load when the malfunction occurred?
p. Elevator Load Feel (ELF) and Flap Limit System
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Did manual slew for ELF work?
   (4) Did ELF channel inoperative light illuminate?
   (5) Did flap limit channel light illuminate?
   (6) Did select manual elevator feel light illuminate?
   (7) Did select flap override light illuminate?
   (8) Did flap override #1 and #2 work correctly?
   (9) Were circuit breakers reset to clear channel inoperative lights?
   (10) Which circuit breaker reset inoperative lights?
   (11) Did ELF or flap channel inoperative light illuminate more than once?
   (12) Did pilot and copilot’s airspeed agree?
q. Surface Position Indicating
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction occur?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) Did flap/slat indicator self test properly?
   (5) Did surface position indicator self test properly?
   (6) Did flap and slat surfaces agree with indicated position?
   (7) Did flap disagree flag come in view?
      (8) What position were flaps in when flag appeared?
      (9) Were all positions pointers at neutral in level flight?
      (10) What amount of manual trim was used?
   r. Auto Spoiler
      (1) Did spoiler do not use light illuminate during taxi or landing?
      (2) Was nose gear on the ground?
      (3) How much fuel is in the forward tank?
      (4) What was the ground speed at landing?
      (5) What position were the flaps in?
      (6) With autopilot, were the flaps in
      (7) Did anti-skid light come on with spoiler do not use light?
   s. Spoilers
      (1) Did spoiler do not use light come on during taxi out or landing?
      (2) During landing, was airplane nose high?
      (3) How much fuel was in the forward tank?
      (4) Was spoiler do not use light on in-flight or on the ground?
      (5) What was your landing speed?
      (6) What were the flaps setting?
      (7) If spoiler do not use light came on in-flight, was autopilot on?
      (8) If autopilot was on was autothrottle engaged?
      (9) If spoiler do not use light came on in-flight, was autopilot on?


6. Fuel (system 29)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) Code entered in the
      aircraft 781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in the 781A forms?
   c. Were there symptoms not listed in TAFI?
d. Fuel Quantity Indicating
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) What position was fuel quantity channel select switch, “A” or “B”?
   (5) If fuel quantity channel select switch was in the “A” position, did
       system work in the “B” position or vice versa?
   (6) What position was the fuel quantity indication power switch, normal
       or alternate?
   (7) If fuel quantity indication power switch was in the normal position,
       did system work in the alternate position or vice versa?
   (8) Were fuel quantity master indicator “C” and “S” readings correct?
   (9) Did fuel quantity master indicator press to test correctly?
   (10) Did fuel quantity master indicator totals agree with master totalizer?
e. Fuel Temperature Indicating
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) What was outside air temperature?
   (5) Did indication change after takeoff?
   (6) What was fuel quantity indication of #3 main tank?
f. Boom Extend and Retract
   (1) Did boom retract while in auto?
   (2) If boom did not retract in auto, what was hydraulic pressure gage
       reading?
   (3) How many attempts were made in auto retract?
   (4) Was independent disconnect system (IDS) used to disconnect boom?
   (5) Did boom retract when disconnect was initiated?
   (6) What was the boom accumulator precharge?
   (7) Did by-pass valve open, then close upon retraction?
   (8) Was there an excessive jar upon full retraction?
g. Boom Signal Coil
   (1) When AR master power switch was turned on, did ready light come
       on?
   (2) With AR signal system override in normal, did system advance to
       disconnect?
   (3) Does system advance to disconnect from contact when boom
       disconnect switch is pressed?
   (4) Was boom signal coil checked for open or short circuits?
   (5) Was receiver in normal?
   (6) What type of aircraft was the receiver?
   (7) What was the tail number of receiver aircraft?
   (8) Does the system advance to contact in normal?
   (9) What were the number of contacts prior to and after malfunctions?
   (10)   Did interphone system operate normal?
h. Universal Aerial Refueling Receiver Slipway Installation (UARRSI)
   Signal System
   (1) When master power switch is turned on, does ready light illuminate?
   (2) In normal, does system advance to disconnect?
   (3) Does system advance to disconnect from ready when boom
       disconnect switch is pressed?
   (4) Was the tanker aircraft normal?
   (5) What type of aircraft was the tanker?
   (6) What was the tail number of the tanker aircraft?
   (7) What were the number of contacts prior to and after malfunctions?
   (8) Did interphone system operate in normal?
   i. Drogue
      (1) At what airspeed and altitude did you start?
      (2) Did drogue control ready light come on?
      (3) What step in the checklist did the drogue control ready light come on?
      (4) Did hose reel response inoperative light come on?
      (5) Was hose reel response inoperative light come on steady or
          flickering?
      (6) What step in the checklist was the hose reel monitor switch turned
          on?
      (7) With the hose reel monitor switch turned on and the test switch in the
          system position, what were the results?
      (8) Was the 55 knots reduction check performed?
      (9) What were the results of the 55 knots reduction check?
      (10) What type of aircraft was the receiver?
      (11) What was the tail number of the receiver?
      (12) What were the number of contacts before and after malfunction?
   j. Wing Mounted Refueling Pods
      (1) Was there power at the air refueling operator and flight engineer’s
          control panel?
      (2) Was any of the ARO or FE control panel annunciator lights and
          switches inoperative?
      (3) Were any fail indications noted on the ARO control panel?
      (4) If a failure occurred, did it clear itself? How long did it take to clear?
      (5) Did any circuit breakers have to be reset?


7. Hydraulic Power (System 29)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
d. Did the hydraulic pressure low light illuminate? Which engine?
e. How long did pressure drop off?
f. What was reservoir quantity?
g. Were the A/R pumps being used when the low pressure light
   illuminated?
h. Was boom or drogue being used when the low pressure light
   illuminated?
i. Was hydraulic pump isolated during remainder of flight?
j. Was system depressurized during remainder of flight?
k. What were the results when affected engine pump was depressurized?
l. What was hydraulic fluid temperature?
m. Were leaks noted after landing, mainly around engines?
n. Hydraulic Pressure Indicating
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers popped or reset?
   (4) What system was affected?
   (5) Were other systems operating normally?
   (6) Was hydraulic quantity indication for affected system normal?
   (7) Did pressure drop excessively when moving flight control surfaces?
   (8) Was boom in use when malfunction occurred?
8. Ice and Rain Protection (system 30)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Wing Anti-Icing
      (1) Was wing anti-icing selected?
      (2) Did the pneumatic pressure increase when wing anti-ice was selected?
      (3) Which wing anti-icing disagree light came on, left, right, or both?
      (4) How long did wing anti-ice disagree light stay on after switch was
          turned off?
      (5) Did disagree light go off on landing or touch and go?
      (6) Did wing anti-ice valve circuit breaker pop?
   e. Engine Nose Cowl Anti-icing
      (1) Was anti-icing selection for engine number 1 and number 3?
      (2) Which engine anti-ice disagree light illuminated?
      (3) Was disagree light on with engine anti-ice switch on or off?
      (4) How long did disagree light stay on after switch was turned off?
      (5) Did disagree light blink with switch in the on or off position?
      (6) Did anti-ice valve circuit breaker pop?
   f. Number 2 Engine and VHF Antenna Anti-icing
      (1) Which anti-ice disagree light was illuminated, engine or antenna?
      (2) Did disagree light blink with switch in the on or off position?
      (3) How long did disagree light stay on after switch was turned off?
      (4) What was engine power setting with switch in the on or off position?
   g. Window Heat
      (1) Which window would not heat?
      (2) Did you touch window? Was it cold or warm?
      (3) Was switch in high or normal?
      (4) In case of overheat, which window cracked or crazed?
      (5) Did you test window heat system?


9. Landing Gear (System 32)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in the
      aircraft 781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in the 781 forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in the TAFI?
   d. Did landing gear position agree with flight engineer and pilot’s
      indication?
   e. Was gear position visually checked?
   f. Was actual gear position the same as indicated position?
   g. What was number 3 hydraulic system pressure?
   h. Was emergency extension used?
   i. How long did it take to fully extend and retract landing gear?
   j. Anti-Skid
      (1) Did anti-slid fail light come on during landing or taxi?
      (2) Did any other caution lights come on?
      (3) Was main landing gears up or down?
      (4) Was the system tested? What was the indication?
      (5) Did aircraft have a heavy load or hard landing?
      (6) Was heavy braking required to slow aircraft?
      (7) Was brake temperature normal?
      (8) Did aircraft pull left or right?
      (9) Was there any release of hydraulic pressure noted?
10. Navigation (System 34)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Inertial Navigation System (INS)
      (1)    What was the error rate?
      (2)    Was there any residual ground speed?
      (3)    Were there any action codes?
      (4)    What was the flight time?
   e. INS – Control Display Unit (CDU) Blanks, Warning Light On
      (1)    How far into alignment or flight?
      (2)    Were there any codes before hand?
      (3)    Was realignment attempted?
      (4)    Was attitude reference tried?
      (5)    What were the results?
   f. INS – Flashing Display
      (1)    What mode was it in?
      (2)    Did “CLR” remedy problem?
   g. INS – Heading
      (1)    How did all three compare?
      (2)    Did flight instruments agree with each other and the INS?
      (3)    Was error rate affected?
      (4)    Was number 3 used for comparison?
   h. Ground Speed
      (1)    What was the problem system compared to?
   (2)    Was their residual ground speed?
i. Tacan Update – Annunciation
   (1)    Did annunciation work on another system?
   (2)    Did CDU indicate an update?
   (3)    Was INS used in a primary position?
j. Tacan Update – Triple Mix
   (1)    Was there an 8/01 code?
   (2)    Did the fail occur during an update or approach?
k. Tacan Update – Winds
   (1) Was there any problem with BARO, ALT, or TAS (CADC outputs)?
   (2) What was the ground speed?
l. Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
   (1) Did IFF system test properly?
   (2) Was the rad test-mon switch set to the out position?
   (3) Was the master switch set to norm position?
   (4) What position was IFF antenna switch, upper, dual, or lower?
   (5) Was there a mode “C” malfunction?
   (6) Did you change the position of the IFF CADC select switch?
   (7) Was mode 1,2,3A or 4 inoperative?
   (8) What code was being squawked,
       1.______,2.________,3A.________?
   (9) What was the interrogator displaying, 1._______, 2._______,
       3A.________?
   (10) Did ident function work properly?
   (11) Was M-1, M-2, M-3/A, or M-C switches in the on position as
        required?
   (12) Was IFF mode 4 annunciator on the pilot’s overhead annunciator
        panel illuminated?
   (13) Mode 4 – Did you try to recode the KIT – 1C?
   (14) Mode 4 – did the relay light come on during transmission of Mode 4
        replies?
   (15) Mode 4 – did pilot/copilot hear interrogation tones in his/her headset
        when audio-light switch was in audio?
   (16) Mode 4 – What position was audio-light switch, audio or light?
   (17) Were circuit breakers checked?
m. I and J Band
   (1) Was it intermittent or totally inoperative to the receiver aircraft?
   (2) Did reception quality vary with respect to distance and position of
       receiver aircraft?
   (3) Did receiver aircraft verify malfunction?
   (4) What type of aircraft was involved?
   (5) Where is the affected receiver aircraft permanently based?
   (6) What position was encoded select switch?
   (7) Were circuit breakers checked?
n. Instrument Landing System (ILS)
   (1) Did system self-test properly?
   (2) Did malfunction exist on both pilots and copilots displays?
   (3) Were problems noted with variable omni range (VOR) or tacan
       information displayed on the horizontal situation indicator(s) (HSI)
       questionable?
   (4) Were there any flags in view of the affected equipment? Which ones?
   (5) Was glideslope date displayed on applicable HSI and attitude director
       indicator (ADI)?
   (6) Was the rising runway in view on the applicable ADI?
   (7) Does the frequency selector on the applicable VHF navigation panel
       appear to be functioning properly?
   (8) Does HSI course deviation and rising runway displays correspond
          accordingly with one another?
      (9) Was good station identification received?
      (10) Were circuit breakers checked?
o. Tacan
(1)       Did system self-test properly?
      (2) What modes were the system in when the malfunction occurred?
      (3) If system was in inverse mode, were all associated aircraft on a
          compatible channel?
      (4) How many aircraft were receiving bearing and distance data from
          your aircraft? (System capable of handling 5 aircraft)
      (5) Was the test light blinking?
      (6) Did test light blink at a 1Hz rate?
      (7) What position was antenna selector(s)?
      (8) Was from – to data displayed properly?
      (9) What position was AGC switch?
      (10) Was course deviation data displayed properly?
      (11) Were problems noted with VOR data on the HSIs that were
           questionable?
      (12) Were there any flags in view of the affected HSI and radio magnetic
           indicator (RMI)? Which ones?
      (13) Was good station identification received?
      (14) Was distance measuring equipment (DME) data accurate as compared
           with the other system or INS waypoint?
      (15) Was bearing data accurate as compared with a collacate VQR
           (vortac)?
p. Automatic Direction Finding (ADF)
      (1) Did compass card or bearing pointers drift?
      (2) Were flags in view on the VOR/ADF RMIs?
      (3) Was compass controller in directional gyro (DG) or slaved position?
   (4) What position was ADF antenna switch on UHF control panel?
   (5) What position were UHF/LF switches in below each VOR/ADF
       RMI?
   (6) What position were VOR/ADF switches on the VOR/ADF RMI(s)?
   (7) Did problem occur on pilots and copilots VOR/ADF RMI?
   (8) What frequencies were used?
   (9) Was good station identification received?
   (10) Were bearing pointers 180 degrees out of phase?
   (11) Did TFR switch on the ADF control panel function properly?
q. Radio Altimeter
   (1) Did alarm flag come into view?
   (2) What altitude did alarm flag come into view?
   (3) Did system self-test properly?
   (4) Did decision height (DH) light illuminate during self-test and in-flight
       on the radio altimeter indicator and applicable ADI?
   (5) Did pointer windshield wipe?
   (6) Did the applicable rising runway come into view when a localizer
       frequency was dialed into the VHF navigation panel?
   (7) Did rising runway begin to move toward the center of the ADI at
       approximately 200 feet above ground level?
   (8) Did pilot hear the 800 hertz tone when the aircraft was within DH +
       75 feet?
   (9) Were circuit breakers checked?
r. Variable Omni Range (VOR)
   (1) Did system self-test properly?
   (2) Did malfunction exist on pilots and copilots displays?
   (3) Were problems noted with the (ILS) or tacan displays on the HSI in
       question?
   (4) Were there any warning flags in view on the affected equipment?
  (5) Does the frequency selector on the applicable NHF navigation panel
      appear to function properly?
  (6) Was to – from information displayed properly?
  (7) Did HIS course deviation displayed properly?
  (8) Did HIS course deviation hang-up?
  (9) Did bearing pointers on the VOR/ADF RMI’s respond appropriately?
  (10) Was the same VOR frequency selected for systems No.1 and No.2?
  (11) Did RMI bearing pointers line up plus or minus 4 degrees?
  (12) Was positive station identification received?
  (13) Were circuit breakers checked?
s. Radar
  (1) Did system self-test properly?
  (2) Did malfunction occur on both systems?
  (3) Did malfunction occur on both indicators?
  (4) Did receiver transmitter (R/T) or antenna fault annunciators
      illuminate on radar control panel?
  (5) Was an attempt made to change the INS reference when the antenna
      fault annunciator illuminated?
  (6) Were radar systems switched when the R/T annunciator illuminated?
  (7) Was the gain control switch in the auto position?
  (8) Did malfunction occur in a particular operating mode? (i.e., WX,
      MAP1, MAP2, MAP3, or BCN)
  (9) Did all the indicator function select switches function normally?
      Which mode?
  (10) Did indicator display any alpha-numerics abnormally?
  (11) Was display symbol the proper colors for the mode selected?
  (12) Did the problem exist at all ranges?
  (13) Did the quality of the return vary with the antenna scan?
   (14) Did the beacon interrogation function work normally?
   (15) What altitude were you flying?
   (16) Where was tilt knob set?
   (17) What range was selected?
   (18) While using the beacon function, were the beacons at a range greater
        than 150 nautical miles?
   (19) Were circuit breakers checked?
t. Marker Beacon
   (1)    Did system self-test properly?
   (2)    Did individual lamps illuminate when pushed?
   (3)    Did the audio portion of the system function properly?
   (4)    Were circuit breakers checked?
u. Flight Director Display
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) What position was flight director switch?
   (5) Were command bars in or out of view?
   (6) What was displayed on flight mode annunciator (FMA)?
   (7) What information was the flight director system using: tacan, INS,
       ILS, VOR, or other?
   (8) Did pilots and copilots FMA agree?
   (9) Did FMA’s test properly?
   (10) Were any warning flags in view?
   (11) Did command bars give correct indication?
v. Altitude Advisory
   (1)    When did malfunction occur?
   (2)    How long did malfunction continue?
   (3)    Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4)    Did altitude advisory lights operate correctly?
   (5)    Did altitude advisory horn sound at correct altitude?
   (6)    Did system arm properly?
   (7)    Was system reset during flight?
   (8)    Would system capture selected altitude?
   (9)    Did aircraft vary from selected altitude after capture?
w. Compass
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) Did heading flag appear on any indicators?
   (5) Did pilots and copilots compass readings agree?
   (6) What was indication of synchronization indicator?’
   (7) Would slow and fast manual slew work in directional gyro mode?
   (8) Would compass system synchronize properly in slave mode?
x. Pitot Static
   (1) When did malfunction occur?
   (2) How long did malfunction continue?
   (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
   (4) What was flight level of aircraft?
   (5) Did air traffic control report “Mode C” altitude different than actual
       altitude at anytime?
   (6) Were any warning flags in view?
   (7) What position was central air data computer switch?
   (8) Were pitot heat indications normal?
      (9) Was alternate static air used?
      (10) Did pilots and copilots indications agree?
      (11) What did alternate air speed and altitude indicators read?
      (12) Was the autopilot affected in altitude hold or altitude select?
      (13) Was the autothrottle affected in maintaining set speed?
   y. Thrust Rating
      (1) When did malfunction occur?
      (2) How long did malfunction continue?
      (3) Were any circuit breakers reset?
      (4) Was warning flag in view?
      (5) What mode was affected?
      (6) Did indicator display 1555 or 1999?
      (7) Did N1 indicator “V” bugs operate correctly?
      (8) Did autothrottles follow selected N1 setting in N1 modes (T.O., G.A.,
          and N1)?


11. Oxygen (System 35)
   a. Is the Turn Around FaulT Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Regulator
      (1)    Was diluter switch in normal or 100%?
      (2)    Was supply switch on or off?
      (3) How did the pressure at the regulator compare with the pressure at the
          other crew positions?
      (4) Did the flow indicator indicate flow?
      (5) Was mode switch in emergency, test mask, or normal?
      (6) Did any control levers stick or bind?
      (7) Did panel light operate properly?
   e. Crew Mask
      (1)    Did hose have any kinks or tears?
      (2)    Was breathing restricted at one or all stations?
      (3)    Was mask tested at a different station?
      (4)    Is the pressure relief indicator blown?
   f. Oxygen Quantity Indicator
      (1) Was the pressure gauge high or low for system No.1, 2 or 3?
      (2) Did pressure gauge fluctuate?
      (3) Did any system indicate “0” pressure?
      (4) Is the pressure relief indicator blown?
      (5) Was any regulator inadvertently placed in the emergency or test mask
          position?
      (6) Was there any audible evidence of leakage?


12. Pneumatic (System 36)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. What were the temperature and pressure on the faulted system?
   e. Was the temperature and pressure on the faulted system?
   f. Did pneumatic abnormal light come on? How long after problem?
   g. What were throttle settings when the fault occurred?
   h. Was aircraft flying at cruise speed, climb out, or descending?
   i. Was wing anti-ice system being used?
   j. Was a system reset completed?
   k. Did the fault come back on or stay off when system was reset?
   l. Did any pneumatic circuit breakers trip?
   m. Manifold Fail Detection
      (1) When manifold fail light No.1 or 2 came on, did pack No.1 or 2
          shutdown?
      (2) Did manifold fail light come on when selecting wing anti-ice?


13. Water/Waste (System 38)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Potable Water
      (1)    Does water quantity read low, high, or zero?
      (2)    Was water tank full?
      (3)    Was system pressurized or depressurized?
      (4)    Did circuit breakers trip?
   e. Waste Disposal
      (1)    Does lavatory flush continuously?
      (2)    Was there insufficient water during flush (weak flush)?
      (3)    Did circuit breakers trip?


14. Airborne Auxiliary Power (APU) (System 49)
   a. Is the Turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
d. APU Hard to Start, No Start, or Hung at 20%
   (1)    Was battery power reading at least 26 volts dc?
   (2)    Was the APU doors open?
   (3)    Was APU door open light on?
   (4)    Was APU fuel pressure low light on?
   (5)    Was fuel pump on DC or AC?
   (6)    Was oil low temperature Hi light flashing?
   (7)    Was there an EGT rise?
   (8)    Was another attempt to start made in standby?
   (9)    How long between restart after doors were closed?
   (10)   At what altitude was start attempt made?
   (11)   Did APU perform an auto shutdown prior to start attempt?
   (12)   What was the fuel quantity in the No.2 tank?
   (13)   Were APU circuit breakers checked?
e. APU Auto Shut Down
   (1) Was APU isolation valve open?
   (2) Was oil level within limits?
   (3) Was weather conditions (wind direction and velocity) relative to
       aircraft position and heading?
f. APU Low Duct Pressure
   (1) Was aircraft power turned on external, APU, or engine (other than
       battery power)?
   (2) What was the duct pressure?
   (3) Did duct pressure change when isolation valve was turned on?
   (4) Was isolation valve in open position?
   (5) What percent did N1 increase?
   (6) Was a start attempt made in standby mode?
15. Engine Controls (System 76)
   a. Is the turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Throttle Alignment
      (1)    What were the power settings (N1, N2, fuel flow, etc..)?


                N1           N2             FUEL           EGT
                                            FLOW
   No. 1
   No. 2
   No. 3


      (2)    Was takeoff RPM obtained?
      (3)    Were autothrottles in use?
      (4)    Was the throttle misaligned forward or aft?


16. Engine Indicating (System 77)
   a. Is the turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Engine Vibration
      (1) What were engine power settings (N1, N2, fuel flow, etc..)?
      (2) What was the aircraft altitude?
      (3) Was aircraft at climb, cruise, or descent?
      (4) Where was vibration felt when throttles were retarded?
   e. Engine Instruments
      (1) When did malfunction occur?
      (2) How long did malfunction occur?
      (3) Were any flags in view?
      (4) Were analog and digital readings affected?
      (5) What were power settings of engine when malfunction occurred?
      (6) Were other engine indications normal?
      (7) Did engine indications respond to throttle movement?
      (8) Did engine EGT warning lights illuminate?
      (9) What indication did associate-warning lights indicate?
      (10) Did fuel used indicators operate normally?
      (11) Were any circuit breakers reset?


17. Exhaust (System 78)
   a. Is the turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Thrust Reverser
      (1) When attempting to deploy or stow thrust reversers, were any
          movements seen, felt, or heard?
      (2) Was their reverser thrust?
      (3) Were all thrust reverser lights illuminated?
      (4) When using No.2 thrust reverser, did the nose bounce?
      (5) Were thrust reversers tried on taxi?
      (6) Did circuit breakers pop?


18. Engine Oil (System 79)
   a. Is the turn Around Fault Isolation (TAFI) code entered in aircraft
      781A forms?
   b. Is a brief entry from the TAFI entered in 781A forms?
   c. Were their symptoms not listed in TAFI?
   d. Oil Pressure Problem
      (1) What was the oil temperature?
      (2) What was the ambient temperature?
      (3) Did problem occur right after throttle settings were changed?
      (4) Did oil pressure recover? How long did it take to recover?
                             SECTION III
              POSSIBLE OPERATING CONDITIONS
                             CHECKLIST



1. Weather
  a. Lightning Strike
   (1) Perform Special Inspection I.A.W. -6.
    (2) Were was approximate location of lightning strike?
    (3) Any noticeable system malfunction after lightning
         strike? (i.e., circuit breakers opened, radios, etc.)


2. Flight
   a. Bird Strike
     (1) Approximately, where did bird(s) hit?
     (2) Any noticeable engine flux, vibration, system failures, radio
         failure, radar failure?
     (3) Where did incident occur? Aircraft location? Altitude?
         Speed?


3. Foot and Mouth Decontamination
      a. Did the aircraft land at a base disinfecting for Foot and
         Mouth Disease (FMD)? (AS of May 2002, Spain and Italy
         require aircraft to be disinfected if they come from
         England). If so:
                (1) Was the aircraft disinfected? If so:
                (2) Was an entry made in the 781A using WUC 02400?
              (3) What was the chemical and concentration used?
              (4) What area(s) where sprayed?
              (5) How long did chemical solution remain on the
                  aircraft?
              (6) How was chemical cleaned off?
              (7) What are the landing gear serial numbers?
      b. Make the following entries in the 781A:
              (1) Wash and lube due within 72 hours for the area(s)
                  chemically decontaminated for Foot and Mouth
                  Disease. List areas. Use WUC 02400.
              (2) If landing gears were sprayed/disinfected, make the
                  following entry, “ visually identify the landing gear
                  serial numbers and verify this information is
                  accurately reflected in GO81.
      c. Report the following information to HQ AMC/A4MJS,
         DSN 779-2622 / Commercial 618-229-2622.
              (1) MDS and complete tail number.
              (2) Information from 3a (1)-(7).
4. Volcanic Ash
      a. Was the aircraft flown through predicted areas of low
         volcanic ash?
              (1) Altitude
              (2) Duration
      b. Were any of the following indications present
              (1) Erratic engine indications/operations?
              (2) Abnormal/erratic airspeed indications?
              (3) Heavy static discharges (St. Elmo’s fire) around
                  windshield?
              (4) White or orange glow around engine inlets?
(5) Ash, smoke, or dust in the cockpit and/or an acrid
    odor similar to electrical smoke?
(6) Sharp, distinct shadows cast by landing lights?
