BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-105
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          7 JUNE 1994

                                                                     HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                             18 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                         Supply

                                                            SPARES BREAKOUT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/LGSS            (Ms Winifred                          Certified by: HQ USAF/LGS
A. Reed)                                                                 (Maj Gen G.T. Babbitt)
                                                                                     Pages: 12
Supersedes:   AFR 57-7, 4 January 1991.
                                          (HILLAFB)
OPR: 418 SCMS/GULA                                                 Certified by: 748 SCMG/CC
                                                                            (Col. James R. Hall)
Supersedes:   AFI23-105 HILL AFB SUP                                                    Pages:3
              1, 27 November 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 23-1, Requirements and Stockage of Materiel, by providing
guidance and procedures for the Air Force Spare Parts Breakout Program. It also implements
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, Appendix E, DoD Spare Parts Breakout
Program, December 31, 1991. It applies to all Air Force activities involved with design control,
acquisition, and management of centrally managed spare parts. It does not apply to Air National
Guard or US Air Force Reserve units or members.

(HILLAFB) AFI 23-105, 7 June 1994, is supplemented as follows:

(HILLAFB) This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force
Reserve units on Hill Air Force Base. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Record, and dispose of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
 2                                               AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the initial publication of AFI 23-105. It deletes numerous superficial details but does not
substantially revise authorities or responsibilities.

(HILLAFB) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It
prescribes the use of Hill AFB Form 196, Hill AFB Form 462 and Hill AFB Form 513 while
deleting Hill AFB Form 99 and Hill AFB Form 156. It also updates office symbols.
1. Program Objective:
     1.1. The objective of the Air Force Spare Parts Breakout Program is to reduce costs by
     purchasing parts from other than prime weapon-system contractors.
     1.2. Product Centers and Air Logistics Centers (ALC) must buy parts without compromising
     configuration integrity, safety, and performance.
     1.3. The Air Force Spare Parts Breakout Program does not apply to:
            Peculiar items.
            Insurance items.
            Obsolete, local purchase or phase out parts.
            Parts acquired under other specifically defined initial support programs.

NOTE: Component breakout under Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
(DFARS), Appendix D, Foreign Military Sales (FMS).
2. General Guidance:
     2.1. The breakout program gives rules for screen and code parts so that contracting officers
     have information about technical data and sources of supply that meet the government's
     needs. DFAR SUP, Appendix E, December 31, 1991 provides detailed screening rules.
     2.1. (HILLAFB) Hill AFB Form 196, Coordination of Action/Information Matters,
     provides a standard method of identifying and routing to activities additional information
     about acquisition sources or specific types of matters of approval or decision. The original
     copy of this form will be filed and maintained in the official contract file. A copy will also
     be filed and maintained in the Purchase Request Process System (PRPS).
     2.2. To aid breakout to competition or direct purchase, ALCs identify, select, and screen
     parts for breakout as early in an acquisition as possible.
           2.2.1. This ALC review should occur during the provisioning cycle. However, because
           parts are not fully standardized early in the acquisition process, the optimum solution
           may be breakout to the actual manufacturer.
           2.2.2. The goal of breakout of replenishment spares is full and open competition.
           Contractors identify breakout candidates through the MIL-STD 1388-2B, Logistics
           Support Analysis Record (LSAR) (Table HA) Records, during the acquisition process.
AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011                                                           3


  2.3. ALCs continue breakout improvement efforts through the life cycle of a part, or until
  they assign the part a competitive Acquisition Method Code (AMC) which they cannot
  economically improve.
  2.4. ALC Breakout Program Managers apply resources and assign priorities to those parts
  that have the greatest opportunity for breakout and potential savings.
  2.5. The Air Force may not deny any firm the opportunity to demonstrate its ability to
  furnish a part that satisfies Air Force needs. For specific guidance regarding qualification,
  refer to FAR 9.202.
     2.5.1. The evaluating Air Force activity expedites its evaluation and gives a decision to
     the demonstrating firm or provide status within 60 days. The contracting officer need not
     delay a proposed award to give a potential offeror an opportunity to demonstrate its
     ability to meet the qualification standards.
     2.5.2. ALC may consider parts manufactured by approved sources, and then offered by
     surplus or other nonmanufacturing sources. Restrictive codes or low annual buy value
     does not preclude such consideration.
     2.5.3. Dealer or other nonmanufacturing sources must give the Air Force all necessary
     facts to prove that the proposed parts meets the Air Force's needs. The Air Force
     considers authorized dealers and distributors identified through appropriate contracting
     documents as nonmanufacturing sources of commercial items.
  2.6. To aid breakout decisionmaking, the Air Force may use contractors' experience in
  developing, designing, manufacturing, and testing equipment.
     2.6.1. The Air Force may get technical information from the contractor through the
     Logistics Support Analysis Record as part of the provisioning process or directly from
     the contractor, applying the rules in paragraph 2.9.
     2.6.2. The Air Force designates contractor technical information as Contractor Technical
     Information Codes (CTIC). The Air Force may not delegate responsibility for
     determining AMC and Acquisition Method Suffix Code (AMSC) to a contractor.
  2.7. Air Force activities send the Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) to
  ALCs to requisition parts.
     2.7.1. ALCs require parts screening if the Air Force has engineering responsibility for
     the part identified on the MIPR.
     2.7.2. The Air Force screen items on incoming MIPRs that do not indicate a supplier and
     an AMC code.
     2.7.3. If an ALCs receives a MIPR with sole source justification, and the ALC is
     planning to procure the part competitively, the ALC will return the MIPR to the
     originating activity for revalidation of the justification. If the activity that prepared the
     MIPR cannot substantiate the sole-source solicitation to the satisfaction of the procuring
     activity, the ALC puts the requirement out for competitive bidding.
  2.8. Inadequate or incomplete procurement data packages limit competition for future
  procurement candidate items. Buying required data or acquiring the necessary data through
 4                                              AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


     reverse engineering may relieve the limitations. However, the life-cycle savings should
     clearly exceed the expected cost of acquiring data, or reverse engineering.
     2.8. (HILLAFB) Hill AFB Form 513, Work Request, will be used to help eliminate
     inadequate data packages and to initiate work requests to the Engineering Data Management
     Specialist (EDMS). A copy of the form will be initiated by the screening technicians, will be
     forwarded to the EDMS and when the screening technician receives the ―Closing Letter‖
     reply from EDMS it will be filed and maintained by 418 SCMS/GULAB in the ―Stored
     Documentation‖ section of PRPS.
     2.9. ALCs request contractor help in screening selected parts only after weighing the benefit
     expected from the contractor's technical information and the cost to the government of
     obtaining such help.
        2.9.1. During acquisition, program managers may obtain the CTIC as a routine part of
        the LSAR.
        2.9.2. Program managers may not request contractor help for:
               Parts covered by government and industry specifications.
               Parts that are commercially available.
               Non-developmental items.
               Parts for which data is already available.
        2.9.3. Contracts to obtain technical information require impartial technical evaluations
        conducted by competent personnel using applicable technical data. The government
        incurs no cost for duplicate screening of parts.
        2.9.4. To use a contractor's technical evaluation, program managers must contractually
        incorporate MIL-STD 1388-2B and require completion of the Table HA, Block E-61. To
        require a contractor's technical evaluation for the screening process, program managers
        contractually incorporate MIL-STD 789, Contractor Technical Information Coding of
        Replenishment Parts, which delineates the contractor's responsibilities and procedures
        and prescribes use of DD Form 1418, Contractor Technical Information Record, to
        record contractor technical information.
        2.9.5. When program managers incorporate MIL-STD-789 into a contract, they must
        refer to DD Form 1423, Contract Data Requirements List, which prescribes
        submission of DD Form 1418 and DD Form 1418-1, Technical Data Identification
        Checklist, per MIL-STD-789.
3. Identifying, Selecting, and Screening Parts:
     3.1. Provisioned parts are subject to breakout.
        3.1.1. Through this process, the Air Force directly purchases from the actual
        manufacturer when identification is possible.
        3.1.2. Actual screening of provisioned parts is not normally practical because the parts
        lack design stability.
     3.2. Generally, program managers need to periodically replenish provisioned parts.
AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011                                                             5


        3.2.1. Managers may use provisioning lists or similar lists of new parts for selecting parts
        for screening.
        3.2.2. Managers base screening priorities on design stability, performance stability, and
        anticipated replenishment. They also consider buy values, buy quantities, and the
        availability of technical data.
        3.2.3. Managers should make efforts to fully screen parts as they enter the inventory.
           3.2.3.1. Parts should meet the above criteria.
           3.2.3.2. The managing activity should program parts for replenishment procurement.
  3.3. AMCs and AMSCs are valid until the next assigned review date.
        3.3.1. You don't have to routinely rescreen with valid codes until the next review date.
        The review may vary by organization and part.
           3.3.1.1. Coding activities may assign a review date of less than 5 years if available
           information indicates that no change in code is expected.
        3.3.2. Suspense dates may vary with the circumstances surrounding each part.
           3.3.2.1. A code assigned as a result of limited screening receives a suspense date of
           12 months or less; a code assigned as a result of full screening receives a suspense
           date of 3 years or less.
           3.3.2.2. Items with a 1G or 2G code do not require a suspense date. However,
           management may dictate a periodic review of the parts assigned these codes, as well
           as others with extended time.
        3.3.3. Program managers track the availability of data and the technical status of
        proposed actions to improve the competitive status until completion.
  3.4. When a management activity generates a buy requirement estimated to be over the
  screening threshold for a part without a current AMC or AMSC, the program manager must
  promptly screen the part according to either the full or limited screening procedures. (See
  DFAR, Appendix E, for full and limited screening procedures.)
  3.5. When you suspect an AMC or AMSC might be inaccurate, conduct a review to verify
  the code.
  3.6. When events occur which may improve the competitive condition of a part and may
  result in recoding, management must conduct the screening and subsequent recoding
  promptly without waiting for future procurement requests. Examples of actions that fall into
  this class are:
        Receipt of a technical data package.
        Release of proprietary rights.
        Completion of a reverse engineering project.
  3.7. Screening procedures for parts may vary depending on circumstances. No set of rules
  cover all conditions. Program managers may make an informed decision to breakout
 6                                             AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


     without following the procedures step-by-step in every case. However, they should do the
     following in all cases:
        3.7.1. Obtain, consider, and record the necessary supporting facts.
        3.7.2. Involve contractors in the decision-making process only to the extent of providing
        technical information.
        3.7.3. Document any coding conferences with industry.
        3.7.4. Determine through screening whether a part is suitable for competitive acquisition.
            3.7.4.1. It may be possible to break out the part for direct purchase from the actual
            manufacturer.
            3.7.4.2. Parts with data belonging to the actual manufacturer and not likely to be
            procured by the government are particularly suited to direct purchase. Such direct
            purchase is particularly appropriate if the manufacturer assumes total responsibility
            for the part, including its design, quality control, and testing.
        3.7.5. For each screened part, establish a file to document and justify the decisions and
        results of all screening efforts. Keep this file on hand to supply historical data for
        subsequent screening.
        3.7.6. After a part gets an AMC and AMSC, screening does not cease. The screening
        process continues as the Air Force receives documentation or contractor responses until
        management assigns a competitive code or exhausts all efforts to improve the code status.
        3.7.7. Before completing the recoding action, the responsible engineering activity
        reviews and concurs with proposed changes from noncompetitive to competitive status
        for critical and other selected parts.
        3.7.7. (HILLAFB) Hill AFB Form 462, Engineering Data Requirements, which gives
        additional engineering instruction for the breakout process of a particular part and
        requires cognizant engineering review for full or limited competition will be initiated and
        filled in by screening technicians, attached to PRPS and forwarded to the Cognizant
        Engineer via the PRPS, for corrections/concurrence. This form will be filed and
        maintained by Center Supply Chain Management Squadrons (SCMS) in the PRPS
        System.
4. Reporting Instructions:
     4.1. The Spare Parts Breakout Screening Report (RCS DD P&L [QS&A]714A) is a
     cumulative semiannual report detailing the accomplishments of the breakout program. The
     report describes full and limited screening for provisioning and replenishment parts by the
     number of different National Stock Numbers (NSN) for each AMC.
     4.2. The Spare Parts Acquisition Report (RCD: DD P&K[QS&A] 714B) is a cumulative
     semiannual report documenting all spare part purchases during the current fiscal year. The
     report describes the number and extended-dollar value of different NSNs purchased for each
     AMC.
AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011                                                                 7


   4.3. The Air Force maintains actual cost-savings (or cost avoidance) data attribu table to the
   Spare Parts Breakout Program and include the data in the semiannual Spare Parts
   Acquisition Report.
   4.4. The Air Force purchases reported in the Spare Parts Acquisition Report may not match
   the screenings reported in the Spare Parts Breakout Screening Report because of time
   differences between screenings and actual purchases and procurement lead-times.
   4.5. The Spare Parts Breakout Program Costs required for the Spare Parts Breakout
   Screening Report come from the SH069-LO3, RC Managers Cost Center Report. Activities
   should use EEIC 392, Other Civilian Personnel Compensation, Gross Obligation to reflect
   their costs.
   4.6. Reports are due to HQ USAF 30 days after the end of each reporting period (October
   through March and April through September).
   4.7. Correct and revise the midyear reports in the year-end reports. You may not revise
   year-end reports.
5. Responsibilities:
   5.1. HQ USAF:
         Establishes Air Force policy for the Air Force Spare Parts Breakout Program.
         Monitors the Air Force Spare Parts Breakout Program.
         5.1.1. HQ USAF/LGSS Forwards the Spare Parts Breakout Screening Reports to
         ASD(P&L)L/SD.
         5.1.2. HQ USAF/LGS AND PED coordinates MAJCOM proposed spare parts breakout
         initiatives for acquiring data rights, reverse engineering, qualification testing, tooling, and
         support equipment required for spares breakout to the appropriate Air Staff panel.
   5.2. AFMC Manages the Spares Breakout Program:
         5.2.1. AFMC/ENC. The office of primary responsibility for the Spares Breakout
         Program, AFMC/ENI, establishes a breakout program to help identify and acquire
         necessary technical data during development and production. This allows, when
         possible, the breakout of spare parts for direct purchase or competitive bidding on follow-
         on replenishment spares.
            5.2.1.1. AFMC/ENC ensures that ALCs develop annual fiscal year screening
            thresholds in compliance with DFAR SUPP, Appendix E, Par E-104. These
            thresholds are subject to HQ AFMC review and approval.
   5.3. Program Offices:
         5.3.1. Determine the complete data needs, including reprocurement data for inclusion in
         contracts.
         5.3.2. Give written notification, with rationale, to affected organizations when contracts
         do not include data requirements.
 8                                               AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


          5.3.3. Conduct data calls and in-process reviews to ensure that correct and complete data
          requirements, including reprocurement data, appear in the Engineering, Manufacturing
          and Development (EMD) or production contract.
          5.3.4. Identify, select, and, develop data item descriptions for inclusion in the EMD or
          production contract.
          5.3.5. Make sure that contracts properly define data requirements and manage the
          acquisition according to AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Multiple Status, and
          Utilization Reporting System.
          5.3.6. Schedule periodic engineering and procurement data reviews to be sure that the
          contractor is complying with contractual data requirements in supporting the Spare Parts
          Breakout Program. These reviews should coincide with existing engineering or data
          reviews.
          5.3.7. Give the offices of the Competition Advocate and Small and Disadvantaged
          Business adequate notice of the opportunity to take part in an advisory capacity in CTIC
          verification meetings.
          5.3.8. Determine the need for CTICs and initiate a contract data requirements and fund
          for CTICs and associated procurement data.
          5.3.9. Program and budget for acquiring CTICs, reprocurement data, and reverse
          engineering for initial and replenishment spare parts to support equipment and end items.
     5.4. Air Logistics Centers:
          5.4.1. Screen and assign Acquisition Method and Acquisition Method Suffix Codes to
          parts for which AFMC has engineering responsibility.
          5.4.2. Approve and accept DD Form 250, Materiel Inspection and Receiving Report,
          certifying the technical accuracy of engineering data to support the replenishment spare
          parts procurements.
          5.4.3. Periodically review the screening threshold and recommend changes when
          necessary.
          5.4.4. Identify the tasks within the Logistics Support Analysis required to supplement the
          Spare Parts Breakout Program for the system being acquired.
          5.4.5. Identify those peculiar parts that require engineering evaluation support.
          5.4.6. Request necessary help from responsible non-AFMC engineering activities to do
          technical screening and subsequent AMC and AMSC.
          5.4.7. Make sure that the technical engineering information to support initial and
          replenishment spare parts procurements is adequate for engineering review. (Use
          DFARS Appendix E to make this determination.)
6. Other Major Command (MAJCOM) Responsibilities:
     6.1. Other MAJCOMs:
          Designate a command focal point for spare parts breakout issues.
AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011                                                   9


       Assist AFMC in accomplishing spares breakout.
       Accomplish appropriate taskings in paragraph 5 when designated as the implementing
        or supporting command.




                                         JOHN M. NOWAK, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Logistics

                                         (HILLAFB)

                                         PATRICK C. HIGBY, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
 10                                            AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


                                          Attachment 1
                                    GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Acquisition Method Code (AMC)—A singledigit numeric code, assigned by a Department of
Defense activity, to that describes to the contracting officer and other government personnel the
results of a technical review of a part and its suitability for breakout.
Acquisition Method Suffix Code (AMSC)—A singledigit alpha code, assigned by a
Department of Defense activity, that provides the contracting officer and other government
personnel with engineering, manufacturing, and technical information.
Actual Manufacturer—An individual, activity, or organization that performs the physical
fabrication processes that produce the deliverable part or other items for the government. The
actual manufacturer produces the part inhouse. The actual manufacturer may or may not be the
designcontrol activity.
Annual Buy Quantity—The forecast quantity of a part required for the next 12 months.
Annual Buy Value (ABV)—The annual buy quantity multiplied by its unit price.
Approved Source—A contractor, vendor or other supplier who has satisfactorily furnished the
government or prime contractor with a part,or has been approved by the responsible systems
engineering authority to furnish the part.
Bailment—The process whereby a part is loaned to a recipient with the agreement that the part
will be returned at an appointed time. The government retains legal title to such material even
though the borrowing agency has possession during the stated period.
Breakout—The improvement of the acquisition status of a part resulting from a technical review
and a deliberate management decision. Examples are:
         The competitive acquisition of a part previously purchased noncompetitively.
         The direct purchase of a part previously purchased from a prime contractor who is not
          the actual manufacturer of the part.
Competition—A contract action where the government solicits two or more responsible sources,
acting independently, to satisfy the government's requirement.
Contractor Technical Information Code (CTIC)—A twodigit alpha code assigned to a part by
a prime contractor to furnish specific information regarding the engineering, manufacturing, and
technical aspects of that part.
DesignControl Activity—A contractor or government activity responsible for the design of a
given part and for preparing current engineering drawings and other technical data for that part.
The designcontrol activity may be the actual manufacturer. The designcontrol activity is
synonymous with design activity as defined in DoDSTD100.
Direct Purchase—The acquisition of a part from the actual manufacturer, including a prime
contractor who is an actual manufacturer of the part.
AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011                                                         11


Prime Contractor—A contractor having responsibility for design control and/or delivery of a
system and equipment such as aircraft, engines, ships, tanks, vehicles, guns and missiles, ground
communications and electronics systems, and test equipment.
Replenishment Part—A part, repairable or consumable, purchased after provisioning of that
part for: replacement; replenishment of stock; or use in the maintenance, overhaul, and repair of
equipment such as aircraft, engines, ships, tanks, vehicles, guns and missiles, ground
communications and electronic systems, ground support, and test equipment. Except when
distinction is necessary, the term "part" includes subassemblies, components, and subsystems as
defined by the current version of MILSTD280.
Sole Source—A sole source acquisition is an acquisition in which the government solicits only
one potential supplies.
Source—Any commercial or noncommercial organization that can supply a specified part. For
coding purposes, sources include actual manufacturers, prime contractors, distributors, vendors,
dealers, surplus dealers, and other firms.
Source Approval—The government review that must be completed before contract award.
 12                                      AFI23-105_HILLAFBSUP_I 18 AUGUST 2011


                               Attachment 1 (HILLAFB)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record, 1 March 2008

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Prescribed Forms

HILLAFB Form 196, Coordination of Action/Information Matters
HILLAFB Form 462, Engineering Data Requirements
HILLAFB Form 513, Work Request

Abbreviations and Acronyms

EDMS – Engineering Data Management Specialist
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility
PRPS – Purchase Request Process System
SCMS – Supply Chain Management Squadron
418 SCMS/GULAB – Material Integrity Section
