BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-301
14TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                            1 NOVEMBER 2008
                                                              COLUMBUS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                            9 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                                      VEHICLE OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 14 MSG/LGRDDO                                                    Certified by: 14 MSG/LGR
                                                                              (Larry E. Caldwell)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This publication Applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). The purpose of this supplement is to provide
guidance necessary to effectively inform personnel of proper use of government vehicles and to
provide specific guidelines for use of Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) to or from
commercial terminals, specifically the Golden Triangle Airport. It applies to all Columbus AFB
organizations/individuals that maintain or operate Air Force motor vehicles. Vehicles financed
through non-appropriated funds are exempt from this supplement. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

2.8. Travel outside the permissible operating distance (POD) without prior approval or
authorization from the Vehicle Operations Control Center (VOCC) dispatcher or supervisor is
prohibited. The POD is that distance from the installation that GMVs can travel without
competing with commercial carriers (Ref. DOD Directive 4500.9). Our standard POD is a 75
mile radius, which adequately supports normal operations.
2                                       AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011


    3.1. All travel is limited to official purposes, as defined by DOD 4500.36-R, Management,
    Acquisitions, and Use of Motor Vehicles and AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
           3.44.1.5. (Added) Transportation between domicile and duty, dormitories, military
           housing and off-base private residences is prohibited unless the vehicle has been
           designated a command and control vehicle (CACV), based upon the position of the
           user or approval by the Secretary of the Air Force. The 14 FTW Commander is
           authorized one command and control vehicle.
           3.44.1.6. (Added) Transportation to or parking at the commissary, base exchange
           (including all concessions), Bowling Center, Columbus Club, Class VI (package
           store), Post Office, Credit Union, ATMs, Fitness Center, Recreational Sports Fields,
           or Golf Course is prohibited for permanent party personnel. Exceptions are
           authorized for personnel performing official government duties at these locations.
           CACV incidental use to include travel to physical conditioning facilities, eating
           places, post office, cleaners, bank, etc., is authorized to accommodate the
           commander’s around-the-clock responsibility to assure an immediate response and
           communications capability. Incidental use should be exercised reasonably and at no
           significant cost to the government. Emergency and rapid response vehicles may be
           driven to any base dining facility if the occupant(s) are subject to emergency
           response. Emergency and rapid response vehicles are defined as security forces, fire-
           fighting vehicles and others as approved in writing by the installation commander.
           3.44.1.7. (Added) Permanently assigned personnel who are authorized official use
           of GMVs, and who are conducting official business off-base, may drive GMVs to off-
           base restaurants only when the mission or fuel considerations make returning to the
           base or originating point impractical (when outside the 25-mile local proximity
           radius). These off-base restaurants must be along the route of primary travel. Any
           deviation may be construed as vehicle misuse.
           3.44.1.8. (Added) TDY personnel may use DOD-owned, rented, or leased vehicles
           for transportation between duty station and lodging, eating establishments, barber
           shops, fitness centers, places of worship and other facilities required for the
           sustenance of the member. Use of DOD-owned, rented or leased vehicles off base is
           restricted to reputable eating establishments in reasonable proximity to the
           installation.
    3.64. (Added) Base Taxi. The taxi operates 0730 – 1615, Monday through Friday. This
    service is authorized for active duty, Air Force Reserve, DOD civilian, and contractor
    personnel on official government business. Services may be obtained by calling the Vehicle
    Operations Control Center (VOCC) dispatch at 434-7430. These services are limited to
    Columbus AFB except for active duty local area medical appointments and students
    attending flight training at Golden Triangle Regional Airport. The taxi provides a quick-
    response, point-to-point service to requesters requiring official transportation. NOTE: Taxi
    drivers are not permitted to leave the vehicle, except for emergencies.
       3.64.1. (Added) Use of military taxi off base for personnel on TDY orders:
           3.64.1.1. (Added) Transportation may be permitted to off-base government contract
           quarters or commercial lodging.
AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011                                                       3


     3.64.2. (Added) Columbus AFB does not have DOD-scheduled shuttles or scheduled
     public transportation to or from commercial airports. Individual travelers in groups of
     three or less are encouraged to use a Privately Owned Vehicle (POV), commercial
     taxicab or commercial limousine service. POV mileage and commercial transportation
     fares are reimbursable and should be claimed on the member’s travel voucher. GMVs
     are not normally authorized to transport members to or from commercial terminals.
     3.64.3. (Added) Group transportation to/from Golden Triangle Regional Airport for
     TDY or deploying personnel is authorized on an as-needed basis. When groups of four or
     more personnel on official TDY orders are traveling together and require the same pickup
     time, a GMV may be the most responsive and cost effective mode of transportation from
     duty section to/or from the Golden Triangle Regional Airport. All GMV transportation is
     limited to/from official duty locations and commercial terminals (not dormitories or
     residence). Unit Vehicle Control NCOs or Officers may contact Vehicle Operations
     Control Center (VOCC) dispatch to procure a U-Drive- It (UDI) vehicle or schedule base
     taxi service. Commercial transportation should be used for all other requirements. These
     requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis and approved by the Vehicle
     Operations Control Center (VOCC) dispatcher or supervisor.
     3.64.4. (Added) For airport arrivals, the driver will remain at the airport for one (1) hour
     from the scheduled arrival time. Person(s) to be picked up should be at curbside of the
     airline traveled baggage claim location.
     3.64.5. (Added) All departures will originate from Columbus AFB. Exceptions are
     personnel on official orders who are housed in commercial or contract lodging.
     Departing transportation will be authorized for passenger drop-off only. Military taxi
     service will not be provided for pickup at private residence(s) on or off base.
     3.64.6. (Added) Distinguished Visitors (DVs) are provided GMV transportation when
     invited and approved by the Installation Commander.
     3.64.7. (Added) GMV transportation may also be provided by Vehicle Operations in
     instances when commercial transportation is not available or not responsive to the needs
     of the mission. Requests from personnel of all grades will be considered and weighed
     individually prior to rendering support. Transportation support based solely on the
     traveler’s rank, position, prestige, or personal convenience is not authorized. The
     following factors are considered when transportation support is requested:
         3.64.7.1. (Added) Is the purpose of the trip official?
         3.64.7.2. (Added) Does the request have the potential to create a perception that will
         reflect unfavorably on the Air Force or cause public criticism?
         3.64.7.3. (Added) Will the request impact on mission requirements?
         3.64.7.4. (Added) Is commercial or DOD scheduled transportation available? It is
         important to note that the Air Force does not provide transportation support that
         competes with commercial services.
  3.65. (Added) U-Drive-It (UDI) Services. UDI services are authorized for active duty,
  DOD civilian and authorized contractor personnel performing official government business
  who are either permanently assigned or in a TDY status. Limited UDI resources are
4                                        AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011


    available to support organizations that do not have assigned vehicles and to augment units
    with assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements for short-term use (72 hours
    or less). UDI vehicles are not dispatched to any organization on a recurring, long-term, day-
    after-day, dispatch basis. To ensure effective planning, scheduling, and dispatching for fair-
    share usage, requestors and operators must pick up vehicles not earlier than time requested
    and return vehicles not later than the termination time for the period of requested use.
       3.65.1. (Added) All UDI requests will be coordinated through the Vehicle Operations
       Control Center (VOCC) dispatch section.
       3.65.2. (Added) Requests for vehicle use of 72 hours or less can be made by telephone
       or e-mail.
       3.65.3. (Added) An e-mail request is mandatory for vehicle use over 72 hours. To
       ensure effective planning and scheduling of UDI resources, the request should be
       submitted as soon as possible. The request must contain:
           3.65.3.1. (Added) The name of the Commander and Vehicle Control Officer (VCO)
           or Vehicle Control NCO (VCNCO).
           3.65.3.2. (Added) Date of request.
           3.65.3.3. (Added) Name, rank, office symbol and duty phone of requester.
           3.65.3.4. (Added) Purpose of requirement.
           3.65.3.5. (Added) Destination. (NOTE: If destination is outside the POD, Vehicle
           Operations Control Center (VOCC) dispatcher or supervisor approval or
           authorization must be obtained prior to commencement of travel.).
           3.65.3.6. (Added) Date and time vehicle is to be picked up.
           3.65.3.7. (Added) Date and time vehicle is to be returned.
           3.65.3.8. (Added) Name, rank, office symbol and duty phone of designated vehicle
           operator.
       3.65.4. (Added) Customer and Operator Responsibilities. Acceptance of a UDI
       vehicle is with a clear understanding that the operator acknowledges receipt for US Air
       Force or government-owned vehicle. She/he will be held responsible for safeguarding
       and proper utilization of the government-owned vehicle. The operator should understand
       that he/she may be held financially liable for damage caused to the vehicle through gross
       negligence or willful misconduct, and may face disciplinary action for negligent
       operation or improper use.
       3.65.5. (Added) UDI users will:
           3.65.5.1. (Added) Perform operator safety and serviceability checks using AF Form
           1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report. Prior to acceptance, the fuel
           level should be 3/4 full, or more, and the exterior and interior should be clean. Any
           discrepancies will be reported immediately to the on-duty dispatcher.
           3.65.5.2. (Added) Return vehicles in the same fueled, clean, and serviceable
           condition as when accepted.
AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011                                                  5


        3.65.5.3. (Added) If the vehicle should require maintenance prior to being returned,
        refer to the instructions on vehicle forms.
        3.65.5.4. (Added) If vehicles are not picked up within 1 hour of requested time, the
        request will be cancelled, unless prior arrangements have been made.
     3.65.6. (Added) All UDI-dispatched vehicles are subject to recall in support of
     contingency plans, exercises or higher-priority mission requirements.




                                        BARRE R. SEGUIN, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 14th Flying Training Wing
 6                                     AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Directive 4500.9R, Defense Transportation Regulation, November 2004
DoD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ATM—Automated Teller Machine
CACV—Command and Control Vehicle
DoD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FTW—Flying Training Wing
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
LGR—Logistics Readiness
MSG—Mission Support Group
NCO—Non Commissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposal Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive It
AFI24-301_COLUMBUSAFBSUP 9 November 2011         7


USAF—United States Air Force
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Non Commissioned Officer
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VOCC—Vehicle Operations Control Center
