BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-302
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                              HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                              7 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                                    VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 49 LRS/LGRV                                                         Certified by: 49 LRS/CC
                                                                       (LtCol Robert C. Bearden)
                                                                                          Pages: 5


Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-302, Vehicle Management, is supplemented as follows: This
supplement further defines local procedures in implementing AFI 24-302. It establishes local
procedures and describes the supporting data systems to fit local circumstances, within the intent
of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation
Vehicles, 7 July 2010 and AFI24-302. Some objectives, policies and responsibilities of Vehicle
Management are derived from overarching policy in DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition,
and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007; DOD 4140.50-R, Management and Standards of
DoD Locomotives, 19 June 1985; DOD Instruction (DODI) C-4500.51, Commercially Procured
and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy (U), 25 July 2007; and DODI 4500.57, Transportation and
Traffic Management, 18 March 2008. This supplement applies to all 49 Wing units and
subordinate units who operate Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) which are loaded in the On-
Line Vehicle Interactive Management System. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
manager as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to 49th
Logistics Readiness Squadron, Quality Assurance Section, Publication Manager, 49
LRS/LGLOQ, 280 Delaware, Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico, 88330.
 2                                     AFI24-302_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


1.13. Vehicle Abuse and Accidents Maintenance: The Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) or
Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS) will verify all suspected accidents and abuses
identified by the Customer Service Center (CSC). The initial responsibility for identifying and
reporting accidents rests with the vehicle operator. The damage must be immediately reported to
49th Security Forces Squadron prior to moving the vehicle. In accidents involving privately
owned vehicles (POV), government-owned vehicles (GOV) may only be released for repair by
the Base Legal Office, Claims Division, after legal office personnel have had the opportunity to
compile all evidence for the insurance agencies and ensure all information necessary is available
to pursue or defend against a claim. A Claims Division representative will coordinate with the
civilian insurance agencies and ensure all information necessary is available prior to repair of the
GOV.
1.13.1.1. (Added) Accidents and abuse vehicles will be assessed and repaired at Allied Trades
when capabilities and materials are available; if not a contract maintenance facility will be used
at the using organization’s cost. The using organization will reimburse Vehicle Management for
these charges, provide a fund site for an AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, or pay the contractor
directly with a Government Purchase Card upon completion of repairs.
1.13.1.2. (Added) Prepare AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, or
utilize commercial repair invoices to record estimated or actual (final) repair costs IAW AFI 24-
302, paragraph 4.7.3 Unit commanders (or their appointed investigating officials) will be
provided these records upon request.
1.13.3.1. (Added) The vehicle will not be sent to a repair facility until written authorization is
received from the organization’s commander (or his/her appointed investigation official)
releasing the damage vehicle from further investigation requirements. If a release authorization
or request for extension is not received within 5 duty days after the owning organization or the
organization responsible for the damage if not the owner has been sent the initial notification,
Vehicle Management Flight (49 LRS/LGRV) will proceed with the repairs. In circumstances
when a GOV and POV are involved in an accident, Base Legal Office will release the vehicle for
repairs.
1.13.3.2. (Added) Vehicle Abuse. Vehicle abuse is defined as an act or omission that caused,
or may cause, damage that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear or accident. Vehicle abuse
is normally considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of improper operation or care.
Vehicle abuse may result in early failure or components or in immediately detectable damage.
The following are examples of vehicle abuses in addition to those listed in AFMAN 24-306_IP,
Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver, 1 July 2009, AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, and
T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 20 July
2007.
1.13.3.2.1. (Added) Operating vehicle with improper tire inflation or tires worn below the
minimum acceptable safe tread depth of 2/32 inch.
1.13.3.2.2. (Added) Failure to accomplish organizational or operator care IAW the
manufacture’s commercial publications, AFIs, manuals, or technical orders.
1.13.3.2.3. (Added) Failure to report vehicle malfunctions, defects, accidents, or damage
affecting the vehicle condition to Vehicle Maintenance in a timely manner (within 24 hours or
the next duty day if it is during the weekend).
AFI24-302_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                       3


1.13.3.2.4. (Added) Failing to protect the painted surface from removable oxidation
(washing/waxing) as required and/or corrosion in accordance with the guidance established in
TO 36-1-191, Table 6-3.
1.13.3.2.5. (Added) Failing to coordinate with Vehicle Management & Analysis (VM&A) for
the accomplishment of vehicle/equipment scheduled maintenance on the date and time appointed
or as scheduled.
1.13.3.2.6. (Added) Unauthorized wiring, marking, modifying, or adding equipment to a
vehicle without written coordination through Vehicle Management for approval.
1.13.3.2.7. (Added) Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior as a result of washing
with a hose or excessive amounts of water, and/or leaving windows open during rainy or
inclement weather.
1.13.3.2.8. (Added) Operating a vehicle with insufficient oil or coolant because of failure to
check levels or overfilling of the engine crankcase, transmission, or hydraulic reservoirs.
1.13.3.2.9. (Added) Servicing the vehicle fuel tank and/or hydraulic reservoirs with incorrect
fuel or oils. NOTE: Due to environmental concerns for disposing of petroleum products, the
using organization is responsible for the removal and disposal of contaminated fuel and oil. For
specific guidance on disposal contact your unit hazardous waste monitor or the 49th Civil
Engineering Squadron Environment Flight.
1.13.3.2.10. (Added) Failure to maintain control of vehicle panels (i.e., doors, trunks, and
hoods) during high wind conditions, which result in damage.
1.13.3.2.11. (Added) Vehicles that show obvious signs of being operated off of paved
roadways. (EXCEPTION: Areas approved by the environmental office or in the performance of
official duties).
1.13.3.3. (Added) Vehicle Accident. A vehicle accident is basically a result in a collision.
Accidents may be attributed to inattentiveness, negligence, or careless operation on the part of
the operator or other motorists.
1.13.3.3.1. (Added) In accidents involving POV’s, and GOV’s may only be released for repair
by the Base Legal Office, Claims Division, after legal office personnel have had the opportunity
to compile all evidence for the insurance agencies and ensure all information necessary is
available to pursue or defend against a claim. A Claims Division representative will coordinate
with the civilian insurance agencies and ensure all information necessary is available prior to
repair of the GOV.
1.13.4. Incident damage will not be categorized as an accident or abuse.
1.13.4.1. (Added) Examples of damage are: a rock projected through the windshield from the
tire of a vehicle being followed, a wind-carried object striking a vehicle or hail damage.
3.17.1.2.1. (Added) Organizations must submit an AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request,
and process through the offices listed above. VM&A will determine if the asset is an Other
Government Motor Vehicle Conveyance (OGMVC) or an equipment item and not a vehicle.
3.17.1.3. (Added) Organizational Responsibilities. Registering all OGMVCs and Low Speed
Vehicle (LSVs) within their owning organization’s Custodian Authorization/Custody Receipt
Listing (CA/CRL) with the 49 LRS-Equipment Accountability Element. The owning
 4                                    AFI24-302_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


organization will manage, monitor, and fund all maintenance actions. Vehicle Management
DOES NOT provide maintenance support.
3.17.1.3.1. (Added) The Vehicle Data Quality Dashboard (Applications tab - LSV Identify
panel) will be used to identify the OGMVC and LSVs assigned prime national stock number.
11.9. Vehicle Idling Policy. This supplement immediately implements policy for Government
Motor Vehicle Idling Operations. In order to further champion environmental stewardship, the
49 Wing is establishing idling operation instructions for all assigned GMV assets.
11.9.1. In an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and maintain proper management of
resources, all 49 Wing and participating Tenant Units are charged to limit maximum vehicle idle
durations to specific limits. These measures help to both reduce our fossil fuel consumption and
reduce wear on our vehicle fleet. Any federal or municipal regulations issuing a more restrictive
idling parameter will take precedence over the idle durations stated in this memorandum.
11.9.1.1. (Added) Class I, II, and III Light-Duty vehicles with a 14,000 lb Gross Vehicle
Weight (GVW) or below will be limited to 3 minutes idling duration unless otherwise specified
by vehicle manufacturer’s warranty. Class IV 14,001 lb GVW and above vehicles will be
limited to 5 minutes idling duration. In the event of a federal or municipal disparity, those
respective laws and policies will take precedence. Any 49 Wing activities requiring extended
idling waiver due to specific operational or mission need must submit requests to 49
LRS/LGRV.
11.9.1.2. (Added) EXEMPTIONS: The following vehicles will be exempt from the idle
control operations stated in this supplement. All military tactical, emergency and law
enforcement vehicles will be exempt from the idle control regulations. Also, this memorandum
will not be in effect during extreme temperatures with Heat Category flag colors “red” or “black”
and Cold Category flag colors “green”, “yellow” or “red”, when temperatures are 35 degrees
Fahrenheit or below, IAW AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury. Vehicles will be allowed to remain
idling (while being monitored) during hot or cold weather for air conditioner or heater use as
applicable.
11.9.1.3. (Added) The 49 LRS/LGRV is charged with ensuring vehicle electronic control
modules are adjusted to automatically shut off vehicles at the maximum durations stated above
when possible. Furthermore, any procurement, leasing, and contracting endeavors should
incorporate the above options into any 49 Wing specific vehicle management and operation
actions.




                                            ANDREW A. CROFT, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI24-302_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                        5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, 18 Nov 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
49 LRS/LGLOQ—49th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Quality Assurance Section, Publication
Manager
49 LRS/LGRV—49th Logistics Readiness Squadron/Vehicle Management Flight
AFMAN_IP—Air Force Manual Interservice Publication
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GOV—Government-Owned Vehicle
NCOIC—Non Commissioned Officer in Charge
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROS—Report of Survey
VOO—Vehicle Operations Officer

Terms
Allied Trades—A functional element (work center) of Vehicle Management that provides body,
upholstery and heat exchanger repairs, painting and machine shop support.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for a publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Publication—An officially produced, published, and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information, includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—The official schedule that authorizes and governs the
disposition of Air Force records, which contains National Archives and Records Administration.
