                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 20-101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                        12 NOVEMBER 1993

                                                                                                  Logistics

                                                                LOGISTICS STRATEGIC PLANNING
                                                                                 PROCEDURES


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/LGXX (Maj Diane J. McFain)                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/LGXX
                                                                                   (Col Jonathan E. Zall)
Supersedes AFR 400-13, 12 April 1990                                                             Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction contains the responsibilities, authorities, and format to implement Logistics Strategic
Planning as stated in AFPD 20-1, Logistics Strategic Planning . Each tasked organization as defined in
AFPD 20-1 develops a Logistics Strategic Plan based on its theaters of responsibility, its specific needs,
the US Air Force Logistics Strategic Plan, guidance in AFPD 20-1, and this instruction.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the initial publication of AFI 20-101 substantially revising AFR 400-13, 12 April 1990.

Section A— Responsibilities and Authorities

1. HQ USAF/LG:
   • Provides overall logistics strategic planning process guidguidance.

2. HQ USAF/LGX:
   • Is the focal point for logistics strategic planning.
   • Publishes the US Air Force Logistics Strategic Plan.
   • Coordinates logistics strategic planning activities within the Air Force.
   • Conducts Logistics Strategic Planning conferences.
   • Provides decisionmaking tools to tasked organizations.
   • Reports the status of logistics strategic planning efforts to HQ USAF/LG and the Board of Advi-
      sors at least annually.

3. HQ USAF/LG Directors:
   • Participate in the logistics strategic planning process.
   •   Appoint a project officer to make sure functional logistics strategic planning issues are addressed.
   •   Assist in the development of strategic goals, objectives, and strategies for the US Air Force Logis-
       tics Strategic Plan.
   •   Make sure functional (maintenance, supply, transportation, logistics plans) planning is consistent
       with logistics strategic planning guidance.

4. Tasked Organizations:
   • Designate a focal point for logistics strategic planning to HQ USAF/LGXX.
   • Develop and implement a Logistics Strategic Plan according to the format prescribed in para-
      graph 6.
   • Send copies of published plan to HQ USAF/LGXX and all other tasked organizations.
   • Coordinate Logistics Strategic Plans, and other documents, as appropriate. Air National Guard
      and Air Force Reserve and their gaining major commands must ensure logistics strategic planning
      efforts reflect integrated and coordinated goals and strategies.
   • Make sure planning, programming, and budgeting actions support logistics strategic planning
      efforts.
   • Assign an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for each logistics plan strategy.
   • Measure effectiveness of logistics strategic planning by using the Global Evaluation Program as
      specified in AFPD 20-1. Annually determine the percentage of plan strategies with resources allo-
      cated in the Program Objective Memorandum compared to the total number of strategies which
      require resources. Send a copy of the above comparison to HQ USAF/LGXX for use in determin-
      ing the Air Force-wide status.
Air Force Materiel Command will ensure the logistics technology requirements identified in the US Air
Force Logistics Strategic Plan and subordinate plans are included in appropriate logistics research, devel-
opment and acquisition plans.

Section B— Plan Format

5. Use the following format to address key strategic planning factors:
   • Part I. Introduction and Assumptions.
   • Part II. Assessments - the Anticipated Environment.
   • Part III. Wartime Logistics Concept of Operations. Describe a concept for operating in the antic-
       ipated Environment.
   • Part IV. Logistics Strategic Goals, Objectives, and Strategies. Use the elements of the US Air
       Force Logistics Concept of Operations in the US Air Force Logistics Strategic Plan as a guide. If
       an element does not apply, leave it out; add other goals, objectives, and strategies as necessary.
   • Part V. Implementation and Accountability. Each strategy will have an OPR, estimated comple-
       tion date, short description, and milestones (if appropriate). Establish accountability procedures to
       track strategies and plan status.
   5.1. Make plans concise, simple, and flexible.


                                                 2
5.2. Update plans as required, within 1 year of the publication of a new US Air Force Logistics Stra-
tegic Plan or as directed by the Directorate of Concepts and Integration (HQ USAF/LGX), 1030 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030.
5.3. Coordinate plans, both internally and externally, since plans address unique needs and affect
many organizations.
5.4. Publish classified information as a separate annex to plan.




                                      JOHN M. NOWAK, Lt General, USAF
                                      DCS/Logistics




                                             3
