BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       Air Force Instruction 21-123
AIR COMBAT COMMAND UNITED
STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE AND                                     COMBAT AIR FORCES
PACIFIC AIR FORCES                                                           Supplement
                                                                              21 MARCH 2013

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                   AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT
                                                                 PROGRAM (AFREP)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ ACC/A4QM                                                  Certified by: HQ ACC/A4Q
                                                                      (Col A. Neal Robinson)
                                                                                    Pages: 9
Supersedes:   AFI 21-123_ACCSUP, 25
              January 2005


AFI 21-123, is supplemented as follows. This supplement prescribes policies and procedures
governing aerospace equipment maintenance management for Air Combat Command (ACC),
Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) and United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). It applies to all
ACC, USAFE and PACAF bases except Yokota, Hickam, Ramstein, RAF Mildenhall and
Mobility Air Force (MAF) units at Kadena and Elmendorf. It applies to these organizations and
personnel that maintain aircraft, aircraft systems, equipment, support equipment, and
components regardless of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). It provides a broad management
framework for the Wing/Unit AFREP Managers to adjust procedures to compensate for mission,
facility, and geographic differences of the units. This supplement does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC); however, ANG/AFRC
personnel assigned to Classic Associate Units supporting CAF units will comply with the
guidance provided within this supplement. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Send comments, questions, and suggested improvements to this publication on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ ACC/A4QM,
 2                                                   AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013


130 Douglas Street, Suite 210, Langley AFB, VA 23665-2791. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.


      3.4.2.1. Note: Status of approved written authorization will be maintained as Source(s)
      of Approved Repair (SAR) letters
      3.5.1.4. (Added) Ensure Project Fund Management Record (PFMR) account is
      established for financial accountability. All credit earned will be carefully managed and
      applied to mission-related requirements.
      3.5.1.5. (Added) MXG/CC or equivalent will request the MSG/CC to assign an AFREP
      liaison within LRS (e.g., Flight Service Center).
      3.6.1.2. CAF Form 45, AFREP Source of Approved Repair Request & Reply is the
      standard format used to approve contractors. Note: Items contract repaired prior to SAR
      requirement implementation are not subject to recall.
      3.6.4. See Attachment 4 for sample AFREP End of Fiscal Year Report.
      3.6.10. (Added) Develop local awareness program to inform base populace of AFREP
      and to advocate local self sustaining repair philosophy.
      3.6.11. (Added) Certify the part is beyond repair from all applicable maintenance work
      centers prior to accepting the part for AFREP. Certification must be documented (email,
      log book, etc.). Parts coded Direct NRTS are exempt from this requirement.
      3.6.12. (Added) Process all items to and from a local AFREP tracking database. Note:
      Financial tracking of avoidance, credits and operating costs as well as data on each item
      repaired will be collected.
      3.6.13. (Added) DIFM Status Code ZCP is reserved for AFREP DIFM items IAW
      AFMAN23-110. Note: ZCP coded items are NOT to exceed 270 total DIFM days.
      3.6.14. (Added) Ensure supply system demand requirement exists prior to repairing
      DIFM items.
      3.6.15. (Added) Ensure DIFM item repairs do not exceed the Economic Retention
      Level within the local supply system per AFMAN 23-110. Note: Continued repairs on
      items with ample stock can negatively impact the supply cycle.
      3.6.16. (Added) Assist work center technicians to obtain required technical data,
      equipment and/or parts. Note: Depot-level TOs may be requisitioned and used to develop
      local repair procedures IAW 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System but must be approved
      by the appropriate PO.
      3.6.17. (Added) Recommend process improvements to the Wing/Unit and/or Lead
      Command AFREP Manager.
      3.6.18. (Added) Ensure items repaired by SAR contractors are identified and displayed
      on all tags prior to returning to the supply system.
      3.6.19. (Added) Screen asset availability through DRMO IAW AFM 23-110.
AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013                                                            3


     3.6.20. (Added) Wing/Unit AFREP Manager may also fulfill the duties of a Circuit
     Card Repair (CCR) Technician. These duties are described in the following paragraphs.
  3.7. (Added) Circuit Card Repair (CCR) Technician.
     3.7.1. (Added) Comply with maintenance policies and procedures outlined within AFI
     21-101 and this AFI.
     3.7.2. (Added) Evaluate potential AFREP initiatives and determines if repair of item is
     feasible and/or economical.
     3.7.3. (Added) Notify AFREP Manager of recommendation to continue/discontinue
     repair.
     3.7.4. (Added) Maintain soldering certification to Miniature or Depot standards of
     electronic re-work per Attachment 4 and Attachment 5.
     3.7.5. (Added) Maintain soldering certification to Micro-Miniature (2M) standards of
     electronic re-work per Attachment 6 and Attachment 7 as required.
     3.7.6. (Added) Complete standardized Module Test and Repair (MTR) E5AZN2P051-
     000 (or equivalent) users development training course.
     3.7.7. (Added) Utilize standard CCR equipment as issued by Naval Gold Disk Program
     and complete development training course per NAVSEA TE000‐ AA‐ MAN‐ 010/2M
     as required.




                                         MARK A. ATKINSON, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         Director of Logistics
 4                                                  AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 1 May 2011
Prescribed Forms
CAF Form 45, AFREP Source of Approved Repair Request & Reply
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCR—Circuit Card Repair
PFMR—Project Fund Management Record
SAR—Source of Approved Repair
2M—Micro-Miniature

Terms
Cost Avoidance— A calculated value for a local AFREP repair when credit is not generated
within the supply system. “Avoidance” is calculated based on time and cost of procuring a new
item. (e.g., Ground intercommunications cord repairs, NDI equipment repairs)
Credit— Monetary value awarded to an established PFMR account by the supply system.
Based upon local demand, serviceable items returned to supply may generate credit.
Economic Retention Level— The quantity of an item that exceed AAO and are determined to
be more economical to retain for future peacetime issues than to dispose. To warrant economic
retention, an item must have a reasonably predictable demand rate.
Operating Costs— Costs or expenses to administer a given program. Operating include
training, equipment, tools, software and administrative supplies. Base level and contracting
repairs costs should be tracked individually.
AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013                                                       5


                                  Attachment 3 (Added)
                                XX MXG/BASE NAME

Table A3.1. AFREP End of Fiscal Year Report -- FY 12
                    MICAP Avoided                           0
                    MICAP Fills                             0
                    SARs Approved                           0
                    SARs Disapproved                        0
                    Number of Base Level Repairs            0
                    Number of Contract Repairs              0
                    Number of Non-Repairs                   0
                    Base Level Repair Costs                 $0.00
                    Contract Repair Costs                   $0.00
                    Operating Costs                         $0.00
                    Gross Avoidance                         $0.00
                    Gross Credits                           $0.00
                    Number of Personnel          Grade      AFSC
                    1                            MSgt       2A373B
                    1                            TSgt       2A071M
                    2                            SSgt       2A354B
                    “                            “          “
                    Personnel trained this FY – 2ea
                    - Type (initial/refresher) & Location
                    2M initial & MTR at DM AFB
                    Miniature only at DM AFB


                    Success Stories
                    - Use bullet format

                                                      //Signed, jjd, xx Sep 2012//
                                                        JOHN J. DOE, MSgt, USAF
                                                        XX MXG AFREP Manager
 6                                                     AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013


                                    Attachment 4 (Added)
            AFREP CCR MINIATURE SOLDERING CERTIFICATION PLAN

A4.1. Certification of CCR miniature electronic technicians.
     A4.1.1. Initial certification for technicians will be awarded upon successful completion of
     CCR training through either the AETC -               J4AMF/ASF/AST30000-110, Miniature
     Electronics Repair, course or US Navy equivalent course.
     A4.1.2. Technicians certified in the minimum requirements for CCR are authorized to repair
     single and double-sided circuit card assemblies (CCAs) and other electronic assemblies, up
     to and including the removal and installation of discrete and multi-lead components.
     Authorized repairs include surface repair of CCA laminate, removal and application of
     conformal coatings, removal and replacement of damaged conductors and installation of
     wires to terminals.
     A4.1.3. Minimum requirements for miniature CCR certification.
        A4.1.3.1. Proficiency Tasks. CCR technicians will learn introduction to soldering,
        including electrostatic discharge precautions; identification and removal of conformal
        coatings; removal, preparation and installation of discrete components; laminate repair;
        repair of printed circuit conductors; wire preparation and installation on terminals;
        removal and installation of multi-lead components; and inspection and analysis of work.
        A4.1.3.2. Knowledge Tasks. CCR technicians will learn safety precautions; use and
        maintenance of tools and equipment; conformal coating reapplication; laminate repair of
        delaminated, warped, cracked, and through the board defects; wire splicing; and
        limitations of the miniature CCR technician.
     A4.1.4. Technicians must complete all tasks to the satisfaction of the certifying official.
     Technicians must recertify per Attachment 5 18 months from last training/completion date
     and ensure 372 TRS/DET 11 at Davis-Monthan AFB updates certification tracking database.
AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013                                                                     7


                                     Attachment 5 (Added)
         AFREP CCR MINIATURE SOLDERING RECERTIFICATION PLAN

A5.1. Recertification of CCR miniature technicians.
   A5.1.1. CCR technicians will be recertified by the end of the eighteenth month after their
   initial certification or last recertification date by AETC or US Navy equivalent designated
   recertifying officials.
   A5.1.2. The designated certifying official or representative will ensure the technician
   demonstrates the ability to perform the following tasks: Identify types of conformal coatings
   and remove coating without circuit card damage; perform selected wire projects on turret or
   hook terminals; connector pin solder connection and pad replacement conductor repair with a
   flat-set eyelet; install a flush mount, full clinch, axial lead component on double-sided circuit
   card; and remove and replace a dual in-line package and a flat pack.
   A5.1.3. Technicians must complete all tasks to the satisfaction of the recertifying official. If
   a CCR technician fails to successfully recertify, then initial certification training is required.
   Technicians must recertify per this attachment 18 months from last training/completion date
   and ensure 372 TRS/DET 11 at Davis-Monthan AFB updates certification tracking database.
 8                                                      AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013


                                     Attachment 6 (Added)
        AFREP CCR MICRO-MINIATURE SOLDERING CERTIFICATION PLAN

A6.1. Certification of CCR micro-miniature (2M) electronic technicians.
     A6.1.1. When entering initial 2M training, technicians must hold current certification in
     miniature CCR. Initial certification for technicians will be awarded upon successful
     completion of 2M CCR training from either AETC - J4AMF/ASF/AST30000-113, Micro-
     Miniature Electronics Repair course or US Navy equivalent course.
     A6.1.2. Technicians certified as 2M technicians are authorized to perform additional repair
     tasks beyond those taught to miniature repair technicians. Authorized repairs include high-
     density component packaging, multilayer conductor repair, flex print repair, and edge lighted
     panel repair and removal/replacement of surface mount devices (SMD).
     A6.1.3. Minimum requirements for 2M CCR certification.
        A6.1.3.1. Proficiency Tasks. CCR technicians will learn flexible laminate and conductor
        repair; multilayer laminate and conductor repair; removal and replacement of specialized
        components: i.e. metalized electrode face (MELF), chip resistor/capacitors, small
        outlined transistor/integrated circuits (SOT/SOIC), plastic quad flat pack (PQFP), and
        plastic leaded chip carrier (PLCC); and inspection and analysis of work
        A6.1.3.2. Knowledge Tasks. CCR technicians will learn safety precautions; use and
        maintenance of tools and equipment; conformal coating reapplication; and limitations of
        the 2M CCR technician.
     A6.1.4. Technicians must complete all tasks to the satisfaction of the certifying official.
     Technicians must recertify per Attachment 7 18 months from last training/completion date
     and ensure 372 TRS/DET 11 at Davis-Monthan AFB updates certification tracking database.
AFI21-123_CAFSUP 21 MARCH 2013                                                                     9


                                     Attachment 7 (Added)
     AFREP CCR MICRO-MINIATURE SOLDERING RECERTIFICATION PLAN

A7.1. Recertification of CCR micro-miniature (2M) technicians.
   A7.1.1. CCR technicians will be recertified by the end of the eighteenth month after their
   initial certification or last recertification date by the 372 TRS/DET 11 recertifying official or
   US Navy designated recertifying officials.
   A7.1.2. The 372 TRS/DET 11 certifying official or representative will ensure the technician
   demonstrates the ability to perform the following tasks: Identify types of conformal coatings
   and remove coating without circuit card damage; perform selected wire projects on turret or
   hook terminals; remove and replace a dual in-line package; repair flexible laminate and
   conductor or plastic panel defective bulb replacement; repair multilayer circuit card laminate
   and conductor replacement; remove and replace a metalized electrode face (MELF) or small
   outlined integrated circuit (SOIC) or small outlined transistor (SOT); and remove and replace
   plastic quad flat pack (PQFP), plastic leaded chip carrier (PLCC).
   A7.1.3. Technicians must complete all tasks to the satisfaction of the recertifying official. If
   a CCR technician fails to successfully recertify, then initial certification training is required.
   Technicians must recertify per this attachment 18 months from last training/completion date
   and ensure 372 TRS/DET 11 at Davis-Monthan AFB updates certification tracking database.
Note: 2M technicians can be downgraded to miniature certification if recertification at 2M level
is unsatisfactory and technician completes miniature recertification requirements.
