BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                CANNON AIR FORCE BASE 24-301
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE (AFSOC)                                              Supplement
                                                                          6 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                Transportation

                                                                    VEHICLE OPERATIONS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 27 SOLRS/LGLOQ                                                 Certified by: 27 SOLRS/CC
                                                                            (Lt Col Joyce Storm)
                                                                                        Pages: 3
Supersedes:   AFI24-301_
              CANNONAFBSUP,
              5 August 2010


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-301,
Vehicle Operations. The AFI is published word-for-word without editorial review. This
supplement describes AFSOC’s procedures for use in conjunction with basic AFI. These
procedures apply to all personnel assigned to the 27th Special Operations Wing (SOW), as well
as all other personnel requesting or utilizing Government Motor Vehicles (GMV) on Cannon
AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records       Disposition        Schedule       (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication establishes 27 SOW policy for the U-Drive It (UDI) Customer Procedures, the
Local Permissible Operating Distance (POD) for vehicles, and specific guidance on the use of
Department of Defense owned, rented, or leased vehicles (GMV) as directed by AFI 24-301.
These procedures are intended to strictly control and manage vehicle support. The acronym
 2                                       AFI24-301_CANNONAFBSUP 6 DECEMBER 2012


“GOV” used for government vehicle was changed to reflect the Department of Defense (DoD)
reference Government Motor Vehicle or “GMV.” This document provides specific guidance on
the use of Department of Defense owned, rented, or leased vehicles. The 27th Special Operations
Logistics Readiness Squadron (SOLRS) flights/sections were revised/addressed IAW USAF
PAD 08-01; Annex T. 27 SOLRS Commander replaces Chief of Supply (COS) designation.
2.4.2.1. (Added) The U-Drive-It (UDI) Policy and Procedures are as follows:
2.4.2.1.1. (Added) Vehicle misuse is defined as the following: Operating or utilizing a
government-owned, leased, or rented vehicle and/or equipment for other than "Official Use
Only” purposes. To determine what is considered official, please refer to the guidance outlined
in AFI 24-301, Chapter 3.
2.4.2.1.2. (Added) If the vehicle is used off base, restrict TDY personnel’s use of these
vehicles to reputable eating establishments in reasonable proximity to the installation. Distance
should be no further than a 15 mile radius from CAFB; and excludes bars, taverns, sports
lounges, night clubs, or any other establishment whose primary purpose is to serve alcohol.
2.4.2.1.3. (Added)      Restrict permanent party use of these vehicles to reputable eating
establishments not to include bars, taverns, sports lounges or night clubs. No other variances are
extended.
2.4.2.1.4. (Added) Notify Dispatch Operations of any damage or discrepancies you find
questionable before you leave the compound. The user and/or their organization may be held
responsible for any unreported damage that is discovered upon return of the vehicle.
2.4.2.2. (Added) In order to return a vehicle the user must report to the Vehicle Operations
Control Center (VOCC). A short inspection will be performed by Vehicle Operations personnel
to ensure there are no open discrepancies or unreported damages. If unreported damage or
discrepancies are found, the user will be directed to turn the vehicle into the 27 SOLRS Vehicle
Management for repairs. All vehicles must be returned in a cleaned condition and with a full
tank of fuel to the Vehicle Operations compound on or before the date agreed upon. The user is
responsible for the vehicle until it is properly returned and accepted by the VOCC. If an
extension is needed, please call the VOCC for approval at 784-2833.
2.4.2.2.1. (Added)      If involved in an accident, immediately notify the VOCC and local
authorities (if necessary). Fill out the accident forms located in the packet provided to the
operator. Please direct any questions concerning the OFFICIAL USE and operation of UDI
vehicles to the Vehicle Dispatch at 784-2833 or 784-4545.
2.8.1. (Added) In consideration of the local geographical location, the following constitutes
the Permissible Operating Distance (POD) for Cannon Air Force Base (CAFB).
2.8.2. (Added) The POD for CAFB allows government vehicles to travel off base for official
duties without being considered in competition with commercial carriers. The POD states a 250
mile radius, which adequately supports normal operations.
2.8.3. (Added) All requests to exceed the POD must be submitted 48 hours prior to the
requested date and requires a letter from the Vehicle Operations NCOIC. In the event of an
emergency, requests submitted for vehicles needed before the required 48 hour processing period
will be handled on a case-by-case basis. All POD requests will be submitted to Vehicle
Operations inbox at: 27SOLRSVehDispatch@cannon.af.mil.
AFI24-301_CANNONAFBSUP 6 DECEMBER 2012                                                       3


3.9.1.1. (Added) The following emergency response personnel may take DoD owned, rented,
or leased vehicles to on-base military dining facilities, BX, commissary, and the base
gymnasium. In situations where on base military dining facilities are not available/authorized,
the use of any Non Appropriated Funds/AAFES operated facility is permissible. These actions
are authorized for the following personnel: Emergency response personnel assigned to the 27th
Special Operations Security Forces Squadron (27 SOSFS), 27th Fire & Emergency Services
Flight (27 SOCES/CEF), and the 27th Special Operations Medical Group (27 SOMDG) on-duty
ambulance crews. The 27th Special Operations Group Commander (27 SOG/CC) is also
authorized these privileges when using his/her assigned staff vehicle during the flying window.
(CES does not fall under emergency response only CEF applies).
3.9.1.2. (Added) The 27 SOCES/CEF may also use emergency response GMVs, if necessary,
to purchase food items from the commissary for normal shift meals prepared within the fire
station kitchen. Primary response fire department personnel working shifts 24 hours or more and
ambulance crew working shifts are authorized to take emergency response vehicles to on base
intramural sports games and the AAFES movie theater.
3.9.1.3. (Added) While on duty, 27 SOMXG and 727 SOAMXS personnel may use GMVs
for the purposes of securing “carry-out” meals from on-base military dining facilities.
3.9.1.4. (Added) Base personnel performing official duties in a GMV at Melrose Range are
allowed to stop at off-base food establishments within close proximity to Melrose Range. At no
time will personnel stop within fifteen miles to Cannon AFB for food. They should be able to
get carry-out meals and stop at off base convenience stores located next to the range.
3.9.1.5. (Added) The 27 SOG/CC is authorized to drive a GMV to their on base quarters when
performing his/her duties in connection with on-going flight operations. Overnight parking is
not authorized.




                                           ALBERT M. ELTON II, Colonel
                                           Commander
