BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-301
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                  AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                Supplement

                                                                           26 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                                     VEHICLE OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A4REV                                                  Certified by: HQ AMC/A4R
                                                                       (Colonel Mark S. Talley)
Supersedes: AFI24-301_AMCSUP, 17 February 2011                                        Pages: 11


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 24-301, 1 November 2008. It
applies to all Air Mobility Command (AMC) organizations that operate and control Air Force
government motor vehicles (GMV). This includes operators from other U.S. military services
(Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Marines) and any government contractor specifically authorized to
use AMC controlled Air Force GMVs as a condition, clause or amendment of their contract.
Vehicles procured through non-appropriated funds (NAF) are exempt from this policy guidance.
The law provides penalties for the willful use or authorization of any government-owned,
government-leased or government-rented motor vehicle for other than official purposes. Civilian
employees who misuse GMVs will have action taken in accordance with the Civilian Personnel
Manual. Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through unit transportation channels to Vehicle Management Branch
(HQ AMC/A4REV), Unit 3050 Box 105, Scott AFB, IL 62225. This AMCSUP may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to AMC/A4REV for coordination
prior to certification and approval. This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFRC) units that are AMC gained. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                 AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Due to the
release of AFI 24-301 IC-2, Vehicle Operations, multiple items have been deleted. References
throughout to “DSC” are hereby changed to “DSS”.
This supplement incorporates additional guidance in the following logistics/transportation areas:
installation official use program, terminal transportation, vehicle operator training, vehicle
reimbursement, documented cargo, personnel posturing and training, validation and operations.
1.3.4.1. (Added) Base level Vehicle Operations Inspector General augmentees will validate
prospective write-ups with AMC/A4REV, daily, if necessary.
1.6.2.1. (Added) Each AMC hosted installation will develop a local instruction according to
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, which addresses authorized and unauthorized
uses of Air Force GMVs utilizing the guidelines in AFI 24-301, Chapter 3. This instruction will
include local Terminal Transportation Support and will not mandate support based solely on
rank, position or prestige and strictly adhere to the requirements set forth in this instruction and
DoD Regulation 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition and Use of Motor Vehicles. Additionally
the local instruction must be coordinated through AMC/A4REV and be approved by the
installation commander. Terminal Transportation will not be addressed thru a unit or wing
policy letter. Air Force policy letters, standard memoranda, guides and bulletins are not
recognized as part of the publishing program and are not considered official guidance IAW AFI
33-360, Table 2.1., note 2.
1.8.2.1. (Added) The Distribution Section Supervisor (DSS) is responsible to ensure Vehicle
Operations personnel are appropriately postured in accordance with current Air Force Vehicle
Operations Functional Area Prioritization and Sequencing Guidance.
1.8.2.2. (Added) Develop and implement home station military workload mitigation plans to
maximize deployable capability during Air and Space Expeditionary Forces rotational and surge
operations.
1.8.2.3. (Added) Justify and coordinate additional home station workload capability, i.e., guard,
reserve, civilian overhires, augmentees, etc.
1.8.2.4. (Added) If other offsets for deployed personnel are not sufficient, mitigation plans
must consider delay of non-mission essential activities, U-Drive-It support to requesting units
versus utilization of Deployment and Distribution Flight personnel and lastly reduction in
service(s).
1.8.2.5. (Added) Elevate mitigation options that require approval by higher levels of authority.
1.8.3.1. (Added) The Vehicle Operations Supervisor is responsible to ensure all support
agreement re-imbursements are effectively tracked and a recoupment process is established.
AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             3



1.8.5.1. (Added) The Operator Records & Licensing (OR&L) Supervisor will establish an
effective rapport with the Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A) function and unit Vehicle
Control Officers (VCO). This will encompass involvement in VCO meetings and discussion
topics to include lesson plans, vehicle training validation, licensing, misuse trends, etc. An
OR&L representative will accompany VM&A on annual unit SAVs to review lesson plans,
expired GMV licenses, OF 345, tri-annual MHE recertification and filed AF Form 171s.
2.26.6. (Added) Installations deploying 2T131 Airmen on AEF taskings will consult with
AMC/A4REV prior to seeking a skill level waiver.
2.27.3. (Added) The semi-annual Services Analysis will include the results of a semi-annual
Vehicle Identification Link (VIL) key audit and fuel account reconciliation. To conduct the
analysis the NCOIC, VOCC or the 2T1 Quality Assurance team member will contact the Fuels
Control Center and request a unit VIL key listing for all Vehicle Operations fuel accounts.
Additionally a new Vehicle Authorization List will be sourced from VM&A.
2.27.3.1. (Added) A comparison between the two documents will identify malassigned GMVs,
leased and rental vehicles. The analysis will address how many VIL keys are currently in use,
how many spare VIL keys are on hand and how many vehicles were malassigned and actions
taken with the Fuels Flight to correct errors and remove vehicles not assigned to the Vehicle
Operations fleet. Consult Defense Logistics Agency Policy Number DESC-P-5, Vehicle
Identification Link (VIL) Key Encoding, Accountability and Control for current VIL program
guidance.
2.27.3.2. (Added) For installations that phase out the VIL key system with the Automotive
Information Module Fuel Management System (AIM 2), they will be exempt from performing a
VIL key audit; however, they will still perform an AIM 2 fuel account reconciliation.
3.1.1.1. (Added) Terminal Transportation rules apply to all registered, rented and leased GMVs
assigned to AMC units. VCOs utilizing organic assets when moving passengers to commercial
terminals must coordinate with their local LRS VOCC for approval 24 hours prior to departure
when possible.
3.1.3.1. (Added) Open alcohol containers will not be allowed inside any GMV.
3.1.5. (Added) Official Representation Funds (ORF) will only be used for the provision of
transportation in accordance with the requirements contained in AFI 65-603, Official
Representation Funds: Guidance and Procedures.
3.1.6. (Added) When Vehicle Operations receives a GMV and driver request to support tenant
sponsored ORF functions, the requesting unit will reimburse LRS for all related GMV support.
3.1.7. (Added) Vehicle operators will notify the on-duty dispatcher when any individual is
creating a safety concern in connection with the operation of the vehicle. Dispatch will contact
 4                                                 AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013



security forces or local law enforcement personnel to request assistance in removing the
disturbance.
3.3.3.1. (Added) Vehicle Operations will forward the annual misuse summary to the group
commander for coordination even when there are no documented pending or closed cases.
Forward coordinated annual misuse summary to AMC/A4REV not later than (NLT) 15 March.
See Attachment 10 for a sample misuse summary.
3.3.6. (Added) Vehicle Operations (in concert with the Vehicle Control Program) will educate
the base populous on the rules governing official use and how to report suspected misuses, i.e.,
VCO meetings, commander calls, commander access channels and installations websites.
3.6.2.1. (Added) TDY units shall not use sortie generating vehicles (such as aircraft tow
vehicles, bobtails and other specialized flight line vehicles) for non-sortie generating activities
(such as transport to/from dining facilities or to/from TDY lodging areas). These non-sortie
generating transport activities will be accomplished using general purpose vehicles such as
sedans, vans and pickup trucks. Sortie generating and sustaining vehicles must be used for their
intended purpose only.
3.6.3. (Added) TDY personnel are authorized to use a GMV to obtain meals. However, this
authority does not extend to driving to/from a private residence/domicile on or off base.
3.8.2. (Added) After hours functions: GMV transportation to official after-hours functions will
begin and end at the individual's normal place of duty, not at a residence. Exception: Assigned
Wing Commander's base quarters are classified as official duty locations.
3.19.1. (Added) Vehicle Operations will include Pet Transport rules of engagement in any
applicable Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2 checklists covering local
evacuation and natural disaster response in addition to element Operating Instructions (OI).
3.36.1. (Added) GMV support will not be provided to activities or agencies such as Airmen
Against Drunk Drivers and other “Drunk Bus/Van” proposals. These types of activities are self-
supporting and/or a personal responsibility of individuals which does not warrant appropriated
funded GMV support.
3.41.1. (Added) Parking vehicles at any location to enable partial home to work transportation is
not authorized.
3.50.1. (Added) Operators will confirm all passengers are seated with seat belts fastened (if
applicable) and cargo properly stowed to ensure emergency exits are unobstructed. Passenger
cargo or luggage will not be stacked in such a way as to cause a safety hazard.
3.58.1.1.2.1. (Added) Shuttle bus service provided from on base parking areas to work areas is
permitted during installation exercises and inspections when use of POVs within the play area is
restricted.
AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               5



3.58.6.1. (Added) When installations can no longer justify continued operation of shuttle bus
services (by way of duty passengers supported) the service must be discontinued or provide
AMC/A4REV justification (other than non-duty passenger support) to continue operation.
3.59.1.1. (Added) GMVs will not be provided unless assigned NAF vehicles are non-existent or
unavailable. FSS/NAF VCO will provide written proof that NAF assets are unavailable. GMV
support will only be provided if not detrimental to mission accomplishment.
3.59.3.1.5.1. (Added) Base-sponsored is defined as an activity that is approved by the
installation commander and open/available to the entire installation.
3.59.3.2.2.1. (Added) Examples of unit level activities (group level and below) which vehicle
support is not authorized include, but are not limited to sporting events, squadron/group picnics,
fund-raisers, car washes, attending professional and amateur sporting events, trips/tours,
luncheons, physical training activities, family buses used to transport dependents to meet
returning deployers and unit family day activities. See paragraph 3.1.5. for ORF related GMV
support clarification.
3.59.3.2.3.1. (Added) Section 2548 of 10 U.S.C. (reference (f)) authorizes the DoD to provide
designated national military associations (NMA) logistical and administrative support for their
annual national convention or conference. That support may include limited ground
transportation when it does not interfere with operational missions and training. Regional and
local chapters of such associations are ineligible to receive GMV support. See DoD Instruction
5410.19, Public Affairs Community Relations Policy Implementation, Attachment 1 to Enclosure
10, for a listing of pre-approved NMAs. The expenditure of appropriated funds for ground
transportation to events not directly related to the substantive issues being considered by the
conference, such as events intended to entertain spouses and family members of the delegates
and attendees, is not authorized. Separate spouse functions under NMA support do not qualify
for DoD transportation.
3.61.4.1. (Added) Apply for re-approval from AMC/A4REV when annual analysis indicates
inefficient or ineffective service.
4.4.1.2. (Added) The senior 2T1X1 assigned to the host LRS serves as the base functional
manager for all manpower authorizations and assigned vehicle operators.
5.4.2.1. (Added) Examples of reimbursable Vehicle Operations (transportation) service include
UDI support, wrecker support, DV support, bus/group transportation to include Terminal
Transportation when authorized and cargo movement. Base taxi, shuttle and daily documented
cargo runs will not be charged as reimbursable.
6.3.3.1. (Added) Unit commanders may appoint a liaison to coordinate unit transportation needs
when the squadron does not have a VCO/VCNCO program. Submit appointment letters to local
vehicle operations VOCC office.
 6                                                  AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013



7.1.4.1. (Added) Classified Receipt Listing. The VOE will work with the DSS to ensure the
Classified Receipt Listing identifies only those vehicle operators (2T1s) authorized to receive,
handle and transport classified assets. The MMF will be notified within 24 hours or next duty
day when a vehicle operator’s clearance eligibility and/or access level is downgraded or changed
(loss of clearance, change in name, etc.), as designated by the unit commander or proper
authority (e.g., Security Forces Squadron or Unit Security Manager).
7.1.4.2. (Added) Vehicle Operations Classified Receipt Listing Certification. The VOE will
produce a memorandum listing the names of assigned personnel authorized to receive, handle
and transport classified assets. This listing will include the names of personnel on the MMF
Classified Receipt Listing but will also contain the following information:
7.1.4.2.1. (Added) A statement certifying all personnel on the list have received annual
Information Security training and the date of training for each member listed.
7.1.4.2.2. (Added) A statement certifying all personnel have read this supplement and the AFI
24-301-mandated Documented Cargo OI detailing the handling instructions and movement
procedures for classified items.
7.1.4.3. (Added) Movement Procedures. Operators will check all documentation to verify the
classification of the asset/material prior to handling the item. The operator will also ensure the
paperwork is properly marked IAW the classification of the item. After picking up the item, the
operator assumes full responsibility for the security of the classified asset and must maintain
100% positive control. At no time will the operator leave the item unattended or out of sight.
The operator will proceed directly to the drop off point for the package.
7.1.4.4. (Added) Delivery Procedures. Operators will ensure the item is delivered to the correct
organization, as identified by the originator. Upon delivery, the operator will use the Classified
Receipt Listing (L05) to verify the person receiving the package is authorized to sign/receive
classified materials.
7.1.4.5. (Added) If the receiver is not on the Classified Receipt Listing or the authority to receive
classified material cannot be verified, the operator will contact the VOCC dispatcher
immediately. At no time will the operator leave the package with someone other than the
receiver designated by the originator, unless instructed to do so by the originator or the VOCC
dispatcher. In either case, the new receiver’s authority to receive classified will also be verified
using the MMF Classified Receipt Listing.
7.1.4.6. (Added) Operators will annotate the name, rank, duty phone and organization/office
symbol of the person signing for the classified material and report that information to the
dispatcher upon returning to Vehicle Operations.
AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 7



7.1.4.7. (Added) A copy of the paperwork, with the receiver’s signature, will be retained for
deliveries where paperwork is available (e.g., DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt
Document or DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document).
7.1.4.8. (Added) Documented Cargo. When performing Documented Cargo operations,
operators will carry the Classified Receipt Listing at all times, regardless of whether or not the
Standard Asset Tracking System is used.
7.1.4.9. (Added) The Documented Cargo supervisor will coordinate with the DSS to ensure the
Classified Receipt Listing is the most current listing available.
7.1.4.10. (Added) The AFI 24-301-mandated Documented Cargo OI will reference this
supplement.
7.7.1. (Added) Unit VCO must coordinate this support and show the unit is incapable of self-
support using organizational vehicles or U-Drive-It vehicles with qualified unit vehicle
operators.
8.4.1.2.1. (Added) Members will also present their valid civilian driver’s license and Common
Access Card (CAC) for Operator Records and Licensing authentication. If remote processing is
accomplished the unit VCO will confirm the member is in possession of a valid civilian driver’s
license and CAC prior to sending an electronic AF Form 171.
8.17.1.4.1. (Added) Vehicle Operations activities will manage the installation Training
Validation and Operations (TVO) program by:
8.17.1.4.2. (Added) TVO will certify installation operators on passenger buses (vehicles
designed to carry 16 or more passengers) and semi-tractor and trailer combinations.
8.17.1.4.3. (Added) Trainees are required to correctly answer 75% of the questions to pass the
written test.
8.17.1.4.4. (Added) Over-the-road tests will only be administered after trainees have
successfully passed the required written tests.
8.17.1.4.5. (Added) Trainees who fail either the written test or over-the-road test will be required
to wait 24 hours to re-test. A second failure will require the unit VCO to request a retest after a
48-hour wait time. A third failure will require the member's unit commander to forward a
written request to the LRS/CC for retest consideration.
8.17.1.4.6. (Added) TVO will maintain a log of all military and civilian personnel certified on
assets identified in paragraph 8.17.1.4.3. for a period of 4 years. The log will list name, rank,
unit assigned, date certified, test score and number of tests taken until a passing grade was
achieved.
8.17.1.4.7. (Added) Units will develop specific guidance for the installation certification
program.
 8                                                   AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013



8.17.2.3. (Added) Unit trainers will document the following statement on the trainee’s AF Form
171, Request for Driver’s Training and Addition to U.S. Government Driver’s License prior to
referring the trainee to the VOE for certification, "Member has been fully trained on the vehicle
types identified and is ready for third party certification."
8.18.1.3.1. (Added) All cargo movement vehicle lesson plans will include proper procedures for
loading, securing and unloading cargo. Particular attention should be focused on utilization of
chains, binders and cargo straps for tractor trailer operations. AMC units operating within the
United States using GMVs to transport, tow, haul cargo or recover vehicles will follow
movement rules set forth by the Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Regulations (FMCSR).
8.18.1.3.5. (Added) Plastic dunnage will not be used to transport 463L pallets or ISU-90 bins on
tractor-trailers due to uncontrollable load shifting. Unit owned plastic dunnage may accompany
cargo to marshalling yards and storage sites; however, only wood dunnage will be used under
cargo during transport.
8.18.1.7.1. (Added) OR&L personnel will maintain an approved lesson plan listing indicating
the approval date for each individual lesson plan.
8.18.1.7.2. (Added) OR&L personnel will coordinate an assigned base management code list
through the NCOIC, VM&A annually to ensure all assigned unit vehicle types are identified.
8.18.2. (Added) TVO will maintain a hard copy of the most current FMCSR, the most current
Emergency Response Guidebook and have online access to 49 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
available at: http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title49/49tab_02.tpl
8.19.5.1. (Added) The VOE will maintain a dangerous goods movement capability robust enough to
support installation contingency requirements. AMC units are authorized to use the US Army
Ammo-67-DL HAZMAT Familiarization and Safety in Transportation Distance Learning Course.
This course is designed to meet the needs of personnel dealing with hazardous material that require
familiarization and safety training described in CFR, Section 172.704. The course is available at:
http://ammo.okstate.edu/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=144:ammo-67-
dl&catid=50:dac-course-catalog&Itemid=76
10.1.3.1. (Added) Provide the DSS detailed listings of inventories to assist with calculation of
the sections annual budget needs. Forecast support requirements for inclusion into flight annual
budget.
10.2.4. (Added) AMC tractor-trailers and vehicle operators will not be used to transport
passengers on trailer decks for special events such as parades or home coming celebrations.
Waiver requests may be submitted to AMC/A4REV after coordination with the installation
Ground Safety Office.
AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             9



11.2.4. (Added) AMC 2T1 personnel (SrA-TSgt) assigned to duties outside of Vehicle
Operations (e.g., UDM, UTM, Honor Guard, RA, QA, etc) for 18 months or longer will be
recertified on bus, wrecker, tractor trailer and material handling equipment within the first 30
days of reassignment to Vehicle Operations.
11.4. (Added) Contingency/Wartime Operations. The Deployment and Distribution Flight
Chief or Superintendent may submit deferment requests for Combat Operational Readiness
Training (CORT), in writing, to the AMC 2T1 MFM when manning is lower than 60% due to
high operations tempo. Deferment requests will be based on a 24-month period and must outline
current and projected manning during the requested period. Additionally, all training
accomplished and documented already within the requested 24-month period will be forwarded
with the request. Contact AMC/A4REV for a sample CORT Deferment Request.


                                            LEE K. LEVY II, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Director of Logistics
 10                                                 AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013



                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 Nov 2008, IC (2) 11 May 2012
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Regulation, 14 Jul 2000
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006, IC 11 Jun 2009
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds: Guidance and Procedures, 24 Aug 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008, IC (1) 9 April 2012
Department of Defense Regulations, Directives and Instructions
DoDI 5410.19, Public Affairs Community Relations Policy Implementation, 13 Nov 2001
DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 Mar 2007
DoD Instruction 7250.13, Official Representation Funds, 30 Jun 2009
Defense Logistics Agency Policy Number DESC-P-5, Vehicle Identification Link (VIL) Key
Encoding, Accountability and Control, 29 Apr 2009
United States Code (USC)
Title 10 U.S.C. Section 2548, National Military Associations: Assistance at National
Conventions
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
Title 49, CFR 172.704, Training Requirements
Title 49, CFR 383.51, Disqualification of Drivers
Title 49, CFR, Part 391, Federal Motor Carrier Safety, Qualifications of Drivers and Longer
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAC - Common Access Card
DEF - Diesel Exhaust Fluid
FMCSR - Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulation
NMA - National Military Association
ORF - Official Representation Funds
VOE - Vehicle Operations Element
AFI24-301_AMCSUP 25 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                 11



                                           Attachment 10 (Added)
                               SAMPLE MISUSE SUMMARY REPORT

MEMORANDUM FOR 999 MSG/CC

FROM: 999 LRS/CC

SUBJECT: 2013 Semiannual Government Motor Vehicle (GMV) Misuse Report

1. In accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, paragraph 3.3.3., annually, the Logistics Readiness
Squadron Commander will provide the Group Commander with detailed results of pending and completed
investigations with recommendations to foster misuse deterrence. Additionally this report provides historical data,
current data and indicates total number of alleged misuse cases:

                                    Jan-Dec 11          Jan-Dec 12          Jan-Dec 13
   Alleged Misuse Cases                  3                   0                   2
   Substantiated Cases                   2                   0                   2

   a. Case 13-001 (closed) : 999 FSS assigned member used a GMV to conduct personal business at the
   installation Post Office. Individual was counseled by unit leadership on official use policies.

   b. Case 13-002 (closed): 999 LRS member used a GMV to conduct personal business at the shoppette. Member
   was issued a Letter of Counseling, provided retraining on official use and unit Vehicle Control Officer (VCO)
   briefed the matter at commander's call.

2. To further educate the base, Vehicle Operations publicizes official use guidance during semiannual VCO
meetings and places periodic reminders on the installation Commander's Access Channel.

3. Please direct any questions or concerns regarding this matter to SrA Arthur B. Cassidy at 226-8767.




                                                        JOHN B. SMITH, Maj, USAF
                                                        Commander, 999th Logistics Readiness Squadron

1st Ind, 999 MSG/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 999 LRS/CC

Concur/Nonconcur.




                                                        MARK B. SMITH, Col, USAF
                                                        Commander, 999th Mission Support Group
