BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              25 AUGUST 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                                       RECOVERABLE FUEL



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LE                                                              Certified by: AF/A4L
                                                                        (Maj Gen Judith Fedder)
Supersedes:   AFI23-502, 15 August 2008                                               Pages: 10


This instruction sets goals, assigns responsibilities, and provides guidance for Recoverable Fuel
(Jet, AVGAS, Unleaded, Diesel and Heating Oil). It requires HQ USAF offices to provide
oversight, and Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve, Major Commands (MAJCOM),
along with subordinate activities to establish and implement operating and accounting
procedures in connection with recovering and disposing of these products. At Air Force
government-owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) industrial plants, plant personnel manage the
recovery and disposal of liquid fuels products according to prevailing federal, state, local, and
host nation laws. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Attachment 1 contains a list of abbreviations, acronyms, and terms.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication revises the guidance previously outlined in AFI 23-502, 15 August 2008.
Changes include: title change, scope of instruction, clarifying Base Fuels Management’s roles,
deleting used oils and other petroleum products paragraph and updates to reference publication
dates.

Section A—Air Force Goals
 2                                                               AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011


1. Goal. The Air Force supports Department of Defense (DoD) goals for fuel recovery and
disposal by:
     1.1. Supporting the DoD objective to efficiently operate fuel conservation and recovery
     programs to conserve natural resources, prevent pollution, and reduce waste.
     1.2. Complying with all applicable federal, state, local, and host nation laws on
     environmental protection as described in AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality and AFPD 90-
     8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health.
     1.3. Implementing Air Force environmental instructions related to the management of
     petroleum products and associated commodities or wastes derived from the storage, handling
     or use of those products: AFI 32-7042, Waste Management; AFI 32-7044 Storage Tank
     Compliance; AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program; AFI 32-7001, Environmental
     Budgeting.
     1.4. Efficiently collecting, using, and recovering or re-using government-owned fuel to the
     fullest extent permitted by sound considerations of economic, property management, fuel
     quality control, and environmental protection.

Section B—Air Force Responsibilities

2. HQ USAF. Air Staff offices oversee Recoverable and Waste Fuel programs according to this
instruction.
     2.1. HQ USAF Civil Engineer (AF/A7C) develops guidance to implement regulatory
     compliance relating to Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or State regulated
     solid or hazardous waste management within the Air Force.
     2.2. AF/A4L, Directorate of Logistics, develops Air Force implementing guidance and best
     practices to effectively manage Recoverable Fuel.
3. Major Commands (MAJCOM) and Field Operating Agencies (FOA) (A4R and
A7C). These agencies:
     3.1. Make sure appropriate staff agencies review Recoverable and Waste Fuel programs
     during site visits and installation evaluations.
     3.2. Promote environmentally friendly recovery and disposal practices.
     3.3. Coordinate all changes to Air Force waste management implementing guidance and best
     practices through AF/A7C.
4. Air Force Petroleum Agency. The AFPA provides the Air Force technical assistance and
guidance on Recoverable and Waste Fuel management. It:
     4.1. Develops appropriate procedures and guidelines to effectively manage Recoverable and
     Waste fuel.
     4.2. Provides technical assistance to MAJCOMs and base-level installations with problems
     involving fuel contamination, collection, and reuse.
     4.3. Provides laboratory analysis for all petroleum product testing beyond base-level
     capability.
AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                      3


   4.4. Provides guidance through technical order (T.O.) 42B-1-23, Management of
   Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products, for handling and disposing of products
   covered in this instruction.
5. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency. AFCESA/CEOA provides technical assistance
and criteria for real property assets for collecting and storing fuel.
6. Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE/TDN). AFCEE/TDN
provides technical assistance and criteria for collecting and storing fuel.
7. Base or Installation. At the base or installation level, a number of individuals and agencies
carry out activities related to fuel product recovery, collection, and disposal.
   7.1. The Wing Commander:
       7.1.1. Oversees the development of a comprehensive Installation Recoverable and Waste
       Petroleum Products Management (R & W) program to manage the collection,
       segregation, and disposition of ALL recoverable (reclaimable and recyclable) and waste
       petroleum products generated by the installation.
       7.1.2. Designates operating agencies that are major users and handlers of petroleum
       products to implement the program, such as: Aircraft Maintenance, Civil Engineering,
       Logistic Readiness, Fuels Management, Morale Welfare and Recreation (MWR), Army
       Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), etc.
       7.1.3. Reviews and approves the R & W program and sends it to the MAJCOM
       A4RE/A7C.
       7.1.4. Develops guidelines on using, inspecting, and maintaining oil and water
       separators.
       7.1.5. Submits the R & W program for functional review to the following agencies:
       Safety Office, Bioenvironmental Office, DLA Disposition Services, and Accounting and
       Finance Office. NOTE: In most instances, no single organization on an installation has
       all the resources needed to implement the program. Therefore, the installation
       commander must request primary supporting agencies provide technical assistance and
       resources.
   7.2. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE):
       7.2.1. Directs base agencies on how to collect and store used or recovered fuel for
       recycling or disposal IAW federal, state, and local laws or base procedures. This
       includes local/host nation environmental procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
       (EPA), and state regulations.
       7.2.2. Maintains permanently installed petroleum recovery and/or waste facilities to meet
       installation requirements and provides standard design criteria drawings as needed.
       7.2.3. Evaluates fuel operations to verify compliance with environmental program
       requirements and pollution prevention objectives.
   7.3. The Fuels Management Team (FMT):
       7.3.1. Assists base organizations in determining how to handle Recoverable (reclaimable
       and recyclable) Fuel.
4                                                                 AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011


           7.3.1.1. Coordinates with BCE for the handling, management and disposition of fuel
           that is no longer usable on the installation. NOTE: Fuel will NOT be: used for weed,
           insect, or road dust control, used in open pit burning or dumped into landfills, sewers,
           water, storm drains, etc.
           7.3.1.2. For quantities in excess of 1000 gallons, sends an all-level sample to
           AFPA/PTPLA, Aerospace Fuels Laboratory for specification identification and
           quality analysis.
       7.3.2. Accepts and accounts for Recoverable Fuel that is returned to Base Fuels
       Management inventories.
       7.3.3. All recovered fuel will be analyzed by FMT to determine fuel classification as
       Reclaimable, Recoverable, or Unusable to prevent product commingling.
       7.3.4. Develops procedures to return “on-specification” fuel to inventory.
       7.3.5. Prior to downgrading/blending, written approval is required from Defense
       Logistics Agency (DLA) Energy-QA via AFPA/PTOT in coordination with the
       MAJCOM/A4R, IAW T.O. 42B-1-23.
       7.3.6. Adheres to any applicable Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA)
       requirements and state equivalents when water is removed or discharged from fuel
       systems.
    7.4. The Generating Activity:
       7.4.1. Supervises proper collection, segregation, handling and disposition of Recoverable
       and Unusable Fuels IAW T.O. 42B-1-23, the Installation Program, EPA, federal, state,
       and applicable local regulations. In the absence of such regulations, collection,
       segregation, handling and disposition of Recoverable and Unusable Fuels will be IAW
       Final Governing Standards for said location.
       7.4.2. If the generating activity, based on FMT lab analysis and in coordination with the
       installation hazardous waste program manager, classifies the suspect product as waste
       fuel rather than Recoverable Fuel, the generating activity will manage the fuel IAW
       applicable guidance.
       7.4.3. Obtain enough suitable containers to properly segregate and store Recoverable and
       Unusable Fuel, by product type. Procure fuel bowsers for aircraft ground support to meet
       the standard specifications in T.O. 42B-1-23, Appendix A. Paint or mark containers and
       bowsers according to T.O.s 42B-1-23, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid
       Petroleum Products, 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting, and Marking of US Air
       Force Support Equipment, and 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor
       Vehicle Maintenance, as appropriate.
       7.4.4. Provides or arranges transportation of products to collection or disposal points
       IAW the installation R & W program.
       7.4.5. Manages the R & W program at the operational level.
       7.4.6. Submits data on quantity and identity of Recoverable and Unusable Fuel, as
       required, to the designated installation environmental component of the program.
AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                            5


Section C—Base R & W Program for Recoverable and Waste Petroleum Products

8. Program Documentation. Documentation may be in the form of a plan or a base operating
instruction. The following T.O.s provides operational guidance. Reference the T.O.s in the
program documentation:
   8.1. T.O. 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting, and Marking for US Air Force Support
   Equipment.
   8.2. T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance.
   8.3. T.O. 42B-1-1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants.
   8.4. T.O. 42B-1-23, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products.
   8.5. DOD 4140.25-M, Vol. II, DoD Management of Bulk Petroleum Products, Natural Gas,
   and Coal http://www.desc.dla.mil/DCM/DCMPage.asp?PageID=699.
   8.6. Applicable      DLA       Energy      Interim                     Policy         Guidance:
   http://www.desc.dla.mil/DCM/DCMPage.asp?PageID=479
9. Program Content. The program must state specific responsibilities and criteria for
collecting, storing, returning to inventory, reclaiming, reusing, and disposing of all Recoverable
and/or Unusable Fuel generated on the base. The program must be environmentally consistent
with effective energy conservation, property management, quality control principles, and sound
economics. At a minimum, the program must include:
   9.1. Identification of all generating agencies.
   9.2. A list of all Recoverable and Unusable Fuels generated by an organization, including
   source, approximate quantities.
   9.3. Specific responsibilities assigned to base organizations.
   9.4. Facilities and methods used to recover, store, and/or dispose of products.
   9.5. Accounting procedures to credit using organizations for Recoverable Fuel can be found
   in DOD 4140.25M, DLA Energy Interim Policy and of this instruction.
   9.6. Specific procedures for the entry, exit, and control of vehicles needed to remove
   Unusable and Waste products from the installation. If escort control is necessary, develop
   procedures IAW AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks. The procedures must ensure
   positive product control by designating pick up locations, verifying pick up quantities, and
   whenever possible, using a single entry and exit.
   9.7. The program must stress sound conservation and property management of waste
   products and the on-base recycling of reusable products. The priorities for disposition of
   products are:
       9.7.1. Return on-specification fuel to base fuels inventory for use as the original grade.
       9.7.2. As a last resort, return off-specification fuel to base fuels inventory and blend into
       the original or different grade. Prior to downgrading/blending, a fuel analysis must be
       performed by the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory. Once analysis is completed, written
       approval is required from DLA Energy-QA via AFPA/PTOT in coordination with the
       MAJCOM/A4R, IAW T.O. 42B-1-23.
 6                                                                   AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011


        9.7.3. Local procedures will be in place to maximize the use of recovered products that
        cannot be reclaimed. Consider reuse of products in secondary applications, such as a
        heating fuel, after coordination with the base environmental function.
        9.7.4. Categorize any unused reusable products as surplus.            Turn unused reusable
        products into DLA Disposition Services.
        9.7.5. For unusable fuel, contract with a service company to remove the fuel from the
        base after coordination with the base environmental function.

Section D—Financial Management

10. General Guidelines. Recoverable Fuel represents a significant economic resource. To
retain or recoup product value, make every effort to collect, segregate, and reclaim on-
specification fuel to inventory or reuse fuel IAW 42B-1-23.
     10.1. If on-base reclaim or recycling is not possible, dispose of Reusable Fuel through DLA
     Disposition Services as surplus.
        10.1.1. Each installation must properly credit proceeds from the sale of reusable fuel to
        the U.S. Treasury.
11. How to Account for Fuel. The Fuels Service Center conducts a number of tasks related to
accounting for recoverable fuel returned to storage, reclaimed and reused fuel.
     11.1. Reclaimed Fuel Returned to Storage as “Original Grade”. Credit aircraft aviation fuel,
     non-fly aviation fuel, and ground fuel returned as the original grade to bulk fuels storage at
     standard price to the aircraft or organization from which the fuel was collected. When
     multiple agencies contribute to a central collection point, credit the fuel on a percentage basis
     to each organization. Follow DoD 4140.25M. DLA Energy Interim policy for Defense
     Working Capital Fund (DWCF) fuel.
     11.2. Fuel Returned to Storage as a “Lower Grade”. Account for aircraft aviation fuel, non-
     fly aviation fuel, and ground fuel returned to bulk fuels storage in a grade different from its
     original grade by:
        11.2.1. As a last resort, return off-specification fuel to base fuels inventory and blend
        into the original or different grade. Prior to downgrading/blending, a fuel analysis must
        be performed by the Aerospace Fuels Laboratory. Once analysis is completed, written
        approval is required from DLA Energy-QA via AFPA/PTOT in coordination with the
        MAJCOM/A4R, IAW T.O. 42B-1-23
        11.2.2. Follow procedure in DoD 4140.25M.
     11.3. Surplus Products. Products that cannot be returned to base inventory, used in a
     secondary application on-base, or transferred to other DoD activities for reuse may be
     eligible for disposition by the DLA Disposition Services.
     11.4. Reprocessed Fuel. Reprocessing may be a viable alternative for off-specification or
     contaminated fuel that is not suitable for downgrading. For very large quantities of such fuel,
     (usually base fuels bulk storage product contaminated through fire, spill, and so on.) the fuels
     management office, in coordination with the base contracting function and the respective
AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                        7


   MAJCOM, investigates the potential for reusing the product through reprocessing. This
   effort includes:
      11.4.1. Researching the local commercial refining or reprocessing capability.
          11.4.1.1. Compare the costs to reprocess product with the costs to purchase new
          product with cost to dispose of as unusable.
      11.4.2. For DWCF fuel, send requests for funding of reprocessing costs to AFPA. AFPA
      will review and forward to DLA Energy. NOTE: The installation bears the reprocessing
      costs for non-capitalized fuel.
   11.5. Unusable Fuel. Fuel not returned to base storage, reused on-base or at other DoD
   installations in the vicinity and deemed not suitable for AF use should be managed IAW the
   base Hazardous Waste Management Plan. Properly identify these products on appropriate
   item records and dispose of IAW the base Hazardous Waste Management Plan.
12. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
   12.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   12.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance        with          the        AF            RDS           located          at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.




                                            LOREN M. RENO
                                            Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 8                                                            AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-204, Organizational Fuel Tanks, 24 June 2009
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting, 9 May 1994
AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 15 Apr 2009
AFI 32-7044, Storage Tank Compliance, 13 November 2003
AFI 32-7080, Pollution Prevention Program, 12 May 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, 1 November 1995
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health, 1 Sep 2004
AFRIMS, Air Force Records Information Management System, which contains the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
DOD 4140.25-M, Management of Bulk Petroleum Products, Natural Gas, and Coal, 26 Feb
2009
T.O. 35-1-3, Corrosion Prevention, Painting, and Marking of US Air Force Support Equipment,
6 August 2009
T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 20 July
2007
T.O. 42B-1-1, Quality Control of Fuels and Lubricants, 30 Aug 2010
T.O. 42B-1-23, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products, 22 June
2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineering Support Agency
AFPA—Air Force Petroleum Agency
AFPA/PTOT—Air Force Petroleum Agency, Technical Assistance Team
AFPA/PTPLA—Air Force Petroleum Agency, Aerospace Fuels Laboratory
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011                                                                         9


DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DWCF—Defense Working Capital Fund
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOCO—Government-Owned, Contractor-Operated
AF/A4LE—Fuels Management Air Staff
AF/A7C—Civil Engineer Air Staff
IAW—in accordance with
MAJCOM—Major Command
POL—Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
R&W—Installation Recoverable and Waste Petroleum Products Management
T.O.—Technical Order

Terms
Final Governing Standards—Documents developed to address the protection of human health
and the environment in each foreign country where DoD maintains substantial installations.
Generating Activity—A base agency (host, tenant, or contractor) that generates Recoverable,
Reusable or Reclaimable Fuel.
Hazardous Waste—Any solid waste deemed hazardous pursuant to 40 CFR Part 261.3, state
laws or regulations or host nation rules and regulations.
Recoverable Fuels—Fuels that still have useful physical or chemical properties (two parts;
reclaimable and/or reusable).
Off-Specification Fuel—Fuel that has more than one specification. Off-specification fuel can be
blended as re-graded fuels. Off-specification fuel is not identified as waste/hazardous waste fuel.
On-Specification Fuel—Fuel that has a suitable quality to be returned to the base inventory.
T.O. 42B-1-23, table 3-1, Management of Recoverable and Waste Liquid Petroleum Products,
sets the criteria for suitable quality.
Reusable Fuel—Fuel that does not meet its original specification, but which through processing
can be recovered to its original grade or a lower grade without reprocessing.
Reprocessing—Refining, clay filtering or naphtha injection to bring off-specification fuel up to
specification.
Reclaimable Fuel—Fuel of known or determinable quality that can be used for the original
grade without reprocessing.
 10                                                            AFI23-502 25 AUGUST 2011


Unusable Fuel—Fuel not returned to base storage, reused on-base or at other DoD installations
in the vicinity and deemed not suitable for AF use.
Waste Fuel—Fuel that is no longer suitable for any use on an installation because of excessive
contamination or quality degradation.
