BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-302
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                       DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                             7 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                                   VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 355 LRS/LGRV                                                     Certified by: 355 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Col Greg A. Williams)
                                                                                         Pages: 4




This publication implements Air Force Instruction 24-302, Vehicle Management. It provides
guidance and procedures on identifying, reporting, and assessing liability for potential vehicle
abuse conditions. This base supplement applies to Air Force Reserve Command as well as
Active Duty units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers as required. Send comments
and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through 355 LRS/LGLOC, 5165 East Kachina Street, Davis-Monthan AFB, AZ 85707.


1.13.1. The following are examples of vehicle abuse: NOTE: The following procedures apply to
all vehicles, to include low speed vehicles (LSV) and all terrain vehicles (ATV) such as Gator’s.
           1.13.1.1. (Added) Failure to accomplish organizational/operator maintenance in
           accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s commercial publication or Air Force
           manuals/technical orders.
           1.13.1.2. (Added) Knowingly operating a vehicle with a malfunction that may cause
           further damage.
           1.13.1.3. (Added) Overloading the vehicle or failure to tie down/secure cargo.
2                           AFI 24-302_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


       1.13.1.4. (Added) Operating a vehicle with under inflated/over inflated tires.
       1.13.1.5. (Added) Failure to protect the vehicle exterior painted surfaces from
       oxidation.
       1.13.1.6. (Added) Overdue scheduled or annual maintenance.
       1.13.1.7. (Added) Modifying a vehicle or adding equipment without written
       approval from the Vehicle Control Officer (VCO), with endorsement by the 355 LRS
       vehicle fleet manager (VFM) or vehicle management superintendent (VMS).
       1.13.1.8. (Added) Failure to bring a vehicle to vehicle management by the next duty
       day when it has a known safety discrepancy.
       1.13.1.9. (Added) Operating a vehicle with known safety discrepancies such as,
       lights, horn inoperative, wind damage, low engine/hydraulic/coolant/brake fluids,
       excessively worn tires, etc.
    1.13.1.10.   (Added) Adding the improper type of fuel to the vehicle’s fuel tank.
    1.13.5. (Added) The 355 LRS vehicle management flight is responsible for identifying
    suspected vehicle abuse. The VFM or VMS will evaluate each case and certify each
    alleged vehicle abuse. The vehicle management and analysis (VM&A) element will
    document and track accident/abuse cases.
    1.13.6. (Added) Upon determination a vehicle accident/abuse case should be opened,
    the VFM/VMS determines if repairs will be accomplished by vehicle management or by
    a local vendor. VM&A will initiate an estimate work order to determine the cost of
    repairs and/or obtain estimates on vehicles being repaired by local vendors. The work
    order and the vendor estimate, if applicable, along with a signed letter from the Vehicle
    Management Flight Chief identifying the accident/abuse damage, will be routed to the
    unit VCO/VCNCO. The organizational commander is responsible for determining
    whether an investigation of the alleged vehicle accident or abuse is conducted in
    accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
    Responsible organizations will fund all replacement parts, regardless of pecuniary
    liability or reimbursement made by the individual to the government, through the transfer
    of unit O&M funds or payment with GPC (preferred method).
    1.13.7. (Added) The responsible organization’s VCO/VCNCO will provide vehicle
    management with a release letter and funding arrangements prior to any repairs being
    accomplished.      The release letter signed by the organizational commander or
    VCO/VCNCO notifies vehicle management report of survey (ROS) actions are complete
    or ROS will not be initiated and vehicle management is free to begin repairs. VM&A
    will not initiate work until funding arrangements have been made by the responsible
    organization.
    1.13.8. (Added) When contract maintenance repairs are necessary VM&A will notify
    the local vendor to begin repairs on the vehicle when a release letter has been signed by
    the unit commander or VCO/VCNCO and funding arrangements have been made. In the
    event repairs exceed $3,000 the responsible organization will either initiate a funds
    transfer or prepare AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, in order to pay for the repairs,
AFI 24-302_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013                                                3


     regardless of pecuniary liability or reimbursement made by the individual to the
     government.
     1.13.9. (Added) When payment for damage, either voluntary or through the use of a DD
     Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, is involved, the actual cost
     of repairs is computed using an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value
     Statement. The surveying officer can request the AF Form 20 from vehicle management.
            10.4.10.4.2. Arid conditions and constant exposure to intense sunlight in Arizona
            cause vehicle finishes to oxidize quickly, resulting in discoloration and reduction
            of gloss. Personnel at Davis-Monthan AFB are required to wax vehicles at least
            quarterly and track compliance using a tracking log for all assigned vehicles.
            VCO/VCNCOs must maintain tracking logs in their VCO guidebooks. Vehicle
            Management personnel will inspect tracking logs during their annual unit staff
            assistance visits.




                                          KEVIN E. BLANCHARD, Col, USAF
                                          Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
 4                            AFI 24-302_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 7 OCTOBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 07 February 2013
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ATV—All Terrain Vehicle
LSV—Low Speed Vehicle
ROS—Report Of Survey
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
