BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-302
2D BOMB WING                                               BARKSDALE AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                                  24 MAY 2012

                                                                         Material Management

                                                                  VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 2 LRS/LGRV                                                         Certified by: 2 LRS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Troy D. Koepnick)
                                                                                        Pages: 8



AFI 23-302, dated 29 October 2007, is supplemented as follows. In addition to the Air Force
Joint Manual (AFJMAN) 24-306, Manual For The Wheeled Vehicle Driver, this supplement
outlines an effective vehicle accident and abuse program with the visibility and emphasis placed
at the unit level and under the direct control of the unit commander. This instruction is
applicable to all persons operating Government Services Administration (GSA) vehicles and
Government-Owned Vehicles (GOV) assigned to Barksdale Air Force Base or their
geographically separated units. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as
required for approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

1.20.1.1. (Added) If a GOV operator is responsible for a GOV accident, that operator’s
organization will reimburse Vehicle Maintenance Element (2 LRS/LGRV) the cost of all
materials, and if applicable, contract costs associated with the repair of the damaged GOV. The
using organization can also arrange to pay for the repairs utilizing the Government Purchase
Card (GPC) to cover contract costs associated with off-base repairs. However, all off-base
contracted repairs will be coordinated by 2 LRS/LGRV.
 2                                         AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012


1.20.1.2. (Added) If a GOV is involved in an accident with a Privately Owned Vehicle (POV),
in which the POV owner/driver is at fault yet does not have insurance; the using organization
will pay for the repairs to the GOV. The using organization may contact the claims section of
the legal office to discuss the limited options in getting recoupment from the POV owner/driver.
If the POV owner/driver is insured, the owning organization must provide Vehicle Maintenance
with the persons name, address, phone number as well as name/policy number and phone
number of their insurance company. Vehicle Maintenance personnel will contact the insurance
company and request guidance as to what procedures are to be taken to have the GOV repaired.
In most cases, the company will send an agent/adjuster to look at the damaged GOV and instruct
Vehicle Maintenance to take the vehicle to local vendors for repair estimates. After the
agent/adjuster selects a vendor and repairs are completed to the satisfaction of Vehicle
Maintenance inspectors, payment is made directly to the vendor by the insurance company
representative. Should the GOV be damaged beyond repair capability, then Vehicle
Maintenance will refer to the 2d Bomb Wing Judge Advocate (2 BW/JA) for a “G” claim and
possible recovery of funds equivalent to vehicle value prior to the accident.
1.20.1.3. (Added) Any organization that abuses a GOV, as determined by the Vehicle Fleet
Manager/ Management Superintendent, will be responsible for reimbursing the 2 LRS/LGRV the
cost of all materials, and if applicable, contract costs associated with the repair of the damaged
GOV.
Payment for costs associated with off-base repairs can be made by the using organization’s GPC
card. Examples of GOV abuses are detailed in Attachment 2.


1.20.1.4. (Added) If the using organization disputes the accident or abuse, they must present
their dispute in written format through the 2 LRS/CC to the 2 MSG/CC within 5 duty days of
receipt of the Accident or Abuse Notification Letter. The 2 MSG/CC is the final decision
authority for all vehicle accident or abuse disputes.
1.20.1.5. (Added) Payment will be accomplished through a transfer of funds from the using
organization’s Operations and Maintenance (O&M) account to the 2 LRS/LGRV account. The
using organization may choose to utilize the GPC program for payment for repairs completed by
commercial vendors of less than $3,000. An Air Force (AF) Form 9, Request for Purchase will
be required for repairs exceeding $3,000 and must be submitted by the owning organization.
Reimbursement will be made regardless of individual pecuniary liability as determined by a
Report of Survey.
1.20.3.1. (Added) If a GOV or GSA vehicle operator is involved in an accident, he/she will
notify a law enforcement agency to respond to the scene of the accident. The operator will
request a copy of the accident report for the using organization’s future investigative use.
1.20.3.2. (Added) The vehicle operator will bring the GOV to Vehicle Maintenance within 24
hours of discovery. If the vehicle cannot be driven, the driver will contact Vehicle Maintenance
during normal duty operations. After hours, contact Vehicle Dispatch (456-2208) to arrange a
wrecker pickup. Upon turn-in, the operator will document the accident on a Motor Vehicle
Accident Report Standard Form 91. The Vehicle Fleet Manager/ Management Superintendent
will make the determination on how to process the accident/abuse/incident. GSA accidents will
AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012                                                               3


be processed by the Vehicle Control Officer/Noncommissioned Officer (VCO/VCNCO) through
the appropriate GSA representative.
1.20.3.3. (Added)     To expedite repair of GOVs involved in an accident or abuse, using
organizations will provide a Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
Attachment 5, within 5 duty days from receipt of the Accident or Abuse Notification Letter
Attachment 3 or Attachment 4 from the 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (2
LRS/CC). If the using organization does not respond within 5 duty days, repairs will be
initiated. Failure to send the Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility letter does not
excuse the using organization from reimbursing or paying for the accident/abuse repairs.
1.20.5. (Added) GSA accidents/abuses will be processed as follows: The using organization’s
VCO/VCNCO will seek instructions from GSA’s accident control center by calling their toll free
number. The GSA representative will direct the VCO/VCNCO which contractor to use for
repairs and disclose whether or not estimates are needed. In most cases, GSA will initially pay
the contractor directly. At the discretion of GSA representative, the damaged vehicle’s charge
card may be used to pay for minor repairs. The reimbursement funds will need to be transferred
from the using organization to the 2 LRS/LGRV GSA account (for GSA vehicles controlled by 2
LRS/LGRV). Units having their own GSA accounts will reimburse GSA directly.
1.20.6. (Added) The 2 LRS/CC will issue a Letter of Accident or Abuse Notification to the
using organization’s squadron commander and VCO/VCNCO. This letter will include the
damage repair estimate and a description of the damage to include photographs Attachment 3 or
Attachment 4. If 2 LRS/LGRV determines repairs are to be done by commercial vendors, then
the accident/abuse notification letter will include the most favorable estimated cost to the
government.
1.20.6.1. (Added)     The 2 LRS/LGRV will:
1.20.6.1.1. (Added)    Identify vehicle damage caused by accident, abuse, or incident.
1.20.6.1.2. (Added) Initiate repairs within 5 duty days after the accident/abuse package is sent
to the using organization’s commander regardless of receipt of a Letter of Release and
Acceptance of Financial Responsibility Attachment 5 from the using organization.
1.20.6.1.3. (Added) Work directly with the using organization’s VCO/VCNCO to facilitate
GPC payment arrangements with off base vendors. Payment in this way is optional. Should the
user choose not to use the GPC, arrangements then must be made for O&M funds transfer to
2LRS/LGRV.
1.20.6.1.4. (Added)     Track and provide costs to be reimbursed by the using organization’s
resource advisor.
1.20.6.1.5. (Added)    Maintain accident/abuse case files to track quantity and repair cost data.
1.20.6.1.6. (Added) Provide an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement,
when requested by the owning/using organization.
1.20.6.2. (Added) The Vehicle Operations Flight (2 LRS/LGRDDO) may withhold issuing
replacement GOV/GSA vehicles involved in an accident or abuse. In most cases, a unit’s
vehicle will not be replaced. The unit’s current Minimum Essential List (MEL) and mission will
be taken into consideration. Replacements will be on a case-by-case basis. The VCO/VCNCO
should call LGRDDO to work this issue.
 4                                           AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012


1.20.6.3. (Added)     Using organization's responsibilities are as follows:
1.20.6.3.1. (Added)      If the accident occurred at Barksdale AFB, the GOV/GSA vehicle
operator will immediately notify the 2d Security Forces Squadron to report the accident. If the
accident occurs outside of Barksdale AFB, contact the applicable local law enforcement agency.
1.20.6.3.2. (Added)      Deliver the damaged GOV to the Vehicle Management Flight
immediately if applicable but no later than the next duty day. Contact Vehicle Dispatch if
wrecker assistance is needed.
1.20.6.3.3. (Added) Within 5 duty days of receipt of the Accident or Abuse Notification
Letter, investigate the accident or abuse if needed and complete and forward a copy of the
Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility Attachment 5 to 2
LRS/LGRV. No additional Report of Action is required. The release memorandum informs 2
LRS/LGRV that the owning organization no longer needs the damaged vehicle for investigative
purposes, allowing commencement of repairs.
1.20.6.3.4. (Added) When using the GPC, the using organization’s VCO/VCNCO will contact
2 LRS/LGRV for payment arrangements.
1.20.6.3.5. (Added)     The using organization’s resource advisor will arrange funds transfer to 2
LRS/LGRV.




                                              TIMOTHY G. FAY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 2 Bomb Wing
AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012                                                         5


                                   Attachment 1 (Added)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual For The Wheeled Vehicle Driver, 27 August 2003
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 20 July
2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
GSA- General Service Administration Vehicles
GOV-Government Owned or Leased Vehicle
2 BW/JA—2d Bomb Wing Judge Advocate
2 LRS/CC—2d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
2 LRS/LGDDO—Vehicle Operations Element
2 LRS/LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
2 MSG/CC—2d Mission Support Group Commander

Terms
Vehicle Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment
based on its age, usage, and/or life expectancy.
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a GOV or GSA vehicle strikes or is struck by any other
vehicle or strikes an object or structure, except vehicle incidents.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a GOV or GSA vehicle sustains damage where the
actions of any participative vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of
nature).
Vehicle Abuse—An act that has caused or may cause damage to a GOV or GSA vehicle that
cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear, accident or incident Attachment 2.
Using Organization—The organization that was using the GOV or GSA vehicle at the time of
the accident/abuse/incident.
Owning Organization—The organization that is authorized and assigned the GOV or GSA
vehicle.
General Service Administration Field Representative—General Service Administration point
of contact for all GSA vehicles on or managed by Barksdale Air Force Base (AFB). Currently
Field Representatives for the Louisiana region are on Fort Polk Army Installation in Alexandria,
LA.
 6                                          AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012


                                    Attachment 11 (Added)
                 SAMPLE ACCIDENT NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR (USING ORGANIZATION/CC)
FROM: 2 LRS/CC
SUBJECT: Notification of Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) Accident
1. On (DATE), Vehicle (REGISTRATION NUMBER) was reported to Vehicle Maintenance
with damages that cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear. Our records indicate that this
vehicle is assigned to your unit. It is necessary to repair the vehicle in accordance with
Technical Order (TO) 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle
Maintenance.
2. Repair actions include repair of (LIST OF DAMAGES). Anytime we determine damage to
result from other than fair wear and tear under normal use, we are required by AFI 24-302 to
process it as an accident.
3. Pictures and an estimate of the damage are attached to this document. Your unit will be
charged for the parts and any contract costs associated with the repairs. An investigation will
need to be conducted by your organization to determine if financial liability exists. If your
investigation determines the damage should be attributed to fair wear and tear or was incurred in
direct performance of the vehicle’s designed mission, a financial liability dispute will need to be
submitted.
4. You have 5 duty days to respond to this notification with a Memorandum of Release and
Acceptance of Financial Responsibility (see example in Attachment 5). If you dispute this
accident liability, you must submit your disagreement in writing to the 2d Mission Support
Group Commander (2 MSG/CC) through the 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (2
LRS/CC). The 2 MSG/CC is the final authority on all accident disputes.
5. If you require additional information, please contact Vehicle Maintenance Control at Defense
Switched Network (DSN) 781-4644.
3 Attachments:
1. Example of Release and Acceptance of Financial Responsibility Memorandum
2. Detailed Vehicle Repair/Work Order Estimate
3. Vehicle Damage Photo(s)




TROY D. KOEPNIK, Lt Col, USAF
Commander, 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron
AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012                                                             7


                                    Attachment 12 (Added)
           SAMPLE SUSPECTED ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM

(Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR (USING ORGANIZATION/CC)
FROM: 2 LRS/CC
SUBJECT: Notification of Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) Suspected Abuse
1. Vehicle (REGISTRATION NUMBER) was turned in to Vehicle Maintenance with damage
that is not attributed to fair wear and tear on (DATE). The estimated cost of this repair action is
(COST). Actual repair cost will be provided upon request after repairs have been completed.
2. This abuse action is based on the reason or reason(s) indicated below: (see abuse examples in
Attachment 2).
3. You have 5 duty days to respond to this notification with a Memorandum of Release and
Acceptance of Financial Responsibility (see example in Attachment 5). If you dispute this
abuse liability, you must submit your disagreement in writing to the 2d Mission Support Group
Commander (2 MSG/CC) through the 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (2
LRS/CC). The 2 MSG/CC is the final authority on all abuse disputes.
4. Unlike vehicle accident cases, we will not start any repairs until the Memorandum of Release
and Acceptance of Financial Responsibility is received from you or your VCO.
5. If you require additional information, please contact Vehicle Maintenance Control at DSN
781-4644.
Attachments:
1. Example of Release and Acceptance of Financial Responsibility Memorandum
2. Vehicle Repair/Work Order Estimate
3. Vehicle Damage Photo(s)




TROY D. KOEPNIK, Lt Col, USAF
Commander, 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron
 8                                          AFI23-302_BARKSDALEAFBSUP 24 MAY 2012


                                    Attachment 13 (Added)
     SAMPLE MEMORANDUM OF RELEASE AND ACCEPTANCE OF FINANCIAL
                         RESPONSIBILITY

MEMORANDUM FOR 2 LRS/CC
FROM: (Using Organization)
SUBJECT: Memorandum of Release/Acceptance of Financial Responsibility
1. Vehicle (REGISTRATION NUMBER) that (is assigned to/was being used by our
organization) was involved in an (accident/abuse). Our investigation has been completed, and
the vehicle is now released to maintenance for repairs.
2. I understand the cost associated with these repairs to include parts, materials or contract
maintenance repair costs. This cost for repair will be transferred from our unit’s operations and
maintenance (O&M) funds to the applicable 2d Logistics Readiness Squadron O&M account.




Unit Commander Signature Block
