BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 20-117
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              8 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Logistics

                                                 REPAIR NETWORK INTEGRATION (RNI)



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A4LX                                                           Certified by: AF/A4L,
                                                                    (Maj Gen John B. Cooper)
                                                                                    Pages: 16



This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 20-1,
Integrated Life Cycle Management and provides specific direction addressing AFPD 21-1, Air
and Space Maintenance as applicable to the Repair Network Integration (RNI). This publication
takes precedence with any conflicts involving AFI 21-129, Two Level Maintenance and Regional
Repair of Air Force Weapon Systems and Equipment. It provides the basic definition and
guidance for maintenance repair networks. This instruction applies to all Major Commands
(MAJCOMs), the Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and their
subordinates. For AF repair enterprise core management process details and procedures, refer to
AFMAN 20-118, Repair Network Integration (when published). This AFI applies to
maintenance activity on aircraft and associated support equipment, commodities, and special
tools (e.g., Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE), Depot Level Reparables
(DLRs), and Other Major End Items (OMEI)).           MAJCOMs, the AFRC, and the ANG may
supplement this document, with approval from the AF/A4L, to identify any required deviations
(applicability,    variance,   and/or    differences    in   organizational    placement     of
responsibilities/processes). Identify each deviation on the supplement with ―(DEV) directly
preceding the paragraph number. These supplements must be submitted to AF/A4L for
approval; however, supplements not including deviations do not require AF/A4L approval.
Additionally, supplements must be made in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route the AF Form 847 from the unit through the MAJCOM functional
manager. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
 2                                                            AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records     Disposition     Schedule         (RDS)        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This is a new instruction and must be
reviewed in its entirety.
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                        3


                                          Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM GUIDANCE

1.1. Scope. This publication establishes the requirement to pursue an optimized a Total Force
(Active, Guard, and Reserve) Repair Network. The Repair Network will accomplish the
Intermediate-level and Depot-level maintenance and repair of aircraft and reparable assets
required to fulfill operational needs outside the capability and/or capacity of the Mission
Generation Network.
1.2. General. Repair Network Management is a process-focused effort designed to standardize
work and reduce waste and costs of Intermediate and Depot-level repair through comprehensive
management at an AF Enterprise-level, with an ultimate goal of delivering optimized weapons
system availability at the same or reduced cost. Enterprise management examines the core
processes that impact weapon system availability, including product flow, funding, requirements,
capability and capacity (CAP2), and information technology. This concept provides a single
process owner for the Air Force Repair Enterprise, including planning, operations, and strategy.
RNI management processes do not change or re-align chain-of-command relationships, and
repair nodes will continue to report through their chain-of-command.
1.3. General Guidance.
   1.3.1. The objectives of RNI are to:
       1.3.1.1. Transform and sustain maintenance management processes to establish a Repair
       Network to improve efficiency while increasing responsiveness to meet warfighter
       requirements.
       1.3.1.2. Manage the Repair Network to perform Intermediate-level and Depot-level
       maintenance with rationalized repair CAP2 that is focused on Intermediate-level and
       Depot-level maintenance activities outside the capability and/or capacity of the Mission
       Generation Network, such as: component repair, depot-level reparables (DLRs), and
       modifications.
       1.3.1.3. Facilitate effective collaboration of repair management between distributed
       repair nodes in the Repair Network, including: Depot-level maintenance, Centralized
       Repair Facilities (CRF), Wing-level intermediate maintenance support shops, and
       contract maintenance sites.
       1.3.1.4. Enhance Repair Network Management and provide improved feedback to the
       Mission Generation Network through the utilization of integrated, bandwidth efficient,
       logistics information systems to ensure a seamless flow of logistics management and
       business data.
       1.3.1.5. Incorporate Continuous Process Improvement (CPI) to seek out efficiency gains
       throughout the Repair Network.
1.4. Exclusions:
   1.4.1. With the exception of Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratories (PMEL), the
   Repair Network will not include maintenance activities on non-aircraft systems, non-aircraft
   support equipment, or non-aircraft communications equipment.
 4                                                                  AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


     1.4.2. RNI processes will not apply to assets managed solely by Contract Logistics Support
     (CLS) agreements.
     1.4.3. RNI will not control allocation of parts.
1.5. Metrics. Metrics, as a diagnostic tool to aid decision making, will gauge network
performance and evaluate effectiveness of intermediate and depot support.
     1.5.1. Metrics will also provide information that will facilitate identification of problems,
     solutions, benchmarks, changes for maintenance behavior, and goals for network operations.
     1.5.2. Metrics will be divided into the following categories: Availability, Performance, and
     Affordability. These metrics will be a part of the Manage Network Performance core
     management process that will be detailed in AFMAN 20-118, Repair Network Integration
     (when published).
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                     5


                                          Chapter 2

                                   RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7) shall:
   2.1.1. Provide direction/guidance for the development of core management processes and
   RNI policy. Authority for follow on policy change requests resides with AF/A4L.
   2.1.2. Designate a RNI Core Team Chair.
2.2. Air Force Materiel Command Commander (AFMC/CC) shall:
   2.2.1. Appoint, in writing, the Enterprise Repair Manager (ERM).
2.3. Air Force Materiel Command Director of Logistics (AFMC/A4) shall
   2.3.1. Lead, coordinate, and plan RNI implementation efforts and coordinate/collaborate
   with all MAJCOMs, AFRC, ANG, and other stakeholders concerning the implementation of
   standard processes, reporting processes, management plans, systems, training, and tools
   related to Repair Network Management.
   2.3.2. Manage network scoping activities including: deliverable expectations, schedule
   development, and schedule management.
   2.3.3. Provide implementation oversight through project planning and execution, adjusting
   milestones, and resolving integration issues.
2.4. MAJCOM Director of Logistics (MAJCOM/A4) shall:
   2.4.1. Designate an RNI Core Team member to serve as the MAJCOM primary point-of-
   contact (POC) who is responsible for assisting in the development and continuous process
   improvement of RNI processes and providing MAJCOM inputs.
   2.4.2. Designate any necessary MAJCOM POCs to participate in Integrated Process Teams
   (IPT) and provide necessary future inputs to the RNI governance structure. RNI is governed
   under the ELG structure, as defined in AFGM 20-05.1 Air Force Guidance Memorandum on
   the Enterprise Logistics Governance (ELG) Structure.
   2.4.3. Coordinate with bases to identify and assign Node Managers.
   2.4.4. Collaborate with Product Repair Managers (PRM) and Repair Network Managers
   (RNM) to develop Shaping and Sizing recommendations.
   2.4.5. Collaborate with RNM and Node Managers during workload allocation planning.
   2.4.6. Monitor production of agreed to repair workload at MAJCOM repair nodes.
   2.4.7. Applicable MAJCOMs will incorporate approved changes to the Planning,
   Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPB&E) process IAW AFMAN 20-118 Repair
   Network Integration (when published).
   2.4.8. Develop and sustain workforce skills necessary to meet mission objectives.
   2.4.9. Participate in the development, coordination, monitoring, and reporting of network
   performance metrics.
 6                                                                  AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


     2.4.10. Ensure actions recommended by Product Repair Managers, Repair Network
     Managers, and Node Managers, using core management processes, will not be executed
     without the appropriate level of coordination and approval.
     2.4.11. Validate and approve required changes to equipment authorizations and Allowance
     Standards driven by Network Management activities impacting MAJCOM organizations
     IAW AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, or other equivalent Supply publications.
2.5. Enterprise Repair Manager (ERM). The ERM shall be a Flag Officer/Senior Executive
Service (SES) within AFMC. The ERM shall:
     2.5.1. Elevate any actions or decisions beyond their responsibility and/or authority to the
     Enterprise Logistics Governance (ELG).
     2.5.2. Monitor enterprise repair performance, report to ELG, and address elevated actions.
     2.5.3. Review, validate, and revise existing performance measures as developed by PRMs.
     2.5.4. Establish a process to determine and prioritize performance objectives in accordance
     with the Manage Network Performance core management process defined in AFMAN 20-
     118, Repair Network Integration (when published).
     2.5.5. Formulate and coordinate metrics and key metric standards at all levels to meet
     Enterprise performance goals.
     2.5.6. Monitor variations between requirement forecasts and production factors.
     2.5.7. Assist in implementing a standardized process for providing input to the repair
     requirements computation process; review information being provided to requirements
     generator(s). The ERM will approve the information provided to requirements generators.
     2.5.8. Review repair requirements and take action to mitigate issues.
     2.5.9. Aggregate and analyze Product Repair Groups’ (PRG) CAP2 data.
     2.5.10. Analyze changes to AF strategies, plans, policies, requirements, or priorities to
     determine potential impact on CAP2. Disseminate appropriate guidance to the PRMs.
     2.5.11. Implement repair enterprise workload review process to include Intermediate and
     Depot workload, and participate in periodic reviews.
     2.5.12. Develop actions necessary to ensure ongoing planning and programming changes to
     repair enterprise CAP2 support current and future AF mission objectives, including Unit
     Type Code (UTC)/surge requirements.
     2.5.13. Recommend Shaping and Sizing plans for approval in accordance with appropriate
     AF governance and AF Corporate Structure processes as applicable, to include
     recommendations that will require Congressional authorization. Specific examples could
     include ANG or AFRC consolidations or end strength changes.
     2.5.14. Develop the processes to designate and assign PRMs, RNMs, and identify Repair
     Nodes within each network.
     2.5.15. Ensure that items moving from acquisition to sustainment are considered for
     inclusion into a Repair Network. The PSM, or equivalent, identifies sustainment
     requirements assigned to the Repair Network to the ERM. The ERM utilizes the RNI
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                       7


   Decision Tree Analysis (DTA) Tool (Fig. 1.1.) AFMAN 20-118 Repair Network Integration
   (when published) when necessary to validate repair actions are appropriately assigned to the
   Repair Network.
   2.5.16. Utilize performance measurement results to evaluate network performance and
   develop changes in operating behavior and environments to maximize network effectiveness.
   2.5.17. Ensure collaboration with the appropriate Comptroller representative for each
   affected appropriation policy and law during the development of Annual Workload
   Allocation and Shaping and Sizing plans involving recommendations which affect more than
   one appropriation.
2.6. Product Repair Manager (PRM). The PRM shall be at least an O-6/GS-15 within
AFMC. The PRM shall:
   2.6.1. Work with MAJCOM staffs to resolve network management issues elevated to their
   level. Elevate any actions or decisions beyond their responsibility and/or authority to the
   ERM for resolution.
   2.6.2. Develop and standardize strategy across all Networks within the product group.
   Ensure decisions to improve one Network do not adversely impact another.
   2.6.3. Oversee development and present Shaping and Sizing recommendations to the ERM.
      2.6.3.1. Implement the Shaping and Sizing process by reviewing and aggregating
      network Shaping and Sizing recommendations received from the RNMs, and develop a
      product group level Shaping and Sizing plan for presentation to the required governance
      level for approval. Ensure customers and suppliers (e.g., Department of Defense (DoD),
      Headquarters Air Force (HAF), MAJCOMs, Program Office, etc) are consulted as
      recommendations are developed.
      2.6.3.2. Consider centralizing Intermediate-level maintenance capability. Economies-of-
      scale and efficiencies shall be sought by utilizing arrangements such as: Performance
      Based Agreements; public-private partnerships; inter-service and intra-service
      arrangements, Total Force Integration (TFI) Associations, and joint contracting
      maintenance support arrangements.
      2.6.3.3. Track execution of approved Shaping and Sizing and Workload Allocation plans
      for assigned Repair Networks ensuring known requirements are met.
   2.6.4. Implement Performance Measurement plans that satisfy requirements across the entire
   Product Group.
      2.6.4.1. Performance Measurement plans shall be coordinated through the Weapon
      System Program Managers (PM), Lead Command, MAJCOMs, PRG customers and
      suppliers (e.g. DoD, HAF, MAJCOMs, Program Offices, etc) as well as RNMs and Node
      Managers.
      2.6.4.2. Performance Measurement plans shall include: Production requirements,
      performance goals, key performance indicators, metrics, and reporting requirements.
      Ensure metrics are aligned to lower levels in the PRG.
 8                                                                    AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


        2.6.4.3. Monitor network performance and provide timely feedback to RNMs on network
        performance. Ensure lessons learned during current year execution are captured and
        incorporated into planning cycles.
     2.6.5. Implement methods to track requirements generated during the year of execution to
     ensure network production goals are adjusted to meet demand changes.
        2.6.5.1. Include procedures to effectively distribute accurate and timely production
        information to all customers and suppliers.
     2.6.6. Use CAP2 data as a starting point to identify potential excess or shortage of capability
     and capacity. Official manpower data must be considered when formulating formal force
     structure change recommendations.
        2.6.6.1. Ensure an effective communication process is available and utilized in order to
        timely identify any CAP2 changes that may impact a Network’s ability to perform as
        projected and required.
     2.6.7. Implement Product Repair Group annual workload plan that is actionable and satisfies
     requirements across the PRG. Ensure Funds Holder and the appropriate level of FM review
     of this plan if it involves moving workloads between organizations that are funded with
     different appropriations. The purposes of appropriations will not be compromised.
        2.6.7.1. Coordinate workload allocation/re-allocation across the PRG to ensure effective
        utilization of all group resources to meet production goals while also considering
        transportation costs or other unit costs.
        2.6.7.2. Review workload allocation plans developed by RNMs and MAJCOMs to
        ensure reallocation of workload within and across networks is seamless and does not
        negatively impact production.
     2.6.8. Provide planning support to PRG and RNMs and respond to RNMs request for
     assistance in a timely manner.
     2.6.9. Participate in CPI activities, and share results with the ERM and across the PRG.
     2.6.10. Utilize performance measurement results to evaluate network performance and
     develop changes in operating behavior and environments to maximize network effectiveness.
     2.6.11. Ensure actions recommended by Product Repair Managers, Repair Network
     Managers, and Node Managers, using core management processes, will not be executed
     without the appropriate level of coordination and approval.
2.7. Repair Network Manager (RNM) shall:
     2.7.1. Focus on creating a flexible, efficient, and effective repair network that is integrated,
     synchronized, and complements other segments of the supply chain.
     2.7.2. Manage repair to respond to changing AF priorities.
     2.7.3. Monitor implementation of approved plan for Network Shaping and Sizing activities
     received from the PRM.
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                       9


  2.7.4. Monitor progress to ensure the Network is balanced and operated at optimum
  efficiency. Identify and communicate change recommendations to the PRM as needed.
  Implement approved changes in a timely manner to support Network production goals.
  2.7.5. Forecast Repair Network changes and their impacts to the AF Strategic Plan and
  POM. The ANG and AFRC shall only POM for ARC owned assets.
  2.7.6. Create performance measurement plan for the Repair Network IAW the Performance
  Measurement System. Metrics are divided into the following categories: Availability,
  Affordability, and Performance.
     2.7.6.1. Ensure performance measures are correct and data accuracy is maintained at the
     highest level.
     2.7.6.2. Monitor network performance and develop recommended courses of action to
     resolve performance issues. Report network performance status to MAJCOMs, PRM,
     and Node Managers.
  2.7.7. Track requirements generated during the execution year against forecasted
  requirements. Provide accurate and timely feedback to funds holders, MAJCOMs, PRMs
  and requirement developers (PM, System Manager, Item Manager, Engineer, etc) on
  deviations which exceed agreed upon limits. Include requirement developers on repair
  activities that shall impact future requirements.
  2.7.8. Determine frequency of collecting, updating, and analyzing CAP2 data. Establish
  triggers for data calls. CAP2 data shall be collected, updated, and analyzed quarterly at a
  minimum.
  2.7.9. Create and implement annual workload plan in collaboration with MAJCOMs, the
  ANG, and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure recommended workload re-
  allocation action(s) use core management processes and will not be executed without the
  appropriate level of coordination and approval from FM and A8. The AF may request ARC
  assistance but not direct it.
     2.7.9.1. Ensure all required agreements are in-place to support workload allocation/re-
     allocation requirements.
     2.7.9.2. Review and adjust annual workload plan to ensure plan aligns with execution
     year requirements. Ensure required plan adjustments are coordinated through customers
     and suppliers (DoD, HAF, MAJCOMs, Program Offices, etc.).
     2.7.9.3. Ensure workload plan addresses procedures to pass information on workload
     adjustments and production impacting issues to the PRM, Node Managers, and customers
     (Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), PMs, Lead Command, etc).
     2.7.9.4. Collaborate with DLA, PMs, Lead Commands, ANG, AFRC, and FOAs to
     ensure the appropriate level of repair is assigned to repairable assets to optimize repair
     cycle flow. Change Uniform Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability (SMR) codes
     IAW TO 00-25-195 as necessary to maximize repair network capability and capacity.
  2.7.10. Participate in CPI activities, and share results with PRM.
 10                                                                AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


   2.7.11. Submit proposed agenda items to Product Improvement Working Groups impacted
   by commodities supported by the Repair Network, IAW AFI 21-118, Improving Air and
   Space Equipment Reliability and Maintainability.
   2.7.12. Develop Network Shaping and Sizing recommendations for their network in
   conjunction with the MAJCOMs to be presented to the PRM as part of the Product Group
   Shaping and Sizing plan.
   2.7.13. Elevate issues that cannot be resolved with MAJCOM representatives to the PRM for
   action.
   2.7.14. Utilize performance measurement results to evaluate network performance and
   develop changes in operating behavior and environments to maximize network effectiveness.
2.8. Repair Node Manager shall:
   2.8.1. Ensure squadron/group/wing leadership is aware of all communication exchanges with
   MAJCOMs and RNMs with regard to RNI processes, CAP2 data inputs and workload
   allocation changes/plans.
      2.8.1.1. Ensure activity level changes that drive environmental program impacts are
      coordinated through the Unit Environmental Coordinator (UEC) supporting the
      organizational commander.
   2.8.2. Execute Workload Allocation and Shaping and Sizing actions defined in the plans
   coordinated through the governance structure, funded in compliance with Air Force
   Corporate Structure decisions and approved by the affected MAJCOMs, the AFRC, and the
   ANG. The AF may request ARC assistance but not direct it.
   2.8.3. Review proposed metrics to ensure accuracy and relevance to production
   requirements. Recommend changes through MAJCOM POC to RNM.
   2.8.4. Manage Repair Node operations to support approved performance goals.
      2.8.4.1. Communicate production deviations to RNM and chain-of-command providing
      mitigation strategy to address negative performance deviations.
   2.8.5. Communicate technical requirement changes to RNM and engineering.
   2.8.6. Collect Repair Node CAP2 data. Provide accurate CAP2 data updates to the RNM, on
   at least a quarterly basis, or more often if directed by the RNM.
   2.8.7. Develop Production Plan to support Repair Network Workload Plan. Provide plan to
   RNM annually and when adjustments are made to reflect deviations in requirements.
   2.8.8. Participate in CPI activities, and share results with RNM.
   2.8.9. As necessary, utilize the Repair Network Logistics Operations Cell, to be further
   outlined in the AFMAN 20-118, Repair Network Integration (when published), to assist in
   executing decisions made by the RNM. Examples include: workload movement and
   transportation issues.
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                         11


                                           Chapter 3

                           CORE MANAGEMENT PROCESSES

3.1. General. The Repair Network shall use the eight strategic and operational core
management processes, which serve as the backbone of the Repair Network Management
concept, to develop standard tools and repeatable processes for decision-making and network
operation. This standard work and repeatable processes will enable execution of enterprise
management.
3.2. Strategic Processes. Strategic Processes have a cycle time of 12 months or more and
include long range planning activities performed by the ERM and PRM in collaboration with
MAJCOM A4s. Strategic Planning activities will follow guidance in AFPD 90-11, Strategic
Planning System to include proper coordination with the Agile Combat Support (ACS) Core
Function Lead Integrator (CFLI) and other CFLIs as necessary. The four Network Management
Strategic Processes include:
   3.2.1. Strategic Planning. Align Repair Enterprise strategic goals and objectives with the Air
   Force Corporate Structure and CFLI/MAJCOM Strategic Plans. Strategic planning shall
   provide strategic goals, guidance, and objectives to influence the Air Force and
   CFLI/MAJCOM PPB&E process and acquisition programs ensuring responsive, right-sized,
   Air Force Repair Enterprise meeting statutory requirements.
   3.2.2. Programming and Financial Management. Leverage appropriate budgeting processes
   and develop and/or describe future processes that will support end-state repair network
   capabilities ensuring conformance with regulatory and fiscal guidance. Scope includes all
   funding sources that finance operations of the repair network, both at all locations (organic
   and inter-service) and at all levels. It covers processes for all affected appropriations,
   including Milpers and MPA mandays when required. Using the Program Objective
   Memorandum (POM) process and previously determined RNI goals and objectives as inputs
   for this step, the ERM and PRM must identify the appropriate programming elements where
   RNI Infrastructure Planning goals and objectives should be funded. See AFMAN 20-118
   Repair Network Integration (when published). When a work request will be made to a
   different component, another Service, or an organization funded by a separate appropriation,
   steps must be taken to ensure that all labor and other costs are paid by the correct
   appropriation in order to avoid augmentation, deficiency issues, and purpose violations.
   AFI65-601 and DoDFMR should be referenced, and a legal review conducted, if necessary.
   Prior to implementation of any action involving the ANG, consolidation reporting of
   National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requirements with supporting analysis, studies,
   financial assessments, and legal reviews must be considered.
   3.2.3. Shape and Size Network. The goal of this core management process is to right-size
   the Air Force repair enterprise, based on appropriate business cost comparisons, risk analysis,
   and war requirements. The repair enterprise shall ensure the Air Force maintains the optimal
   amount of daily and peak repair CAP2 to meet current and future needs of the Air Force,
   joint, foreign, and civilian partners. MAJCOM collaboration is required during the
   development of recommendations to ensure compliance with applicable instructions.
 12                                                              AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


   3.2.4. Workforce and Infrastructure Planning. Evaluate current workforce and infrastructure
   availability against repair requirements. Develop strategic workforce and infrastructure
   requirements for enterprise repair. The output will be long-range workforce and
   infrastructure plans that satisfy repair enterprise Shaping and Sizing recommendations. This
   process should be conducted in parallel with 3.2.2. Programming and Financial Management.
3.3. Operational Processes. Operational processes have a cycle time of 12 months or less, and
can be measured in intervals as short as weeks or days. These processes are short range,
execution year activities performed by the RNM and Node Manager, in collaboration with
network stakeholders, to ensure repair requirements are met. The four operational processes
include:
   3.3.1. Aggregate & Prioritize Requirements. The RNM will receive repair requirements
   from the applicable system in which they are housed in (e.g. Automated Budget Control
   System, D200A Requirements Determination System, Integrated Maintenance Data System
   /GO81).
   3.3.2. Compute Capability & Capacity (CAP2). This process provides the ability to baseline
   node CAP2 and aggregates all node data to determine network CAP2. Node Managers are
   responsible for establishing baseline CAP2 data and providing updates as required by the
   RNM.
   3.3.3. Plan and Allocate Workload. This core process converts validated repair requirements
   into maintenance workload and allocates it across the Repair Network. This process allows
   for workload allocation in the execution year and re-planning work based on changing
   requirements throughout the year. Requirements and CAP2 data are validated and workload
   is allocated appropriately amongst the repair nodes, based on node CAP2. The annual
   workload plan, coordinated through the governance structure and approved by each affected
   MAJCOM, is provided to the repair nodes for production planning. Funds holder and the
   appropriate level of FM coordination are required when plans include moving workload in
   accordance with each appropriations stated fiscal purpose. When a work request will be made
   to a different component, another Service, or an organization funded by a separate
   appropriation, steps must be taken to ensure that all labor and other costs are paid by the
   correct appropriation in order to avoid augmentation, deficiency issues and purpose
   violations. AFI65-601 and DoDFMR should be referenced, and a legal review conducted if
   necessary.
   3.3.4. Manage Network Performance. This core process provides managers the ability to
   monitor repair support via tracking node, network, product group, and enterprise output
   performance. The goal of this process is to ensure availability, affordability, and
   performance of repair activities.




                                           JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Deputy Chief of Staff Logistics, Installations &
                                           Mission Support
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                      13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-118, Improving Air and Space Equipment Reliability and Maintainability, 2 Oct 2003
AFI 21-129, Two Level Maintenance and Regional Repair of Air Force Weapon Systems and
Equipment, 1 May 1998
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 Apr 2009
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb 2003
AFPD 20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 Jul 2012
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 Mar 2009
AFGM 20-05.1, Air Force Guidance Memorandum on the Enterprise Logistics Governance
(ELG) Structure, 3 July 2012
NDAA Pub L 110-417, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, 14 Oct 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Agile Combat Support
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—-- Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—-- Air National Guard
ARC—-- Air Reserve Component
CAP2—Capability and Capacity
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CLS—Contract Logistics Support
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CRF—Centralized Repair Facility
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
 14                                                     AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLR—Depot Level Reparable
DoD—Department of Defense
ELG—Enterprise Logistics Governance
ERM—Enterprise Repair Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IPT—Integrated Process Team
MAJCOM—Major Command
MGN—Mission Generation
NM—Node Manager
O&M—Operations & Maintenance
OMEI—Other Major End items
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMEL—Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory
PM—Program Manager
PMO—Program Management Office
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPB&E—Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
PRG—Product Repair Group
PRM—Product Repair Manager
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RN—Repair Network
RNI—Repair Network Integration
RNM—Repair Network Manager
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TFI—Total Force Integration
TMDE—Test, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator
UTC—Unit Type Code
AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013                                                                            15


Terms
Air Force Repair Enterprise— An aggregate collection of all Product Repair Groups required
to support weapons systems, engines, sets of commodities, and/or Other Major End Items
(OMEI).
Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI)— Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF)/CSAF-
designated leaders who serve as the principal integrators for their assigned SCFs and the
corresponding Air Force CFMPs. CFLIs guide SCF processes and all SCF-related O&M and
investments priorities by orchestrating the development of their SCFs in collaboration with all
key stakeholders across the Air Force, including MAJCOMs, the ARC, and functional
authorities. CFLIs have tasking authority regarding SCF planning and programming issues to
identify enabling capabilities in, and integration requirements/opportunities with, other SCFs,
joint forces, civilian government and non-government organizations and allied/partner nations.
CFLIs will participate at all appropriate levels of the AFCS. CFLIs will chair or cochair all SCF-
related governance structures.
Enterprise Repair Manager (ERM)— Oversees and manages the entire collection of Product
Repair Groups.
Enterprise Logistics Governance (ELG)— The ELG structure shall provide a governance
venue for the logistics enterprise. It assists in developing logistics strategy, as well as providing
governance for enterprise logistics issues, transformation efforts, and continuous process
improvement of enterprise logistics processes. While the ELG is a decision making body, it does
not alter the statutory, functional, or program execution authorities of its members.
Mission Generation Network (MGN)— The MGN supports all Organizational-level, on-
equipment maintenance, and is optimized at the Wing-level across the USAF.
Product Repair Group (PRG)— A collection of repair networks required to support specific
groups of weapons systems, engines, sets of commodities, and/or OMEI ensuring weapon system
availability targets are met. The primary focus is strategic oversight and management of all
repair networks in the group ensuring competing priorities across the group are balanced with
weapon system availability objectives.
Product Repair Manager (PRM)— Oversees and manages the entire collection of networks
with a specific product group.
Repair Network (RN)— The Repair Network (RN) provides centralized management of repair
with an enterprise level management perspective. The RN focuses on Intermediate and Depot-
level Maintenance activities, as outlined in policy and technical data, exceeding the capability of
the MGN such as: inspection, component repair, modification, and battle damage repair. The
RN is composed of globally distributed repair nodes to enable rapid and flexible response to
meet the demands of the sortie production efforts of the MGN ensuring an effective and timely
response to mobilizations, national defense contingencies, and other emergency requirements.
Repair Network Integration (RNI)— CSAF initiative to develop an enterprise wide repair
capability managed by a single process owner providing integrated support to the war fighter.
The end goals of RNI are: to enable rational management of the entire repair infrastructure;
improve investment decision making; rationally allocate manpower for the repair network;
develop standardized and repeatable management processes; and lower total system costs while
 16                                                                AFI20-117 8 MARCH 2013


increasing maintenance's ability to respond to changing Air Force requirements with greater
agility and effectiveness.
Repair Network Manager (RNM)— Oversees and manages a collection of network Nodes
within a specific product group.
Repair Node— Individual organizational unit within repair network(s). The Repair Node is the
function (e.g., Flight, Centralized Repair Facility (CRF), shop, etc.) that provides production
capability and capacity (CAP2) to meet network goals.
Repair Node Manager (NM)— Oversees and manages all shop activities pertaining to a
specific Repair Node. The objective of the Node Manager (NM) is the execution of activities
required to produce a quality product on time and at cost.
Total Force—The US Air Force organizations, units, and individuals that provide the
capabilities to support the Department of Defense in implementing the national security strategy.
Total Force includes Regular Air Force, Air National Guard of the United States, and Air Force
Reserve personnel, US Air Force civilian personnel (including foreign national direct and
indirect-hire, as well as non-appropriated fund employees), contractor staff, and host-nation
support personnel. Appropriation integrity must still be adhered to under the Total Force
construct.
