                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                  HEADQUARTERS AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                      JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS VA




                                                            AFI23-101_ACCSUP_ACCGM2014-01

                                                                                     12 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               ACC UNITS DOWN TO WING

FROM: ACC/A4

SUBJECT: ACC Guidance Memorandum (GM) for Interim Guidance for AFI 23-101, Materiel
Management

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Combat Command, this ACC Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements ACC Interim Guidance for AFI 23-101, Materiel Management.
Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in accordance with (IAW)
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. Upon its release in August 2013, several key policies were omitted and/or require updates.
This GM covers Organization Structure and Responsibilities, ACC Metrics, Readiness Spares
Packages (RSP) and Kits, Receipt Processing, Repair, Equipment Management, Stock
Positioning, Pinpoint Delivery, and Materiel Returns, specific to ACC.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change, or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier. The POC for this requirement is MSgt James Parchen, A4RM, DSN 575-
2449.



                                                        //Signed, maa, 27 Jan 14//
                                                        MARK A. ATKINSON
                                                        Major General, USAF
                                                        Director of Logistics
                                       Agile Combat Power
                                          Attachment
       ACC Guidance to Air Force Instruction 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management


1.2.2.3.4. (Added) Once a week, attend, or have the Operations Officer attend, one of the daily
MXG production meetings for repair cycle topics.
1.2.2.16. (Updated) Flight Service Center (FSC). This section serves as the primary point of
contact with maintenance units regarding repair cycle management. The FSC monitors all
items requiring repair or replacement from time of issue or backorder till returned to LRS.
1.2.2.19.6.1. (Added) Additional or out of cycle surveillance visits may be conducted at the
discretion of M Flight Superintendent/OIC to resolve non-compliance issues related to
DIFM management or other supply related procedures.
1.2.2.20.2.2.1. (Added) Quarterly, the Q04 or Discoverer ACC Direct NRTS listing will be
ran and maintained to identify components for which there is no base level repair or
diagnostic capability.
1.2.2.20.2.7. (Added) PHB/TNB and FOM Asset Management. Each support section will
establish a system for positive control of PHB/TNB and FOM assets where applicable. Property
placed in PHB/TNB and FOM will be identified by attached documentation, (i.e., DD IMT
1348-1A, Issue document, AFTO IMT 350 (Part I)). In addition, they will establish a control log
with the following minimum information, date received, NSN, noun, document number, aircraft
tail number, removal information (signature, date, employee number of member who removed
the item) and remarks. When property is removed from PHB/TNB or FOM, the date, time,
signature and printed name of the individual picking up the property must be recorded in the
applicable control log. TNB/FOM assets may be stored together if space constraints dictate the
need. However, separate logs must still be maintained. Partially complete TCTO kits/parts will
have an inventory list attached, be sealed, and stored in the TNB. Mark the aircraft identification
(ID) number and TCTO number on the TCTO kit/part. Panels removed during hourly post-flight
and periodic inspections may be placed in panel racks with hardware attached in a screw bag
with the aircraft serial number annotated without other documentation.
1.2.2.20.2.8. (Added) Establish a MICAP verification checklist and maintain for a minimum of
90 days after use. At a minimum the checklist will contain verification requirements prescribed
in AFMAN 23-122, para 5.2.4.3.1.1.
1.4.2.2.2.2.1. (Added) MAJCOM developed metrics are posted via the ACC SharePoint link
(https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/a4/A4R/LRS_Metrics/Documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx). Units
will follow instructions and provide monthly updates. Metrics are subject to change based
upon mission requirements.
2.6.8.5.1.1. (Added) For units based in Continental United States (CONUS),
deployment indicators will be established no earlier than nine (9) days prior to
deployment.
2.6.8.5.1.2. (Added) For units based Outside Continental United States (OCONUS),
deployment indicators will be established no earlier than 14 days prior to deployment.
3.3.3.2.1 (Added) LRS Commanders are encouraged to continue using pinpoint delivery.
Pinpoint delivery redirects inbound shipment of forward stock items, from central receiving

                                     Agile Combat Power
to decentralized aircraft parts stores, and establishes these warehouses as cargo
inchecking/receiving points.
4.3.1.3.1. (Added) FSC will conduct weekly DIFM meetings with maintenance activities
as necessary to account for and resolve outstanding DIFM details within the wing.
4.3.2. (Updated) DIFM management. The materiel management IT system establishes a
DIFM record and tracks the unserviceable asset until it is repaired, evacuated, or condemned.
All DIFM assets, whether issued or on backorder, will be managed using the ACC D23 via
Discoverer to include items C-decked to repair shops and field repairable (XF) assets.
4.3.2.10. (Added) Movement Timelines. In an effort to expedite parts through the repair
cycle process as quickly as possible, the following timelines will be adhered to.
4.3.2.10.1. (Added) Movement from Aircraft Maintenance Support Section: Personnel will first
determine if assets have been identified as direct NRTS prior to movement. Unserviceable
items identified as direct NRTS will be returned directly to FSC. Movement of assets to the
repair section or FSC is immediately for MICAP assets and all others within 2 hours.
4.3.2.10.2. (Added) Movement from repair sections: Once removed from aircraft or piece of
equipment, and upon status determination, parts will be moved to FSC or be prepared for
LRS pickup within 2 hours.
4.3.2.10.3. (Added) FSC will move serviceable assets to the applicable warehouse within
two hours of processing.
4.3.2.10.4. (Added) Maintenance pick-up times: If the part requested is available at the
APS, maintenance will pick up the item within 24 hours.
4.4.3. (Added) Time Change Ordering. Shop code TC will be used when ordering Time
Change assets.
5.4.2.5.8. (Updated) Complete the quarterly Equipment Authorization and On Hand
Balance Reconciliation. Note: Applies only to EAEs who are not supported by AFMC
SMC-R Equipment Activity.
5.4.2.8.4.1 (Added) Support equipment will not be left in-place without prior coordination and
approval from owning MAJCOM. If the lead MAJCOM directs the deployed unit to leave
equipment in place, the responsible equipment custodian will report the serviceability of the
asset(s) to include any maintenance history. Lead MAJCOM will direct home station equipment
custodians to requisition replacements for the DEPORD to backfill tasked equipment left
behind.
5.4.9. (Added) Loan of Items Required for a Short Time.
5.4.9.1. (Added) Issue of Temporarily Required Items. At times, a customer may need an item
for a short time. MAJCOM may issue a temporarily required item without reimbursement for
a maximum period of 6 months or less. Approved items are issued with ASC 064, to record
that the item has been lent to the customer for a short time. The Julian calendar date of the
loan's termination follows ASC 064.
5.4.9.2. (Added) Loan Requirements. MAJCOM will issue items on a short-term basis within
the following guidelines.
5.4.9.2.1. (Added) Operating expenses. MAJCOM will not lend equipment to supplement

                                     Agile Combat Power
normal authorizations nor to help the customer avoid normal operating expenses.
5.4.9.2.2. (Added) Eligible activities. Generally, MAJCOM will only approve loans for short-
term activities or activities with specific temporary requirements, such as activities on
maneuvers and training exercises, reserve forces field activities, scouting jamborees.
5.4.9.2.3. (Added) Loan period. MAJCOM will normally lend equipment for 90 days;
however, the LRS/CC or Accountable Officer may extend the loan for an additional 90 days.
MAJCOM will not extend loans past the 180-day maximum.
5.3.8.5.1. (Updated) MAJCOM/AC7X centrally funds C-Bag components IAW AFI 10-2501.
ACC/A4R will centrally fund IFAKs and funding to LRS for execution. LRS IPEs must
ensure a funding tool is established with their Medical Logistics for reimbursement.
5.4.2.5.1. (Updated) Schedule annual organizational visits NLT 30 December for the
upcoming year. To ensure custodian are adequately performing their accountability
responsibilities. Additional or out of cycle visits may be conducted at the discretion of M
Flight Superintendent/OIC to resolve non-compliance issues.
5.4.9. (Added) Loan of Items Required for a Short Time.
5.4.9.1. (Added) Issue of Temporarily Required Items. At times, a customer may need an item
for a short time. MAJCOM may issue a temporarily required item without reimbursement for
a maximum period of 6 months or less. Approved items are issued with ASC 064, to record
that the item has been lent to the customer for a short time. The Julian calendar date of the
loan's termination follows ASC 064.
5.4.9.2. (Added) Loan Requirements. MAJCOM will issue items on a short-term basis within
the following guidelines.
5.4.9.2.1. (Added) Operating expenses. MAJCOM will not lend equipment to supplement
normal authorizations nor to help the customer avoid normal operating expenses.
5.4.9.2.2. (Added) Eligible activities. Generally, MAJCOM will only approve loans for short-
term activities or activities with specific temporary requirements, such as activities on maneuvers
and training exercises, reserve forces field activities, scouting jamborees.
5.4.9.2.3. (Added) Loan period. MAJCOM will normally lend equipment for 90 days;
however, the LRS/CC or Accountable Officer may extend the loan for an additional 90 days.
MAJCOM will not extend loans past the 180-day maximum.
5.5. (Updated)Document Control and Detail Records. Document Control monitors supplies
and equipment documents that establish the LRS CC/AO’s accountability of stock items.
Document Control will ensure any action affecting the stock record account is processed
through the applicable materiel management IT system. See AFMAN 23-122, Sec. 5E
Document Control and Detail Records. Document control records will be managed using ES-S.
R59 listings retrieved from other systems will not be used unless approved by ACC/A4RM.
5.11.1.1. (Added) Forward Stockage Policy. Aircraft spares (XD/XF) will be stored within the
APS to the greatest extent possible. The objective is to push all applicable items to forward
locations within the maintenance complex. Additionally, pinpoint delivery is recommended to
redirect inbound shipments of forward stock items from central receiving to decentralized
aircraft parts stores, and establish these warehouses as cargo inchecking/receiving points.
5.11.1.1.1. (Added) ACC APS stock efficiency report. In an effort to maximize stock
                                     Agile Combat Power
efficiency, this report will be run monthly via Discoverer to identify candidate items for
movement from the main warehouse to applicable APS. At a minimum, the report will be
distributed to M Flight Superintendent and OIC. Leadership will review these candidate items
for possible forward relocation to applicable APS for storage. LRS may modify the script as
needed so long as intent is met.
6.1.1.2.2.1. (Added) Direct NRTS validation. Semi-annually, maintenance activities will
validate direct NRTS items utilizing the Q04 or Discoverer ACC Direct NRTS listing and
forward changes to the FSC for updates. Direct NRTS items are those for which there is no
base level repair or diagnostic capability and are identified with NRTS-1 indicator of Y and
blank repair activity. All other repairable assets will have a NRTS-1 indicator of N and
applicable repair activity. NRTS-1 indicator will never be blank. Maintenance repair shops will
review items identified by their org/shop as the repair activity and will re-affirm items are
repairable or have diagnostic capability. Additionally, all maintenance repair shops will review
items with no org/shop (blank repair activity) and validate they have no repair or diagnostic
capability for the item. When all repair shops indicate no repair or diagnostic capability exists,
the item is then coded direct NRTS by FSC. Note: All items are assumed repairable and will be
coded as such unless certified Direct NRTS as indicated above.
6.3.3.1.4.4. (Added) PMRP participating activities will be identified utilizing Discoverer
“PM Tracker” listing.
6.2.3.1.2.1. (Added) A 24-hour hold area in the FSC will be designated for AFREP candidates.
Returns will be processed with a TEX code "1" to clear the original DIFM detail. If the AFREP
repair shop can repair the asset, an unserviceable issue (MSI) will be processed using shop code
"GF" and activity code "C" for ERRC XD assets, and "R" for XF assets. Assets issued to
AFREP are "free issue."
10.2.1.4. (Updated) AF activities will stamp or mark in red ink each document and/or label with
the appropriate item classification phrase (i.e. Classified Item, Controlled Cryptological Item,
NWRM, pilferable, COMSEC, or Sensitive, etc.) prior to the issue, receipt, turn-in, or shipment
of controlled materiel. Note: Only applies to Classified and NWRM materiel when using paper
documents. Asset Management Labels will not be stamped.
10.2.1.5. (Updated) AF activities will ensure the item serial number of the physical asset is
annotated onto all documents and/or labels. Note: Only applies to serialized controlled assets.




                                     Agile Combat Power
