BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-123
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         27 SEPTEMBER 2012
                                                 AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                          24 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                     AIR FORCE REPAIR ENHANCEMENT
                                                                   PROGRAM (AFREP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A4LM                                                               Certified by: AF/A4L
                                                                              (Maj Gen Cooper)
                                                                                       Pages: 14
Supersedes:   AFI21-123, 3 October 2002
                                           (AFGSC)
OPR: AFGSC/A4MX                                                       Certified by: AFGSC/A4V
                                                                       (Col William N. Walker)
                                                                                        Pages:4
Supersedes:   AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP, 01
              FEBRUARY 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance. It provides guidance and
procedures governing the initiation, transmission, and tracking of field-generated suggestions
related to repair of aerospace parts and equipment. It also restricts field unit or AFREP work
center conversion of non-reparable items to reparable items to the processes described in this
AFI. This instruction applies to Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Lead Command supplements to this document will be submitted to AF/A4L for
approval prior to publication. For the purposes of policy the ANG is recognized as a MAJCOM.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/A4LM using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in the publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
 2                                           AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

(AFGSC) AFI 21-123, Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP), is supplemented
as follows: This supplement prescribes policies and procedures governing the Air Force Repair
Enhancement program for Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC). It applies to those
organizations and personnel that maintain aircraft, aircraft systems, equipment, support
equipment, and components regardless of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). It provides a broad
management framework for the Wing/Unit AFREP Managers to adjust procedures to
compensate for mission, facility, and geographic differences of the units. This supplement does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC); however,
ANG/AFRC personnel assigned to Classic Associate Units supporting AFGSC units will comply
with the guidance provided within this supplement. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items” publications. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed in its entirety, it
eliminates outdated and conflicting requirement.

(AFGSC) This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed in
its entirety. This revision eliminates Source of Approved Repair (SAR) Letters in the form of
AFGSC Form 45, AFREP Source of Approved Repair (SAR) Request and Reply. This revision
aligns paragraphs with the parent and corrects administrative errors.
1. Program Objectives. The Air Force Repair Enhancement Program (AFREP) optimizes Air
Force resources and repair capability of aerospace parts and equipment by increasing the wing-
level participation with the appropriate Program Office (PO). This is accomplished by field level
identification and recommendation of candidates for reparability consideration by the appropriate
PO. The concept is to make recommendations to the program manager of
consumable/expendable items which the field has identified as desirable candidates to be
considered for conversion to field-level repair, limited repair or even full depot level repair,
contract or organic as directed by the DSOR process in AFI 63-101. The approval to change the
SMR/ERRC codes, or select, use, arrange for, contract with , qualify sources of repair, or
authorize the initiation of any local or other repair action rests solely with the program manager.
     1.1. In accordance with AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, personnel must
     coordinate any operational change to the system or end item or modified configuration or
     maintenance procedure (i.e., additional base-level repair or contract repair of any item
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                            3


   beyond the provisions which already exist in field Technical Orders (TOs)) prior to
   implementation. NOTE: Field personnel including AFREP work centers shall not contract or
   arrange for repair services without prior written authorization by the appropriate program
   manager for the item recommended for repair. The appropriate PO responsible for the system
   or end item shall retain responsibility for making any decision stemming from such a
   recommendation. Field TOs do not give permission for local contract or off-base repair of
   any item, only on-base repair to the extent specified by the SMR code for a given item.
   1.2. Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness (OSS&E) is an outcome of properly
   planned and applied systems engineering. Organizations responsible for preserving OSS&E
   of Air Force systems or end items must ensure that operational use, configuration changes,
   maintenance repairs, aging, part substitutions, and similar activities and events do not
   degrade baselined characteristics of systems or end items over their operational life. It is an
   integrated effort to ensure items are not allowed to degrade as a result of maintenance,
   repairs, parts substitutions, and similar activities. The program manager is responsible for the
   assurance of OSS&E throughout the life cycle of each configuration of each component of
   each system. Only the program manager may convert an item from non-reparable to
   reparable.
2. AFREP Requirements.
   2.1. Given authorized repair of a consumable/expendable item, the program manager will
   determine the SMR/ERRC code validity. All resulting changes are linked with Supply Chain
   Manager consideration for that item. Supply Chain Management issues must be considered
   as a matter of law, given these issues affect Congressionally Authorized budget authority and
   funds allocated to accomplish specifically different supply chain functions (spares buys
   versus repairs).
       2.1.1. Any personnel, organization or AFREP work center may request SMR/ERRC
       code changes in accordance with TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source,
       Maintenance, and Recoverability Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and
       Equipments, Chapter 4 and AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 4, Chapter 1, Attachment
       1A-27.
   2.2. Items repaired in accordance with Technical Data will be turned in to the supply system
   following guidance in AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 13 and Technical Order
   (TO) 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Repairable Property and The Repair Cycle Asset
   Control System.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. AF/A4L Responsibilities:
       3.1.1. Prepares, publishes and reviews AF-level policy and guidance for AFREP.
   3.2. Program Manager Responsibilities:
       3.2.1. Maintains responsibility for applying integrated systems engineering principles,
       processes, and practices to ensure the OSS&E of systems and end-items.
       3.2.2. Evaluates and approves Lead Command-validated item repair process requests.
4                                           AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


       3.2.3. Selects and qualifies sources when the selection authority. When not the selection
       authority; provides selection criteria guidance and recommendation related to
       maintenance, supply, and repair sources to the selection authority.
       3.2.4. Designates a focal point within the program office for the Lead Command and end
       users to contact regarding AFREP recommendations and OSS&E issues.
    3.3. Lead Command:
       3.3.1. Coordinates and issues Lead Command supplement, as required, to this AFI
       pertaining to identification of candidate items for consideration, and transmission of
       recommendations to the appropriate PO.
       3.3.2. Designates a Lead Command AFREP Manager for complying with AFREP
       responsibilities.
       3.3.3. Establishes and maintains an AFREP Recommendation Submittal site, (e.g.,
       SharePoint) for tracking recommendations submitted to appropriate POs (N/A to
       AFSPC).
    3.4. Lead Command AFREP Manager:
       3.4.1. Administers/manages the Lead Command AFREP.
       3.4.2. Maintains the AFREP central information site which shall only include:
          3.4.2.1. Recommendations to the appropriate PO for repair considerations and their
          status (part identification, initiation date, submittal date, closure date).
          3.4.2.1. (AFGSC) Note: Status of approved written            authorization    will   be
          maintained as Source(s) of Approved Repair (SAR) letters.
       3.4.3. Maintains, updates and distributes list of Wing/Unit AFREP POCs to include
       representatives from other agencies (e.g., Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), Air Logistics
       Centers (ALCs), MAJCOMs).
       3.4.4. Reviews item repair /SMR code change requests and forwards to the appropriate
       PO responsible for the item, IAW TO 00-25-195 and TO 00-20-3.
       3.4.5. Ensures the Wing/Unit coordinates recommendations for consideration to recode
       SMR/ERRC of any item with the appropriate PO responsible for the system or end item.
       3.4.6. (Added-AFGSC) Communicate process improvements to all wing/unit AFREP
       managers in the command.
    3.5. Wing/Unit:
       3.5.1. Participates in AFREP, based on Lead Command guidance.
          3.5.1.1. MXG/CC or equivalent assigns a unit AFREP Manager/Section functionally
          aligned under the MXG QA.
          3.5.1.2. Manpower for AFREP section will be authorized, unfunded and reflected on
          the MXG Unit Manning Document (UMD).
          3.5.1.3. Provides resources for program to ensure compliance with this AFI.
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                         5


        3.5.1.4. (Added-AFGSC) Ensure Project Fund Management Record (PFMR)
        account is established for financial accountability. All credit earned will be carefully
        managed and applied to mission-related requirements. (T-3)
  3.6. Wing/Unit AFREP Manager:
     3.6.1. Submit recommendations to the appropriate PO for SMR/ERRC changes are
     submitted as required, IAW TO 00-25-195, AFI 21-101 and this AFI. NOTE: Field TOs
     do not give authorization for local contract repair of any item, only on-base repair to the
     extent specified by the SMR code for a given item. AFREP work centers or any other
     field personnel shall not perform repairs not authorized by Technical Data.
        3.6.1.1. Prior to submitting a recommendation, AFREP work centers will coordinate
        with appropriate PO to determine the Critical Application Items (CSI) and Critical
        Safety Items (CAI) designation of the item. CAIs, CSIs, or elements of a system
        which the program manager has designated as a CAI system or a CSI system are
        prohibited from consideration under the AFREP program unless authorization is
        given by a competent engineering authority. All Electronic Warfare (EW) Systems
        are CAI-designated systems. See Attachment 2, CAI & CSI for additional
        information.
        3.6.1.2. Contractor repairs of any item are not allowed without prior written
        authorization from the program manager. NOTE: AFREP work centers are
        prohibited from entering into repair source contractual/obligation relationships with
        contractors. DoD regulations exist to assign such actions (finding and qualifying
        repair sources) to the competent engineering authority.
            3.6.1.2.1. (Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Form 45, AFREP Source of Approved
            Repair (SAR) Request and Reply, is the standard format used to approve
            contractors. Completed AFGSC Form 45s shall be submitted to the AFGSC
            AFREP manager for review and routing to the appropriate program office. Note:
            Items contract repaired prior to SAR requirement implementation are not subject
            to recall. (T-2)
        3.6.1.3. Repair items in accordance with Technical Data. NOTE: Restricted use of
        systems will result from use of components which have been repaired as described
        immediately above, without prior written authorization from the program manager.
     3.6.2. Enter data in the AFREP Recommendation Submittal database.
     3.6.3. Assist technicians by interfacing with ES and Engineering, LRS and
     Transportation, QA and other agencies.
     3.6.4. Accumulate and forwards data requested by Lead Command concerning AFREP.
        3.6.4.1. (Added-AFGSC) Process all items to and from a local AFREP tracking
        database. Note: Financial tracking of avoidance, credits and operating costs as well
        as data on each item repaired will be collected. See Attachment 3 for sample
        AFREP End of Fiscal Year Report. (T-2)
     3.6.5. Maintain repair authorizations in accordance with records disposition schedule.
6                                         AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


       3.6.6. Ensure individuals assigned to AFREP are trained, qualified and maintains a
       minimum five-skill level in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) IAW AFI 36-2201,
       Air Force Training Program.
       3.6.7. Submit and monitors Deficiency Reports (DR) for deficiencies discovered during
       a Wing/Unit AFREP initiative, IAW TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting,
       Investigation, and Resolution.
       3.6.8. Review Awaiting Parts (AWP) and Mission Capable (MICAP) lists from
       maintenance activities to determine if the AFREP office can recommend to the
       appropriate PO, items from those lists.
       3.6.9. Attend the IREP meeting.
       3.6.10. (Added-AFGSC) DIFM Status Code ZCP is reserved for AFREP DIFM items
       IAW AFH 23-123V2PT1, ILS-S, Materiel Management Operations. Note: ZCP coded
       items are NOT to exceed 270 total DIFM days.
       3.6.11. (Added-AFGSC) Ensure supply system demand requirement exists prior to
       repairing DIFM items. (T-3)
       3.6.12. (Added-AFGSC) Ensure DIFM item repairs do not exceed the Economic
       Retention Level within the local supply system per AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel
       Management. Note: Continued repairs on items with ample stock can negatively impact
       the supply cycle. (T-3)
       3.6.13. (Added-AFGSC) Screen asset availability through Defense Logistics Agency
       Disposition Services (DLADS) AFI 23-101. (T-3)
    3.7. (Added-AFGSC) Circuit Card Repair (CCR) Technician is an optional program under
    AFREP that can be established by the unit AFREP manager.




                                          JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support

                                          (AFGSC)

                                          LAWRENCE S. KINGSLEY, SES, DAF
                                          Director, Logistics, Installations
                                          and Mission Support
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                     7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-AFGSC) AFGSC Form 45, AFREP Source of Approved Repair (SAR) Request and
Reply
(Added-AFGSC) AFH 23-123V2PT1, ILS-S, Materiel Management Operations, 8 August 13
AFI 20-106IP, Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items, 25 January 2006
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
(Added-AFGSC) AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
DOD 4140.1-R, DOD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, 14 December 2011
DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
PUBLIC LAW 108-136, Sec 802, Quality Control In Procurement Of Aviation Critical Safety
Items And Related Services
TO 00-20-3, Maintenance Processing of Reparable Property and the Repair Cycle Asset Control
System, 1 November 2008
TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability Coding of
Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipments, 6 May 2011
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 October 2009
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-AFGSC) 2M—Micro-Miniature
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 8                                       AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFREP—Air Force Repair Enhancement Program
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ANG—Air National Guard
APML—Acquisition Program Master List
AWP—Awaiting Parts
CAI—Critical Application Items
(Added-AFGSC) CCR—Circuit Card Repair
CSI—Critical Safety Items
DCA—Design Control Activity
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DIFM—Due-In From Maintenance
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
(Added-AFGSC) DLADS—Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services
DoD—Department of Defense
DR—Deficiency Report
ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (Code)
ES—Equipment Specialist
ESS—Environmental Stress Screening
EW—Electronic Warfare
IAW—In Accordance With
IREP—Intermediate Repair Enhancement Program
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MICAP—Mission Capability
MML—Material management Liaison
MXG—Maintenance Group
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness
PEO—Program Executive Officer
(Added-AFGSC) PFMR—Project Fund Management Record
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                            9


PM—Program Manager
PO—Program Office
POC—Point of Contact
QA—Quality Assurance
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
(Added-AFGSC) SAR—Source of Approved Repair
SBSS—Standard Base Supply System
SMR—Source, Maintenance, Recoverability
SPM—System Program Manager
SPML—Sustainment Program Master List
TO—Technical Order
UMD—Unit manning Document

Terms
Awaiting Parts—The condition or status of an item (equipment) needing additional part(s) to
repair it or make it serviceable for use. Also sometimes used to describe the elapsed time a
repairable item spends awaiting parts while in the repair cycle.
(Added-AFGSC) Cost Avoidance— A calculated value for a local AFREP repair when credit
is not generated within the supply system. “Avoidance” is calculated based on time and cost of
procuring a new item. (e.g., Ground intercommunications cord repairs, NDI equipment repairs)
(Added-AFGSC) Credit— Monetary value awarded to an established PFMR account by the
supply system. Based upon local demand, serviceable items returned to supply may generate
credit.
Critical Application Item—An item that is essential to weapon system performance or
operation, or the preservation of life or safety of operating personnel, as determined by the
military services. The subset of CAI whose failure could have catastrophic or critical safety
consequences is called CSIs.
Consumable Items—Also known as “Consumption” or “Expendable” Items designated XB3.
Items which are consumed in use or which lose their original identity during periods of use by
incorporation into or attachments upon another assembly. Issued on an as required basis and
consist of such supplies as maintenance parts or office supplies.
Critical Safety Item—A part, assembly, installation equipment, launch equipment, recovery
equipment, or support equipment for an aircraft or aviation weapons system that contains a
characteristic any failure, malfunction, or absence of which could cause a catastrophic or critical
failure resulting in the loss or serious damage to the aircraft or weapons system, an unacceptable
risk of personal injury or loss of life, or an uncommanded engine shutdown that jeopardizes
safety. Damage is considered serious or substantial when it would be sufficient to cause a "Class
A" accident or a mishap of severity category I. The determining factor in CSIs is the
consequence of failure, not the probability that the failure or consequence would occur. For the
 10                                           AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


purpose of this instruction "Critical Safety Item", "Flight Safety Critical Aircraft Part", "Flight
Safety Part", "Safety of Flight Item", and similar terms are synonymous.
(Added-AFGSC) Economic Retention Level— The quantity of an item that exceed AAO and
are determined to be more economical to retain for future peacetime issues than to dispose. To
warrant economic retention, an item must have a reasonably predictable demand rate.
Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (ERRC)—Used to categorize Air
Force inventory into various management groupings. The grouping determine the type of
management used throughout the logistics cycle, designates the process to be used in computing
requirements and are used in the correction and reporting of asset and usage data. (e.g., XB3,
XF3, XD2, NF2, NF4).
(Added-AFGSC) Operating Costs— Costs or expenses to administer a given program.
Operating include training, equipment, tools, software and administrative supplies. Base level
and contracting repairs costs should be tracked individually.
Program Manager—the DoDD 5000.01 designated individual with responsibility for and
authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet the user’s operational needs. PM for sub-systems shall support overall system objectives as
required by the SPM. The PM for acquisition programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. The PM for sustainment programs
shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the
AFMC/CC, AFSPC/CC, or designee. ACAT I and ACAT II PM shall be chartered by the SAE
and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PM shall be chartered by the PEO.
Repairable—Unserviceable items that can be economically repaired and restored to a
serviceable condition.
Repair Recommendation—An idea or proposal to repair an item that is not currently repaired
or is beyond the capability of the work center. An AFREP initiative is generated when an asset
has a demand level of "greater than three" per calendar year. All new AFREP initiatives will be
staffed through the applicable organizations.
Recoverability Code—A one position code assigned to end items and support items to indicate
the recoverability intention and the level of maintenance authorized disposition action on
unserviceable support items; and for reparables, it is used to indicate the lowest maintenance
level responsible for repair/condemnation and disposition of the item.
Source Code—Codes assigned to end items and support items to indicate the manner of
acquiring items for the maintenance, repair, or overhaul of end items.
Non—Consumable Item—Also referred to as a “Non-expendable or Equipment” item. Durable
items that are capable of continuing or repetitive use by an individual or organization.
Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness (OSS&E)—Operational Safety, Suitability &
Effectiveness is an outcome of properly applied systems engineering principles, processes, and
practices. Well-integrated configuration management and control, deficiency reporting and
response, reliability, maintainability, integrity, and other engineering practices ensure that base-
lined engineering characteristics of systems and end items are not allowed to degrade as a result
of maintenance, repairs, parts substitutions, and similar activities. The program manager is
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                                                          11


responsible for the assurance OSS&E throughout the life cycle of each configuration of each
component of each system.
Source, Maintenance, Recoverability (SMR) Code—A code assigned to parts/assemblies that
provides maintenance activities with repair level responsibilities, support method and disposition
instructions. The SMR codes are also input into the supply and maintenance automated data
system. The uniform SMR code is composed of three parts, consisting of a two position source
code, a two position maintenance code, and one position recoverability code.
Program Manager—The DODD 5000.01 designated individual with responsibility for and
authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet the user’s operational needs. PM for sub-systems shall support overall system objectives as
required by the SPM. The PM for acquisition programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. ACAT I, ACAT IA, and ACAT II
PM shall be appointed by the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PM shall be
appointed by the PEO or DAO.
Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)—A unified management system that accomplishes all
Logistics Readiness Squadron/supply activity and service workloads. The Standard Base Supply
System operates through the collective interactions of supply procedures, service procedures,
processing routines, and the SBSS computers.
Supply Reports—There are many examples of “Supply Reports” used to record supply
transactions. The Daily Document Register (D04) provides a means for organizations to review
all document numbers processed during the day by the SBSS. The PFMR and Organization Cost
Center Record Update and Reconciliation (D11) show the current status and internal balance of
the PFMR by supplies and equipment. The Repair Cycle Asset Management Listing (D23) is
used to monitor repair cycle assets and as a management product to monitor the stock position
and repair cycle status of repairable (DIFM) assets. It may be produced in several sequences and
is provided to the customer daily.
Technical data—Information (regardless of the form or method of the recording) of a scientific
or technical nature, including computer software documentation. As applied in this publication, it
includes information required for the design, development, production, manufacture, assembly,
operation, training, testing, repair, maintenance, or modification of defense articles.
 12                                          AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 2
           CRITICAL APPLICATION ITEMS & CRITICAL SAFETY ITEMS

A2.1. CRITICAL APPLICATION ITEMS (CAIs). For the purpose of this instruction, it is
an item that is essential to weapon system performance or operation, or the operating personnel
as determined by AFI 20-106, Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items.
   A2.1.1. Includes flight/safety critical, life support, critical safety items (CSI), and nuclear
   hardened items. For systems including radar, avionics, munitions, etc, contact the PO for the
   system to obtain the CAI designation.
   A2.1.2. The management of CAIs (contains unique repair and manufacturing qualifications;
   material/manufacturing process requirements; and extensive testing requirements after repair)
   is a complex process. These specified procedures rest with the program manager.
   A2.1.3. Other than TO and PO approved repairs, Electronic Warfare (EW) Systems are
   Critical Application Items and prohibited from consideration under the AFREP program.
   Performing repairs on EW system components may render the entire EW system degraded.
   Environmental Stress Screening (ESS) of repaired EW components is mandatory. Many EW
   components cannot be repaired due to electrical characteristics that are not visible or evident
   without special test facilities and procedures, none of which are available to field personnel
   or unqualified contractors.
A2.2. CRITICAL SAFETY ITEMS (CSIs). For the purpose of this instruction, CSIs are
items whose failure may cause loss of life, permanent physical disability or major injury, loss of
a system, or significant damage to equipment.
   A2.2.1. Special attention is placed on CSIs due to potential catastrophic or critical
   consequences of failure; Public Law 108-136, sec 802 was enacted to address aviation CSIs.
   The public law addresses three concerns:
       A2.2.1.1. The Design Control Activity (DCA) is responsible for processes related to
       identification and management of CSIs used in procurement, modification, repair, and
       overhaul of aviation systems. The DCA is defined as the systems command of a military
       Service responsible for the airworthiness certification of the system in which a CSI is
       used.
       A2.2.1.2. For contracts involving CSIs, DoD is restricted to DCA approved sources.
       A2.2.1.3. The law requires that CSI deliveries and services meet the technical and
       quality requirements established by the DCA.
   A2.2.2. DoD 4140.1, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, establishes
   procedures for the management of aviation CSIs. AFI 20-106IP, Management of Aviation
   Critical Safety Items, addresses requirements for identification, acquisition, quality
   assurance, management, repair, and disposition of aviation CSIs.
AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013                              13


                             Attachment 3 (Added-AFGSC)
                        AFREP END OF FISCAL YEAR REPORT

A3.1.
Sample AFREP End of Fiscal Year Report -- FY 14.

XX MXG/BASE NAME


MICAP Avoided                               0
MICAP Fills                                 0
SARs Approved                               0
SARs Disapproed                             0
Number of Base Level Repairs                0
Number of Base Level Repairs                0
Number of Contract Repairs                  0
Number of Non-Repairs                       0
Base Level Repair Costs                     $0.00
Contract Repair Costs                       $0.00
Operating Costs                             $0.00
Gross Avoidance                             $0.00
Gross Credits                               $0.00
Number of Personnel          Grade                      AFSC




Personnel Trained this FY    Type (Initial/Refresher)   Location




Success Stories- Bullet Format
 14                                   AFI21-123_AFGSCSUP_I 24 DECEMBER 2013


//Signed, jjd, xx Sep 2012// JOHN J. DOE, MSgt, USAF XX MXG AFREP Manager
