BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-302
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                          18 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                              Transportation

                                                                 VEHICLE MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available electronically on the Offutt Air Force Portal
               or on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 55 LRS/LGRV                                                    Certified by: 55 MSG/CC
                                                                     (Col. Andrea D. Tullos)
Supersedes: AFI24-307 OFFUTTAFB SUP1,                                                 Pages: 7
            2 January 2002


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, and
Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles. It establishes Headquarters United States Air
Force Vehicle Management procedures and describes the supporting data systems. Vehicle Fleet
Manager (VFM) or Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS) will expand or revise these
procedures to fit local circumstances, within the intent of this instruction. Some objectives,
policies and responsibilities of Vehicle Management are derived from overarching policy in
DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007, DOD
4140.50-R, Management and Standards of DoD Locomotives, 19 June 1985, DOD Instruction
(DODI) C-4500.51, Commercially Procured and Leased Armored Vehicle Policy (U), 25 July
2007 and DODI 4500.57, Transportation and Traffic Management, 18 March 2008. Send
comments and suggested improvements using AF Form 847, Recommend Change of
Publication, through channels to: 55 CS/SCXKP, 201 Lincoln Hwy, Suite 206, Bldg 41, and
Offutt AFB, NE 68113. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                         AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Reformatted
accessibility and releasability headers, update certified signature block, renumbered all
supplemented areas to line up with AFI.
1.10.3. The Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) will expand mobile maintenance to include
performing minor maintenance on a case-by-case basis.
1.13. Vehicle Abuse and Accidents. Reducing damage to government vehicles is the
responsibility of the vehicle operator and the operator’s commander who is in charge of
maintaining a high degree of discipline and control of Air Force resources. The initial
responsibility for identifying and reporting accidents rests with the vehicle operator. The
damage must be immediately reported to Security Forces Squadron prior to moving the vehicle.
Damage resulting from accidents or possible vehicle abuse must be reported to 55 LRS/LGRV
(Vehicle Management) within 24 hours or as soon as possible the next duty day. Emergencies
(i.e. vehicle is not safe to drive or continued operation will cause further damage) will be
reported to vehicle management at DSN 271-4925, COMM 402-294-4925, or after hours call
vehicle dispatch at DSN 271-4375, COMM 402- 294-4375. The VFM will verify all suspected
accidents and abuses identified by the Customer Service Center (CSC). In accidents involving
privately owned vehicles (POV), government motor vehicles (GMV) may only be released for
repair by the Base Legal Office, Claims Division, after legal office personnel have had the
opportunity to compile all evidence for the insurance agencies and ensure all information
necessary is available to pursue or defend against a claim. A Claims Division representative will
coordinate with the civilian insurance agencies and ensure all information necessary is available
prior to repair of the GMV.
1.13.1. Using organizations will fund costs associated with government owned, leased and rental
vehicle abuse and/or accident damage. Damage caused when the vehicle is loaned to another
unit or agency is the responsibility of the using organization. The using organization must utilize
their organizational funds and coordinate funding arrangements with 55 LRS/LGRVA before
repairs commence.
1.13.1.1. (Added) Accident/abuse damage discovered on vehicles temporarily reassigned due
to a priority recall situation will be handled by the VFM. If an organization doesn’t have the
funds to pay for repairs of vehicle(s) involved in accidents/abuses, 55 LRS/LGRVA will inform
VFM and work with the organizations Resource Advisor to reach an amicable payment
agreement.
1.13.1.2. (Added) A GMV not released after the initial investigation by 55 LRS/LGRVA or
after discussion with the VFM will have a vehicle accident or abuse estimate work-order
processed in On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS). An accident or
abuse notification letter signed by the VFM will be forwarded to the using organization’s
Commander and designated representative within 5 duty days. The letter may be “electronically”
signed and forwarded via electronic media. The accident or abuse letter will contain an estimate
of the cost to repair the accident or abuse damage through a commercial source or, if possible,
local vehicle maintenance. The bottom portion of the notification letter will include an
endorsement section for the organization’s commander, and, once endorsed, serves as the release
letter back to 55 LRS/LGRVA.
AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                         3


1.13.1.3. (Added) The assigned organization may obtain estimates for repair of the GMV, but
final authority for selecting the source for repair remains with the VFM. The government
vehicle will only be released back to the organization solely to facilitate obtaining estimates.
Upon completion of the estimate the vehicle will be returned to vehicle maintenance.
1.13.1.4. (Added) A GMV will not be repaired or released to the assigned unit until 55
LRS/LGRVA receives a completed release letter from the assigned organization’s commander or
designated representative indicating that the unit’s investigation is complete, and that the unit
accepts financial obligation for the accident or abuse damage repairs. The unit will respond back
to 55 LRS/LGRVA within five duty days.
1.13.1.5. (Added) Vehicle repairs will commence upon receipt of the release letter from the
organization’s commander or designated representative. The release letter must identify a
designated individual with authorization to utilize the organization's Government Purchase Card
(GPC) and that funds are available or that there are other means to fund the repairs.
1.13.1.6. (Added) Local commercial vendors will be the primary method of repairing
government vehicles with accident or abuse damage. 55 LRS/LGRVA will select the source for
repair based upon quality, timeliness, warranty, reliability, economy, and mission needs. 55
LRS/LGRVA will keep the assigned organization apprised weekly of the status of any vehicle
under repair with a 55 LRS/LGVRA designated vendor.
1.13.1.7. (Added) When a GMV is involved in an accident with a POV and the GMV driver is
not at fault, 55 LRS/LGRVA will coordinate through 55 WG/JA for claims against the POV
driver’s insurance company and obtain a repair estimate. Before repairs are accomplished by a
repair agency, a check must be received by the 55 WG/JA from the operator’s insurance
company. Once notification is received from the 55 WG/JA to proceed with repairs, the vehicle
will be sent to a repair facility.
1.13.1.8. (Added) The following are examples of vehicle abuses in addition to those listed in
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual For The Wheeled Vehicle Driver, AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management,
and T.O. 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance.
1.13.1.8.1. (Added) Operating vehicle with tires worn below the minimum acceptable safe
tread depth of 2/32 inch.
1.13.1.8.2. (Added) Failing to accomplish proper operator care and maintenance.
1.13.1.8.3. (Added) Failing to report vehicle malfunctions, defects, accidents, or damage
affecting vehicle condition to Vehicle Maintenance in a timely manner. Safety discrepancies
must be reported immediately or as soon as possible and use of the vehicle discontinued.
1.13.1.8.4. (Added) Failing to protect the painted surface from oxidation and/or corrosion in
accordance with the guidance established in T.O. 36-1-191, Table 6-3.
1.13.1.8.5. (Added) Failing to coordinate with VM&A for the accomplishment of
vehicle/equipment scheduled maintenance on the date and time appointed.
1.13.1.8.6. (Added) Modifying or adding equipment to a vehicle without written coordination
through Vehicle Management for approval.
 4                                        AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013


1.13.1.8.7. (Added) Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior as a result of washing
with a hose or excessive amounts of water, and/or leaving windows open during rainy or
inclement weather.
1.13.1.8.8. (Added) Overfilling the engine crankcase, transmission, or hydraulic reservoirs-
insufficient oil or coolant levels.
1.13.1.8.9. (Added) Servicing the vehicle fuel tank and/or hydraulic reservoirs with incorrect
fuel or oils. NOTE: Due to environmental concerns for disposing of petroleum products, the
using organization is responsible for the removal and disposal of contaminated fuel and oil. For
specific guidance on disposal contact your unit hazardous waste monitor or the 55th Civil
Engineering Squadron Environment Flight.
1.13.1.8.10. (Added) Failure to control vehicle panels (i.e., doors, trunks, and hoods) in high
winds that result in damage.
1.13.1.8.11. (Added) Vehicles that show obvious signs of being operated off of paved
roadways. (EXCEPTION: Areas approved by the environmental office and/or in the performance
of official duties.)
1.13.1.8.12. (Added) Overloads, improperly distributes, fails to secure loads properly or does
not follow published loading/unloading procedures.
1.13.2. Initial responsibility for identifying suspected vehicle abuse rests with vehicle
maintenance CSC personnel during acceptance inspections. If the VFM verifies that the GMV
has possible accident or suspected abuse damage, 55 LRS/LGRVA will contact the commander
or designated representative to give them an opportunity to inspect and discuss the damage. The
unit shall have 2 duty days to respond.
1.13.2.1. (Added) If a commander feels the government vehicle accident/abuse case is not
justified, written justification can be forwarded to 55 LRS/CC within 5 duty days. If the 55
LRS/CC agrees with the unit justification, the vehicle will be repaired with vehicle maintenance
funds. If 55 LRS/CC still believes the case is valid, it will be forwarded to 55th Mission Support
Group Commander (55 MSG/CC) within 5 duty days for a final decision.
1.13.2.2. (Added) A request for a report of survey (ROS) investigation will be submitted to the
using organization’s commander, (for all damage), after the vehicle has been processed by
Vehicle Maintenance. The initial phase of the ROS must be completed and provided to 55
CPTS/QA within 10 duty days (or 20 duty days if the estimate must be obtained from an outside
source). The suspense begins from the date the vehicle damage is reported to 55 LRS/LGRV.
1.13.2.3. (Added) If pecuniary liability is being assessed to an individual, the unit may request
an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, from Vehicle Management (55
LRS/LGRVA). The AF Form 20 will be provided after repairs are complete to assist in
recouping the funds from the liable individual.
1.13.2.4. (Added) A ROS is not required for abuses involving overdue scheduled maintenance.
1.13.2.5. (Added) A GMV involved in an accident with no damage may be released back to
the organization.
1.13.2.6. (Added) The assigned organization will normally fund the repairs via their GPC card
or through 55th Contracting Squadron procedures. Assigned organizations will reimburse the
AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                          5


purchase of parts and materials for any accident or abuse damage repaired by Vehicle
Maintenance. The reimbursement will be coordinated between organizational Resource
Advisors prior to initiating repairs.
1.13.2.7. (Added) 55 WG/JA will provide 55 LRS/LGRVA a release letter for all GMV
accidents involving a POV or other non-Air Force property which the government operator was
found at fault and a civilian insurance company will not cover the repair of GMV damage.
1.13.3. The commander or designated representative the vehicle is assigned to will ensure that
copies of the accident reports are submitted to the Base Legal Office not later than one duty day
for all accidents involving POVs.
1.13.4. Incident repairs will not be categorized as an accident or abuse. Examples of such repairs
are:
1.13.4.1. (Added) A rock projected through the windshield from the tire of a vehicle being
followed.
1.13.4.2. (Added) A wind-carried object striking a vehicle.
1.13.4.3. (Added) Hail damage.
2.16.9. Prepped vehicles are delivered to the Cargo Deployment Function (CDF) area by the
owning units who are also responsible to ensure the vehicle fuel levels will be less than half a
tank. Contact 55 LRS/LGRV if assistance is needed. Vehicle management is responsible for the
vehicle limited technical inspection and 55 LRS/ LGRVA will prepare the deployed CA/CRL,
historical and scheduled maintenance reports. Vehicle Management will deliver real world
TMSK’s to the CDF, if they are not affixed to the vehicle.
3.17.1.2. Small loaders, mini-excavators etc., made by Bobcat or other manufacturers are
classified as registered vehicles and will not be purchased. Trailers will be purchased using the
same coordination procedures described in the above paragraphs to ensure the desired asset is an
equipment item and not a vehicle.
3.17.3.3. VM&A will notify organizations of OGMVCs requiring periodic maintenance. Once
notified, organizations will have 30 days to obtain the maintenance IAW manufacturer
recommended intervals. Units will provide documentation of completed maintenance/service
actions to VM&A. Commanders of units not providing required documentation will be notified
by the VFM that the OGMVC in questions is nonoperational until documentation of maintenance
is provided.
3.23.4. VFM authorizes the use of the Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report as a
permanent waiver card. CSC will also record waivers using a standalone computer with
Microsoft Access software. This file will be backed-up on a weekly basis and will be used in
case the using organization loses or damages the waiver form kept in the vehicle.
4.16.5. VM&A will conduct yard checks on a weekly basis and retain 4 weeks of yard check
sheets.
4.22.2. Accountability for VIL keys is the responsibility of the unit Commander or designated
representative and respective squadron Resource Advisor (RA)/Financial Resource Manager
(FRM). Unit commander’s designated personnel are required to maintain an inventory of VIL
keys assigned to the units vehicle fleet and will conduct semi-annual VIL key audits to ensure
 6                                          AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013


accountability, control and reconcile active VIL keys to currently assigned vehicles and
authorizations. Additionally, equipment listed on the units Custodian Authorization/ Custody
Receipt Listing (CA/CRL), and bulk fuel keys are controlled internally by the unit. Unit
commander or designated representative are responsible for ensuring all assigned vehicles are
issued VIL keys and must provide VIL key documentation to code the correct vehicle
registration number, fuel code, on or off base utilization, and expiration date. Expiration date of
VIL keys will be set IAW DLA-E policy.
4.22.3. Unit commanders will direct RA/FRM and/or designated representatives to establish
policy and procedures controlling vehicle use, to include VIL key storage and deactivation. Unit
designated personnel will log-in to the Defense Fuels Automated System Enterprise Server
(Purple Hub) and monitor fuel transactions to identify indicators of fraud and/or misuse, such as
fuel quantities that exceed mission requirements, multiple transactions same time/date and fuel
sales that exceed fuel tank capacity.
4.23. Recording Taxable Fuel Consumption. Any vehicle that goes off-base one or more
times during the fiscal quarter, using county, state or federal highways, is taxable for that period.
These vehicles need to be identified by the using organizations and a list provided to 55
LRS/LGRVA. Fuels management will conduct a 100% review of all vehicles and VIL keys in
DODFMAE, verifying tax status with the most current quarterly listing received from VM&A.
Additionally Fuels management will lock out inactive keys and notify owning organization. The
listing will be provided, in turn, to Fuels Management for proper coding of each vehicle. For
example: driving a vehicle down Hwy 75 to burn out the diesel particulate filter is an example of
a fuel tax status change and must be identified accordingly.
4.55. DOD Fleet Fuel Card Program. Fleet Cards, issued on a continuous basis to units with a
mission involving frequent off-base travel or designated as first responder, require a letter of
justification from unit commander to be maintained on file and reviewed yearly (updated with
change of unit commander). Units are directed to use alternative fuel (E85), will have cards
issued to purchase E85, and shall ensure no unauthorized purchases will be made. Units with
Wright-Express cards issued on a continuous basis will ensure the following: (a) cards are
secured while not in use; (b) a unit control log maintained to record cards checked out by trained
personnel; (c) a listing of trained unit personnel is maintained with signed statements of
understanding for proper card use; (d) card receipts are reviewed for any non-fuel or
unauthorized purchases; (e) receipts are taken to the VM&A office between the 1st and 5th day
of the month. At the start of each fiscal year, units will establish a MORD, via AF form 616,
with the Comptroller Liaison office to fund non-fuel costs. Units will also provide a copy of the
AF 616 to 55 LRS/LGRVA. Card holders are required to be available for semi-annual physical
inventory of assigned cards as required by AFI and scheduled by 55 LRS/LGRVA. Holders of
continuously issued fleet cards are required to sign AF Form 1297 for those cards and to sign a
statement of understanding of responsibilities.
4.56. Utilize Fuels Manager Defense Program. VM&A will download fuel inputs from
Purple Hub for OLVIMS every Friday afternoon and clear OLVIMS error deck after fuel data
download.
4.58.5. When a part comes with a warranty it will be tracked regardless of the cost.
5.2.23. 1823-1 backorder validation will be done monthly in conjunction with the PCN SB004-
15 validation.
AFI24-302_OFFUTTAFBSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                           7


5.17.4. Vehicles in NMCS that are identified on reportable slides and all priority vehicles will be
briefed every work day morning to the VMF/VMS, MICAP items will be briefed when initially
ordered and a daily update after initial briefing. Unsatisfactory status will be determined by the
following conditions: vehicles NCMS for more than 5 days will be identified to the VFM/VMS
every morning if needed.
7.2. General Description and Basic Principles of the Vehicle Management Data Collection
System. The VM&A office will download the (PCN SB004-828) information to a CD-ROM to
record the historical portion and store in a fireproof safe quarterly. OLVIMS data backups will
be accomplished daily within the office and stored on the office intranet and weekly on the
portable hard drive and uploaded online to the Air Force Portal.
10.1.1. VCO/VCNCO. In units without a VCO/VCNCO and without unit commander
designated GMV POCs, all vehicle management duties default to the Squadron Commander.
10.5. Permissible Operating Distance (POD). Offutt AFB’s (OAFB) established permissible
operating distance is 75 miles surrounding OAFB. The POD applies to all Offutt assigned motor
vehicles.
11.6.1. The close availability of Ethanol blend (E85) fuel, (less than 5 miles from OAFB),
requires all E85 capable vehicles to refuel at the Fantasy’s Fuel Station on 15th and Cornhusker.
Only those vehicles with an approved ACC HQ wavier on file can deviate from the required
alternate fuel. If E-85 fuel is unavailable from this location or when a vehicle is TDY and E-85
cannot be located or readily available the operator will annotate on the fuel receipt the reason E-
85 was not used and return the receipt to VM&A.




                                             JOHN T. RAUCH, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
