BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-210
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                10 JUNE 2014

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                NUCLEAR WEAPON RELATED VISITS TO
                                                        AIR FORCE ORGANIZATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LW                                           Certified by: AF/A4L (Maj Gen Cooper)
                                                                                     Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI21-210, 14 March 2012


This publication implements the policy in AFPD 21-2 Munitions, and provides procedures to
comply with the provisions of Articles VII and IX of the Stockpile Agreement between the
United States Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of Defense dated 20 March 1967.
It establishes procedures for scheduling nuclear weapons related visits by Department of Energy
(DOE)/National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) Nuclear Security Enterprise (NSE)
organizations and personnel. This publication applies to Air Force commanders (Active Duty,
Guard or Reserve) responsible for storing, maintaining, handling, loading and accounting for
nuclear weapons and/or nuclear weapons support equipment to include training devices. This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. This publication may not be
supplemented. Units will contact the applicable MAJCOM for interpretations of the guidance
contained in this publication. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the
compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for
waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority,
or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                                       AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document includes significant changes that require complete review and incorporates AFI
33-360 guidance to include tier waiver requirements.
1. Purpose. This instruction identifies procedures for scheduling nuclear weapons related visits
by DOE/NNSA NSE agencies and other non-Air Force weapons supporting agencies. The
visiting agency maintains responsibility for funding these visits. Requests will be reviewed on a
case-by-case basis for the actual need to visit a USAF site and will be coordinated with the
applicable MAJCOM.
2. General. DOE/NNSA through the NSE integrates the design, development, and stockpile
maintenance requirements with the Air Force. DOE/NNSA NSE field representatives visit Air
Force organizations to exchange technical information with weapons maintenance personnel and
to perform/oversee nuclear weapons maintenance activities.               This exchange assists
DOE/NNSA/NSE and the Air Force in solving technical problems and developing weapon
design considerations by applying field engineering feedback and technical assistance. These
liaison visits do not substitute for official Air Force nuclear weapon inspections and processing
of Unsatisfactory Reports. Discussing technical problems does not commit the Air Force to
nuclear weapon modification, alteration, product change proposal, special repair procedure or
any other changes to established procedures. Visits are purely technical liaison in nature and will
be treated by both agencies as a means for discussing mutual problems between the user and the
developer.
3. General Procedures
     3.1. Requestor (DOE/NNSA NSE and non-Air Force agencies)
        3.1.1. Requests to visit Air Force organizations by DOE/NNSA NSE agencies and non-
        Air Force agencies for nuclear weapons related visits will be supported by a request letter
        and Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) visit request or a DOE Form 5631.20,
        Request for Visit or Access Approval, as required. Both letter and visit request will be
        received at the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) Nuclear Weapons
        Logistics Division and AFNWC Security Office prior to a visit request being approved.
        JPAS visit requests will be authenticated by individual Unit Security Offices. Requestors
        will provide the visit request to the AFNWC Security Office and provide visit specifics in
        the request letter to AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division. The request letter
        detailing specifics of the visit will identify the following information:
           3.1.1.1. Units and facilities to be visited.
           3.1.1.2. Purpose of visit.
           3.1.1.3. Primary and backup inclusive dates of proposed visit. Inclusive dates are to
           include the specific dates the traveler(s) will be at each location.
           3.1.1.4. Each visitor’s full name, (last, first, middle initial and suffix, if it applies) as
           it appears on visitor’s government issued photo identification (ID) (i.e. driver’s
           license, passport, other ID).
           3.1.1.5. Rank of visitor(s) or protocol equivalent (e.g. GS-12, Colonel, Contractor).
AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014                                                                        3


        3.1.1.6. Driver’s License Number and State of issue, passport number, or other
        government issued ID number.
        3.1.1.7. Organization (e.g. SNL/5513) and agency security manager contact
        information.
        3.1.1.8. Passport numbers and expiration dates (required for all overseas visits). This
        information is provided with the visit request, as it is not always required to be
        provided by the security office.
        3.1.1.9. Part and/or serial number of any accompanying supplies/equipment (e.g.
        photo or test equipment) being carried into the nuclear facility.
        3.1.1.10. Human Reliability Program (as required).
     3.1.2. DOE/NNSA NSE agencies will submit a DOE Form 5631.20, for all individuals,
     to the AFNWC Security Office.
        3.1.2.1. Agencies utilizing JPAS will submit the visit request using the appropriate
        Security Management Office code (SMO). Contact the Air Force Nuclear Weapons
        Center’s Nuclear Capabilities Field Support Branch (AFNWC/NCLF) for appropriate
        SMO code.
     3.1.3. Requestors will submit visit requests for all individuals to AFNWC/NCLF not
     later than 30 days prior for CONUS visits and 45 days for overseas visits (60 days for
     Turkey). Short notice requests will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
     3.1.4. Visitors will possess two forms of ID when entering nuclear weapon restricted
     areas, one of which must be a government issued picture ID. Both forms of ID used must
     contain matching information. Any information not matching will result in denial of
     entry to restricted areas.
     3.1.5. Once the visit request is approved by the owning MAJCOM, the requestor will
     coordinate other details (meeting time, etc.) for the visit with the unit point of contact.
     The AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division will grant authority to visit Air Force
     installations before the trip can take place. Changes to approved visits will be
     coordinated through AFNWC Nuclear Logistics Division to owning MAJCOM.
  3.2. AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division will:
     3.2.1. Provide a single point of contact to the DOE/NNSA NSE agencies and other non-
     Air Force nuclear weapons supporting agencies for nuclear weapons, facilities or security
     related visits to Air Force installations. The AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics
     Division assures a valid purpose for each visit or access request and ensures appropriate
     involvement and standardization throughout the request process. (T-2)
     3.2.2. Address issues that involve nuclear weapons, access to nuclear weapons restricted
     areas, nuclear weapons-related test and handling equipment or issues that fall under the
     responsibilities of the Joint Nuclear Weapons Publications System. This requirement
     includes representatives of DOE/NNSA NSE agencies traveling to Air Force locations as
     part of the Nuclear Weapons System Safety Group. (T-1)
4                                                                   AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014


       3.2.3. Upon notification of a requested visit, contact applicable MAJCOM through
       official channels to determine approval/disapproval. (T-2) Note: AFNWC/NCL will
       function as MAJCOM for all 898 MUNS visit requests.
          3.2.3.1. Send memorandum to applicable MAJCOM including requesting agency,
          reason for visit, proposed dates and number of personnel requesting entry. Assist
          with determination of alternate date(s) as needed. (T-1)
          3.2.3.2. Ensure visits are approved or disapproved only after coordination with
          applicable MAJCOM. Ensure careful consideration of the purpose, adequacy of
          clearances, timing of the visit and schedules of the units to be visited. (T-2)
       3.2.4. Notify requestor of visit approval/disapproval and agreed upon dates after
       MAJCOM coordination. (T-2)
       3.2.5. Forward validated visit requests to the AFNWC Security Office. (T-2)
       3.2.6. Coordinate with requestors and all agencies involved in the visit to resolve any
       issues. (T-2)
    3.3. AFNWC Security Office will:
       3.3.1. Verify and maintain clearances pertaining to individuals requesting visits to Air
       Force installations and organizations. Verify personnel possess appropriate clearances
       and are valid for the period of the visit. (T-0)
       3.3.2. Sign validated visit request (wet signature or e-signed) and submit document (.pdf
       or .doc(x)) to the AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division and the Unit security
       manager(s) of the unit to be visited using guidance in DoD S-5210.41-M_AFMAN 31-
       108, Volume 2, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: General Nuclear Weapon Security
       Procedures. (T-0)
       3.3.3. Coordinate with AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division to resolve any
       issues. (T-2)
    3.4. MAJCOMs will:
       3.4.1. Coordinate/approve/disapprove all visit requests.
       3.4.2. Establish guidance and procedures concerning security clearance verification and
       coordination of visits according to Air Force security directives and instructions.
       3.4.3. Coordinate formal requests for all visits through the AFNWC Nuclear Weapons
       Logistics Division.
    3.5. Owning Wing Commander will:
       3.5.1. Coordinate/approve/disapprove all visit requests. (T-2)
    3.6. Additional Procedures
       3.6.1. DOE/NNSA NSE agencies and non-Department of Defense (DoD) agencies will
       process their own country clearances through their Foreign Travel Offices. Agencies will
       proceed only after receipt of official visit request approval by the MAJCOM and
       notification from the AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division. DoD agencies will
       process their own country clearances through their appropriate Foreign Travel Offices
AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014                                                                       5


     using criteria outlined in the DoD Foreign Clearance Manual. Agencies will proceed
     only after receipt of official visit request approval by the MAJCOM and notification from
     the AFNWC Nuclear Weapons Logistics Division.
     3.6.2. Security information will only be accepted through the outside agency’s security
     office; security information provided by the traveler will not be accepted.
     3.6.3. Processing of Theater/Site Visits to HQ USAFE for approval will be accomplished
     by the requesting agency security office.




                                          JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
 6                                                                 AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Articles VII and IX, AT(29-2)-1222, Stockpile Agreement between the United States Atomic
Energy Commission and Department of Defense, 20 Mar 1967
DoD S-5210.41-M_AFMAN 31-108, Volume 2, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: General
Nuclear Weapon Security Procedures, 7 Mar 2013
AFPD 21-2, Munitions, 17 Dec 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008, AFGM2013-01, 29 Aug 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DOE Form 5631.20, Request for Visit or Access Approval

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DOE—Department of Energy
GS—General Schedule (US civil service pay scale)
HQ—Headquarters
ID—Identification
JPAS—Joint Personnel Adjudication System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MUNS—Munitions Squadron
NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration
NSE—Nuclear Security Enterprise
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SMO—Security Management Office
AFI21-210 10 JUNE 2014                                                                    7


SNL—Sandia National Laboratories
USAFE—Unites States Air Forces in Europe

Terms
T-0—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, OSD, JS).
Requirement external to AF; Requests for waivers must be processed through command channels
to publication OPR for consideration. (Source AFI 33-360).
T-1—Non-compliance puts Airmen, commanders, or the USAF strongly at risk of mission or
program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waiver
authority is MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than the MAJCOM Director), with the
concurrence of the publication’s Approving Official (Source AFI 33-360).
T-2—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. Waiver authority is MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than
MAJCOM Director).
