BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-230
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                             20 FEBRUARY 2009


                                                                                   Transportation

                                              MAINTAINING AIR FORCE DOD ACTIVITY
                                                         ADDRESS CODES (DODAAC)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 401 SCMS/GUMAA                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A4LM (YA-02 Michael Hanson)
Supersedes: AFI24-230, 1 August 1996                                        Pages: 40

This instruction implements DoD Manual 4000.25-M, Defense Logistics Management System
Manual, Volume 6, DoD Logistics Systems Interoperability Support Services and AF Policy
Directive 24-2, Preparation and Movement of Air Force Materiel. It establishes responsibilities,
outlines construction, purpose, and use of Air Force DoDAACs, and describes procedures for
using the Air Force DoDAAC Web Management System (WMS) to establish, change, or
terminate an Air Force DoD Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) in the DoD Activity Address
Directory (DoDAAD). This instruction also describes processes for performing validation of
DoDAACs assigned to Air Force units and contractors. It applies to Air Force activities,
including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, as well as
Air Force contractor activities that receive, ship, have custody of government property, or require
identification in a specified military standard logistics system. Civil Air Patrol (CAP) activities
are also supported through the Air Education and Training Command (AETC). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command
(MAJCOM) DoDAAC monitors.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision updates procedures to account for implementation of the AF DoDAAC WMS, adds
new terminology, identifies responsibilities in greater detail, clarifies the purpose and use of
various types of DoDAACs, and reorganizes information. Contents should be reviewed in their
entirety.
2                                                           AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009


                                             Chapter 1

       GENERAL BACKGROUND AND ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES


1.1. General Information

1.1.1. Customers should ensure that they understand the purpose and uses of DoD Activity
Address Codes (DoDAACs), Business Partner Numbers (BPNs), and Military Assistance
Program Address Codes (MAPACs) before requesting a new DoDAAC. This will ensure the
customer actually requires a DoDAAC vice a BPN or MAPAC before initiating a DoDAAC
request. While the three are similarly constructed and may appear the same to some, they have
separate and distinct uses.

1.1.1.1. A DoDAAC is a six-digit alphanumeric code used for providing a uniform method for
controlling US Government assets and for recording transactions that reflect receipts and
disposition of property transferred to an activity.

1.1.1.2. A BPN is a six-digit Department of Defense code that identifies a unit, activity, or
organization for intra-governmental financial identification purposes only. See Chapter 5 for
additional information about BPNs.

1.1.1.3. A MAPAC is a six-position alphanumeric code used to identify the ship-to and mark-for
addresses of Foreign Military Sales (FMS) and Grant Aid shipments and documentation. Air
Force MAPACs begin with “D.” The MAPACs are maintained by the Defense Automatic
Addressing System Center (DAASC) in a separate database.

1.1.2. The Department of Defense Activity Address Directory (DoDAAD) is the directory of
DoDAACs and corresponding organization addresses to which material, documentation, or
billing is directed under the Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS). The DoDAAD
system provides identification codes, clear text addresses and selected data characteristics of
organizational activities needed for requisitioning, marking, shipping document preparation,
billing and similar applications. The DoDAAD will be used by all DoD components and (by
agreement) by the General Services Administration (GSA).

1.1.3. Each activity that receives, has custody, issues, or ships DoD assets is identified by a six-
position alphanumeric DoDAAC. These codes, clear-text addresses that apply and other
pertinent data are maintained in the DoDAAD system.

1.1.4. Air Force DoDAACs also identify records of transactions involved in keeping account of
DoD assets. Responsibilities for asset accountability are explained in AFMAN 23-110, USAF
Supply Manual, Volume 1, Part 2, Chapter 1. Accountability for munitions accounts are
identified in AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, Chapter 9 and AFI
21-204, Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures, Chapters 7 and 8.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                               3

1.1.5. Contractor DoDAACs. Air Force contractor DoDAACs are designated as EB, ED, EJ,
EP, EY, or EZ, used as the prefix to a 4 digit number (see Chapter 2). Accountability is
maintained under the terms of the contract and this instruction.

1.1.6. A Community of Practice (CoP) has been created on the AF Knowledge Now web site to
allow collaboration and coordination of changes to current guidance, posting of updated
information, and forums for discussion and questions about DoDAACs. The URL for the
DoDAAC CoP is https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-AA-CS.

1.2. Responsibilities.

1.2.1. Defense Automatic Addressing System Center (DAASC) is responsible for maintaining
the DoDAAD in current status. They assimilate all additions, changes, and deletions received
from Central Service Points (CSP) into the DoD master file and disseminate updated data to
CSPs in prescribed format. DAASC receives basic and change editions submitted by CSPs for
maintenance of DoD 4000.25-M, Volume 6.

1.2.2. Air Force Central Service Point (CSP). The Air Force CSP for DoDAAC issues is the Air
Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC), 591st Supply Chain Management Group,
401st Supply Chain Management Squadron, Distribution Flight. Duties include:

1.2.2.1. Maintaining the Air Force DoDAAC Web Management System (WMS).

1.2.2.2. Establishing and executing Air Force procedures and processes for using the DoDAAC
WMS and maintaining DoDAAC account records.

1.2.2.3. Monitoring and approving new assignment, change, or termination of DoDAAC and
address data as outlined in this instruction and as prescribed by DoD 4000.25-M, Volume 6 and
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 2, Chapter 1.

1.2.2.4. Controlling the transmission of the DoDAAC maintenance data to DAASC.

1.2.2.5. Carrying out research on inquiries that relate to the Air Force DoDAAC WMS and AF
records maintained in the DAASC WEB DoDAAD system to solve problems and bring about
improvements.

1.2.2.6. Edit DoDAAC updates before they are processed into the DAASC WEB DoDAAD
system. The WEB DoDAAD system in turn feeds updated DoDAAC information to the AF
DoDAAC WMS to overlay existing records with updated information.

1.2.3. MAJCOM Monitor. The MAJCOM Monitor receives, reviews and approves/disapproves
DoDAAC requests (new, changes, and deletions) initiated by a unit within its command. This
function is also the focal point for annual validation of all DoDAAC accounts within the
command (except contractor accounts).
4                                                           AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

1.2.3.1. MAJCOMs must appoint a DoDAAC Monitor through whom all requests will be
routed. Any changes in point of contact (POC), office symbol, and/or telephone number should
be forwarded immediately to the AF Central Service Point. It is highly recommended that a
primary and alternate be appointed. In the event all MAJCOM DoDAAC Monitors need to be
out of the office for an extended period, the MAJCOM should make arrangements for
accomplishment of the DoDAAC workload, or contact the Central Service Point for assistance.

1.2.4. Subject Matter Expert (SME). The SME (previously referred to as account control office) is
an individual who, by virtue of training or experience, is expected to have greater-than-normal
expertise of the technical or operational DoDAAC system process within a specified functional area.
The SME has been selected or volunteered to participate in verification and validation of a specific
type of DoDAAC (i.e., FB, FT, FV, etc.). It is highly recommended that a primary and alternate
be appointed whenever possible. In the event SMEs for a particular functional area need to be
out of the office for an extended period, they should contact the Central Service Point for
assistance.

1.2.5. Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS). DFAS is responsible for validating
billing address information for DoDAAC accounts billed through DFAS when the Web
Management System sends new DoDAAC request or change to an existing DoDAAC.

1.2.6. DoDAAC Customer. The DoDAAC customer is anyone who uses the DoDAAC Web
Management System (WMS) to search for DoDAAC information, request a new DoDAAC be
established, or to change or delete an existing DoDAAC account.

1.2.7. Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer is responsible for submitting new DoDAAC
requests for contractors awarded contracts under its purview, initiating contractor DoDAAC
account changes to include extensions of contract expiration dates, and initiating action to
terminate contractor DoDAACs upon contract completion using the AF DoDAAC Web
Management System (WMS) at URL https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil/. Responsibility lies with the
Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO), Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO), or Defense
Contract Management Agency (DCMA) office having administrative oversight of the contract
for which the DoDAAC was assigned.

1.2.8. BPN Service Point. SAF/FMP (AFAFO) performs as the Air Force Central Service Point
for the establishment, change, or deletion of BPN accounts. BPN transaction requests are
submitted to the BPN service point via the BPN link on the AF DoDAAC WMS. BPN record
searches can be conducted via the same link.

1.2.9. System Administrators. When other AF systems use products and information of the AF
DoDAAC WMS or DAASC WEB DoDAAD system, it is the responsibility of the system
administrators for those other AF systems to keep input data current.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                     5



                                            Chapter 2

          CONSTRUCTION, PURPOSE, AND USE OF AIR FORCE DoDAACS


2.1. Construction of DoDAACs

2.1.1. First Digit. An alpha-numeric designation of the military service or federal agency that is
responsible for controlling military standard requisition and issue procedures (MILSTRIP). The
Air Force CSP controls each DoDAAC that has a first digit of:

2.1.1.1. F – Air Force

2.1.1.2. E – Air Force Contractor

2.1.1.3. J – Air Force, for requisition of maps, charts, and geospatial products from Defense
Supply Center Richmond – Mapping Customer Operations (DSCR-MCO). DSCR Customer
Assistance Handbook is available at http://www.dscr.dla.mil/rmf/policies/handbook.pdf.
Products are free-of-charge to Air Force activities.

2.1.2. Second Digit. An alphabetic designation of the type of material usually accounted for in
that account, or type of activity (see list in Table 2.1.). NOTE: For BPNs, the second digit is
always numeric. See Chapter 5 for more information on BPNs.

2.1.3. Last Four Digits. A four-digit numeric combination assigned by CSP (see list Attachment
3). NOTE: For BPNs, the third digit is always alphabetic. See Chapter 5 for more information
on BPNs.

2.2. Type of Address Codes (TACs). The organization name and office symbol will be the
first line of each address. The second line will reflect commercial phone number (when no TAC
2 exists) and may reflect the building number, project or purpose. The third and fourth lines are
described under TAC 1, 2, and 3 below. Each TAC is limited to four lines, 35 positions per line.
The Air Force DoDAAC CSP may construct three different TACs from user inputs as follows:

2.2.1. TAC 1 (Mail) Address. This address is not intended for administrative correspondence,
but rather for parcel post shipments (70 lbs or less), transportation related documentation, or for
billing purposes. It may also be used for freight shipments if no TAC 2 address is listed.
Wherever possible, the TAC 1 address will contain street address and nine-digit zip code for
stateside addresses, and unit/box number and nine-digit APO zip code for overseas addresses.
Note: A traditional overseas consignee and APO address cannot be used for commercial
carrier door-to-door movements. This type address restricts movements to the US Postal
Service (USPS).

2.2.2. TAC 2 (Freight) Address. This address is for cargo movements. If there is no TAC 2
address then freight is sent to the TAC 1 address. This in-the-clear address should contain the
DoDAAC/Stock Record Account Number (SRAN), Unit, office symbol or consignee, building
6                                                          AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

and/or room number, commercial phone number, street address, base name, state, country, ZIP
or country mail route code. An in-the-clear address permits door-to-door delivery by
commercial carrier, particularly to overseas points.

2.2.2.1. The three-position Aerial Port of Debarkation (APOD) code and Water Port of
Debarkation (WPOD) code must appear in all TAC 2 addresses for overseas locations, including
Alaska and Hawaii. Per DoD rules, no APOD/WPOD codes will be accepted for any locations
in CONUS or Canada.

2.2.2.1.1. The APOD is the nearest point the Air Mobility Command (AMC) will airlift cargo,
and the codes can be found in the Table Management Distribution System (TMDS),
https://tmds03.scott.af.mil/TMDS/index.jsp.

2.2.2.1.2. The WPOD is the port where cargo departs the Military Sealift Command (MSC), and
those codes also appear in the TMDS.

2.2.3. TAC 3 (Billing) Address. This address is used for billing purposes. A billing address is
not required for an Air Force contractor DoDAAC because billing is made to various activities or
provided as free issue. Air Force TAC 3 addresses are primarily DFAS offices. The billing
clear-text address for the DFAS office is comprised of the 6-position Accounting and Disbursing
Station Number (ADSN) and the remainder follows the standard USPS address format.

2.2.4. Controlled Accounts. If the mission is classified, a controlled account is assigned. Instead
of a clear text address, the DoDAAD directs the shipper to call a Defense Switch Network
(DSN) or commercial telephone number to request shipping instructions. The shipping
instructions are not provided by telephone. Requested instructions should be forwarded by
classified correspondence, as the controlled account number and its clear text address are not to
be associated. An option is to use a "mark for" and forwarding agent at the nearest point or port
of debarkation.

2.3. Types of DoD Activity Address Codes for Air Force Activities. Table 2.1. below lists
current Air Force DoDAAC types and uses.

Table 2.1. Types of Air Force Activity DoDAACs

 Type of
 Activity Code        Description        Purpose & Special Instructions
 FA                   Administrative     Used for administrative purposes only. Normally
                                         assigned to Contracting offices for the first six
                                         positions of their newly awarded Air Force contracts;
                                         also assigned to Deployed CMOS and GATES for
                                         computer tracking and to Air Force units that require
                                         Tech Orders from other Services. This is NOT a ship-
                                         to or billable DoDAAC (Exception: FA4440, which is
                                         used with GPC card on the DoD E-MALL website).
 FB                   Base Supply        Assigned to both military and contractor operated Base
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                         7


                              Supply organizations with direct access to the SBSS
                              system. This is a billable DoDAAC requiring a TAC 3
                              (ADSN).
FC              Civil         Assigned to the Civil Engineering Squadrons for the
                Engineering   purchase of building materials ordered through the
                              Civil Engineer Materiel Acquisition System (CEMAS)
                              support and the disposal of HazMat associated with
                              building processes. This is a billable DoDAAC
                              requiring a TAC 3 (ADSN).
FD              Depots        Assigned to Air Force organizations operating as a
                              Depot Maintenance and/or Supply Inventory location.
                              This is a billable DoDAAC.
FE              Base          Assigned usually in conjunction with the Base Supply
                Equipment     organizations for purchasing equipment, such as
                              vehicles. This is a billable DoDAAC requiring a TAC
                              3 ADSN.
FF              Services      These activity codes are assigned to provide a formal
                              account for requisitioning, shipping, transporting and
                              billing address for non-appropriated fund purchases.
                              These accounts are also used for obtaining and
                              providing excess and surplus property support to
                              Services activities. May require a TAC 3, but will not
                              be an ADSN. FF DoDAACs are NEVER used for
                              appropriated fund purchases.
FG              Satellite     Assigned to Air Force organizations not supported by a
                              host base. May be located on a base or be a
                              geographically separated unit. Also assigned to AF
                              ROTC (FG3035) and JR ROTC (FG3037)
                              organizations in conjunction with an assigned FY to
                              allow for tracking requisitions with delivery directly to
                              the unit location. "FG" accounts will be assigned to
                              Air Force Museums for withdrawal of items from the
                              Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO)
                              according to DoD 4160.2l-M, Defense Materiel
                              Disposition Manual
                              NOTE: FG DoDAACs will be assigned to BRAC
                              when a base is closing and there will continue to be a
                              need for requisitions or shipping not related to Base
                              Supply.
FH                            Reserved for Future Use
FJ              Aircraft      Assigned to Air Force organizations or other service
                Engines       accounts for engine management purposes that process
                              or overhaul Air Force aircraft engines.
FK              Munitions     All future requests for units that manage munitions
                              activities will be designated with an FV prefix. Units
                              having only FK-prefixes will be changed to FV-
8                                       AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009


                      prefixes.
FL   Library          Assigned to Air Force Library organizations.
FM   Medical          Assigned to Air Force Medical organizations.
FN   Non-standard     Established when other types of activity codes do not
                      meet the existing requirement. Only activities that
                      have special equipment (e.g., non-standard/limited
                      application) or a specific mission may be assigned an
                      "FN" type code. Ultimate approval by HQ
                      USAF/A4RM required.
FP   Fuels            For aviation fuels, missile propellants, bulk petroleum,
                      missile fuels oxidizers, pressurants, ground fuel, and
                      heating fuel in the fuels management category. Fuels
                      are supplied by Defense Energy Supply Center
                      (DESC).
FQ                    Reserved for Future Use
FR   Reclamation      The “FR” activity code is assigned to identify an Air
     and              Force Special Defense Property Disposal Account
     Demilitarization (AFSDPDA) as authorized by DoD 4160.21-M.
                      Control and accountability for specific types of excess
                      and surplus property are maintained by the established
                      activity for accomplishing designated disposal
                      processing. This type of DoDAAC is not used as a
                      "ship to" address.
FS   Centralized      Issued for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
     Clothing         bases to use for the Centralized Clothing Program.
FT   Food Service     Issued for Air Force Food Service Facilities, for
                      direct delivery from prime vendors. FT DoDAACs
                      under command code 2U are identified by specific
                      serial numbers (see atch 4). Excluding HQ AFSVA,
                      FT may be used by Air National Guard (ANG) and
                      Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). These
                      commands are authorized to load FT DoDAACs for
                      their dining facilities using their command code and
                      stock record account number for their stations.
                      ANG/AFRC Services activities should contact their
                      appropriate MAJCOM DoDAAC monitor.
FU   Computer         Used by base communications organizations to order
     Equipment        COMSEC computer equipment. Must have a Direct
                      Reporting Agency (DRA) number in request.
FV   Munitions        Assigned to units managing munitions assets under AFI
                      21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance
                      Management and/or AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons
                      Maintenance.
FW   Weapon           AFMC materiel aggregation accounts for selected
     Systems          weapon systems.
FX   Miscellaneous    May be assigned only to an activity that has special
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                             9


                                  equipment or classified mission for which no other
                                  code can be assigned. Ultimate approval by HQ
                                  USAF/A4RM required.
FY                Supplemental    Issued to designate a “ship to” address when the
                  address         address of the receiving activity is different from the
                                  address of the accountable activity. Furnish the
                                  DoDAAC that provides accountability in the request.
                                  An “FY” DoDAAC is for the supplementary address
                                  field of the requisition (positions 45-50). This
                                  DoDAAC may not be used for requisitioning or billing
                                  purposes.
FZ                                Reserved for Future Use
F#                ADSN            Accounting and Disbursing Station Numbers,
(all numeric)                     identifying DFAS offices for payment of AF bills. Not
                                  to be used for requisitioning, shipping, or other
                                  purposes.
F#%               BPN             Identifies federal trading partners below the DoD level.
(numeric-alpha)                   CSP is SAF/AFAFO, Denver CO.
(see Chap 5)
JM                Maps, charts,   To requisition aeronautical, nautical and topographic
                  geospatial      maps, charts and related publications from Defense
                  products        Supply Center Richmond – Mapping Customer
                                  Operations (DSCR-MCO). Customers requiring
                                  products from DSCR-MCO must have a valid MCO
                                  Account Request Form (DLA Form 1832) on file in
                                  MCO’s database. The Form 1832 must include the
                                  customer’s JM DoDAAC. DLA Form 1832 can be
                                  found at DSCR-MCO web site:
                                   http://www.dscr.dla.mil/rmf/accounts/1832.htm.

                                  In order to eliminate duplication and preclude an
                                  unmanageable number of accounts, activities are
                                  limited in obtaining permanent JM accounts. The
                                  following guidelines apply:
                                  1) Only units with a large volume of recurring
                                  requirements will be issued their own JM accounts.
                                  2) Units requiring flight publications affecting safety
                                  can be issued their own JM accounts, provided no other
                                  nearby unit with similar MCO requirements can
                                  support them.
                                  3) Units requiring maps, charts, etc., on a non-recurring
                                  basis or who have a one-time requirement will be
                                  referred to other base units who already have JM
                                  accounts, such as Base Operations or Intelligence.
                                  4) Base Intelligence offices should be able to support
                                  units who only have requirements for the classified
10                                                      AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009


                                       portions of the Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG).
                                       Unclassified FCG is available on the web.



2.4. Purpose of Contractor DoDAACs. These accounts are issued to companies performing
Air Force contracts which require them to order and/or receive Air Force assets, or when the
contractor is authorized to use government sources of supply. A company could have both "EY"
and "EZ" accounts per location if they are performing both types of contracts. When this
happens, the EY and EZ will be the same number for the same facility. When a DoDAAC is
established for a company, the address which is provided must be the actual location where the
work is being performed.

2.5. Types of DoD Activity Address Codes for Contractors. Table 2.2. below lists current
Contractor DoDAAC types and uses.

Table 2.2. Types of Contractor DoDAACs

 Type of
 Activity
 Code            Description       Purpose & Special Instructions
 EB              ICP               Inventory location for customer shipments of Contractor ICP
                                   managed material. Not used for requisitioning.
 ED              Depot             Inventory location for Contractor ICP. Not used for
                                   requisitioning.
 EJ              Aircraft          Assigned to contractors performing new production and
                 Engines           repair contracts for aircraft engines.
 EP              Fuels             Contractor requiring aviation fuels when producing,
                                   repairing, or testing Air Force aircraft.
 EY              Production,       Contractor codes for contracts awarded for
                 manufacturing,    production/manufacturing, research and development, test,
                 R&D, test, ICS,   interim contractor support (ICS) contracts, contractor
                 CLS, TCT,         logistics support (CLS) contracts (EEIC 578), total contract
                 O&M contracts     training (TCT) contracts, and operations and maintenance
                                   contracts, provided Government Furnished
                                   Equipment/Government Furnished Material/Government
                                   Furnished Property (GFE/GFM/GFP), when MILSTRIP
                                   procedures are employed in requisitioning. Also issued for
                                   above contracts which are authorized to use government
                                   sources of supply.
                                   NOTE: Contractor operated base supply functions are not
                                   authorized an EY account but are assigned an FB account,
                                   the same as for military/U.S. civil service managed accounts.
 EZ              Repair,           Contractor codes assigned to repair contractors (Reparable
                 overhaul,         Movement Control System), when GFE/GFM/GFP is issued
                 modification      and MILSTRIP requisitioning is authorized.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009   11


             contracts
12                                                         AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009



                                            Chapter 3

          PROCEDURES TO REQUEST, CHANGE, OR DELETE A DODAAC

3.1. AF DoDAAC Process Overview. The DoDAAC assignment process starts with an AF
military unit or AF contractor identifying the need to have a Department of Defense Activity
Address Code assigned, changed or deleted.

3.1.1. New DoDAACs may be requested as a result of a newly formed organization or in the
case of contractors, have a new contract with a new manufacturing facility.

3.1.2. Changes are processed to update an existing DoDAAC such as the commercial phone
number, delivery address, office symbol, or in the case of a contract, relocation of office or
extension of an existing contract.

3.1.3. Deletions are processed when a DoDAAC is no longer required due to deactivation of an
organization or termination of an AF contract.

3.2. Relationship between the Air Force DoDAAC Web Management System (WMS) and
DAASC WEB Department of Defense Activity Address Directory (DoDAAD) System.

3.2.1. Air Force DoDAAC Web Management System (WMS) is accessed at URL:
https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil.

3.2.1.1. The AF DoDAAC WMS is a web-based application used to capture and relay required
information to initiate new DoDAAC requests, change existing DoDAAC records, delete expired
DoDAAC accounts, search for DoDAAC records, and perform annual validation of DoDAAC
accounts.

3.2.1.2. The WMS provides an automated interface and coordination string between DoDAAC
customers, MAJCOM monitors, DoDAAC Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), and the Air Force
DoDAAC Central Service Point to route, edit, validate, and approve DoDAAC-related
transactions.

3.2.1.3. The system automatically feeds information to the DAASC WEB DoDAAD system to
create and update DoDAAC records.

3.2.2. DAASC WEB DoDAAD system. The WEB DoDAAD system is a web-based
replacement of the batch update to the Master Department of Defense Activity Address File
(DoDAAF) database. The master DoDAAD contains the names and addresses of activities which
must be identified in the DoD standard logistics transactions.

3.2.2.1. The DoDAAD records include military organizational entities which requisition,
receive, or ship materiel; commercial organizations which enter into materiel and/or service
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                  13

contracts with DoD; and the activities of other federal agencies which maintain logistics support
arrangements with the DoD.

3.2.2.2. The DoDAAD is maintained in a current state using updates from the Central Service
Point (CSP) in each Service and Agency. These updates are distributed daily or in near real time
to those activities utilizing database replication. This is the main source of the addressing
information used by the Department of Defense. This data is available for download by activities
requiring this information. DAASC also utilizes the DoDAAD to perform validations of logistics
transactions as they flow through the supply system.

3.3. Searching for a DoDAAC via the WMS. The DoDAAC Search process allows a
customer to enter an existing DoDAAC number and view information for that DoDAAC record.
Customer must first select “Search DoDAAC.” Next, the customer fills in one or more boxes
with any information they have and the search will display the results.

3.4. Requesting a new DoDAAC via the WMS. This process begins with the customer
visiting the website homepage (https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil) and selecting the Request (new)
DoDAAC button.

3.4.1. Request DoDAAC. After selecting Request DoDAAC, the next screen makes the
customer choose whether their DoDAAC will be a Military DoDAAC or a Contractor DoDAAC.
(There are distinct differences in the format and information collected). Customer also needs to
select whether the address will be for a CONUS (Continental U. S.—lower 48 states) or an
OCONUS (Outside CONUS—includes Alaska, Hawaii and Puerto Rico) activity.

3.4.2. The next screen will display the form the customer must complete. This is also the main
data entry point for the system.

3.4.3. To ensure the data is in the correct format, customer must fill in designated boxes with
required information. Help buttons and pop-up screens are available throughout the system to
assist customers as they complete the form. No punctuation/special characters (e.g., / , : ) may be
included as part of the address.

3.4.4. After the customer completes the form and clicks the Next button, a verification page will
display all the information submitted. If all information is correct, the customer must then click
the Submit Request button and the system will process the request to the first approval location.
Although the customer is “guided” through the request forms, it is essential they select the
correct MAJCOM for their unit and ensure the correct email address is entered. The MAJCOM
code from the drop-down box is how the system routes the request to the MAJCOM Monitor for
approval. The system has to have the individual’s email address for customer feedback as the
system processes the request.

3.5. Changing or Deleting a DoDAAC via the WMS. The data entry process is basically the
same for a change request and a delete request. The main difference is the customer has to enter
the DoDAAC number to be changed or deleted. Customer must then simply follow the
instructions and press the submit buttons. The DoDAAC Web Management System has layers
14                                                          AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

of security built into the information screens which will not allow customers to submit requests
until all required information is entered on the request forms. This allows those in the approval
process to know what is needed, who submitted it, and why it is needed. The information will
become a permanent electronic record of this transaction and provides the AF Service Point the
capability to enter a DoDAAC number and view the entire history of that DoDAAC.

3.6. Customer tracking number for DoDAAC transactions. After a customer submits a
completed request form they will receive a message to inform them the request was forwarded
for approval. The message will include a tracking number which is used to track the status of the
request. On the home page of the DoDAAC WMS the customer enters this tracking number in
the “Request Tracker” block on the front page to find out where the request is in the approval
process. When processing is completed, the customer receives an e-mail from the system
notifying them of the action taken.

3.7. Special Instructions for Contractor DoDAACs.

3.7.1. Contractors are not authorized to request establishment, change, or deletion of a
DoDAAC account. This must be done by an Air Force Contracting or Defense Management
Contract Agency (DCMA) office. When requesting the establishment of or a change to a
DoDAAC the contracting officer should provide the complete mailing address for the
Administrative Contracting Office (ACO) that will be administering this contract. Contract
DoDAAC information is provided by the ACO or Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO). All
DoDAAC correspondence, whether it is a request to issue a new DoDAAC, or information to
update an existing one, must come from the ACO or PCO and include an Air Force contract
number to verify that there is a valid, active contract being performed.

3.7.2. If a contract is extended or a new contract is placed in effect at the same location, the
ACO should submit a DoDAAC change request via the WMS to provide the CSP with the
updated information, otherwise the DoDAAC will be inactivated and deleted from the AF
DoDAAC WMS and the DAASC WEB DoDAAD System. Termination of contractor access
when contracts expire is important to ensure government property is not issued to unauthorized
contractors.

3.7.3. Contractor DoDAAC change of address. Contracting officers need to be aware of when
to request a change of address and when to request a new DoDAAC entirely:

3.7.3.1. If the contractor is closing a facility and moving everything to a new location, request a
change to the existing DoDAAC to reflect the new address.

3.7.3.2. If the contractor is opening a new facility and transferring some of the workload to the
new location, but is still functioning at the old location, request a new DoDAAC for the new
address. The current DoDAAC will remain active at the previous address as long as work
continues to be performed there on any Air Force contract.

3.8. MAJCOM Monitor, Subject Matter Expert, and AF Central Service Point Actions.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                   15

3.8.1. MAJCOM Monitor actions. After the customer submits the final request form, the system
will send the form to the MAJCOM selected by the customer. This is done by a table built into
the system maintained by the DoDAAC Service Point. If a TAC 3 is involved, the request will
first go to DFAS, then to the MAJCOM Monitor.

3.8.1.1. When the request is sent to the MAJCOM, the Web Management System will send an
email to the MAJCOM Monitor to inform them of a DoDAAC request requiring review. The
MAJCOM Monitor enters their command monitor control panel, protected by user ID and
Password, to review the request.

3.8.1.2. The MAJCOM Monitor will see the new DoDAAC request displayed under Pending
DoDAAC Requests. It displays the current DoDAAC for changes and deletes, the current status,
who submitted it and the date.

3.8.1.3. The MAJCOM Monitor will review the request to determine if it is legitimate, the
addresses are in the proper format, the request has adequate justification, and they agree with the
request.

3.8.1.4. If the MAJCOM Monitor agrees, they will select the Approve Request button. By
approving, they certify the request is valid and they agree with all of the information submitted.

3.8.1.5. If the MAJCOM Monitor disagrees with the request, they can either fix the incorrect
information themselves, or return it to the customer to be corrected. It is recommended that each
approval point reject erroneous or improper requests back to the customer. This will allow the
customer to know what they did wrong so future requests can be correctly submitted. To assist
the MAJCOM monitors with this task, there is a dialogue box built in to their control panels.
When the MAJCOM Monitor rejects a request, they can quickly send an email through the
system to tell the customer what needs to be corrected. There are also “canned responses”
available, based on typical problems with DoDAAC requests, to save the MAJCOM monitors
even more time.

3.8.1.6. When the MAJCOM Monitor is satisfied with the request and selects the Approve
Request button, the system sends the DoDAAC to the DoDAAC Subject Matter Expert (SME)
office designated for the particular type DoDAAC series the customer selected.

3.8.2. DoDAAC Subject Matter Expert (SME). A list of DoDAAC SMEs is found at
Attachment 3, or on the AF DoDAAC WMS at the following link:
https://DoDAAC.wpafb.af.mil/cfm/control.doc

3.8.2.1. The SME adds more validity to the customer’s stated need for a specific type DoDAAC.
An example is for FJxxxx DoDAACs (aircraft engines). Engines are so critical to the AF
mission that the AF has determined they will have their own series of DoDAAC to specifically
identify them in the requisitioning/shipping process. To ensure the DoDAAC is assigned
correctly, there is an SME that endorses the request.
16                                                           AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

3.8.2.2. Not all DoDAACs have assigned SMEs. When there is no SME for a particular
DoDAAC, the request is routed directly from the MAJCOM Monitor to the AF Central Service
Point. This ability to assign a SME to the approval process provides a lot of flexibility to get
more experts involved in this process.

3.8.2.3. The SME has the same capability as the MAJCOM Monitor through their control panel
to accept the request or reject it. If they approve it, the request is sent to the AF Service Point. If
the SME rejects it, they can send the DoDAAC request back to the customer or the MAJCOM
Monitor. When the errors are corrected and the request is re-submitted, the system sends the
request to the AF Service Point.

3.8.3. Air Force DoDAAC Central Service Point. When the AF CSP receives a DoDAAC
request, an email notification is sent to three people in the Air Force Global Logistics Support
Center (AFGLSC), 591st Supply Chain Management Group. When the CSP selects View from
the Pending DoDAAC Requests list, the DoDAAC Request Form will display. The CSP
representative will review the information presented for basically the same information the
others have reviewed. Unless there is more information they have that may not have been
observed earlier in the approval process, they will take the same actions the MAJCOM Monitors
and ACO did, accept or reject the request.

3.8.3.1. If the CSP accepts a request and it is for a new DoDAAC, it will be assigned a new
DoDAAC number and a Routing Identifier Code (if requested). The Web Management System
electronically submits all CSP approved requests to the DAASC WEB DoDAAD system, where
the process of establishing, changing, or deleting a DoDAAC is finalized. At this point, the
DoDAAC is available for use.

3.8.3.2. If a DoDAAC request is improper or contains errors precluding approval, the CSP
representative will either disapprove the request, or will return the request to any of the approval
points or directly to the customer for correction and resubmission. Figure 3.1. below illustrates
the DoDAAC Request/Approval process.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                17


Figure 3.1. DoDAAC Request/Approval Process
                                                                      APPROVE

                               DODAAC
   Request form                WEBSITE                   DAASC



                Submit                ACCEPT                   ACCEPT



                REJECT                REJECT                  REJECT




3.9. Manual DoDAAC Process in the event of prolonged system failure. All DoDAAC
requests will be submitted via the AF DoDAAC WMS. In the event of catastrophic system
failure necessitating temporary manual submission of requests to establish, change, or delete
DoDAACs, the following information will be typed or electronically prepared and forwarded to
Air Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC), 591st Supply Chain Management Group,
401st Supply Chain Management Squadron, Distribution Flight, Bldg 262, Rm C117, 4375
Chidlaw Road, Wright Patterson AFB OH 45433-5066. Requests may be faxed to DSN 787-
7680 or commercial (937) 257-7680 for processing provided the sender also forwards a hard
copy bearing the original signature of the contracting officer or ACO (for contractor DoDAAC
requests only). Failure to provide all the required information will result in the request being
returned without action.

3.9.1. ALL DoDAAC REQUESTS - AIR FORCE UNITS AND CONTRACTORS

3.9.1.1. REQUESTING OFFICE: Organization/office symbol, street address, base name, state
and nine-digit zip code of the government office requesting account.

3.9.1.2. POC INFORMATION: Name, DSN phone number, DSN fax number, and Email
address of person requesting account. For contractor DoDAAC requests, this must be the
ACO/PCO/DCMA maintaining administrative control over the contract.

3.9.1.3. MAJOR COMMAND: Identify Major Command (Parent or host command, i.e.,
AFMC).

3.9.1.4. TYPE OF ACCOUNT: State type of account requested, if known (see paragraph 2.3.,
or paragraph 2.5. for contractor DoDAACs). Coordinate with and include name and phone
number of DoDAAC MAJCOM Monitor, and DoDAAC Subject Matter Expert (SME) when
18                                                          AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

applicable, who have concurred with this DoDAAC request. See attachments 2 and 3 for
responsible MAJCOM Monitors and SMEs.

3.9.1.5. JUSTIFICATION: Must be provided or request will be denied. Identify why the
DoDAAC is needed and assurance that it will not represent a duplication of existing capability
which could be used. Justification should indicate if MILSTRIP procedures will be used. For
contractor request, indicate if the contract authorizes GFE/GFM to be provided to the contractor.

3.9.1.6. ROUTING IDENTIFIER CODE (RIC) REQUIREMENT: Will the DoDAAC account
require a RIC? Indicate yes or no. See Chapter 6 for more information about RICs.

3.9.1.7. TAC INFORMATION: Provide TAC 1, 2, and 3 information, as applicable. See
paragraph 2.2. for more information.

3.9.2. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTOR DODAACS

3.9.2.1. CONTRACTOR’S NAME AND MAILING ADDRESS: Complete company name
(spell out acronyms) and TAC 1 address. This address must contain the ZIP+4.

3.9.2.2. CONTRACTOR’S PHONE NUMBER. This is the commercial phone number for the
physical location where the work will be performed. Do not give Toll Free Numbers.

3.9.2.3. CONTRACTOR’S FREIGHT ADDRESS: Provide the TAC 2 address if freight
exceeding the 70 pound limit for mail is to be delivered to the contractor and it is different from
the TAC 1 address.

3.9.2.4. CONTRACTOR’S BILLING ADDRESS: TAC 3 address is only required if bills are to
be sent to an address other than the TAC 1 mailing address

3.9.2.5. CONTRACTOR’S CAGE CODE. A Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE)
Code is a 5 digit code that identifies companies doing or wishing to do business with the Federal
Government. It also identifies Government field activities.

3.9.2.6. VALID AIR FORCE CONTRACT NUMBER: Active Air Force contract number
which applies to this request. NOTE: All Air Force contract numbers will begin with “F”.

3.9.2.7. CONTRACT TERMINATION DATE: Termination date must be provided
(month/year). When termination date shown is more than two years in the future, the
justification must include the statement that the termination date does not include option years.

3.9.2.8. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION OFFICE (CAO): Provide the complete mailing
address for the CAO that will be administering this contract. If the CAO is a branch of the
DCMA, also include the DoDAAC of the responsible DCMA branch. The DCMA DoDAAC
always begins with a “S.”
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            19

3.9.2.9. TYPE OF CONTRACT: Specify which type of contract is being performed, see
paragraph 2.5.

3.9.3. Updating Contract Termination Date. For updates to contractor DoDAACs, submit the
following information to Air Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC), 591st Supply
Chain Management Group, at the address shown in paragraph 3.9. Requests must list the
ACO/PCO phone number (DSN if available).

3.9.3.1. DoDAAC

3.9.3.2. AF Contract Number

3.9.3.3. Contract Completion Date (month/year only). NOTE: Do not include option years until
they are exercised.

3.9.3.4. Name and e-mail address of ACO, PCO or DCMA rep submitting this information.

3.9.4. Updating DoDAAC Address Information. Include the following:

3.9.4.1. DoDAAC

3.9.4.2. Full updated address, including ZIP+4 for United States addresses
20                                                        AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009



                                           Chapter 4

                                  DODAAC VALIDATION

4.1. Air Force DoDAAC Validation. The Air Force requires an annual validation of all “F”
series and “JM” DoDAACs maintained in the AF DoDAAC Web Management System (WMS).
The AF DoDAAC Service Point Monitor will produce lists of all “F” series and “JM”
DoDAACs from the DoDAAC WMS, divided by responsible MAJCOM. The “F” series
DoDAAC lists will be further divided by sub-series (e.g., “FB,” “FE,” “FY,” etc.) to be sent to
MAJCOMs for validation.

4.1.1. To simplify the annual validation requirement, the DoDAAC WMS will keep track of all
Request (new DoDAACs), Change, and Delete transactions on a calendar year basis (January 1st
thru December 31st each year). At the end of each year, the DoDAAC WMS will only generate
lists of “F” series and “JM” DoDAAC accounts which were not newly created or updated during
the previous 12 months. If a DoDAAC was created or updated during the previous 12 months, it
is considered to have been validated for the current year, and will be excluded from the annual
DoDAAC validation lists sent to the MAJCOMs.

4.1.2. After the DoDAAC lists are sent to the MAJCOM Monitors for validation, the MAJCOM
Monitors will in turn task DoDAAC owners within their command to validate their DoDAACs
via the AF DoDAAC WMS. The DoDAAC owners will first select the “Validate DoDAAC”
option on the DoDAAC WMS home page (https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil/), then select Air Force
DoDAAC Validation, and then will enter the DoDAAC number to be validated, and review the
information. The DoDAAC owner will certify the DoDAAC is still required and the data is
correct to complete the validation process.

4.1.2.1. If the DoDAAC being validated requires any changes in the address information, the
customer will need to use the “Change DoDAAC” button to enter the necessary changes.

4.1.3. If a DoDAAC is no longer valid, the DoDAAC owner will need to submit a “Delete
DoDAAC” request via the DoDAAC WMS. If a DoDAAC account cannot be properly
pinpointed to an owning unit for validation, that DoDAAC will be considered inactive and
should be identified for deletion.

4.1.4. MAJCOM Monitors will track completion of all DoDAAC validations for their command.
MAJCOMs will have 90 days from receipt of annual DoDAAC validation listings to complete
annual validation of all DoDAACs for their command.

4.2. Contractor DoDAAC Validation. Contracting officers are required to validate
DoDAACS assigned to contractors under their purview to ensure accuracy of information
associated with contractor DoDAACs. It is critical to ensure DoDAACs do not remain active
and available for contractor use beyond the limitations of the contract (e.g., after contract
termination date).
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                  21

4.2.1. Validation is accomplished via the Air Force DoDAAC WMS. After the contracting
officer enters the DoDAAC WMS web site, selects “Validate DoDAAC,” then selects
“Contractor DoDAAC Validation,” they will then enter the applicable DoDAAC number to be
validated. This will bring up the DoDAAC record, showing all contract numbers currently
loaded in the WMS with associated termination dates, as well as all TAC address information for
that DoDAAC. A single DoDAAC may cover multiple contracts when the contracts are awarded
to the same contractor, at the same address, and the DoDAAC will be used for the same purpose
under each contract (i.e., government furnished materials).

4.2.1.1. Contracting officers can enter multiple contracts and termination dates to the Contractor
DoDAAC Validation screen. The screen shows blocks for four contracts at a time with drop
down boxes for termination dates. If more than four contracts need to be entered, the contracting
officer would click “yes” at the question “Do you need to ADD additional Contract Numbers to
this DoDAAC?” The screen will bring another blank form, allowing four more contracts and
termination dates to be entered.

4.2.1.2. When finished entering contracts and dates, click “no” at the bottom of the screen. The
results will be shown on a new screen, and the contracts will be listed in order of termination
dates, with the date extending the furthest being at the top of the list. The contracting officer
then clicks “Finish” to send the transaction. See Figures 4.1 and 4.2 for an example of the
contractor DoDAAC validation screens.

4.2.2. The contracting officer can use the Contractor DoDAAC Validation page to add
additional contracts to a DoDAAC when new contracts are awarded to the contractor to which
that DoDAAC is assigned. Any required TAC address information updates must be
accomplished via the DoDAAC WMS “Change DoDAAC” function. These changes cannot be
accomplished via the “DoDAAC Validation” function.

4.2.3. Contract expiration dates reflected in the DoDAAC WMS must not include any
unexercised option years. As option years are exercised, the expiration date must be extended by
the responsible contracting officer. This can be accomplished on the Contractor DoDAAC
Validation page by updating the termination date listed under the applicable contract number, or
by using the DoDAAC Change function to submit an update to the termination date along with
any other address information that needs to be simultaneously updated.

4.2.3.1. If a new contract is awarded to the same contractor, and for the same purpose requiring
continuation of the DoDAAC, the responsible contracting officer can use the DoDAAC
Validation page or submit a DoDAAC Change request to provide the new contract number and
termination date. This must be done in a timely manner to preclude the DoDAAC from
remaining active under the old contract beyond the expiration date.

4.2.3.2. When a contract expires, the responsible contracting officer must take action to delete
the DoDAAC unless it covers multiple contracts which will stay in force. The contracting
officer will submit a Delete DoDAAC request via the DoDAAC WMS if there are no other
contracts being performed.
22                                                         AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

4.2.3.3. When a contract is terminated for cause (fraud, bankruptcy, or other adverse action), the
DoDAAC must be removed to ensure it cannot be used for any further purpose. The contracting
officer must submit a Delete DoDAAC request via the DoDAAC WMS.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                    23


Figure 4.1. Contractor DoDAAC Validation

CONTRACTOR DODAAC VALIDATION - DODAACS THAT BEGINS WITH "E"

DODAAC: EZ1746 (PLEASE NOTE: IF THIS IS NOT THE CORRECT ADDRESS FOR THIS DODAAC GO TO
THE CHANGE CONTRACTOR DoDAAC REQUEST FIRST AND UPDATE IT)
Per the GAO Auditor Termination Dates may not include any unexercised options


 Contract Number:                                         Type Address Code (TAC): 1
  FA8614-04-C-2004                           Address Line 1: BOEING AEROSPACE EZ1746
                                             Address Line 2: CP 210 932 6979
 Termination Date: MONTH:
                                             Address Line 3: 601 RAYMOND MEDINA ST DR 31 32
  SEP                    2008
             YEAR:                           Address Line 4: SAN ANTONIO TX 78226-1869

                                                          Type Address Code (TAC): 3
 Contract Number:
                                             Address Line 1: BOEING AEROSPACE EZ1746
  FA8105-05-D-0004
                                             Address Line 2: CP 210 932 6979
 Termination Date: MONTH:                    Address Line 3: 601 RAYMOND MEDINA ST DR 31 32
  JAN                    2009                Address Line 4: SAN ANTONIO TX 78226-1869
             YEAR:


 Contract Number:


 Termination Date: MONTH:
  JAN                    2007
             YEAR:


 Contract Number:


 Termination Date: MONTH:
  JAN                    2007
             YEAR:



POC INFORMATION:
Please enter your name and email address for this validation
         Joe Jones                  joseph.jones@dcma.mil
Name:                      Email:


                     Do you need to ADD additional Contract Numbers to this DoDAAC?

                                                 YES        NO
24                                                AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009


 Figure 4.2. Contractor DoDAAC Validation (Final Screen)

CONTRACTOR DODAAC VALIDATION

CONTRACTOR DODAAC: EZ1746

AIR FORCE CONTRACT NUMBER           TERMINATION DATE (JULIAN CONVERSION)

FA8105-05-D-0004                    2009031
FA8614-04-C-2004                    2008274


     FINISH
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                 25



                                           Chapter 5

                          BUSINESS PARTNER NUMBER (BPN)

5.1. Development of the BPN. The BPN was required for Intra-governmental Transaction
Exchange (IGTE). It identifies a government entity for the purpose of intra-governmental
transactions. The Central Service Point (CSP) for BPNs is SAF/FMP (AFAFO), Denver CO.

5.1.1. INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL TRANSACTION EXCHANGE (IGTE). Air Force was
tasked to participate in an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) project, IGTE, to resolve
long-standing problems with intra-governmental exchange transactions between federal
agencies. These transactions are commonly referred to as buy-sell transactions, reimbursable
agreements, interagency agreements, and Military Interdepartmental Purchase Requests
(MIPRs).

5.1.1.1. The first phase involved the issuance of business rules to transform and standardize
intra-governmental ordering and billing, which were issued on October 4, 2002, as M-03-01 by
OMB. The business rules also defined government wide data architecture to enable universal
electronic processes and to support government wide financial reporting requirements.

5.1.1.2. The second phase applied the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) concept to federal
agencies. All agencies engaged in intra-governmental exchange transactions were required to
register in the Business Partner Network by January 31, 2003, to provide a single source of data
and to enable the identification of federal trading partners below the Department level. Air Force
complied with this second phase by developing a BPN structure that will have the least impact
on logistics, but provides the detail level needed for AF purposes to comply with OMB IGTE
requirements.

5.1.1.3. The third phase of IGTE requires the processing of all level 1 (DoD and non-DoD
trading partner) transactions via IGTE. The IGTE project was cancelled by OMB in June 2005.
However, the requirement to maintain and use BPNs remains in the OMB business rules for
intragovernmental transactions. The Business Transformation Agency (BTA) is now
coordinating on a pilot system called IVAN (Intragovernmental Value Added Network). IVAN
is currently in a proof of concept mode and final decisions on the future process are scheduled
for completion at the end of FY08.

5.2 BPN assignment.

5.2.1. Comptroller and Contracting offices must work in concert at base level to establish and
maintain the BPNs ensuring no duplication within the location. BPN establishment and control is
a MAJCOM/FM responsibility with the actual assignment being accomplished by the base
Comptroller office, in partnership with their local contracting squadron. The Comptroller office
will be responsible to maintain, issue, and delete BPNs. Contracting is responsible for
coordinating on the issuance of all BPNs to ensure that all ship-to addresses for the customer
have been properly identified. In addition, Contracting is responsible for updating the contract
26                                                          AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

writing systems with new and/or revised BPN data. Note that there is a one-to-one relationship
between a BPN and a delivery location for an organization, therefore if an organization has two
delivery points two BPNs would have to be assigned.

5.2.2. Once a BPN has been assigned at the local ALO/FMA office, it will be submitted via the
following website: https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil/bpn/. The request for the new BPN will be
automatically forwarded to the MAJCOM/FM office for review and approval and then to the
CSP, SAF/FMP (AFAFO), for approval. Upon approval by AFAFO, there is an automated
update that feeds from the BPN website to DAASC.

5.2.3. BPNs do not replace existing logistics DoDAACs (i.e. FB, FE, etc). However, the
procedures for requesting, changing and deleting BPNs is the same as for DoDAACs, see chapter
3 for more detail. The BPN website referenced above is a mirror-image of the DoDAAC web
page.

5.3 Business Partner Number structure (DoD + 6 positions (DoDAAC) = BPN). Letters O
and I are not to be used in constructing DoDAACs or BPNs. Positions 1-3 of BPN are pre-
assigned. Breakdown of BPN positions is listed below:

5.3.1. Position 1: F—Constant for Air Force

5.3.2. Position 2: Numeric—Identifies "type of base"
       1-4 = Active Air Force Base (AFB)
       5 = Air Force Reserve
       6-9 = Air National Guard (ANG)

5.3.3. Position 3: Alpha—Identifies a specific location or base. For a complete list, visit the
BPN Community of Practice (CoP) at the following URL:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-FM-AF-01-
9&Filter=OO-FM-AF-01

5.3.4. Position 4: Alpha or Numeric—Identifies organizations on base
       0 = Wing
       1 = Operations
       2 = Maintenance
       3 = Mission Support
       4 = Medical
       5 = Training
       6-9 = available for assignment
       A = System Program Office (SPO)
       B = Laboratories
       C = Air Logistics Center (ALC)
       D = System Center
       E = Test Center
       F = MAJCOM Headquarters
       G = Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                27

       H = Other
       J= Recruiter/ROTC
       K/L/M/N/P/Q/R/S = available for assignment
       T = Tenant
       U = Tenant – continued (only to be used if sufficient combinations are not available with
       the use of T)
       V-Z = available for assignment

5.3.5. Positions 5 and 6: Alpha or Numeric—Randomly assigned by location.

5.4. BPN Point of Contact. For additional information regarding BPN use or construction,
contact the BPN POC listed in Attachment 3, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs).
28                                                         AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009



                                            Chapter 6

                           ROUTING IDENTIFIER CODES (RIC)

6.1. Definition and use. A RIC is a three-digit code that is normally assigned to correspond
with certain DoD Activity Address Codes (DoDAACs), such as base supply accounts. This 3-
digit code is used in MILSTRIP documentation to identify a source of supply and send/receive
supply, transportation, and billing data electronically. Air Force RIC construction is outlined in
Table 6.1.

6.2. RICs for contractor DoDAACs. A recent In-Transit Visibility (ITV) initiative for
contractor shipments has created the frequent need for contractor DoDAACs to have
corresponding RICs assigned.

6.2.1. Since the purpose of the RIC is to transmit data electronically, the contractor must
establish an electronic interface with the Defense Automatic Addressing System Center
(DAASC) for a RIC to be effective. This will allow for supply, transportation and/or billing
transactions to be sent and received via an automated means. This can be a computer IP address
or even e-mail notification.

6.2.2. When a contractor DoDAAC is issued, part of the response back to the contracting officer
identifies the office at DAASC to contact for establishment of this electronic interface. This
interface can be set up against a DoDAAC and/or a RIC. Not all DoDAACs will require an
actual RIC in order to use an electronic interface for automated transactions.

6.2.3. For general information regarding RICs, please contact DAASC at DSN 986-3247 or
commercial phone (937) 656-3247. There is also a link to the RIC regulation website for
additional information at: https://www.daas.dla.mil/daashome/daasc_milstrip.asp

Table 6.1. AF ROUTING IDENTIFIER CODE CONSTRUCTION

     RIC POS 1       RIC POS 2          ASSOCIATION W/AF DODAACS
     D               ANY                BASE SUPPLY ACCOUNTS (FB)
     E               ANY                MEDICAL ACCOUNTS (FM)
     E               ANY                REPAIR CONTRACTOR ACCOUNTS (EZ)
                                        NOTE: ONLY CAV II CONTRACTORS
     F               G                  HILL AFB UT ONLY
     F               H                  TINKER AFB OK ONLY
     F               L                  ROBINS AFB GA ONLY
     F               OTHER THAN         OTHER DEPOT OR AF CAS MUNITIONS
                     G, H, L            ACCOUNTS (FV)
     F               NUMERIC IN         CONTRACTOR ICP ACCOUNTS
                     2ND & 3RD POS.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                               29



6.3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
6.3.1. Prescribed Forms.
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
6.3.2. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 673, Request to Issue Publication
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DLA Form 1832, Richmond Map Facility (RMF) Account Data Entry Screen




                                            LOREN M. RENO, Lt Gen., USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
30                                                     AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009


                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References

DoD Manual 4000.25-M, Defense Logistics Management System Manual, Volume 6, DoD
Logistics Systems Interoperability Support Services, 25 March 2008

DoD 4000.25-1-S1, MILSTRIP Supplement - Data Elements and Codes, April 28, 2004

DoD Manual 4160.2l-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997

Defense Transportation Regulation (DTR) 4500.9-R, Part II, Cargo Movement, November
2004

AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 23 November 2007

AFI 21-204, Nuclear Weapons Maintenance Procedures, 17 January 2008

AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 October 2008


Useful Websites
DoDAAC Web Management System: https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil

Business Partner Number: https://dodaac.wpafb.af.mil/bpn/

AF E-Publishing: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

DSCR Mapping Customer Operations: http://www.dscr.dla.mil/rmf/

Table Management Distribution System (TMDS): https://www-tmds.c2.amc.af.mil/TMDS/

DoD 4000.25-1-S1 (RIC regulation): https://www.daas.dla.mil/daashome/daasc_milstrip.asp

DoDAAC CoP: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-LG-AA-CS


Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer

ADSN—Accounting and Disbursement Station Number
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                       31

AMC—Air Mobility Command

BPN—Business Partner Number

BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure

APOD—Aerial Port of Debarkation

APOE—Aerial Port of Embarkation

CAO—Contract Administration Office

CCP—Consolidation and Containerization Point

CSP—Central Service Point

DAASC—Defense Automatic Addressing System Center

DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency

DESC—Defense Energy Supply Center

DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service

DoDAAC—Department of Defense Activity Address Code

DoDAAD—Department of Defense Activity Address Directory

DSN—Defense Switch Network

DTS—Defense Transportation System

FMS—Foreign Military Sales

GSA—General Services Administration

MAJCOM—Major Command

MAPAC—Military Assistance Program Address Code

MILSTRIP—Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedures

MSC—Military Sealift Command

PCO—Procuring Contracting Officer
32                                                        AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009

SME—Subject Matter Experts

SRAN—Stock Record Account Number

TAC—Type of Address Code

TMDS—Table Management Distribution System

WMS—Web Management System

WPOD—Water Port of Debarkation

WPOE—Water Port of Embarkation


Terms

Aerial Port of Embarkation/Debarkation (APOE/D) Code— A three-position code which
identifies a specific APOE or APOD.

Central Service Point (CSP)— An activity within each participating military service or federal
agency that is assigned the responsibility of controlling DoDAAF data.

Controlled DoDAAC— A DoDAAC having a clear-text address that is controlled to defend
against use which would result in a possible security compromise or when a special project
officer is controlling requisitions.

Defense Automatic Addressing System Center (DAASC) — The Department of Defense
(DoD) agency designated as central control point for processing data received from all Services
and agencies into the DoDAAD.

Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) — A six-digit alphanumeric code
used for providing a uniform method for controlling US Government assets and for recording
transactions that reflect receipts and disposition of property transferred to an activity.

Department of Defense Activity Address Directory (DoDAAD) — A directory of activity
address codes and corresponding organization addresses to which material, documentation, or
billing is directed under the Defense Logistics Management System (DLMS).

Effective Date— The assigned Julian date when a DoDAAC becomes effective for use in a
selected military standard logistics system.

Frequency of Reporting or Leveling Code— Identifies the frequency (daily, monthly,
quarterly) of reporting and indicates the frequency for which stock levels are computed by the
activity.
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                                                              33

Geographic Area Code— Identifies the location of an activity (source: AFI 23-110, Vol 3, Part
3, Chapter 2).

Major Command (MAJCOM) Code— Identifies MAJCOM jurisdiction of an activity.

Replacing Code— Identifies a DoDAAC that is replaced by a new DoDAAC.

Reporting Code— Identifies an activity as either stock balance (SB) or consumption reporting
(CR)

Standard Point Location Code (SPLC) — The SPLC is a six or nine digit number used to
identify origin and destination geographic locations.

Water Port of Embarkation/Debarkation (WPOE/D) Code— A three-position code which
identifies a specific WPOE or WPOD.
   34                                                       AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009



                                           Attachment 2

                          MAJOR COMMAND DODAAC MONITORS
   For the most current list, go to the DoDAAC WMS web page and click on Contacts. Use
   the list below when systems are unavailable.

   Table A2.1. Major Command DoDAAC Monitors
                   CMD
COMMAND/DRU        CODE   MAJCOM OFFICE     DSN                       ORG EMAIL ACCOUNT
AFOSI              07     HQ AFOSI LGSE     857 0258
USAFA              0B     10 MSG LGRME      333 2614
USAFE              0D     USAFE A4RMP       314 480 7755/1246         usafe.dodaacmgr@ramstein.af.mil
DFAS               0E     DFAS DE JXD       926 8192
AETC               0J     AETC A4RMP        487 4320/9950
AFRC               0M     HQ AFRC A4RMP     497 1669/1665/2003
HQ AF              0N     HQ AFMC A4RD      787 2919/986 0633
                          HQ PACAF
PACAF              0R     A4RPM             VC 315 449 3595/8158
                          AF ISR
AFISR              0U     Agency/A4L        969 2068
                          HQ AFSOC
AFSOC              0V     A4RMP             579 8543/7407
AFCA               0Y     AFCA ESPL         779 6202
ACC                1C     735 SCMG LGPAC    575 0371/0373/0245
AMC                1L     635 SCMG/LGSSM    779 8433/8547
AFMC               1M     HQ AFMC A4RD      787 2919/674 0154
AFSPC              1S     AFSPC A4RMS       692 3003/1383
                          HQ AFNEWS
AFNEWS             2G     SCBL              945 8951
AFSVA              2U     AFSVA SVFR        487 4198                  AFSVAdodaac@Randolph.af.mil
AFMOA              2Z     AFMOA SGSLP       343 4082/2883
CENTCOM            3P     US CENTCOM J5     367 1511
                          USSTRATCOM
STRATCOM           3Q     J214              272 6276
                          USCENTAF A4
CENTAF             3X     LGSX              965 4433/4397/4353/3145
JCSE               41     JCSE HSS J2       968 0779
NORTHCOM           4A     USNORTHCOM J4     787 9812
AFDW               4W     AFDW A4           858 2607/297 2056/7401
                                                                      angdodaacmgr@ang.af.mil;
ANG                4Z     HQ ANG LGSP       278 8456/8806             ngb.a4rm.dodaac.mgr@ang.af.mil
Special Projects   51     HQ AFMC A5JC      787 6798
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                             35



                             Attachment 3

                 DODAAC SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS (SME)
Figure A3.1. DODAAC Subject Matter Experts (SME)
36   AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009                            37



                                       Attachment 4

                         ACTIVITY SERIAL NUMBERS
Figure A4.1. Activity Serial Numbers
38   AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009
AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009   39
40   AFI24-230 20 FEBRUARY 2009
