                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                  HEADQUARTERS AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                      JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS VA




                                                            AFI20-112_ACCSUP_ACCGM2014-01

                                                                                     12 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               ACC UNITS DOWN TO WING

FROM: ACC/A4

SUBJECT: ACC Guidance Memorandum (GM) for Interim Guidance for AFI 20-112, Logistics
Readiness Squadron Quality Assurance Program.

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

1. By Order of the Commander, Air Combat Command, this ACC Guidance Memorandum
immediately implements Interim Guidance for AFI 20-112, Logistics Readiness Squadron
Quality Assurance Program. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent
its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails,
in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. Upon its release in August 2013, several key procedures were omitted and/or require updates.
This ACC specific GM covers roles and responsibilities for LRS/CC, Assessment Table, ACC
Quality Assurance SharePoint site, LRS QA OIC/Superintendent, LRS Quality Assurance
Evaluators, QA Personnel Training Requirements, Assessment Methodology, Assessment
Procedures, Assessment Frequency, Unit Annual Assessments, Quarterly LRS Status Report to
MAJCOM/A4, and LRS QA Monthly Brief.

3. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change, or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier. POC for this requirement is MSgt James Parchen, A4RM, DSN 575-2449.



                                                        //Signed, maa, 27 Jan 14//
                                                        MARK A. ATKINSON
                                                        Major General, USAF
                                                        Director of Logistics
                                       Agile Combat Power
                                           Attachment

     ACC Guidance to Air Force Instruction 20-112, Logistics Readiness Squadron Quality
                                    Assurance Program

2.4.2.1. (Added) Appointment letters will be uploaded and maintained in designated folder on
ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
2.4.4.1. (Added) Electronic equivalent may be used in lieu of paper AF Form 4421 provided all
blocks are represented. Units using a database with the same blocks as on the AF Form 4421
meet this requirement, and do not need to use paper AF Form 4421 to record assessments. The
intent of routing is to ensure appropriate level of supervision is notified. Unit may use any
method available to show intent was met (i.e., email, SharePoint, etc.). Upload and maintain
local Operating Instruction on use of AF Forms in designated folder on ACC Quality Assurance
SharePoint site
(https://acc.eim.acc.af.mil/org/a4/A4R/A4RM/A4RMP/LRS_QA/Web%20Page/QA%20Main%
20Page.aspx). At a minimum, routing will be as follows:
Table 2.4. Assessment Routing.
 Pass                                      None
 Failed assessment                         Work center
 Failed assessment (Minor Finding)         Superintendent/Flight Commander
 Failed assessment (Major Finding)         LRS/CC
 Failed DSV, TDV, or UCR                   LRS/CC


2.5.4.1. (Added) Upload and maintain annual LRS QA self-inspection in designated folder on
ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
2.5.8.1. (Added) Upload and maintain rotation plan in designated folder on ACC Quality
Assurance SharePoint site.
2.5.9.1. (Added) Memorandum establishing QA Evaluator augmentee duties will be signed by
QA OIC / Superintendent and applicable flight chiefs. Memorandum will be uploaded and
maintained in designated folder on ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
2.7.3.1. (Added) Units are encouraged to use ACC SharePoint database on ACC Quality
Assurance SharePoint site.
2.7.4.1. (Added) Upload and maintain most current Quarterly QA Evaluation and Inspection Plan
in designated folder on ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
2.7.12. (Updated) Ensure equal numbers of assessments are allocated across all shifts to include
weekends IAW para 3.9. For example, a swing shift of 10 available personnel would require 4
assessments. When units are involved in official exercises or contingencies, this requirement can
be waived by the LRS/CC during the specified time period. The LRS/CC must complete a
signed memo specifying the reason and timeframe for the waiver. The waiver must be included
in the monthly report.
2.7.23.1. (Added) Upload and maintain squadron safety program in designated folder on ACC
Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
                                     Agile Combat Power
2.8.9.1. (Added) Upload and maintain quarterly safety brief in designated folder on ACC Quality
Assurance SharePoint site.
2.8.11.1. (Added) Upload and maintain organizational fuel tank inspection reports in designated
folder on ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
3.3.1.2. (Updated) 8-step problem solving taught by an AFSO21 Level 2 Facilitator. If no Level 2
facilitators are available locally, memorandum for record will be filed indicating non- availability.
3.6.2.2.1. (Added) Completed task or processes that cannot be tied to an individual will be
recorded as a special inspection. For example, if a QA evaluator finds a box mislabeled but does
not know who mislabeled it. Instead of recording it as a failed QVI, the assessment is recorded
as a failed special inspection.
3.8.2.1. (Added) Work centers will provide an estimated closure date for failed assessments not
closed on the spot. Once work center has affirmed failed assessment is closed, follow up actions
from QA are not necessary. Follow ups for closed failed assessments are only required for
discrepancies found during the unit annual assessment IAW para 3.10.2.
3.9.1.1. (Added) Officers, Senior NCOs, and civilian supervisor equivalents need not be
evaluated. Assessments conducted on programs or processes under their direct responsibility
will be recorded as special inspections and the individual assessed field will be left blank.
Civilians directly responsible for specific processes with measurable outcomes will, however, be
evaluated (i.e., Receiving Technician, TMO freight, etc.).
3.9.1.2. (Added) Evaluations need not be performed on personnel/processes for the following
functions: Commander’s staff (to include Commander, First Sergeant, Superintendent, Logistics
Manager, and Operations Officer), the UDM office, Commander’s support staff, resource
advisor, UTM, and Functional Systems Mgmt. The preceding functions are outside the
functional expertise of the AFSC’s authorized/assigned in QA and therefore don’t meet
inspection criteria identified in para 3.2.4. and 3.2.5.
3.10.1. (Updated) The QA Section must evaluate all elements (unless exempted by paragraph
3.9.1.2 of this GM) within the LRS annually (at least once each twelve months). LRS
Commanders may require more stringent inspection frequencies. Units compliant with
inspection requirements prescribed in AFI 90-201 are exempt from duplicating unit evaluations
required by this instruction.
3.10.4.4. (Added) Unit Annual/Fuels Semi-Annual Evaluation Plan will be uploaded and
maintained in designated folder on ACC Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
4.2.1. (Added) Upload and maintain Quarterly LRS Status Report in designated folder on ACC
Quality Assurance SharePoint site.
4.4.3. (Added) Upload copy of LRS QA Monthly Brief in designated folder on ACC Quality
Assurance SharePoint site.




                                       Agile Combat Power
