BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 25-201
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
INTELLIGENCE CENTER                            NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE INTELLIGENCE
                                                                            CENTER
                                                                         Supplement
                                                                 29 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                               Logistics Staff

                                                 SUPPORT AGREEMENTS PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: NASIC/XPQ                                      Certified by: NASIC/XP (Lt Col Joseph T.
                                                                                   Battle Jr.)
                                                                                    Pages: 6


This supplement describes the responsibilities and procedures to be followed for the
development of agreements governed by AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures,1 May
2005 and DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support. These agreements include
Support Agreements, Memoranda of Agreement (MOAs), Memoranda of Understanding
(MOUs), Intraservice Agreements, Interservice Agreements, and similar agreements between
NASIC and any non-NASIC organization. This supplement does not cover international
agreements, contracts governed by Federal Acquisition Regulations, intra-NASIC agreements, or
Service-Level Agreements related to information technology. This supplement applies to all
NASIC personnel including civilian personnel, Air Force Active Duty, Air Force Reserve
Command and Air National Guard military personnel. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Maintain records created as a result of
the prescribed processes identified in this directory in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
found on the Air Force Portal link at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as required." The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. Additionally, if your publication generates a report(s), alert
readers in a statement and cite all applicable Reports Control Numbers in accordance with AFI
33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal,
Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collection.
 2                                               AFI25-201_NASICSUP 29 September 2011


2.3.2. (Added) The NASIC Support Agreement Manager (SAM) will:
2.3.2.1. (Added) Maintain a continuity book in accordance with published guidance and HHQ
guidance.
2.3.2.2. (Added) Maintain records of NASIC agreements and relevant documents, such as
communication records, coordination and approval records, and superseded versions.
2.3.2.3. (Added) Maintain records to document significant actions for any agreement, such as
periodic reviews or minor administrative updates.
2.3.2.4. (Added) Maintain records of terminated agreements for six years after termination date.
2.3.2.5. (Added) Correspond with HHQ Support Agreement Management points of contact and
manage requests for documentation, status reports, and other coordination.
2.3.2.6. (Added) Advise and assist NASIC personnel proposing new agreements.
2.3.2.7. (Added) Coordinate and route proposed agreements according to NASIC and HHQ
requirements. The SAM shall actively manage this process to avoid unnecessary delays. The
process is described in paragraph 5.2.2.
2.11. (Added) NASIC Plans and Programs (NASIC/XP) will:
2.11.1. (Added) Appoint a Support Agreement Manager (SAM) in writing.
2.12. (Added) NASIC Groups and Directorates will:
2.12.1. (Added) Upon identifying a need for an agreement, consult the SAM to determine
applicable requirements. The OPR developing the agreement will ensure that the proposed
agreement meets its own Group or Directorate requirements, and that it is clearly written.
2.12.2. (Added) After drafting an agreement, identify specific benefits, costs, and other impacts
to NASIC.
2.12.3. (Added) For any proposed agreement, obtain NASIC coordination, review, and
signature through the SAM. This requirement applies regardless of agreement signatory. The
Group or Directorate will provide the SAM with information and any supporting documents
required for coordination.
2.12.4. (Added) For each active agreement, perform a periodic review when required by the
terms of the agreement. Upon request, the OPR will provide a record of this review to the SAM.
2.12.5. (Added) Upon terminating an agreement, provide applicable documentation to the
SAM. This may be advance written notice of termination, agreement to terminate from the
counterparty, confirmation of termination according to an expiration date, or other applicable
record to validate that the agreement is knowingly being terminated by all parties.
2.12.6. (Added) Review or coordinate on proposed agreements that apply to their areas of
responsibility as requested by the SAM or agreement OPR.
5.2.2. (Added) NASIC-Specific Coordination Process
5.2.2.1. (Added) The process for developing new agreements is designed to efficiently obtain
input and approval from the relevant or required POCs/OPRs. While certain aspects of this
process may be tailored to the specific circumstances of each proposed agreement, the NASIC
AFI25-201_NASICSUP 29 September 2011                                                           3


coordination requirements shall be met prior to signature. Figure 5.2.1 depicts the coordination
and approval process in six steps, which include the following:
5.2.2.1.1. (Added) Discussion between the Action Officer (AO) advocating the agreement and
the SAM. The SAM provides an overview of the process and discusses any anticipated concerns
about content or format.
5.2.2.1.2. (Added) The AO and counterparty develop the specific content to be included in the
agreement. Consensus on the content at this point is important in order to reduce substantial
revisions later.
5.2.2.1.3. (Added) The SAM reviews the draft for format and content.
5.2.2.1.4. (Added) The SAM routes the proposed agreement to obtain review or coordination as
required.
5.2.2.1.4.1. (Added) All proposed agreements will be coordinated through any NASIC Groups,
Directorates, and staff that may have an interest in the agreement. At a minimum, an agreement
will be coordinated through the originating Group or Directorate; Security (SO); Logistics (LG);
Plans and Programs (XP); Safety (SE); Staff Judge Advocate (JA); Financial Management (FM);
and IT Plans, Policy, and Resources (SC).
5.2.2.1.4.2. (Added) Agreements will be reviewed by HHQ when required by HHQ policy.
When review is not required, HHQ will be sent an information copy.
5.2.2.1.4.3. (Added) If an agreement is significantly revised following initial coordination, any
office which is likely to have an interest in the revision will be provided an opportunity to
provide comments or non-concurrence.
5.2.2.1.4.4. (Added) Typically, the agreement will not be routed through the Command Section
until the counterparty concurs with the most current version of the proposed agreement.
5.2.2.1.4.5. (Added) The NASIC Commander or Vice Commander approves level of signature
proposed in the agreement. This may be accomplished by a concur/non-concur statement on an
AF IMT 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, or other appropriate document.
 4                                               AFI25-201_NASICSUP 29 September 2011


Figure 5.2.1. (Added) Default NASIC Agreement Draft and Coordination Process.




5.3.2. (Added) NASIC Approval Process and Requirements.
5.3.2.1. (Added) The SAM routes the agreement through the NASIC Command Section for
final approval. Regardless of signatory, coordination of the final draft will include the NASIC
Comptroller, and the NASIC Commander or Vice Commander.
5.3.2.3. (Added) An agreement may only be signed below the Group or Directorate level when
it meets all of the following conditions:
5.3.2.3.1. (Added) No funds are committed or obligated by the agreement.
5.3.2.3.2. (Added) No manpower is committed by the agreement.
5.3.2.3.3. (Added) The scope of the agreement is contained within the signatory’s functional
responsibilities.
5.3.2.3.4. (Added) The scope of the agreement is technical or procedural in nature.
AFI25-201_NASICSUP 29 September 2011                                                    5


5.3.2.3.5. (Added) The NASIC signatory’s rank and position is commensurate or higher than
the counter-signatory’s rank and position.




                                         KATHLEEN C. SAKURA, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, National Air & Space Intelligence
                                         Center
 6                                          AFI25-201_NASICSUP 29 September 2011


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Adopted Forms
(Added) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
(Added) AF IMT 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added) AO—Action Officer
(Added) HHQ—Higher Headquarters
