BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-301
AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF
WASHINGTON                                      AIR FORCE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON
                                                                         Supplement

                                                                               22 JULY 2011

                                                                              Transportation

                                                                   VEHICLE OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available digitally on the e-publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFDW/A4R/M                                      Certified by: AFDW/A4/7 (Colonel Peter
                                                                                A. Sartori)
                                                                                  Pages: 9


AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008 is supplemented as follows. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to
AFDW/A4R/M, 1535 Command Drive, Suite CD310, Joint Base Andrews/NAF-W, MD, 20762.
Deviations from the procedures described herein are prohibited without written approval from
the OPR. : These supplemental requirements apply to all active duty Air Force Vehicle
Operations functions within the Air Force District of Washington. Vehicles financed through
non-appropriated funds (NAF) are exempt from this instruction. This publication does not apply
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement implements new AFDW guidance and supplements current AF Vehicle
Operations guidance, policy and/or programs for the following areas: maximum operator driving
time, transportation to and from terminals, watercraft training, expanded official use and
distinguished visitor support guidance.
1.1.1 . Base level supplements to this volume will not be published without prior written
coordination from HQ AFDW/A4R/M.
 2                                                       AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011


1.6.2. The installation level Logistics Readiness activity will forward copies of approved written
policies    governing       official    use    of      GMVs        on    the     installation   to
HQ AFDW/A4R/M.
1.7.4. Commanders should not forgo personnel upgrade training in order to provide routine
transportation support.
1.8.4. All transportation support requests involving General Officers (GO) or Distinguished
Visitors (DV) will be routed through the AFDW Ceremonies and Protocol office (AFDW/CCP).
2.11. AFDW/CCP will determine if DV status should be accorded.
2.26.2. The Vehicle Operations element will develop and maintain an Ancillary Training Chart
for watercraft and Executive Driving Service (EDS) functions. At a minimum, the charts will
contain the information illustrated in Table 2.2.

Table 2.2. (Added) Watercraft/EDS Training Rates (Example)
                                                    Number of
                                                    Personnel       Number of       Number of
                                                      in Boat       Personnel        Assigned
                                      Number        Operations     Certified for    Personnel
                                     Personnel       or EDS        Boat or EDS        Fully
 SKILL LEVEL                         Assigned        Training      Operations       Qualified

 2T131                                    2               0               0
 2T151                                   22               6              16
 2T171                                   15               5              10
 2T191                                    1               0               1
 Boat or EDS Training Rates              40              11              27            67%
2.28.7. (Added) The Vehicle Operations Element will send notification to       when AFDW
watercraft are out of commission. Likewise, they will send a notification to the same e-mail
address when the watercraft are returned to service.
3.1. Government motor vehicle official use rules apply equally to Air Force watercraft.
3.6.5. (Added) Transportation to/from local commercial terminals is prohibited unless
authorized IAW paragraph 3.64. "or as excepted IAW 3.64.2.1."
3.8.2. (Added) GMV travel is authorized to transport AF military personnel with a combat or
hostile-related injury to outpatient medical appointments or when officially participating in AF
sponsored ceremonies in the NCR. Dependent transportation may be provided IAW
paragraph 3.18. (Special Dependent Transportation Support).
3.8.3. (Added) Military Funerals Supported at Arlington National Cemetery: All repatriation
and casualty of war funerals, regardless of rank, are authorized mass transportation support for
the family members from the lodging to the funeral and back. Family members residing in the
NCR are not authorized transportation from their primary residences.
AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011                                                                  3


3.8.4. (Added) Parent transportation support policy applies to installation Fini Flight
ceremonies. Only personnel officially taking part in the event are authorized transportation
support (i.e., assigned unit active duty military/civilian members).
3.8.5. (Added) Noted restrictions do not apply when providing Congressional transportation
support. Requests for USAF support are vetted through the Office of Secretary of Defense,
which is the determinate authority for official use of government vehicles.
3.8.6. (Added) Government motor vehicle support is authorized for those who have an official
role in organization change of command ceremonies. For this type of ceremony, the incoming
and outgoing commanders, presiding officer, unit First Sergeant or Command Chief, chaplain,
master of ceremonies, proffer, and any member of a mandatory formation specifically directed to
assemble under the authority of the outgoing commander, are considered active participants.
3.8.7. (Added) Military and DoD civilian personnel who are not official participants are
authorized to use existing AFDW shuttles or space available transportation on motor vehicles
being provided for official participants. Established shuttle bus routes cannot be altered nor can
the vehicle size for the official participants be increased to accommodate space-available
personnel.
3.16.4. (Added) Units supporting movement of USAF Band and Honor Guard units will adhere
to vehicle operator maximum driving times for passenger-carrying vehicles as prescribed in the
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49 (Transportation), Part 395.5.
3.32. Procedures for requesting AFDW government motor vehicle transportation services to
support USAF-sponsored, non-DoD counterpart and foreign attaché trips for principals and
officially invited spouses:
3.32.1. (Added) AFDW/CCP is designated as the agency responsible for coordinating ground
transportation support for these taskings.
3.32.2. (Added) HQ USAF/CVAI will provide all ground transportation support requirements to
AFDW/CCP for determination of supportability. Appropriate government owned motor vehicles
will be utilized if available. Otherwise, Official Representation Funds (ORF) or other
government fund cites will be included in the support tasking for rental/leased vehicles
accompanied with a certified Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request or AF Form 616,
Fund Cite Authorization.
3.32.3. (Added) The installation level Logistics Readiness activity will provide vehicle
rental/lease cost estimate data, if required.
3.32.4. (Added) AFDW/CCP will task the installation level Logistics Readiness activity to either
provide organic support and/or execute a commercial motor vehicle lease/rental contract(s) to
satisfy support requirements or as excepted IAW 3.64.2.1. Government fund cite information
should be included in the support tasking for any motor vehicle outsourcing action and must be
provided "by the requesting organization” 45-60 days prior to required support date(s).
3.33.1. Ground transportation support for annual conventions/conferences for National Military
Associations as identified in DoDI 5410.19, Public Affairs Community Relations Policy
Implementation, is authorized.
 4                                                      AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011


3.33.1.1. (Added) Official conference attendees may travel to and from conferences and official
conference functions by government motor vehicles. Transportation to and from personal
residences is prohibited.
3.33.1.2. (Added) DV sedan transportation is restricted to General or Flag grade officers and/or
distinguished civilians of equivalent grade.
3.38.1. (Added) Holiday receptions at the Air House, Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, are
considered official functions.
3.38.2. (Added) Utilization of appropriated funded motor vehicle assets for tours within the
National Capital Region (NCR), with the exception of local area military
installations/reservations, for permanent party members or personnel in TDY status, is prohibited
unless authorized IAW AFI 24-301, paragraph 3.59.3.1.5.
Section 3R (Added) – Transportation to and from Terminals
3.64. (Added) Transportation to and from JB Andrews passenger terminal, Base Operations,
Navy terminal or Davison Army Airfield terminal is authorized.
3.64.1. (Added) Transportation service from an individual’s domicile, within a 10 mile radius of
the supporting installation, to and from passenger terminal, Base Operations, Navy terminal or
Davison Army Airfield terminal at the beginning or end of the TDY is authorized for all active
duty Air Force and Air Force civilian personnel. The availability of vehicles and operators may
limit military support.
3.64.2. (Added) Air Force owned or leased motor vehicle support is authorized between places
of employment or domiciles and local commercial terminals only when:
3.64.2.1. (Added) Transportation is necessary because of emergency situations, to meet security
requirements or unusual circumstances. The AFDW/A4/7 is the approval authority for services
provided under this exemption.
3.64.2.2. (Added) Mass transportation is necessary to support unit Air Expeditionary Force
deployments to and from ports of debarkation/embarkation.
3.64.2.3. (Added) Mass transportation is necessary to support unit group TDYs, to include
USAF Band and Honor Guard movements.
3.64.3. (Added) Permanent party members will drive their privately owned vehicles (POV), or
use commercial or public transportation to and from commercial terminals. The use of POV or
public and/or commercial vehicles is reimbursable when an individual is in an official travel
capacity.
3.64.4. (Added) All TDY members, including visiting DV/GOs, will utilize available
public/commercial transportation sources when transiting through commercial terminals.
3.64.5. (Added) Members arriving/departing the NCR during JB Andrews Open House or when
military aircraft are diverted due to runway conditions may be transported to/from commercial
terminals.
Section 3S (Added) – Ground Transportation Support for Distinguished Visitors and USAF
General Officers in the NCR
AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011                                                                 5


3.65. (Added) AFDW/CCP is designated as the agency responsible for coordinating ground
transportation support for DV/GOs. Types of transportation services include but are not limited
to providing support for Military Funerals, Retirement Ceremonies, Changes of Command, the
Visiting Generals Program, conferences and other events, when sanctioned by AFDW/CCP.
3.65.1. (Added) AFDW/CCP will provide transportation support requirements to the Executive
Driver Service (EDS) for determination of their ability to provide the requested support.
3.65.2. (Added) Centrally dispatched transportation support from EDS shall be provided for the
official use of members listed in attachment 2 (priority and space-available basis).
3.65.3. (Added) If feasible, DV/GO transportation support will be consolidated when departure
times and destinations are reasonably close. For HAF-sponsored conferences and summits, HAF
OPR will determine group transportation requirements. For individual requests, AFDW/CCP
will make consolidation determinations.
3.65.4. (Added) Transportation to after-hours official functions should be thoroughly
documented to prevent misunderstandings when reviewed by auditors. In those cases in which
General Officers/DVs are transported both AFDW/CCP and the supporting LRS Vehicle
Operations activity will maintain support documentation. In all other cases the supporting LRS
Vehicle Operations activity will maintain support documentation.
3.65.5. (Added) Transportation service to individual permanent party AF officials for
conveyance to official functions within the NCR is authorized for active duty Air Force and AF
civilian personnel. However, competing resources may limit military support due to the volume
of personnel visiting the NCR on official business.
3.65.6. (Added) AFDW installation Protocol offices and the installation level Logistics
Readiness activity will maintain a current list of local taxi, airport shuttle, and executive car
services which are eligible to provide conveyance to and from JB Andrews.
4.4. Forward copy of monthly Manpower Report (automated) to AFDW/A4RE transportation
office (AFDW.A4RE@afncr.af.mil) no later than the 10th workday of each month.
Section 9C (Added) – Use of Government Purchase Card (GPC) for Electronic Toll Collection
(ETC)
9.3. (Added) The GPC may be used for ETC. ETC is a system used on many toll (i.e., EZPass,
SunPass) roads, bridges, and tunnels in the United States.
9.3.1. (Added) Tolls purchased using the GPC can only be used for official business in
government motor vehicles.
9.3.2. (Added) The GPC shall not be used to pay for tolls while on TDY. The Government
Travel Card/Controlled Spend Account is the appropriate vehicle for paying tolls accrued during
TDY.
9.3.3. (Added) The VOCC support section will maintain a toll trip log and record the following
information:
9.3.3.1. (Added) Name/Rank/Organization of the member incurring the toll.
9.3.3.2. (Added) Purpose of the trip.
9.3.3.3. (Added) The date and location the toll was incurred.
 6                                                  AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011


9.3.4. (Added) GPC cardholders must document all transactions in the electronic
order/transaction management log provided by U.S. Bank IAW AFI 64-117, paragraph 4.3.5.3.
9.3.5. (Added) The Chief Dispatcher must reconcile the toll trip log to the applicable ETC
statements every month.




                                         DARREN W. MCDEW, Major General, USAF
                                         Commander, Air Force District of Washington
AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011                                                                 7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, 31 January 2006
DoDI 5410.19, Public Affairs Community Relations Policy Implementation, 13 November 2001
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49 (Transportation),

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
DOD—Department of Defense
DV— Distinguished Visitors
ETC— Electronic Toll Collection
EDS—Executive Driving Service
GPC— Government Purchase Card
GO—General Officer
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
JB—Joint Base
ORF— Official Representation Funds
POV— Privately Owned Vehicles
NCR—National Capital Region
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAF—United States Air Force
VOCC—Vehicle Operations Control Center

Terms
Domicile— A place of residence, regardless of where located, excluding temporary duty (TDY)
residences.
Executive Driver Service— AFDW transportation support activity utilized to provide
conveyance to visiting Distinguished Visitors between temporary lodgings and various official
duty locales throughout the NCR. Resources also utilized to support USAF-sponsored non-DOD
counterparts’ trips and foreign attaché trips. Permanent party Air Force officials are authorized
transportation support to conduct official business when vehicles and operators are available.
Fini Flight— Pilot's last flight in the aircraft before he/she leaves a squadron/unit.
Group – Five or more personnel with bags, luggage or outsized luggage.
 8                                                  AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011


Local Commercial Transportation Terminals— All air, rail, and bus terminals located within
the NCR to include Washington Reagan National Airport; Dulles International Airport,
Baltimore-Washington International Airport, Union Station and Metro stations.
National Capital Region (NCR)— The geographic area located within the boundaries of the
District of Columbia; Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties in the state of Maryland;
Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William Counties and the City of Alexandria in the
Commonwealth of Virginia.
AFI24-301_AFDWSUP 22 July 2011                                                                      9


                                          Attachment 2
MEMBERS AUTHORIZED USE OF DISTINGUISHED VISITOR TRANSPORTATION
                           SUPPORT
                       (PRIORITY BASIS)

USAF Sponsored Foreign Counterparts
TDY Air Force General Officers/Distinguished Visitors
Foreign Defense College visits and Non-AF Civilian Visitors invited to attend Official Functions
when sanctioned by AFDW/CCP
Members requiring support due to a specifically identified emergency situation or security
requirement. AFDW/A4/7 is the approval authority for services provided under this exemption

MEMBERS AUTHORIZED USE OF DISTINGUISHED VISITOR TRANSPORTATION
                           SUPPORT
                   (SPACE-AVAILABLE BASIS)

NCR-assigned military and civilian employees on official business when DoD scheduled or
commercial transportation is not sufficient. The availability of vehicles and operators may limit
military support
