BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 24-203
341ST MISSILE WING
                                                                        341ST MISSILE WING

                                                                                    Supplement

                                                                          27 FEBRUARY 2013


                                                                                 Transportation

                                                 PREPARATION AND MOVEMENTOF AIR
                                                                    FORCE CARGO

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this publication.

OPR: 341 LRS/LGRD                                                      Certified by: 341 LRS/CC
                                                                 (Lt Col Major Eric N. Gillespie)
                                                                                         Pages: 7

This supplement implements the Reusable Container Program depicted in AFI 24-203,
Preparation and Movement of Air Force Cargo, 2 November 2010. It outlines the
responsibilities and procedures for the management and operation of the Base Reusable
Container Program at Malmstrom Air Force Base, Montana. This instruction applies to all unit
personnel assigned, attached and tenants to the 341st Missile Wing. It does not apply to Air
National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve (ARC) personnel. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the wing
publishing office. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.


9. 10. Reusable Container Program Implementation Guidance.

9.10.1. The Traffic Manager from 341 Logistics Readiness Squadron is appointed the Base
Container Manager (BCM) and will execute all responsibilities of the Reusable Container
Program (RCP). This includes but is not limited to reimbursement and transfer of funds from
host/tenant units for packaging services; lost, destroyed or discarded fast packs, standard packs,
 2                                            AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013


special packaging instruction (SPI) shipping containers, packaging materials; and commercial
transportation (shipping and handling) costs.

9.10.1.1.1.1. (Added) The 341 LRS Deployment and Distribution Flight, Cargo Movements
Element (341 LRS/LGRDDC), as designated representative for the BCM, will establish
procedures for control, recovery and re-use of reusable containers, packaging materials,
reimbursement or prior transfer of funds for packaging costs. The RCP is not required for units
that utilize fewer than three (3) SPI containers, excluding Fast Packs.

9.10.1.1.2.1.(Added) Unit commanders must appoint a primary and up to two alternate unit
container monitor (UCM) in writing. UCMs must be SrA and above or GS equivalent. Submit
letter within 10 days of appointment to the 341 LRS/LGRDDC. The appointment letters will
contain the signature and contact number of primary and alternate UCM to ensure AF Forms
451, Request for Packaging Service, are only signed by primary/alternate UCM. If
primary/alternate representatives are deployed at the same time new representatives will be
appointed and new a letter generated, signed and forwarded to the 341 LRS/LGRDDC.

9.10.1.1.2.2. (Added) Unit Commanders must establish a reusable container program that allows
341 LRS/LGRDDC to perform semi-annual inspections of organizational flights/units reusable
container storage areas.

9.10.1.1.2.3. (Added) Unit Commanders will identify and maintain a storage area within their
squadron for reusable containers. This area must be covered, clean, and dry to protect reusable
containers and packaging materials from inclement weather.

9.10.1.1.2.4. (Added)Unit Commanders will ensure UCMs attend the annual RCP working group
meetings and/or other necessary meetings as required. The working group will consist of
journeyman-level representatives from Cargo Movements, missile maintenance, munitions,
Material Management, and other base activities that utilize more than three (3) SPI containers.
The resource advisors from these activities are highly encouraged to attend. The objective of
the working group will be to review operational requirements, evaluate number of containers lost
or destroyed, replacement cost, address negligence and deficiencies that exist, and recommend
corrective action for an effective program. Additionally, command policies and opportunities for
improvements will be discussed.

9.10.1.1.4.1. (Added) 341 LRS/LGRDDC will provide initial training on the RCP to primary and
alternate UCMs. At a minimum, training will cover the identification and safeguarding of
reusable containers and its packaging materials, the use and preparation of AF 451 and
regulation familiarization. After completion of training, the UCM will establish the reusable
container program within their organizations, training those individuals assigned on proper
control, recovery and re-use of reusable containers. The 341 LRS/LGRDDC will maintain a
roster of those who have completed training. Suggest documenting individuals training in the
Training Business Area. UCM must train their replacements and ensure a quality turnover to
prevent a lapse in the units program. The 341 LRS/LGRDDC will provide further training upon
request.
AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               3


9.10.1.1.5.1. (Added) The 341 LRS Deployment and Distribution Flight, Receiving Element,
will ensure all inbound cargo received is in the proper container. Cargo received in an incorrect
reusable container will be reported in the DOD Web Supply Discrepancy Reporting system to
generate the Standard Form 364, Supply Discrepancy Report, (SDR) which will be attached to
the discrepant reusable container. The Materiel Management must ensure the SF 364 stays with
the container when issuing serviceable item to the using organization. Using organizations will
be advised they must maintain the SF 364 and the discrepant container so that when reparable
item is turned in for shipment, the using organization will not be charged for having the incorrect
reusable container. Units turning in assets requiring an SPI without the SF 364 will be
responsible for issuing the AF 451.

9.10.1.1.5.2. (Added) UCMs will ensure all cargo turned over to the 341 LRS Materiel
Management Flight is in the proper reusable container or has an AF 451 (original plus 2 copies)
attached if the reusable container was damaged, lost or misplaced. If the AF 451 is marked
“received in wrong container” then the SF 364 accomplished by the Receiving Element when
received must accompany the form. This is the only instance the ‘From’ field on the signed AF
451 will be annotated with the shipper’s unit/address reflected on the SF 364. The AF 451 must
be completely and properly filled out and will contain a valid chargeable unit fund cite or
MORD. A Transportation Account Code (TAC) will not be accepted for packaging purposes.
AF 451 is also used for local fabrication requests of SPI containers.

9.10.1.1.8.1. (Added) 341 LRS/LGRDDC and the LRS Resource Advisor will work together to
process AF 451 to ensure that reimbursement is being received from base organizations and
deposited into the Deployment and Distribution Flight EEIC.

9.10.1.2.7.1. (Added) UCMs must ensure serviceable items are removed from their assigned
reusable containers and reparable items are placed in the same container for turn-in to Materiel
Management or Flight Service Center. Do not obliterate any markings on the container. Ensure
all internal blocking, bracing and cushioning materials remain inside/with the container.

9.10.1.3.2.1 (Added) UCMs must coordinate turning in excess serviceable reusable containers
and packaging material to the 341 LRS/LGRDDC. Cargo Movements personnel will only accept
excess short life and multi-application short life containers (Non-Specialized) for listing in the
Reusable Container Worldwide Warehouse System, https://recon.wpafb.af.mil, for disposition
and/or lateral support. These containers are not subject to AFMAN 23-110 management,
accountability and control procedures once issued for use. Courtesy storage by the 341
LRS/LGRDDC is authorized on a case-by-case basis and is highly discouraged. If courtesy
storage is required, units will still be responsible for all charges incurred (i.e. full replacement
cost of the required SPI).



9.10.1.4.2. (Added) 341 LRS/LGRDDC will perform semi-annual inspections of organizational
units’ reusable container storage areas and their program. A semi-annual report will be prepared,
identifying units that fail to comply with AFI24-203 and this supplement. These inspections will
be used to determine the efficiency and effectiveness of each unit’s RCP. Units must strive to
 4                                              AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013


meet a 90% standard reuse rate which will be determined by the number of shipments an
organization submits and the number of AF 451 submitted. The report will include but not
limited to information on unit’s training, reusable container return efficiency, any shipment
delays caused by item not being turned in the correct reusable container, number for AF 451
submitted for each unit and associated cost to provide/construct reusable containers and any
noted deficiencies i.e. containers used for other than their intended purposes. Reports distribution
will include 341 LRS/CC, installation, group and applicable unit commanders and primary the
UCMs.


9.10.1.5. (Added) See Attachment 9 (Added), Figure A9.1. Reusable Container Checklist.




                                                     HERALDO B. BRUAL, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander




Attachment 1
AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             5


GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References

Abbreviations and Acronyms:

BCM—Base Container Manager

RCP—Reusable Container Program

SDR—Supply Discrepancy Report

SPI—Special Packaging Instructions

UCM—Unit Container Monitors

Prescribed Forms

None

Adopted Forms

AF Form 451, Request for Packing Service
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF 364, Supply Discrepancy Report

Terms


FAST PACK—(Added) A family of standard size reusable containers whose design permits
shipment of a large variety of items within certain limits of size, weight and fragility.

REUSABLE CONTAINER — (Added) A specially designed container, which is engineered
for repeated use without impairment of its protective function. The reusable container is intended
to be used, saved and reused as a complete system, excluding the wrap or barrier material. These
containers are marked “Reusable Container…Do Not Destroy.”

SHORT LIFE CONTAINERS – (Added) Effective for 10 trips minimum. A shipping
container that can be re-used for a limited number of times. The container is usually made of
wood, plywood, fiberboard or similar material that has limited serviceability

SPECIAL PACKAGING INSTRUCTION (SPI)—(Added) SPI drawings are detailed
packaging instructions, accompanied with a 3-D drawing (graphic), used to construct
packages/containers for items requiring special preservation, packing and protection. A SPI
drawing generally depicts details for special blocking, bracing, cushioning, shock mounts,
tiedown devices and positioning of the item in the package/container.
 6                                         AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013


STANDARD PACK—(Added) A pack for which the packaging components, including the
shipping container, have been standardized as to material and size. The cushioning in the
Standard Pack is not bonded to the interior container walls.
AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013                                 7



Attachment 9 (Added)

REUSABLE CONTAINER CHECKLIST

Figure A9.1. AF IMT 2519, Reusable Container Inspection Checklist
8   AFI24-203_341MWSUP 27 FEBRUARY 2013
