BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-110
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  12 APRIL 2012

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                           ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL
                                                                             SERVICES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A4LM                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/A4L
                                                                       (Maj Gen John B. Cooper)
                                                                                       Pages: 14
Supersedes:    AFI21-110, 1 August 2000


This instruction supports AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance; by providing additional
direction that is specific to the management of Engineering and Technical Services (ETS)
provided by Air Force (AF) civilian specialists and DoD contractors. It applies to all major
commands (MAJCOMs), the Air National Guard (ANG) and contracted technical representatives
providing field engineering, advice, information, assistance, training or instruction, and hands-on
training necessary to maintain and operate fielded weapon systems, equipment, and components.
MAJCOMs may supplement this publication; however subordinate units may not. Lead
Commands will supplement this document to identify any required deviations (applicability,
variance, and/or differences in organizational placement of responsibilities/processes). Identify
each deviation on the supplement with “(DEV)” directly preceding the paragraph number. These
supplements must be submitted to AF/A4L for approval; however supplements not including
deviations do not require AF/A4L approval. Additionally, supplements must be made In
Accordance With (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847. For questions on interpreting this instruction, first
contact your Lead Command maintenance policy activity. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication
requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act authorized by 10
USC 8013. Privacy Act system of records notice F036 SAF AA A “Civilian Personnel Files”.
 2                                                                  AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed in its entirety.
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                            3



                                            Chapter 1

                                 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

1.1. Purpose. The Air Force must maintain its weapons systems and equipment to meet mission
operational needs at a reasonable cost. To accomplish this, units need the capability to quickly
resolve complex or unusual technical problems and provide enhanced system-specific technical
training to Air Force technicians and operators. It is not cost effective to train all technicians to
this high level of expertise. Therefore, the Air Force authorizes Engineering and Technical
Services (ETS) programs to accomplish these critical technical tasks. Both, Air Force
Engineering and Technical Services (AFETS) and Contractor Engineering and Technical
Services (CETS), are expeditionary resources prepared to deploy as needed.
1.2. Scope. AFETS employees are the primary source of ETS support in the Air Force. AFETS
field technicians shall be used and retrained as necessary to meet technical needs. CETS are
important elements in developing an independent Air Force capability on new systems; however,
units must develop their own organic and AFETS capability whenever possible. Organizations
should normally terminate CETS within 12 months after obtaining self-sufficiency. However,
when considering software issues, numerous modifications and extended life programs of most
Mission Design Series (MDS), an appropriate level of CETS support over the weapon system
life cycle may be considered necessary. ETS requirements within the AF will normally be
satisfied through the use of AFETS where practical.
   1.2.1. Exclusions. ETS covered in this AFI excludes:
       1.2.1.1. Engineering review and resolution of service-revealed deficiencies reported
       through normal maintenance information systems.
       1.2.1.2. Material deficiency reports covered in TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency
       Reporting, Investigation and Resolution.
       1.2.1.3. The engineering determination of material integrity.
       1.2.1.4. The engineering or technical services using 61-Series instructions.
1.3. AFETS. AFETS positions satisfy long-term ETS requirements for on-site field engineering
support and specialized technical training. AFETS field engineers are highly experienced and
thoroughly trained civilian technical specialists. AFETS are typically limited to civilians because
of the advantages of long-term continuity and decreased retraining costs provided by a civilian
work force. They assist units and MAJCOM functional managers in resolving complex system
problems. They assist in troubleshooting and repairing the critical maintenance problems and
research, analyze, and provide solutions for long-term and Air Force-wide support equipment
problems. AFETS design special test equipment, develop special maintenance procedures,
develop and conduct technical training for unit maintainers and operators, and recommend
changes to maintenance processes. AFETS also serves as the unit technical liaison and works
with MAJCOM functional managers, depot technicians, engineers, item managers, and
equipment manufacturers to resolve equipment problems. AFETS will certify tasks IAW AFI 36-
2201, Air Force Training Program, and AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training, in USAF
personnel training records when training is provided to the go/no-go level. AFETS will not be
 4                                                                   AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


authorized to overcome manning shortfalls or to perform duties considered organic to the unit’s
manning.
     1.3.1. Allocation of ETS Positions. Allocations will be based on operational requirements as
     determined by the MAJCOM Appointed ETS OPR and approved by the applicable
     MAJCOM Directorate. AFETS and CETS may be authorized together. Due to the
     complexity of the equipment associated with certain programs, as well as the number of
     systems fielded, it is not always practical to provide separate ETS support to each unit. In
     these instances, ETS personnel may be assigned to strategically located units within each
     command to provide services to specific geographical areas or may be assigned to
     installations where collocated units have like equipment. When ETS are assigned to
     installations where units have like equipment, training requirements will be coordinated
     between units and technical advice and assistance services will be based on unit priorities.
     1.3.2. CETS. Air Force units use CETS to provide on-site proficiency training, technical
     advice, and technical assistance for initial system bed-down or major modifications when
     AFETS are unavailable. Units desiring services of strategically assigned CETS will direct
     their requests to the MAJCOM OPR. When CETS and AFETS are assigned to the same unit,
     CETS will support and train AFETS. CETS will certify tasks IAW AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program, and AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training, in USAF personnel training
     records when training is provided to the go/no-go level.
     1.3.3. Limits: CETS are restricted to the duties and responsibilities outlined in this AFI and
     specific tasks listed in the Task Work Specification (TWS). MAJCOM OPRs (with approval
     by the applicable MAJCOM Directorate) may grant exceptions to these limits only on a case-
     by-case basis based on mission need. Do not use CETS to avoid manpower ceilings or other
     personnel rules and regulations. CETS will not: (1) perform non-ETS duties or normal unit
     duties, (2) make policy or represent the using activity at meetings or conferences, (3)
     supervise or control Air Force personnel or personnel of other contractors, (4) hold
     engineering decision-making positions, and (5) perform direct maintenance except in
     emergency situations.
1.4. Developing ETS Support: ETS is a key Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM)
element for "cradle-to-grave" support in the planning process for new systems or major
modifications. Consider the following factors when developing an ETS program for a new
system or major modification: Complexity of the system or modification; maintenance concept;
and other forms of programmed support such as Interim Contract Support (ICS), Contract
Logistics Support (CLS) and Performance Based Logistics (PBL).
     1.4.1. Identify total requirements for field engineering, technical advice, assistance, and
     training. For training priority order, use Air Education and Training Command (AETC),
     AFETS, and CETS.
     1.4.2. Train AFETS specialists’ early on new systems and modifications and involve them in
     system development, technical reviews and testing, and schedule them to arrive on site
     before equipment delivery to help the unit plan for the new systems and to ensure early self-
     sufficiency. When required, schedule CETS to coincide with equipment delivery. When both
     AFETS and CETS are needed on a system, every effort should be made to co-locate them for
     maximum transfer of knowledge. Release CETS as soon as AFETS become proficient and
     capable of meeting long-term ETS requirements.
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                  5


   1.4.3. AFETS are long-term assets whose value to the AF increases over time. AFETS will
   receive priority consideration for technical and/or instructor training consistent with
   effective/efficient training planning and established unit priorities.
1.5. Multi-Command ETS Programs. MAJCOMs with similar Aircraft MDS Weapon
Systems and Non-aircraft Weapon Systems may merge ETS resources and management under a
single command. The applicable MAJCOM Directorates shall establish a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA)/Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to facilitate coordinated planning,
programming, and budgeting to avoid duplication. The MOA/MOU will designate who
possesses authority to act on behalf of the MOA/MOU signatories. MAJCOMs not merged by
MOA/MOU who utilize AFETS/CETS personnel may decentralize management of the ETS
program to the using activity provided all the applicable requirements of this AFI are met.
1.6. Programming, Budgeting, and Funding ETS. Major activities normally program,
budget, and fund both AFETS and CETS with Operations and Maintenance (O&M) money.
However, when appropriate, use Research and Development (R&D) funds, industrial funds,
other funds authorized to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC),
or Defense Working Capital Fund (DWCF) IAW AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and
Procedures.
 6                                                                   AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


                                            Chapter 2

                                      RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. MAJCOMs will:
     2.1.1. Supplement this document as necessary to ensure standardization among subordinate
     units.
     2.1.2. Designate a Lead ETS Program office in a single MAJCOM to administer the
     activities of the member MAJCOMs merged by MOA/MOU.
     2.1.3. Designate an ETS OPR in the appropriate Headquarters Directorate or Field Operating
     Activity (FOA) to serve as the MAJCOM ETS OPR for member MAJCOMs merged by
     MOA/MOU.
     2.1.4. Ensure all applicable requirements of this AFI are met by units authorized to
     decentralize management of their ETS programs to the using activities.
     2.1.5. Program and defend MAJCOM ETS funds and manpower requirements over the
     Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) consistent with AF mission requirements.
     2.1.6. Budget and fund AFETS Permanent Change of Station (PCS), Temporary Duty
     (TDY), and Developmental Training costs to support their MAJCOM requirements and
     submit Program Objective Memorandum (POM) for all ETS requirements.
     2.1.7. Identify mobility statements in AFETS Standard Core Personnel Document (AFI 36-
     202, Civilian Mobility) and designate positions as Emergency-Essential.
     2.1.8. Ensure general personnel management records are maintained at the unit of
     assignment on all ETS personnel to assure proper management and administration of ETS
     resources.
     2.1.9. Ensure training for AFETS receive proper priority in AF training plans.
     2.1.10. Redistribute ETS resources between major activities when mission changes dictate
     such realignment.
     2.1.11. Provide government property support to CETS IAW Federal Acquisition Regulation
     (FAR), Subpart 45.3, Authorizing the Use and Rental of Government Property.
     2.1.12. Coordinate CETS contract questions with the Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC),
     Logistics Contracting Support Branch (PKESN) who performs all central acquisition
     contracting functions for CETS.
2.2. Lead ETS Program Office/Decentralized Management Activities (as applicable) will:
     2.2.1. Develop TWS and initiate procurement packages for each approved CETS
     requirement using appropriate Advisory & Assistance Service coding.
     2.2.2. Oversee Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) functions for assigned CETS employees.
     2.2.3. Establish procedures to notify subordinate activities of CETS termination.
     2.2.4. Develop and utilize assessment criteria to effectively manage, administer, and control
     ETS.
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                       7


   2.2.5. Conduct annual assessments of ETS Team performance at each field unit.
   2.2.6. Prepare/update the annual ETS plan that supports ETS programming, budgeting, and
   manpower actions with adjustments for mission changes or other uncontrollable factors and
   obtain validation and approval from the applicable MAJCOM Directorate.
   2.2.7. Forward annual ETS plan/requirements to HQ USAF/A4LM, not later than 60 days
   after current fiscal year close out.
   2.2.8. Coordinate AFETS placement and Standard Core Personnel Documents with
   manpower and civilian personnel offices.
   2.2.9. Maintain the knowledge, training and skill of the AFETS workforce.
   2.2.10. Update AFETS on new weapon systems and equipment conversions.
   2.2.11. Coordinate with weapon system and equipment managers to program AETC Type I
   Training and other types of training for AFETS on a priority basis for current and new
   systems.
   2.2.12. Provide AFETS instructor training.
   2.2.13. Realign AFETS resources as needed when the mission, system, or equipment
   changes.
   2.2.14. Verify need for CETS personnel security clearances and take action to maintain
   access at the minimum level required IAW AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program
   Management.
   2.2.15. Include Personnel Reliability Program guidance in the TWS of contractors whose
   duties involve nuclear weapons.
   2.2.16. Consolidate subordinate units’ requirements and establish a validation process
   through the MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU ETS OPR (as applicable).
   2.2.17. Manage MAJCOM ETS TDY and training budget to include planning and execution
   of funds.
2.3. Using Activity will:
   2.3.1. Employ ETS resources effectively and efficiently to enhance mission capability IAW
   AF and MAJCOM guidance. AFETS assigned as tenants will be afforded command/base
   support by the host commensurate with other assigned DoD civilians to include eligibility for
   local awards, security clearance processing, annual physicals, passport/visa processing etc.
   2.3.2. Provide funding necessary for AFETS to attend conferences, Technical Interchange
   Meetings (TIM), Product Improvement Working Groups (PIWGs) meetings, office supplies,
   special Automated Data Processing Equipment (ADPE), in support of the unit's mission. In
   addition, fund training requirements to ensure AFETS remain current on assigned and
   emerging systems.
   2.3.3. Adhere to ETS TDY/Deployment Policies. Units are authorized to deploy AFETS to
   support mission requirements. AFETS employees shall be assigned Unit Task Code (UTC)
   positions in mobility tasked units or may be substituted against military positions on the
   Deployment Manning Document (DMD) as required. CETS representatives are typically not
 8                                                                     AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


     deployed, but may be deployed on specific approval of the MAJCOM OPR, subject to
     contract provisions.
     2.3.4. Adhere to Adverse Action, Appeal and Grievance Procedures. Refer to AFI 36-704,
     Discipline and Adverse Action, issue based 36-Series AFIs, and Negotiated Labor
     Management (Union) Agreement as applicable, before proceeding.
     2.3.5. Provide Air Force Certifying Officer (AFCO) support. The using activity OPR will
     serve as or designate AFCOs for CETS personnel and provide the name, office symbol,
     signature, and telephone number of the AFCO to the Administrative Contracting Officer
     (ACO), with a copy to the MAJCOM OPR, no later than 30 days after the CETS assignment
     or within five workdays of any AFCO change. The CETS contract line items assigned to
     each certifying officer will be clearly identified in this designation. The AFCO is responsible
     for certifying the monthly Certificate of Service (COS). It is recommended that the using
     activity delegate the AFCO responsibilities to the Maintenance Operations Officer (MOO) of
     the squadron primarily using the individual CETS employee’s services. The designated
     certifying officer will be a commissioned officer. When it is impractical to designate a
     commissioned officer or one is not available, requests for approval to appoint a senior NCO
     or AF civilian (GS-11 or above) as AFCO will be submitted by the using activity OPR in
     writing to the MAJCOM OPR. Each request will be evaluated on an individual basis.
2.4. AFETS Responsibilities.
     2.4.1. Provide field engineering, technical advice, assistance, and training for maintaining
     and operating unit equipment.
     2.4.2. Investigate equipment failures and mishaps and train personnel to prevent recurrence.
     2.4.3. Develop contacts with contractor, depot, and AFMC engineers, technicians, and item
     managers to resolve maintenance problems, design deficiencies, and supply problems.
     2.4.4. Develop special test equipment and maintenance procedures to resolve complex
     system problems.
     2.4.5. Perform emergency maintenance (direct assistance) on equipment when temporary
     skill or manning shortages prevent accomplishment by other assigned personnel.
     2.4.6. Advise the unit OPR on the best utilization and management of CETS.
2.5. CETS Contractor Responsibilities.
     2.5.1. Provides ETS through CETS employees who perform the duties described in the
     TWS.
     2.5.2. Selects, supervises, and exercises sole and autonomous control and direction over
     CETS employees.
     2.5.3. Comply with the administrative and security regulations of the using activities.
     2.5.4. Provides copies of the TWS to CETS employees.
     2.5.5. Provides CETS security clearance certification to the unit security office.
2.6. CETS Employees’ Responsibilities.
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                  9


  2.6.1. Give on-site technical advice and hands-on training on all aspects of equipment
  maintenance and operation including modifications and retrofits.
  2.6.2. Advise and train on special tools, handling equipment, test equipment, and other
  related items.
  2.6.3. Comply with and emphasize Air Force safety precautions.
  2.6.4. Provide maintenance and operational information from the manufacturer.
  2.6.5. Assist in mishap investigations and failure data reporting.
  2.6.6. Perform direct maintenance only under unusual or emergency circumstances, and only
  for a short time.
  2.6.7. Submit monthly activity reports and Certificates of Service.
  2.6.8. Retain a copy of the TWS in their personnel files.
 10                                                                AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


                                          Chapter 3

                                      CONTRACTING

3.1. General. AFMC is the central contract agency for CETS. AFMC has designated the
Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC), Enterprise Acquisition Division (office symbol, PKESN),
2275 D Street, Bldg 16, room 128, Wright Patterson AFB OH 45433-7228 as the single
Procurement Contracting Office (PCO) for CETS. ASC/PKESN is the ACO and is responsible
for administering CETS contracts for all MAJCOMs and FOAs except HQ ACC which will
establish an internal ACO. ASC/PKESN only accepts CETS requirements initiated by the
MAJCOM OPRs.
3.2. Government Facilities and Services. The government provides the contractor the
following facilities and services, which will be specified in the CETS contract:
   3.2.1. Suitable transportation for contractor personnel, baggage, and equipment at the work
   site and on official business. If the Government fails to provide this transportation, it will
   reimburse the contractor for transportation expenses. All travel requires advance approval
   from the MAJCOM OPR or designee.
   3.2.2. Electronic message and internet services to the contractor IAW AFI 33-112,
   Information Technology Hardware Asset Management and other appropriate equipment
   specific directives.
   3.2.3. Telephone services for official business according to the same local directives
   applicable to government employees. CETS may use DSN only in overseas areas with prior
   approval according to AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless
   Communication Systems, and the Military Affiliated Radio System.
   3.2.4. The contractor may use government services and agencies to transmit and exchange
   funds for employees when commercial services are not adequate or available.




                                            JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                    11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems, and
the Military Affiliated Radio System, 9 January 2002
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 36-202, Civilian Mobility, 18 March 1994
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training, 22 February 2006
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
FAR, Subpart 45.3, Authorizing the Use and Rental of Government Property, 14 June 2007
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution, 1 October 2009
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCO—Air Force Certifying Officer
AFETS—Air Force Engineering and Technical Services
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 12                                                      AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
CETS—Contract Engineering and Technical Services
CLS—Contract Logistics Support
COS—Certificate of Service
DEV—Deviation
DMD—Deployment Manning Document
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DWCF—Defense Working Capital Fund
ETS—Engineering and Technical Services
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
ICS—Interim Contract Support
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDS—Mission Design Series (of aircraft)
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOO—Maintenance Operations Officer
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PBL—Performance Based Logistics
PCO—Procuring Contract Office or Officer
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PIWG—Product Improvement Working Group
AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012                                                                         13


POM—Program Objective Memorandum
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluator
R&D—Research and Development
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting
TWS—Task Work Specification
UTC—Unit Task Code

Terms
Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO)—The contracting officer assigned contract
management and administration responsibilities under each CETS contract exhibit. ASC/PKESN
is the ACO for all agencies except HQ ACC which will establish an internal ACO or negotiate
an ACO agreement with ASC/PKESN.
Air Force Certifying Officer (AFCO)—AFCOs are appointed by the using activity OPR to be
the government’s on-site representatives to ensure the contractor meets the requirements of the
Task Work Specification (TWS) and monitor CETS personnel time and attendance.
Air Force Engineering and Technical Services (AFETS)—AFETS is on-site field engineering
support and specialized technical training provided by highly experienced and technically
qualified Air Force civilian or military personnel. May also refer to the people who perform
these duties.
CETS Certificate of Service (COS)—The CETS representative prepares the COS and presents it
to the AFCO each month for certification. The AFCO notes any exceptions or unsatisfactory
services on the COS.
Contractor Engineering and Technical Services (CETS)—CETS is on-site ETS provided by
technically qualified defense contractor representatives to elevate the skills and abilities of
AFETS Air Force military and civilian personnel to the self-sufficiency level. May also refer to
the personnel who perform these duties.
Engineering and Technical Services (ETS)—ETS provides Air Force units with full
engineering support and instruction, technical advice, and training in the installation, operation,
and maintenance of aircraft and aerospace equipment, weapon systems, and ground-based
communications, radar, and computer equipment. Air Force or contractor ETS specialists
provide these services using hands-on training or other forms of instruction.
MAJCOM OPR—The office assigned the responsibility for central management of the
command’s ETS program. This responsibility will be the MAJCOM director of Logistics or
equivalent. Commands with similar equipment or weapon systems may appoint one MAJCOM
to function as OPR for all involved MAJCOMs as designated by MOA/MOU.
Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO)—The contracting officer, Wright-Patterson
Aeronautical System Center Enterprise Acquisition Division PKESN, who negotiates and
executes the basic CETS contract.
 14                                                              AFI21-110 12 APRIL 2012


Training Provided by ETS—System-specific technical training, provided by ETS personnel
within a unit to increase the technical qualifications of assigned personnel, using any media
deemed practical to meet unit requirements.
Using Activity—The unit receiving ETS support. The using activity is subordinate to the major
activity.
Using Activity OPR—The office within the using activity assigned responsibility for ETS
program management. Typically, the logistics group commander is the using activity OPR.
