BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-124
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       8 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                       HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                            2 FEBRUARY 2011
                                                             Certified Current on 28 March 2013
                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                                    OIL ANALYSIS PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LM                                                               Certified by: AF/A4L
Supersedes: AFI21-124, 4 April 2003                               (Maj Gen Robert H. McMahon)
                                                                                       Pages: 16
                                (HILLAFB)
OPR: 809 MXSS/MXDEC                                                   Certified by: 309 MXW/CL
Supersedes: AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP,                                               (Ms. Sue Dryden)
            10 August 2005                                                               Pages:5


This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and Joint Publication AR
700–132/ OPNAVINST 4731.1C/AFI(I) 21-131, Joint Oil Analysis Program. It provides
procedural guidance and assigns responsibility for managing the Air Force Oil Analysis Program
and for participating in the Joint Oil Analysis Program. It applies to all military and civilian AF
personnel including Major Commands, Direct Reporting Units, Field Operating Agencies, and
DoD contractor activities. It also applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air
National Guard (ANG). For the purposes of policy the Air National Guard (ANG) is recognized
as a MAJCOM. AF/A4L must approve any deviations from this instruction. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to AF/A4LM using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through MAJCOM
publications/forms managers. Records Disposition. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm . The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                            AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


(HILLAFB) AFI 21-124, 4 April 2003, is supplemented as follows: This supplement
implements provisions of AFI 21-124, Air Force Oil Analysis Program, and Technical Order
(T.O.) 33-1-37, Joint Oil Analysis Program Manual.               It establishes procedures and
responsibilities for obtaining, documenting, monitoring and establishing authorization for direct
support of the Joint Oil Analysis Program (JOAP) and related maintenance of support
equipment. This supplement applies to all JOAP users within the 309th Aircraft Maintenance
Group (309 AMXG), 309th Commodities Maintenance Group (309 CMXG), 309th Missile
Maintenance Group (309 MMXG), Physical Sciences Flight (809 MXSS/MXDEC),
Nondestructive Inspection (NDI) Lab (388 EMS/MXMFN), NDI Lab (419 MXS/MXMFN) and
Transient Alert located in the current operations flight (75 OSS/OSC), and includes all
contracted organizations performing maintenance on Hill Air Force Base (AFB) with assigned
aircraft and support equipment. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include; terminology of current technologies, designation of current organizations and removal
of reference to a deleted AF Form. The Glossary of References and Supporting Information
(Attachment 1) has been revised to include references, acronyms and key terms.
1. Program. Oil Analysis is a part of the engine health management plus concept. It is the
process of analyzing oil and other fluids used to lubricate or operate mechanical equipment,
evaluating the condition of the fluid or the equipment from which the fluid originated, and
recommending maintenance actions to the equipment operating activity. An Oil Analysis
Program (OAP) ensures timely and accurate oil analysis support through the strategic location of
oil analysis laboratories and the standardization of procedures, data elements, analytical
instrumentation and diagnostic techniques. The Joint Oil Analysis Program (JOAP) is a
combined effort of the Army, Navy and Air Force to set-up and maintain a standard program. Oil
analysis requires a centrally-managed program and the integration of AF OAP and JOAP plans.
2. Objectives. The overall objective of the AF OAP is to detect oil-wetted air and space
equipment failures before serious malfunction or secondary damage occurs. The specific
objectives of the AF OAP and JOAP programs are as follows:
     2.1. Improve the operational safety, readiness and economy of military equipment through
     the use of on-board and off-board oil analysis, a condition-monitoring concept that relies on
     the detection and measurement of wear-metals in the fluid.
     2.2. Collect and analyze oil analysis data in order to increase the effectiveness of oil analysis
     techniques in the diagnosis of potential equipment failures and lubricant condition; to provide
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                           3


   wear metal and lubricant physical property data to the various weapons system managers and
   others, as required.
   2.3. Ensure oil analysis plans and operations are integrated (where practical) to provide:
       2.3.1. Standard laboratory techniques, procedures, data, calibration standards, and
       analytical instruments.
       2.3.2. Inter-service oil analysis support to all military departments.
       2.3.3. The most cost–effective means of determining the condition of lubricants, fluids,
       and mechanical system through the use of various analytical techniques.
   2.4. (Added-HILLAFB) The object of the Air Force Oil Analysis Program (OAP), is to
   detect incipient oil operated aeronautical equipment failures before serious malfunction or
   damage occurs. This is achieved by monitoring the physical properties of the used
   lubricants, and the concentration of wear metals in the oils used to lubricate or power the
   mechanical systems. To monitor lubricant/fluid conditions, the center laboratories for the
   OAP use atomic emission spectrometric wear metal analysis. Physical properties testing; i.e.,
   viscosity, water contamination, particulate count, and level of additives are used to
   supplement the wear metal analysis. Hill AFB has multiple OAP laboratories, and
   organizations requiring their services.       Interaction between coverage arrangements
   scheduling, etc., is covered using a memorandum of agreement (MOA) between those
   facilities and organizations. Utilization of the OAP facilities by those requiring analysis
   services will be handled, IAW T.O. 33-1-37, AFI 21-124_HILLAFBSUP and any current
   MOA between the OAPs at Hill AFB.
3. Guidance. The OAP helps aircraft technicians and supervisors to make informed, condition-
based, preventive maintenance decisions, and can reduce equipment costs, increase equipment
availability, and reduce in-flight risk. This is primarily achieved by monitoring the concentration
of wear metals in fluids used to lubricate or power mechanical systems. To monitor engine
health, the OAP uses a variety of testing mechanisms. These include: atomic emission (AE)
spectrometric wear metal analysis, filter debris analysis (FDA), magnetic chip detectors (MCD),
MCDs with on-board sensors, Scanning Electron Microscope/Energy Dispersive X-ray
(SEM/EDX) system technology (e.g., JetSCAN®), and to a very limited extent, physical
property testing (viscosity, water/fuel contamination, additive levels, etc.). To the extent deemed
cost effective, Engine Operating Time (EOT) should be used as the standard time interval
between oil analysis sampling when in-service engines are equipped with an Engine Monitoring
System (EMS) or other operating time recorders. For engines without EMS or other operating
time recorders, oil analysis trending intervals will be standardized based upon Engine Flying
Hours (EFH).
   3.1. Analyze oil samples from transient aircraft IAW applicable technical data and owning
   activity requirements.
       3.1.1. For transient aircraft with an EMS, at bases without the capability to download
       EOT data, EFH should be used to continue oil analysis trending.
   3.2. Responsible activities must ensure the resultant data is accurate and given promptly to
   all customers so they can effectively monitor the condition of their equipment.
4                                          AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


       3.2.1. AF OAP laboratories will periodically (as specified by MAJCOM supplemental
       guidance) evaluate response times to optimize support of the customer.
    3.3. Regional laboratories, servicing specific geographical areas, are the preferred mode of
    operation. Establish base laboratories only when equipment-directed response times or
    operational requirements rule out the use of a regional laboratory.
       3.3.1. Each OAP laboratory must be certified annually IAW TOs 33-1-37-1/-2.
       3.3.2. Seek to maximize inter-service use of existing laboratories through laboratory
       consolidation, workload sharing, and use of standardized instrumentation, techniques and
       procedures.
       3.3.3. Non-depot AF OAP laboratories must provide oil analysis services at no charge
       for all US Government, NATO and friendly Foreign Military Service (FMS) aircraft.
       These services include analyzing oil samples from transient aircraft IAW applicable
       technical data within the AF OAP laboratory capabilities.
    3.4. (Added-HILLAFB) Guidance.
       3.4.1. (Added-HILLAFB) The Oil Analysis Program Lab (809 MXSS/MXDEC) will:
           3.4.1.1. (Added-HILLAFB) Analyze OAP Samples IAW T.O. 33-1-37.
           3.4.1.2. (Added-HILLAFB) During normal operating hours (0630– 1700, M – F),
           provide telephone response to users within 2 hours of sample receipt.
           3.4.1.3. (Added-HILLAFB) During normal operating hours (0630 – 1700, M – F),
           provide 45-minute response to current operations flight (75 OSS/OSC), Transient
           Alert.
           3.4.1.4. (Added-HILLAFB) During off duty hours provide result within 4 hours of
           notification.
           3.4.1.5. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide off duty coverage for OO-ALC tenant JOAP
           laboratories as needed.
           3.4.1.6. (Added-HILLAFB) Log the sample information into a sample tracking
           system.
           3.4.1.7. (Added-HILLAFB) Sample information to include; type of aircraft, aircraft
           engine number, aircraft serial number, date and time sample taken, flight time, oil
           added to engine, engine oil code, the time and the name of person notified of the
           results in the control room, Cobra results, wear metal concentrations.
           3.4.1.8. (Added-HILLAFB) Complete DD Form 2026, Oil Analysis Request.
           Record the analysis results on DD Form 2027, Oil Analysis Record, and report results
           to the aircraft maintenance group A (A-10) (309 AMXG/571 AMXS), aircraft
           maintenance group B (C-130) (309 AMXG/572 AMXS), aircraft maintenance group
           C (F-16) (309 AMXG/573 AMXS) or aircraft maintenance group C (F-22) (309
           AMXG/573 AMXS), and any organization requesting notification; i.e., Transient
           Alert, Test Cell, A-10 or F-16 Flight Test.
           3.4.1.9. (Added-HILLAFB) Notify the aircraft maintenance group A (A-10) (309
           AMXG/571 AMXS), aircraft maintenance group B (C-130) (309 AMXG/572
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                       5


          AMXS), aircraft maintenance group C (F-16) (309 AMXG/573 AMXS) or aircraft
          maintenance group C (F-22) (309 AMXG/573 AMXS), and the appropriate engine
          OAP manager immediately, upon B coding an oil sample. Re-sample (red cap) the
          engine to ensure accurate disposition.
          3.4.1.10. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure facilities are adequate and personnel are
          trained to comply with annual lab certification.
          3.4.1.11. (Added-HILLAFB) Participate in the JOAP monthly certification
          program, to ensure spectrometer’s compliance.
       3.4.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Hydraulic Fluid Analysis.
          3.4.2.1. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure facilities are adequate and personnel are
          trained.
          3.4.2.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Perform         required    tests      IAW   user   defined
          specifications.
          3.4.2.3. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide results to customers based on established
          priority and protocol.
          3.4.2.4. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide prompt telephone notification to customers
          when samples fail.
          3.4.2.5. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide appropriate sampling containers to users as
          needed.
4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   4.1. Headquarters Air Force. The Air Force Director of Logistics (AF/A4L) is the chief Air
   Staff agency with policy responsibility for the maintenance of air and space equipment.
       4.1.1. Guidance. Prepares, publishes and reviews AF-level policy and guidance for the
       AF OAP. This publication should be reviewed every two years and revised, if necessary.
          4.1.1.1. Coordinates with MAJCOMs to review and resolve guidance-related issues.
       4.1.2. Management. Designates a point-of-contact (POC) for AF OAP. The
       representative shall manage this publication while closely coordinating with functional
       experts.
          4.1.2.1. Maintains and distributes a list of POCs for AF OAP.
          4.1.2.2. Works closely with AF representative to the JOAP-Coordinating Group
          (CG) on policy issues.
   4.2. Major Command. Each MAJCOM establishes a headquarters POC for complying with
   MAJCOM OAP responsibilities.
       4.2.1. Establishes or relocates OAP laboratories to support MAJCOM mission.
       Coordinates establishment or relocation with the AF OAP Manager.
       4.2.2. Ensure quality deficiency reports are submitted to the unit Product Improvement
       Manager IAW TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System.
       Deficiency reports must be submitted to engine program offices on all equipment
       requiring tear down or overhaul due to an OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation
6                                          AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


       and on all oil-wetted component failures where no OAP laboratory maintenance
       recommendation was made.
       4.2.3. Ensures laboratories provide the depot a computer-generated printout/record, for
       each engine undergoing scheduled maintenance or overhaul.
       4.2.4. Ensures laboratories process and evaluate samples IAW TO 33-1-37-1/-2.
       4.2.5. Ensures proper training of AF OAP laboratory technicians. This includes
       identifying training requirements to the Air Education and Training Command (AETC).
       4.2.6. Ensures assigned shop instrumentation and equipment is not modified or used for
       non-OAP applications without AF OAP Office approval.
       4.2.7. Provides guidance necessary to execute the AF OAP and ensures all subordinate
       organizations understand and properly execute AF OAP and JOAP responsibilities.
       Specific guidance may be provided in a MAJCOM supplement to this publication and/or
       AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management.
       4.2.8. Ensures AF OAP and JOAP requirements are included in planning, programming
       and budgeting process. This includes providing needed funds, personnel, facilities and
       other resources to maintain an effective program.
       4.2.9. Supports equipment evaluations and field surveys for the AF OAP Office.
    4.3. Air Force Materiel Command. AFMC is the lead MAJCOM for the AF OAP and Air
    Force participation in the JOAP. AFMC is also responsible for oil analysis Research,
    Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E). HQ AFMC/A4 is the headquarters office of
    primary responsibility for AF OAP guidance coordination and implementation within
    AFMC.
       4.3.1. Center Propulsion Divisions. The Center Propulsion Divisions are OC-ALC/GKG
       and ASC/WNW.
          4.3.1.1. The Propulsion Division (OC-ALC/GKG) represents the Air Force on the
          JOAP-Executive Committee (EC).
              4.3.1.1.1. Establishes, funds, staffs and directs the AF OAP Office.
          4.3.1.2. The Development Program Manager (ASC/WNW) ensures oil analysis
          sampling provisions or other appropriate measures to detect oil-wetted failures are
          included during the design phase.
              4.3.1.2.1. ASC/WE will provide the specification guidance for the oil analysis
              sampling provisions, where applicable, in the engine’s design phase.
          4.3.1.3. AF OAP Office (OC-ALC/GKGCD). The AF OAP Office manages the AF
          OAP, and in coordination with the MAJCOMs and propulsion community, leads AF
          participation in the JOAP.
              4.3.1.3.1. Certifies/decertifies AF OAP laboratories for participation in the JOAP.
              4.3.1.3.2. Maintains a list of AF OAP laboratories, equipment and customers.
              4.3.1.3.3. Assists MAJCOM/Center managers in program execution. This
              includes recommending the establishment, location, and relocation of AF OAP
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      7


            laboratories.
                4.3.1.3.3.1. Communicates AF OAP objectives, policies and procedures to
                the Director of Propulsion, Engine OAP Managers, equipment specialists and
                program managers.
                4.3.1.3.3.2. Evaluates the need for and performs special studies, as requested
                by the MAJCOMs or depots. In addition, the AF OAP Office should
                periodically conduct laboratory assistance/assessments to determine adequacy
                and effectiveness of the AF OAP. Identifies problems and recommends
                solutions.
            4.3.1.3.4. Establishes and manages a data system, meeting tri-service
            requirements, to evaluate AF OAP participation and effectiveness and to provide
            engine program offices with historical data on oil sample analysis results.
            4.3.1.3.5. Coordinates and consolidates AF/MAJCOM requirements with
            Army/Navy to ensure, where practical, the procurement of common OAP
            equipment.
            4.3.1.3.6. Represents the Air Force on the JOAP-CG.
            4.3.1.3.7. Staffs and funds the JOAP-Technical Support Center (TSC) based on
            its charter and the tri-service memorandum of agreement.
                4.3.1.3.7.1. Develops a comprehensive OAP laboratory certification and
                quality control program.
            4.3.1.3.8. Maintains and provides Air Force inputs to TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4,
            JOAP Manual.
            4.3.1.3.9. Reviews and evaluates the JOAP school curriculum.
            4.3.1.3.10. Assists the Engine OAP Manager and serves as an advisor for the
            engine Maintenance Planning Working Group (MPWG) for OAP issues.
     4.3.2. Director of Propulsion. The DOP (OC-ALC/GKP) in conjunction with Engine
     Single Managers at OC-ALC/GKG, ASC-WNW and the AF OAP Office assess
     existing/potential oil analysis technologies. The DOP also ensures wear metal debris and
     oil analysis is an integral part of the Engine Health Management Program. The DOP
     appoints Engine OAP Managers for each Air Force-managed engine.
        4.3.2.1. Engine OAP Managers. The Engine OAP Manager is the engineer in charge
        of a particular engine and is solely responsible for the OAP-related issues on that
        particular engine. Provides guidance necessary to accomplish engine-specific oil
        analysis.
            4.3.2.1.1. Serves as the focal point for the engine Maintenance Planning Working
            Group (MPWG) for OAP issues.
            4.3.2.1.2. Ensures expeditious handling of equipment returned for tear down or
            overhaul because of an OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation or where
            oil analysis results indicated a potential problem.
            4.3.2.1.3. Provides guidance necessary to accomplish engine-specific oil analysis.
8                                       AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


           Provides updates for TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4 to the OAP Office.
           4.3.2.1.4. Provides accurate and timely feedback to the MPWG and field units on
           OAP-monitored equipment. This includes maintenance findings on equipment in
           for tear down or overhaul as a result of an OAP laboratory maintenance
           recommendation. It also includes failure reports and related wear metal and oil
           analysis data on oil-wetted components where no OAP laboratory maintenance
           recommendation was made.
           4.3.2.1.5. Works with the MPWG to establish and maintain wear metal limits,
           diagnostic criteria and other oil analysis parameters. This is based on a review of
           data from equipment tear-down and overhaul findings.
           4.3.2.1.6. Maintains metrics on hits, misses and escapes. Once oil analysis data is
           included in the Engine Health Management AF Enterprise Center with software
           capability to perform metric monitoring, the AFOAP will concurrently monitor
           metrics with the Engine OAP managers.
           4.3.2.1.7. Works with the MPWG, MAJCOM customers and the AF OAP Office
           to establish engine-specific technical and performance requirements for all wear
           metal debris and oil analysis equipment.
           4.3.2.1.8. Utilizes the Component Improvement Program (CIP) as needed to
           evaluate the cost effectiveness of existing and potential wear metal debris and oil
           analysis applications, establish test programs and implement the most cost
           effective method(s).
           4.3.2.1.9. Sends updates of specific oil sampling intervals and wear metal limits
           (evaluate for new engines during the design phase; reconsider for existing engines
           when oil-wetted parts undergo any material or strength changes) to the MPWG.
    4.3.3. Directorate of Air and Space Equipment Maintenance (WR-ALC/GR). The
    Directorate of Air and Space Equipment Maintenance procures oil analysis equipment at
    the request of the AF OAP Office or the JOAP-TSC.
       4.3.3.1. Maintains a contract for procurement of JOAP AE spectrometers used by the
       Army, Navy, Air Force and JOAP TSC laboratories.
       4.3.3.2. Provides technical order provisioning and support.
       4.3.3.3. Establishes inter-service logistics support. This includes spare parts support,
       instrument repair and overhaul, procurement of common JOAP laboratory equipment
       and supplies, item management and equipment specialist activities, and funding status
       of existing contracts.
    4.3.4. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL). AFRL accomplishes RDT&E to improve
    wear metal and oil analysis instruments, materials and techniques.
       4.3.4.1. Supports the JOAP-TSC charter to conduct test and evaluation for the oil
       analysis programs, including the JOAP and the AF OAP, as applicable.
       4.3.4.2. Coordinates RDT&E activities with the MAJCOMs, DOP, AF OAP Office
       and the JOAP-TSC, as applicable.
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                      9


  4.4. AETC. Provides initial oil analysis training for AFSC 2A7X2 through the
  Nondestructive Inspection course. The AF OAP Management Office and MAJCOMs may
  request additional training, as required.
     4.4.1. Coordinates course material changes with the AF OAP Office, the JOAP-TSC and
     the MAJCOM POCs.
  4.5. (Added-HILLAFB) Roles and Responsibilities. 809 MXSS/MXDEC will manage the
  OAP for the center.
     4.5.1. (Added-HILLAFB) The OO-ALC OAP Manager will:
        4.5.1.1. (Added-HILLAFB) Conduct annual OAP meetings. Meeting’s to include
        center OAP manager and alternate, all group and flight OAP managers (A-10, F-16,
        F-22, and Test Cell), aerospace ground equipment representative and central
        hydraulic system supervisor (Buildings 225 and 233) to discuss OAP processes,
        metrics, and headquarters policies.
        4.5.1.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Be the point of contact for JOAP/OAP related matters.
        4.5.1.3. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure problems that cannot be resolved at the OAP
        centers level, will be elevated and resolved at the lowest possible level of
        maintenance supervision.
        4.5.1.4. (Added-HILLAFB) Assist OAP section managers in training personnel in
        form completion, proper sample procedure, and red-cap responses.
     4.5.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Group & Flight OAP (oil) Managers will:
        4.5.2.1. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure compliance with all OAP requirements IAW
        this supplement, AFI 21-124, TO 33-1-37-1/2/3/4, and JOAP manual.
        4.5.2.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure samples are taken correctly, identified properly,
        and delivered on time with completed DD Form 2026 and DD Form 2027 to 809
        MXSS/MXDEA IAW TO 33-1-37-1/2/3.
        4.5.2.3. (Added-HILLAFB) Maintain a close working relationship and good
        communications with OAP lab personnel, to ensure successful accomplishment of the
        OAP process. Ensure all errors on DD Forms 2026 are immediately corrected when
        notified by OAP lab personnel, in order to facilitate coding of the sample.
        4.5.2.4. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure OAP oil sample users document information
        related to an oil sample to include engine serial number, aircraft serial number, date
        sample taken, and the results of analysis.
        4.5.2.5. (Added-HILLAFB) Respond and ensure red cap samples are addressed
        immediately.
        4.5.2.6. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide a letter designating the OAP squadron/flight
        manager and alternate for each weapon system (F-16, F-22, A-10, C-130) to the
        center OAP manager. This designation will be updated annually, or when personnel
        changes occur.
 10                                      AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


          4.5.2.7. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure drums of new oil are sampled and taken to the
          lab (809 MXSS/MXDEA) with DD Form 2026 marked ―New Oil Drum‖ before oil is
          put into service.
      4.5.3. (Added-HILLAFB) OAP Hydraulic Managers will:
          4.5.3.1. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure compliance with all requirements IAW the
          manufacture’s recommended operating instructions and preventive maintenance
          schedule.
          4.5.3.2. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure sample/s are taken correctly, identified
          properly and delivered on time with completed AFTO Form 475, Fuels and
          Lubricants Sample. Designate to what standards the samples must comply.
          4.5.3.3. (Added-HILLAFB) Maintain an open two-way dialogue with the OAP lab
          personnel, to ensure successful completion of the hydraulic sample rating. Ensure
          that AFTO Form 475 errors and re-samples are handled expeditiously.
          4.5.3.4. (Added-HILLAFB) Provide a letter designating the OAP manager and
          alternate to the center OAP manager. This designation will be updated annually, or
          whenever personnel changes occur.
          4.5.3.5. (Added-HILLAFB) Ensure containers of new hydraulic oil are sampled,
          and those samples taken to the lab (809 MXSS/MXDEA) with AFTO Form 475
          marked ―New Hydraulic Fluid‖ before oil is put into service.
5. Reporting and Measurement. All MAJCOMs and laboratories must collect and report
metrics to the AF OAP Manager IAW TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4. All laboratories must collect and
report hits, misses and escapes as a minimum.

6. Adopted Forms:

  AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
  AFTO Form 475, Fuels and Lubricants Sample
  DD Form 2026, Oil Analysis Request
  DD Form 2027, Oil Analysis Record




                                          LOREN M. RENO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support

                                          (HILLAFB)

                                          PATRICK C. HIGBY, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 75th Air Base Wing
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                  11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
AFI 21-105, Air and Space Equipment Structural Maintenance, 9 Apr 2003
AFI 21-118, Improving Aerospace Equipment Reliability and Maintainability, 2 Oct 2003
(Added-HILLAFB) (Added)(HILLAFB)AFI21-124, Oil Analysis Program, 04 April 2003
AFI 21-131(I), Joint Oil Analysis Program, 28 Jul 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
(Added-HILLAFB) (Added)(HILLAFB)AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March
2008
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 Feb2003
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 Apr 2009
AR 700–132/AFI 21-131/OPNAVINST 4731.1C, Joint Oil Analysis Program, 28 Aug 2008
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 Mar 2004
DoDI 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 14 Aug 2009
JP 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 Apr 2001
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, 1 Oct 2009
TOs 33-1-37-1/-2/-3/-4, Joint Oil Analysis Program Laboratory Manual, 12 Sept 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AE—Atomic Emission
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
(Added-HILLAFB) AF IMT— Air Force Information Management Tool
(Added-HILLAFB) AFB— Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFI(I)—Air Force Instruction (Interservice)
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
 12                                     AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
ALC—Air Logistics Center
(Added-HILLAFB) AMXG— Aircraft Maintenance Group
ANG—Air National Guard
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
CG—Coordinating Group
CIP—Component Improvement Program
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
EC—Executive Committee
EDX—Energy Dispersive X-ray
EFH—Engine Flying Hours
EMS—Engine Monitoring System
EOT—Engine Operating Time
FDA—Filter Debris Analysis
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
(Added-HILLAFB) HAFB— Hill Air Force Base
IAW—In Accordance With
(HILLAFB) IAW— In Accordance With
JDMCB—Joint Data Management Control Board
JESC—Joint Equipment Standardization Committee
JOAP—Joint Oil Analysis Program
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCD—Magnetic Chip Detector
MIS—Maintenance Information System
(Added-HILLAFB) MOA— Memorandum of Agreement
MPWG—Maintenance Planning Working Group
OAP—Oil Analysis Program
OC—Oklahoma City
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness
POC—Point of Contact
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                        13


DOP—Director of Propulsion
QA—Quality Assurance
R&M—Reliability & Maintainability
RCM—Reliability Centered Maintenance
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
SEM—Scanning Electron Microscope
TO—Technical Order
TSC—Technical Support Center
USAF—United States Air Force
WR—Warner-Robins

Terms
Air and Space Equipment—Equipment used and maintained to meet the Air Force mission. It
includes aircraft, missiles, space equipment, communications-electronic equipment, avionics,
engines, training equipment, support equipment, aircraft and space ground equipment, sound
suppressor systems, test, measurement and diagnostic equipment and major end items of all
equipment.
Certification—The process by which a laboratory and its personnel are determined to be
capable and qualified to analyze oil samples, evaluate oil analysis results, and make maintenance
recommendations based upon those analytical results.
Certification Program—A program managed by the JOAP–TSC in coordination with each
service oil analysis program management office, to ensure that laboratories and personnel meet
certification requirements of individual service oil analysis programs. A program to assure OAP
laboratories are qualified to analyze fluid samples, evaluate the results, and make proper
maintenance recommendations.
Common Instrumentation—Instruments used by two or more of the services to analyze used
fluids.
Common Operating Equipment—Equipment that has common functions, oil-wetted parts of
like design and similar failure modes.
Correlation Program—A program managed by the JOAP–TSC in which all JOAP laboratories
receive and analyze standardized mineral and synthetic oil samples.
Correlation Sample—A sample of oil, synthetic or mineral, prepared by the JOAP–TSC and
used to monitor instrument capability to produce desired results and laboratory personnel
compliance with JOAP technical order procedures. Correlation sample data provide critical
information relative to a laboratory’s certification status.
Customer—Any activity authorized by the JOAP–CG to submit samples to and receive oil
analysis results and recommendations from a JOAP laboratory. Any JOAP–CG member may
 14                                         AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


authorize customers to use his or her service’s laboratory if the additional workload does not
interfere with an existing workload.
Escape—An in-service failure or abnormal wear finding where no OAP laboratory maintenance
recommendation was made.
Evaluation Criteria—Information used by oil analysis laboratories in the evaluation of oil
analysis results. Evaluation criteria may comprise wear-metal limits, wear-metal trends, decision
tables, physical test limits, component part composition, component diagrams, and specific
comments related to the particular component from which an oil sample is taken.
Hit—An OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation confirmed by a physical finding of
abnormal wear or potential for catastrophic failure.
Inter—Service Customer—An activity within the services that has oil analysis support
provided by another service’s laboratory.
Inter—Service Maintenance Support—Maintenance either recurring or nonrecurring,
performed by the organic capability of one Military Service, or element of it, in support of
another Military Service or element.
JOAP Coordinating Group (JOAP—CG) —A working group responsible for implementing
and
monitoring JOAP activities. It is composed of oil analysis program management
representatives from the Army, Navy, and Air Force. The Marine Corps and Coast Guard
may be included as nonvoting, associate members of the JOAP—CG.
JOAP Executive Committee (JOAP EC)—A team of 06-level representatives from the JOAP
offices of prime responsibility for the services, which works under the authority and direction of
the Air Force Materiel Command, the Army Materiel Command, and the Naval Air Systems
Command. The JOAP EC provides oversight to JOAP Coordinating Group activities.
JOAP Laboratory—An Army Navy, or Air Force oil analysis laboratory operating according to
OAP regulations. Its personnel must be certified according to established JOAP procedures and
capable of providing oil analysis support to the other services.
JOAP Manual—A tri–service manual (NAVAIP 17–15–50.1/50.2/50.3/50.4, TM 38–301–1/–
2/–3/–4, and TO 33–1–37–1/–2/–3/–4) containing consolidated procedures, methods, and
evaluation criteria used by JOAP oil analysis laboratories and customers.
JOAP Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The Army, Navy, and Air Force executive
agents responsible for ensuring effective inter-service policy coordination and problem
resolution and providing management control over the irrespective service oil analysis programs.
JOAP Spectrometer—An analytical instrument, approved by the JOAP-CG, used to detect and
measure designated wear metals contained in lubricating oils and other fluid samples.
JOAP Technical Support Center (JOAP—TSC) —An organization composed of technical
representatives from each service that provides technical support to the JOAP and performs
technical task for the JOAP–CG.
AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                         15


Joint Data Management Control Board (JDMCB)—A working group tasked to ensure
standardization of computer codes, review individual service data requirements, and provide for
effective data system integration across Service lines.
Joint Equipment Standardization Committee (JESC)—A working group tasked to serve as
the integrating focal point among the three services for consolidating functional requirements for
standard JOAP equipment. The JESC will also coordinate evaluation criteria and test and
evaluation plans in support of joint evaluation and testing projects accomplished by the JOAP–
TSC.
Maintenance Planning Working Group (MPWG)—The MPWG is a team consisting of the
engine managers from each using MAJCOM, representatives from the using community,
government development and depot teams, and the engine manufacturer. The purpose of the
MPWG is to review and direct the life management and maintenance plans for the engine. The
MPWG determines the objectives and content of their maintenance program. MPWG plans are
updated based on field and depot experience.
Miss—An OAP laboratory maintenance recommendation followed by a physical finding of no
abnormal wear or potential for catastrophic failure.
Oil Analysis—The process of analyzing oil and other fluids used to lubricate or operate
mechanical equipment, evaluating the condition of the fluid or the equipment from which the
fluid originated, and recommending maintenance actions to the equipment operating activity.
Oil—Wetted Air—Oil moistened air used for lubrication and decreases friction between parts.
Physical Property Analysis—Analytical procedures used to determine the suitability of a
lubricant or fluid for continued use. Tests include analyses for water and fuel contamination,
fluid viscosity, and solids contamination.
Reliability—Centered Maintenance—A logical discipline for developing a scheduled-
maintenance program that will realize the inherent reliability levels of complex equipment at
minimum cost.
Response Time—The elapsed work hours from the time that an analysis request is received in
the oil analysis laboratory and required processing is completed. Laboratory processing is
completed when the sample analysis is evaluated and, if required, action is taken to notify the
customer of a maintenance recommendation.
Spectrometer—An instrument which uses the atomic emission or atomic absorption principle to
identify the types and concentrations of wear metals in used fluid samples.
Spectrometric Analysis—A technique used to detect and measure wear metals and other
elements from oil–wetted components in aeronautical and non-aeronautical equipment
components and to alert maintenance personnel about conditions that may lead to component
failure if not corrected.
Spectrometric Calibration Standard—A mineral oil that contains known quantities of specific
organometallic compounds, has a controlled viscosity and flash point, and is used to calibrate
and standardize spectrometers. Standards composition must be approved y the JOAP–CG.
Technical Order—An AF publication that gives specific technical directives and information on
inspection, storage, operation, modification, and maintenance of given AF items and equipment.
 16                                        AFI21-124_HILLAFBSUP_I 2 FEBRUARY 2011


Turn—around Time—The interval encompassing the period from the time the samples is taken
until an answer (maintenance recommendation, request for resample, etc.) is received by the
customer. Turn-around requirements may vary for the individual customers.
Transient Aircraft— Aircraft not assigned to a base that are en route from one location to
another that may require routine servicing. Aircraft deploying to or staging from a base for the
purpose of flying sorties or conducting training with a squadron assigned to the base, with or
without the necessary maintenance support from the home base, are not considered transient
aircraft.
Viscosity Calibration Standard—A fluid of known viscosity used by oil analysis laboratories
to standardize the viscometer.
