BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 21-136
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                    AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                            SUPPLEMENT

                                                                              14 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Management



                                                                      AIRCRAFT SUN SHADE
                                                                            MANAGEMENT

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A4MS                                                             Certified by: ACC/A4M
                                                                             (Col Darrell Mosley)


                                                                                         Pages: 55


AFI 21-136 is supplemented as follows. This supplement prescribes policies and procedures
governing aircraft sun shade maintenance management for Air Combat Command (ACC). This
publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and their units. However, if an AFRC or ANG unit is assigned or associated
with ACC where ACC is the lead, this guidance would be applicable to the AFRC or ANG unit.
Field units may supplement this policy. For assistance with interpreting this supplement, contact
ACC/A4MS, Sun Shade Program Management. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, and T-3") number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Deviation and waiver authority for this
instruction is ACC/A4. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using an Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’ s
chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Contact supporting records managers
as required. Send comments, questions, and suggested improvements to this publication on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ ACC/A4QM,
130 Douglas Street, Suite 210, JB Langley-Eustis, VA 23665-2791.


2.3.3.1. (Added-ACC) To procure new/replacement aircraft sun shades, organizations must
meet one of the following requirements in paragraphs 2.3.3.1.1. and 2.3.3.1.2. The climatic data
that was used to validate these requirements was retrieved from the 14th Weather Squadron web
site: https://notus2.afccc.af.mil/SCIS/ (T-1)
2.3.3.1.1. (Added-ACC) The base must experience a 10-year average Wet Bulb Globe
Temperature (WBGT) of > 82o F for a minimum of two months out of the year. See paragraph
2.3.7.3. for annual calculation procedures. Note: The average hottest consecutive five hours of
the day were used to determine the monthly average WBGT. See Table 2.1. for bases which
currently are authorized to procure sun shades (T-1).
2.3.3.1.2. (Added-ACC) The base must experience a 10-year average of 20 inches or more of
snow annually. See Table 2.2. for bases which currently are authorized to procure sun shades
(T-1).
Table 2.1. (Added) Wet Bulb Globe Temperature (WBGT) 10-Year Average (2001-2010).

                             June      July      August   September

BASE                         Average   Average   Average
                                                         Average
                             Hottest   Hottest   Hottest
                                                         Hottest 5
                             5 hr      5 hr      5 hr
                                                         hr Block
                             Block     Block     Block
Moody AFB, GA                78.8      84.6      86.4     86.5
Tyndall AFB, FL              79.8      84.7      86.1     86.3
Robins AFB, GA               77.6      83.7      85.8     85.9
Shaw AFB, SC                 75.6      82.3      84.5     84.6
Dyess AFB, TX                76.6      82.1      84.1     83.7
Seymour Johnson AFB, NC      74.1      81.7      83.8     84.1
Tinker AFB, OK               73.1      79.7      83.2     83
Nellis AFB, NV               72.3      77.9      83.7     82
Davis Monthan AFB, AZ        72.7      78.3      82.6     82.5
Bases Below Not Authorized
Langley AFB, VA              70.7      79.1      81.7     82.2
Creech AFB, NV               70.2      76.2      82.8     79.8
Offutt AFB, NE               67.8      76.7      81.4     79.9
Beale AFB, CA                73.2      77.4      81.9     80.2
Ellsworth AFB, SD            59.5      68.6      75.8     73.3
Hill AFB, UT                 60.4      67.4      75.1     72.1
Holloman AFB, NM             69.5      75.5      78.7     78
Mountain Home AFB, ID        62.8      69        75.2     73.7
Table 2.2. (Added) Snowfall 10-Year Annual Average Inches (2001-2010).
Snowfall 10 Year Annual Average
Inches (2001-2010)
BASE                               AVG
Hill AFB, UT                       64
Ellsworth AFB, SD                  46
Offutt AFB, NE                     24
Bases Below Not Authorized
Mountain Home AFB, ID              10
Langley AFB, VA                    5
Tinker AFB, OK                     4
Dyess AFB, TX                      2
Seymour Johnson AFB, NC            2
Holloman AFB, NM                   1
Shaw AFB, SC                       1
Beale AFB, CA                      0
Creech AFB, NV                     0
Davis Monthan AFB, AZ              0
Moody AFB, GA                      0
Nellis AFB, NV                     0
Robins AFB, GA                     0


2.3.7. (Added-ACC) ACC/A4M will:
2.3.7.1. (Added-ACC) Administer and enforce ACC Aircraft Sun Shade policy.
2.3.7.3. (Added-ACC) Review weather criteria used in the development of requirements every
4 years or to revalidate unit authorizations.
2.4.4.1. (Added-ACC) Recommend contracting officer representative (COR) be the unit's
aircraft sun shade manager unless otherwise designated by the MXG/CC.
2.4.4.2. (Added-ACC) The Civil Engineering (CE) Contracting Officer Technical
Representative (COTR) will assist the Contracting Officer (CO) and Sun Shade Manager during
the procurement and the contracted maintenance of sun shades.
2.4.4.2.1. (Added-ACC) The CE COTR will be provided an opportunity to conduct a technical
review during aircraft sun shade procurement.
2.4.4.2.2. (Added-ACC) The CE COTR's primary focus is the preservation of the base's
physical plant infrastructure (i.e., electrical and airfield pavement) and not the unit's procured
individual equipment.
2.4.4.2.3. (Added-ACC) Regarding contracted maintenance, the CE COTR shall be provided an
opportunity to conduct a technical review and quality control inspection for non-routine repairs
or modifications of sun shades to ensure compliance with applicable codes.
2.4.5. (Added-ACC) Wing CC will:
2.4.5.1. (Added-ACC) Utilize the standardized ACC Aircraft Sun Shade Procurement
Statement of Work (SOW), Attachment 2 when procuring new or upgrading/replacing existing
sun shades (T-1).
2.4.5.2. (Added-ACC) Utilize the standardized ACC Aircraft Sun Shade Sustainment
Performance Work Statement (PWS), Attachment 3 when sustaining existing sun shades if
organic support is unavailable (T-1).
2.4.5.3. (Added-ACC) Obtain ACC/A4 approval of SOW or PWS packages using the
electronic AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, (e-SSS). Send the completed e-SSS with SOW
or PWS and any supporting documents (outlined in paragraph 2.5.1.5.) to the ACC/A4
Workflow e-mail box. The completed e-SSS will be coordinated (including sub-organization
coordination) and signed by the following base agencies (T-1):
2.4.5.3.1. (Added-ACC) Base Air Field Management
2.4.5.3.2. (Added-ACC) Base SE
2.4.5.3.3. (Added-ACC) Base MSG/CC
2.4.5.3.4. (Added-ACC) Base MXG/CC
2.4.5.4. (Added-ACC) Coordinate with Foreign Military Services (FMS) units and applicable
FMS Office which have sun shades installed on the installation to have them removed prior to
FMS departure or the local unit will assume sustainment of the aircraft sun shades.
2.4.6. (Added-ACC) MXG/CC will:
2.4.6.1. (Added-ACC) Ensure serviceability/appropriate use of aircraft sun shades (T-1).
2.4.7. (Added-ACC) Aircraft Sun Shade Manager will:
2.4.7.1. (Added-ACC) Maintain all installation and maintenance records on assigned sun
shades to include manufacturer’s drawings and specifications, if available (T-1).
2.4.7.2. (Added-ACC) Lead the planning, funding, maintenance and lifetime sustainment of
the sun shades unless otherwise directed by the owing organizations leadership (T-1).
2.4.7.3. (Added-ACC) Ensure inspections are conduct at intervals directed by the
manufacturer. If no inspection intervals are available, contractor inspections shall be
accomplished every three years (T-1).
2.4.7.4. (Added-ACC) Owning organizations must maintain inspection records for a minimum
of three years (T-1).
2.4.7.5. (Added-ACC) Report any detected discrepancies to the sustainment contractor or
organic entity to correct (T-1).
2.4.7.6. (Added-ACC) Coordinate with organic entity or contractor and AMU in advance to
schedule inspections and/or repair of sun shade (T-1).
2.5.1.5.1. (Added-ACC) Planning materials submitted to MAJCOM/A4 shall also include proof
of coordination with all applicable wing functional areas (T-2).
2.5.1.6.1. (Added-ACC) Shade columns shall be wrapped with 2- or 3-inch wide reflective tape
that meets Federal Specification L-S-300C. Self-adhesive, self-illuminating tape, which stores
energy, or “recharges” with exposed UV-illuminated visible light may be used. Reflective tape
must be a solid band, on all columns; exact location shall be determined at the unit level (T-2).
2.6.1.1. (Added-ACC) Units will only procure new/complete replacement aircraft sun shades
with structure and roof materials which are made of galvanized steel (T-2).
2.6.1.2. (Added-ACC) Sun shades will be arranged to cover a single parking space and can be
connected to another sun shade covering a single parking space (row). The amount of parking
spaces per row will be based on available ramp space (T-2).
2.6.7.1. (Added-ACC) Make each sun shade “light-ready,” for security and general lighting,
IAW the standardized SOW (Attachment 2) (T-1).
2.6.9.1. (Added-ACC) Foundations may be required to support the aircraft sun shade structure
to secure mounting bolt patterns. Installation of foundations (if required) carries a work
classification of Construction. All construction must be programmed IAW AFI 32-1032.
Programming rules and costs limitations apply to the total aircraft sun shade set being installed.
2.7.1.1. (Added-ACC) Bases which own but are not authorized to procure sun shades IAW
paragraph 2.3.3.1. are not required to remove pre-existing sun shades.
2.7.1.1.1. (Added-ACC) May modify/upgrade existing sun shades to correct safety or security
issues upon A4 approval IAW paragraph 2.3.
2.7.1.1.2. (Added-ACC) If repairs/sustainment become significant or not cost effective, owning
organizations shall remove the sun shade(s).
2.8.1.1. (Added-ACC) The appointment letter will be kept with the local policy.
2.8.3.1.3.1. (Added-ACC) Periodic inspections are defined as a 180-Day visual walk around of
the areas listed in paragraphs 2.8.4.1. - 2.8.4.4. This inspection will be conducted by the owning
organization to ensure the sun shade serviceability (T-1).
2.8.4.1.1. (Added-ACC) Inspect all columns, beams, joists, girders and lateral cross bracing for
proper connections, faulty/cracked welds, loose or missing bolts and corrosion (T-1).
2.8.4.1.2. (Added-ACC) Inspect turnbuckles and cables for severe corrosion, fraying or breaks,
tightness, proper connection and security (T-1).
2.8.4.1.3. (Added-ACC) Inspect for loose/missing and damaged attaching hardware (T-1).
2.8.4.1.4. (Added-ACC) Inspect anchor plate bolts for embedment, tightness and severe
corrosion (T-1).
2.8.4.1.5. (Added-ACC) Inspect anchor plate for levelness (i.e., ensure it is flat on the ground)
(T-1).
2.8.4.1.6. (Added-ACC) Inspect concrete around all anchor plates for cracks/spalling (T-1).
2.8.4.5. (Added-ACC) Metal Roofing (if equipped)
2.8.4.5.1. (Added-ACC) Inspect roof panels and fasteners for security (T-1).
2.8.4.5.2. (Added-ACC) Inspect for loose/missing and damaged attaching hardware (T-1).
2.8.4.5.3. (Added-ACC) Inspect metal roof for severe corrosion (T-1).
2.8.4.6. (Added-ACC) Fabric Roofing (if equipped)
2.8.4.6.1. (Added-ACC) Inspect fabric for proper tightness (T-1).
2.8.4.6.2. (Added-ACC) Inspect all bolts, nuts, cables and lacing (T-1).
2.8.4.6.3. (Added-ACC) Inspect all fabric for holes, tears, scuffs or scrapes (T-1).
2.8.4.7. (Added-ACC) Miscellaneous
2.8.4.7.1. (Added-ACC) If installed, inspect gutters to ensure they are securely fastened (T-1).
2.8.4.7.2. (Added-ACC) If equipped, inspect bird netting and fasteners for tightness (T-1).
2.8.5.1. (Added-ACC) Ensure inspections are accomplished following unique weather events
such as high winds, heavy snow or icing conditions (T-1).
2.8.5.2. (Added-ACC) The sun shade must be marked in a way to visually identify it as
unserviceable (T-1).
2.8.7. (Added-ACC) Coordinate with Airfield Management and Wing Safety to establish local
operating guidelines for vehicle/aerospace ground equipment operations in close proximity to
aircraft sun shades (T-1).
3.1.3. (Added-ACC) Units are not authorized to procure new or upgrade existing crew shelters.
Units will remove existing crew shelters when determined to be beyond useful life (T-2).
3.2.5. (Added-ACC) Units are not authorized to procure new or upgrade portable/inflatable
shelters. Units will remove existing portable/inflatable shelters when determined to be beyond
useful life (T-1). This policy does not apply to the shelters managed by the Basic Expeditionary
Airfield Resources (BEAR) program IAW AFI 25-101, War Reserve Material (WRM) Program
Guidance and Procedures.




JOHN B. COOPER
Major General, USAF
Director of Logistics
                                          Attachment 1


             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References


AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 Oct 2009
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 2005
AFI 32-1023 ACCSUP1, Design and Construction Standards and Execution of Facility
Construction Projects, 23 Jun 2005
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 1 Oct 1998
AFI 33-115 Vol 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals, 14 Apr 2004
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance Management, 23 Dec 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 12 Jan 2011
AISC 325, Steel Construction Manual, 14th Edition, July 2011
ANSI/AISC 341-10, Seismic Provisions for Structural Steel Buildings, 22 Jun 2010
ANSI/AISC 360-10, Specification for Structural Steel Buildings, 28 Mar 12
ASCE 7-10, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures, 2010
ASCE 19-10, Structural Applications of Steel Cables for Buildings, 2010
AWS A5.1/A5.1M, Specification for Carbon Steel Electrodes for Shielded Metal Arc Welding, 1
Jan 2012
AWS D1.1/D1.1M, Structural Welding Code- Steel, 1 Jan 2010
AWS D1.3/D1.3M, Structural Welding Code- Sheet Steel, 2012
ASTM A780/A780M, Standard Practice for Repair of damaged and Uncoated Areas of Hot-Dip
Galvanized Coatings, 1 May 2009
DoD 5200.1 Vol 3, DoD Information Security Program: Protection of Classified Information, 24
Feb 2012
Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Handbook, 2011
International Building Code (IBC), 2012
MBMA MBSM, Metal Building Systems Manual, 2012
National Association of Architectural Metal Manufactures (NAAMM) AMP 500-06, Metal
Finishes Manual, 2006
National Fire Protection (NFPA) 70, National Electrical Code, 2011
NFPA 77, Recommended Practice on Static Electricity, 2007
NFPA 780, Standard for Installation of Lightning Protection Systems, 2011
UFC 3-310-04, Seismic Design for Buildings, 1 May 12

Prescribed Forms

This supplement does not contain prescribed forms.

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

AF Form 2587, Security Termination Statement

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AISC—American Institute of Steel Construction
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ASCE—American Society of Civil Engineers
ASTM—American Society for Testing and Materials
AWS—American Welding Society
BEAR—Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources
CBT—Computer Based Training
CO—Contracting Officer
COR—Contracting Officer Representative
DoD—Department of Defense
ES&H—Environmental Safety and Health
ETR—Estimated Time to Repair
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
GFP—Government-Furnished Property
IBC—International Building Code
IES—Illuminating Engineering Society
LED—Light-Emitting Diode
LPS—Lightning Protection System
M&R—Maintenance and Repair
MBMA—Metals Building Manufactures Association
MBSM—Metal Building System Manual
MSG—Mission Support Group
NAAMM—National Association of Architectural Metal Manufactures
NAC—National Agency Check
NFPA—National Fire Protection
NLT—No Later Than
OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer
PMP—Preventative Maintenance Plan
PWS—Performance Work Statement
QCP—Quality Control Plan
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SE—Safety
S&H—Safety and Health
SOW—Statement of Work
WBGT—Wet Bulb Globe Temperature

Terms

Configuration Management—physical attributes or characteristics. Installation of original
hardware/equipment.
Contracting Officer Representative (COR)—typically the Aircraft Sun Shade Manager, unless
otherwise appointed by the MXG/CC.
Corrosion—the electrochemical oxidation of metals in reaction with an oxidant such as oxygen.
Can occur in any environment.
Dead Load—includes loads that are relatively constant over time, including the weight of the
structure itself, and immovable fixtures such as walls, plasterboard or carpet.
Fatigue—the progressive and localized structural damage that occurs when a material is
subjected to cyclic loading.
Fracture—the (local) separation of an object or material into two, or more, pieces under the
action of stress.
Fraying—to strain; chafe. To wear away (the edges of fabric, for example) by rubbing. To
become worn away or tattered along the edges. A frayed or threadbare spot, as on fabric.
Hardware—a general term for items such as fasteners, bolts, washers, wire, turn buckles, etc.
Metal sun shades—both the Roof and the structure (frame) will be made of galvanized steel.
No Limit Warranty—a warranty that has no limitations on monetary responsibility. Some
warranties are pro-rated, meaning the coverage is reduced proportionately depending on how
many years it has been since installation.
Serviceable—safe for use and discrepancies do not pose a hazard to personnel, equipment and/or
aircraft.
Statement of Work (SOW)—a formal document that captures and defines the work activities,
deliverables, and timeline a vendor must execute in performance of specified work for a client.
Structural Failure—loss of the load-carrying capacity below manufacturer’s design. Can refer
to a component or member within a structure or of the structure itself.
Unserviceable—presents a danger to personnel, equipment and/or aircraft.
Wear—erosion or sideways displacement of material from its "derivative" and original position
on a solid surface performed by the action of another surface. Wear is related to interactions
between surfaces and more specifically the removal and deformation of material on a surface as
a result of mechanical action of the opposite surface.
                 Attachment 2
                 (Sample SOW)

           STATEMENT OF WORK (SOW)
                      FOR
AIRCRAFT SUN SHADES PROCUREMENT AND WARRANTY
                  DD MM YYYY
TABLE OF CONTENTS


SECTION A         DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCT


  1.0 SCOPE OF WORK
        1.1  Background
        1.2    Scope


  2.0 SUN SHADE REQUIREMENTS
        2.1  Sun Shade Requirements
        2.2    Lighting/Power Specifications
        2.3    Lightning Protection


SECTION B         GENERAL INFORMATION


  1.0 TRANSITION
        1.1  Assuming Functional Responsibility
        1.2    Access to Facilities
        1.3    Phase-In Plan
        1.4    Phase-Out Plan


  2.0   CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL
        2.1    Contractor Employees
        2.2    Employee Training


  3.0   HOURS OF OPERATION
        3.1    Duty Hours
        3.2    Holiday


  4.0   SAFETY
        4.1  Contractor Liability
        4.2    Safety and Health Program
  5.0   SECURITY
        5.1 Identification and Credentials
        5.2    Government-Furnished Security Training
        5.3    Escorting
        5.4    Retrieving Identification Media
        5.5    Traffic Laws
        5.6    Weapons, Firearms and Ammunition
        5.7    Computer Security
        5.8    Photography


SECTION C         WARRANTY


  1.0 WARRANTY
        1.1 Sun Shade(s) Warranty
        1.2    Roof System Weather-Tightness Warranty
        1.3    Roof and Wall Panel Finish Warranty


  2.0   PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
        2.1 Responsibilities
        2.2    Maintenance Documentation
        2.3    Planned Work


SECTION D         GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY AND SERVICES


  1.0   GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERY AND SERVICES
        1.1 General Information
        1.2    Government-Furnished Training


SECTION E         APPENDICES
  Appendix A   References
  Appendix B   Definitions
  Appendix C   Deliverables
  Appendix D   Maintenance Documentation
  Appendix E   Annual Inspection Report
SECTION A


DESCRIPTION OF PRODUCT


1.0 SCOPE OF WORK.

1.1 Background. Over the years, Air Force units have procured aircraft sun shades (herein
referred to as “sun shades”) of all types and sizes. The Air Force has determined it is in the best
interest of the Government to standardize sun shades for the protection of Government resources.


1.2 Scope. Provide and install for Air Combat Command and United States Air Forces Central
(ACC/USAFCENT) all-metal sun shades that meet the requirements in section A, paragraph 2.0
of this Statement of Work (SOW).


2.0 SUN SHADE REQUIREMENTS.

2.1 Sun Shade Requirements. Provide galvanized steel sun shades that are designed and
constructed in compliance with the applicable criteria and regulations listed in Appendix A,
References and any state, county and city codes.


2.1.1 Seismic Design. Sunshade design and construction shall comply with seismic provisions
of Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-301-01, and IBC 2009, American National Standards
Institute/American Institute of Steel Construction (ANSI/AISC) 441, using the design procedures
and loads in American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 7 as prescribed in UFC 3-301-01.
The contractor shall indicate on the drawings all locations and features for which special
inspection and testing is required. Contractor must also follow all federal, state, county and city
codes.


2.1.2 Thermal Movements. Sun shades must be designed to accommodate thermal stresses
according to provisions in AISC 360 and AISC Code of Standard Practice and any other federal,
state, county and city codes.


2.1.3 Wind Loads. Wind pressures shall be computed and applied IAW Metal Building
Systems Manual and 2010 supplement, as well as ASCE 7 and federal, state, county and city
codes.

2.1.4 Parking Bays. Parking bays shall be arranged so a sun shade can cover a single parking
space and can be connected to another sun shade covering a single parking space. The sun
shades shall be stand-alone column structures with open ends and sides allowing adjacent bays to
share common frame. Sun shade spots will accommodate the footprint of assigned aircraft and
should consider future force structure changes.

2.1.5 Concrete Anchors. Sun shades shall be free standing and anchored to the existing
concrete parking apron. Concrete anchors shall be designed and installed according to the
provisions found in American Concrete Institute (ACI) 318A. Column supports shall not be
installed on any joint to ensure pavement integrity. Column support placement must meet the
minimum edge spacing requirements in ACI 318A.

2.1.6 Fasteners. All fasteners shall be corrosion resistant and of a type and size to meet the
performance requirements and design loads. Fasteners, washers and nuts shall be corrosion
resistant, as well as have locking features.

2.1.7 Lateral Bracing, Side Cables or X Braces. Lateral bracing, side cables or X braces shall
meet the requirements identified in Metal Building Manufacturer’s Association (MBMA)
systems manuals, ASCE Standard 19-10 and UFC 3-301-01. Lateral bracing, side cables or X
braces shall have a minimum clearance of at least 10 feet from top of pavement, per Air Combat
Command requirement.


2.1.8 Bird Mitigation. Mitigation of bird roosting and nesting shall be incorporated into the
design and installation of the sun shade.

2.1.9 Color. All sun shade surfaces shall be a uniform neutral color of grey, tan, or beige.

2.1.10 Ground Collision Mitigation. Shade columns shall be wrapped with 2- or 3-inch wide
reflective tape that meets Federal Specification L-S-300C. Self-adhesive, self-illuminating tape,
which stores energy, or “recharges” with exposed UV-illuminated visible light may be used.
Reflective tape must be a solid band, on all columns.

2.1.11 Dead Load. Design in accordance with (IAW) ASCE 7-2010.

2.1.12 Roof. Roof shall be designed for a minimum live load IAW the ASCE 7, local state,
county and city codes, but under no circumstances less than 20 pounds per square foot (psf) in
addition to calculated dead loads. Roof areas shall also be designed with both positive and
negative wind loads IAW ASCE 7and local state, county and city codes. Roof shall also be
designed for applicable snow loads, which will vary by location. The roof system shall be
designed and constructed in a manner to shed water away from the area under the sun shade.

2.1.13 Jet Blast. Shall meet the requirements of UFC 3-260-01.

2.2 Lighting/Power Specifications.

2.2.1 Electrical System. Electrical system shall be designed and installed IAW the National
Electrical Code (NFPA 70), local state, county and city codes. Note, a short circuit analysis shall
be conducted and all devices over 50 volts shall be labeled with arc flash warning labels IAW
NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safe Practices

2.2.2 Security Lighting. Security lighting shall be designed and installed IAW AFI 31-101,
Integrated Defense, paragraph 6.5.8. Design security lighting IAW the Illuminating Engineering
Society (IES) Handbook.

2.2.3 Obstruction Lighting. If sun shades are sited within the airfield clearance criteria,
obstruction lighting must be designed and installed IAW UFC 3-535-01, Visual Air Navigation
Facilities, and Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 11-29, Use of LED Fixtures in Airfield
Lighting Systems on Air Force Installations and Enduring/Contingency Locations. Red LED
obstruction lights are not approved on Air Force installations.

2.2.4 General Lighting. Make each sun shade “light-ready” with pre-wiring and cover plates
installed. The contractor shall use lighting criteria IAW National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA) 70, Article 513; outside Class I locations, local state, county and city codes. All fixture
locations shall be at least 5 feet above the highest point of the aircraft assigned to the base where
the sun shades are installed.

2.2.5 Outlets. Sun shades shall be “outlet-ready” with pre-wiring and cover plates installed.

2.2.6 Static Grounds. Design and install static grounds IAW AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems,
NFPA 77, local state, county and city codes.

2.2.7 Electrical Panel. The contractor shall determine the best location of electrical panels
during the design to reduce cost to the Government. The location of the electrical panels shall be
approved by the Contracting Officer (CO) or Contracting Officer Representative (COR).

2.2.8 Base Power Connection. The contractor will be responsible to connect the sun shade
electrical system to the connection point provided by local Civil Engineering.

2.3 Lightning Protection. For each sun shade, contractor shall perform a Lightning Risk
Assessment IAW NFPA 780, Standard for Installation of Lightning Protection Systems to
determine the type of lightning protection system (LPS) to install. The LPS must be designed
and installed IAW NFPA 780, AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, AFMAN 91-201, Explosive
Safety Standards, local state, county and city codes.
SECTION B


GENERAL INFORMATION

1.0 TRANSITION.


1.1 Assuming Functional Responsibility. The CO or COR will assume responsibility for all
executable functions, identified in the SOW IAW the contractor’s Transition/Phase-In Plan and
Phase-Out Plan.


1.2 Access to Facilities. The contractor shall be allowed access to government facilities
subsequent to transition start date. Access shall not interfere with the work efforts of current
contractor or government personnel. CO or COR shall arrange access to ensure interference
does not occur.


1.3 Phase-In Plan. Submit a final Phase-In Plan to the CO NLT 15 days after contract award.
Changes shall be limited to unforeseen conditions occurring prior to transition start.


1.4 Phase-Out Plan. Submit a Phase-Out Plan for contract completion tasks when directed by
the CO. The requirements for the plan shall be detailed in the CO tasking letter.


1.5 Work Clearance and Permits. Coordinate work with the base Aircraft Sun Shade
Manager, as required. Obtain digging, welding, and/or paint spraying permits IAW base
operating instructions.


2.0 CONTRACTOR.


2.1 Contractor Employees. The contractor shall not allow employees identified by the CO as a
potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-being, or operational mission of the
installation or its populace to work on this project.


2.1.1 National Agency Checks (NAC). The contractor will perform a credit check (utilizing
commercial background and investigate entities) on all employees requiring a current NAC. The
results of the background and credit check shall accompany all NAC applications. Employees
with unfavorable background or credit history may be denied a favorable NAC. In addition, a
favorable/adjudicated NAC is a condition of employment. Therefore, the contractor shall ensure
employees who are denied a favorable NAC and/or security clearance do not work under this
contract, due to the sensitive environment/location of the work being performed. The contractor
shall provide the local CO a copy of the results of this check on all employees who work on this
project within 30 days of contract award.


2.1.3 Laws, Directives, and Regulations. The contractor and its employees will comply with
the laws, regulations and directives of the appropriate Major Command (MAJCOM).


2.1.4 Terminations. The contractor will remove employees from the project who have been
identified as potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-being, operational
mission of the installation or its population, or failure to comply with laws, regulations, and
directives of the appropriate MAJCOM.


2.1.5 Conflict of Interests. Do not employ any person who is an employee of the government if
the employment of that person would create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict
of interest.


2.2 Employee Training. Develop, implement, and maintain procedures for training, qualifying
and certifying employees prior to performance of assigned duties under this contract (i.e.,
welding, electrical, etc.).


2.2.1 Records. Develop and maintain individual training records to document training and test
results. Document all initial and supplemental training accomplished in each employee’s
training record. Maintain each training record at the individual’s work location and make
available to government representative(s) upon request.


3.0 HOURS OF OPERATION.


3.1 Duty Hours. Provide required resources during normal duty hours. Establish normal duty
hours that meet the approval of the CO per local base-level procedures.


3.2 Holidays. If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it may be observed on Friday or
Monday as directed. U.S. holidays include (per local base-level procedures):


       New Year's Day
       Martin Luther King Day
       Presidents Day
       Memorial Day
       Independence Day
       Labor Day
       Columbus Day
       Veterans Day
       Thanksgiving
       Christmas


4.0 SAFETY


4.1 Contractor Liability. The contractor shall be liable and responsible for non-compliance of
environmental safety and health (ES&H) provisions, and pay fines and fees resulting from
improper contractor actions and/or processes.


4.2 Safety and Health (S&H) Program. Establish responsibilities and procedures required to
effectively administer conformance with Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH),
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and AF Safety Instructions.


4.3 Spill Notification. Notify the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager immediately of
any pollution incident, as per base requirements.


4.4 Safety Notification and Reporting. Notify the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade
Manager of any mishap involving contractor personnel, AF assets, or AF operations, which
result in injury, illness, or damage. Establish internal mishap notification procedures and brief
all contractor personnel. Document the mishap notification briefing as part of initial safety
orientation. Document and report any mishap using local base procedures. Provide a copy of all
mishap reports to the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager. Injuries to contractor
personnel shall be reported IAW OSHA requirements. Maintain copies of all mishap reports for
one year.


5.0 SECURITY


5.1 Identification and Credentials. Employees shall wear reflective vests while operating on
the flight line. The contractor shall ensure all employees have the legal right to perform work
within the United States, and can pass appropriate security checks. All contractor employees
shall properly identify themselves as contractors during official communication and possess the
appropriate identification for a contractor employee.
5.2 Government-Furnished Security Training. All contractor personnel shall receive base-
specific security training from the base COR and/or unit Security Manager for restricted access
areas prior to being granted access to restricted areas.
5.3 Escorting. Contractor personnel without appropriate security clearance shall be escorted by
authorized personnel within controlled areas.


5.4 Retrieving Identification Media. The contractor will turn-in all identification media,
including vehicle pass to the CO or COR upon termination of employment. The CO or COR will
provide security termination briefings IAW Department of Defense (DoD) 5200.1. Enclosure 5
(9), and AF Form 2587 according to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Section 8E.


5.5 Traffic Laws. The contractor and its employees will comply with installation traffic
regulations.


5.6 Weapons, Firearms and Ammunition. Contractor employees shall not possess weapons,
firearms, or ammunition on themselves, or within any vehicle, while on a United States Air
Force Base/Installation.


5.7 Computer Security. If required, all contractor personnel shall obtain a favorable National
Agency Check (NAC) and complete the Information Assurance Awareness Computer-Based
Training (CBT) prior to gaining access to ".mil" or “.smil” domains IAW AFI 33-200 and AFI
33-115 Vol.2, chapter 5. CBT is located at
(https://www.smartforce.com/learning_community/Custom/USAF/login.asp). Additional user
training may be developed locally to reflect local needs and concerns.


5.8 Photography. Contractor shall ensure no photographic equipment is permitted on the flight
line by their personnel. If needed in the performance of their duties, contractor shall follow local
base policies prior to taking photographs.


5.9 Reporting. Report to the CO or base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager any information or
circumstances that may pose a threat to the security of DoD personnel, contractor personnel, or
government resources (format to be determined by the CO or Aircraft Sun Shade Manager)
within 24-hours of the incident.
SECTION C


WARRANTY


1.0 WARRANTY.


1.1 Sun Shade(s)System Warranty. The contractor will furnish a manufacturer's no-dollar-limit
warranty for the aircraft sun shade(s). The warranty period shall be no less than 5 years and no
greater than 10 years from the date of acceptance of sun shade(s) installation by the Government.
The warranty shall provide that if within the warranty period, the sun shade(s) shows evidence of
deterioration resulting from defective materials and/or workmanship, correction of any defects is
the responsibility of the sun shade(s) manufacturer. Repairs that become necessary because of
defective materials and/or workmanship while sun shade(s) is under warranty are to be
performed within timeframes stated in 2.3.3 of this SOW unless additional time is approved by
the CO. Failure to perform repairs within timeframes stated in paragraph 2.3.3 of this SOW shall
constitute grounds for having emergency repairs performed by others at the expense of the
contractor and shall not void the warranty.


1.2 Roof System Weather-Tightness Warranty. The contractor will furnish manufacturer's
no-dollar-limit warranty for the roof system. The warranty period shall be no less than 5 years
and no greater than 10 years from the date of acceptance of sun shade(s) installation by the
Government. The warranty shall provide that if within the warranty period, the roof panel
system shows evidence of corrosion, perforation, rupture, loss of weather-tightness or excess
weathering due to deterioration of the panel system resulting from defective materials, correction
of the defective workmanship is to be the responsibility of the sun shade(s) manufacturer.
Repairs that become necessary because of defective materials and workmanship while roof panel
system is under warranty are to be performed within timeframes stated in 2.3.3 of this SOW
unless additional time is approved by the CO. Failure to perform repairs within timeframes
stated in 2.3.3 of this SOW shall constitute grounds for having emergency repairs performed by
others at the expense of the contractor and shall not void the warranty.


1.3 Roof and Structure Finish Warranty. The contractor will furnish manufacturer's no-
dollar-limit warranty for the metal panel system. The warranty period shall be no less than 5
years an no greater than 10 years from the date of acceptance of sun shade(s) installation by the
Government. The warranty shall provide that if within the warranty period, the structure shows
evidence of checking, delaminating, cracking, peeling or excess weathering due to deterioration
of the structure resulting from defective materials and finish, correction of the defective
workmanship is to be the responsibility of the sun shade(s) manufacturer. Liability under this
warranty is exclusively limited to replacing the defective coated materials. Repairs that become
necessary because of defective materials and/or workmanship while roof and structure is under
warranty shall be performed within timeframes stated in 2.3.3 of this SOW, unless additional
time is approved by the CO. Failure to perform repairs within timeframes stated in 2.3.3 of this
SOW shall constitute grounds for having emergency repairs performed by others at the expense
of the contractor and shall not void the warranty. Repair of protective coatings and painted
surfaces must be compatible to formula and color specified by the panel manufacturer, or
conforming to American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) A780/A780M.
2.0 SERVICE WARRANTY.


2.1 Responsibilities. The contractor will furnish manufacturer's no-dollar-limit warranty for the
servicing of the sun shade. The warranty period shall be no less than 5 years or greater than 10
years from the date of acceptance of sun shade(s) installation by the Government. The
government reserves the right to verify all SOW service warranty requirements to determine
whether the contractor is conforming to and meeting these requirements. The warranty shall
provide that at a minimum, the contractor will accomplish the following, to support sun shade
maintenance requirements:


2.1.1 Inspect, Report, Document. Inspect for, report and document:
   a)   Inherent structural weakness
   b)   Corrosion
   c)   Improper installation
   d)   Design defect
   e)   Electrical defect
   f)   Weather (turbulence) related damage
   g)   Improper use
   h)   Destruction
   i)   Failure (signs of or evidence of electrical, structural or mechanical failure)
   j)   Severed item
   k)   Evidence of stress/buckling/fatigue/etc.
   l)   Missing hardware
   m)   Loose hardware
   n)   Wildlife intrusion
   o)   Other discrepancies

2.1.2 Preventative Maintenance Plan (PMP). The contractor will submit a document that
provides details for how the contractor shall address all sub-paragraphs in Section C, Paragraphs
2.2 and 2.3 of the SOW, to include how sun shades shall be maintained, and perform preventive
maintenance of sun shades IAW this plan.


2.2 Maintenance Documentation.


2.2.1 Documentation. The contractor shall maintain and submit maintenance documentation to
the base-level COR, per Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format in Appendix D. Maintenance
documentation shall include sun shade condition (serviceable/unserviceable – see definition),
scheduled and unscheduled maintenance activities, discrepancies, corrosion control actions,
repairs needed, corrective actions, identified trends in discrepancies, and metrics. All
documentation shall be considered an integral part of this contract and shall be non-proprietary in
nature. This documentation shall be submitted quarterly, if any activities have been performed
or changed pertaining to Section C, Paragraph 2.3 of the SOW. If no activities have been
performed, documentation submission is not required.


2.2.1.1 Metrics. The contractor will track and report, the number of sun shades serviceable,
needing repairs, number of repairs performed and service call response times by category. The
contractor may submit additional recommended metrics and improvement efforts.


2.2.1.2 Documentation of Paint and Coating Use. The contractor shall maintain a complete
history of use of paint and any other protective coating. Documentation shall include the date of
the use, type and amount of product used to include any brand name, process used, specific
location where product was applied, and the contractor that performed the work.


2.2.2 Requirements. The contractor shall perform tasks, in the following order: manufacturers’
inspection/maintenance/repair procedures, industry standards and best practices. Performance of
tasks shall follow applicable federal, state and local building code and regulations, or equivalent
military standard UFC and Unified Facilities Guide Specifications (UFGS).


2.2.3. Reference Material. The contractor will maintain copies of applicable sun shade
manuals, drawings, specifications, etc. for use in inspection, preventive maintenance, and or
repair. The contractor will provide copies to the installation CO.


2.3 Planned Work.


2.3.1 Annual Inspection. The contractor will perform and report Annual Inspections IAW
manufacturer’s recommended inspection procedures and/or industry standards or best practices
for the following, but not limited to: lightning protection systems, sun shade structure and
lighting. The contractor shall submit annual inspection documentation to the base COR, using
Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format in Appendix E, Annual Inspection Report.


2.3.2 Customer Service. The contractor shall incorporate customer-provided work requests
within scheduled maintenance activities.


2.3.2.1 Scheduling. Schedule work with the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager to minimize
disruption to mission requirements. Coordinate inspections, maintenance, and or repair work
NLT 30 calendar days before work is scheduled.
2.3.2.2 Disruption. Coordinate disruptions with the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager prior to
starting work. Provide notification, at least five working days, prior to disruption (e.g. Power
outage, blocked access, inspection process, maintenance process, repair process, cleaning, and or
spraying). Disruptions shall provide the least amount of customer inconvenience. Notify the
base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager (format to be provided by the Aircraft Sun Shade Manager)
within 24-hours of expected downtime due to disruption.


2.3.3 Work Priorities. The contractor shall include, in maintenance documentation, procedures
for assessing, scheduling and performing emergency, urgent, and routine corrective maintenance
as follows:


2.3.3.1 Emergency Maintenance. Emergency maintenance is classified as an immediate
response to repair hardware or structural failure that renders the sun shade unserviceable and/or
unsafe, as determined and reported by the CO or COR. Scope shall be limited to work necessary
to eliminate the emergency condition (i.e., investigation and temporary repair, except where
permanent repair is more practical). The contractor shall have the capability to assess the
emergency condition within 2 hours of notification. The contractor shall initiate actions
necessary to render the sun shade safe within 24 hours of assessment, unless a waiver has been
obtained from the CO. For events so catastrophic that 24-hour alleviation is not possible, a
waiver may become automatic, as approved by the CO, with guidance from the WG/CC. Once
the emergency condition has been alleviated, the condition shall be re-categorized as urgent or
routine (if applicable).


2.3.3.2 Urgent Maintenance. Urgent maintenance is classified as a condition that, if not acted
upon immediately, is likely to create an emergency maintenance situation. The contractor shall
have the capability to assess the urgent condition within 24 hours of notification. The contractor
shall initiate urgent action repairs within 48 hours of assessment, and complete urgent work
within five days of notification unless a waiver has been obtained from the CO.


2.3.3.3 Routine Maintenance. Routine maintenance is classified as all other maintenance
actions. The contractor shall incorporate routine maintenance into a planned work schedule.


2.3.4 Estimated Time to Repair (ETR). The contractor will establish an ETR for sun shade
repairs. Provide initial notice to COR and update as changes occur within 8 hours of a known
change from the planned schedule.


2.3.5 Maintenance and Repair (M&R). M&R shall be performed for planned and contracted
work, to include customer-submitted work requests (format to be provided by contractor).
Execute all routine M&R work not exceeding $2,500 (Services micro-purchase threshold) per
inspection, maintenance, or repair action. Any actions over this threshold should be proposed by
the contractor and approved by the CO prior to execution.
SECTION D


GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY AND SERVICES


1.0 GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP) AND SERVICES.


1.1 General Information. The government provides no equipment or vehicles.


1.2 Government-Furnished Training. Government-provided training shall be identified and
provided by the unit (i.e., flight line driving certification), and per Section B, Paragraph 5.2 of
the SOW.



////////////////////////////////////////////////END OF DOCUMENT///////////////////////////////////////////////////
APPENDIX A


REFERENCES


1.0 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTIONS.

  AFI 31-101, Integraded Defense

  AFI 32-1023 ACCSUP1, Design and Construction Standards and Execution of Facility
  Construction Projects

  AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems

  AFOSH 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line – Ground Operations and Activities


  AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards


2.0 AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF STEEL CONSTRUCTION (AISC).

  AISC 325, Steel Construction Manual

  ANSI/AISC 341, Seismic Provisions for Structural Steel Buildings

  ANSI/AISC 360, Specification for Structural Steel Buildings

3.0 AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (ASCE).

  ASCE 7-2010, Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures

  ASCE 19-10, Structural Applications of Steel Cables for Buildings

4.0 AMERICAN WELDING SOCIETY (AWS).

  AWS A5.1/A5.1M, Specification for Carbon Steel Electrodes for Shielded Metal Arc
  Welding

  AWS D1.1/D1.1M, Structural Welding Code- Steel

  AWS D1.3/D1.3M, Structural Welding Code- Sheet Steel

5.0 ASTM INTERNATIONAL (ASTM).
ASTM A780/A780M, Standard Practice for Repair of damaged and Uncoated Areas of Hot-Dip
Galvanized Coatings

6.0 ENGINEERING TECHNICAL LETTER (ETL).

   ETL 11-29, Use of LED Fixtures in Airfield Lighting Systems on Air Force Installations and
   Enduring/Contingency Locations

7.0 ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING SOCIETY (IES) HANDBOOK.

8.0 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC) 2012.

9.0 METALS BUILDING MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (MBMA).

   MBMA MBSM, Metal Building Systems Manual

10.0 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ARCHITECTURAL METAL MANUFACTURERS
    (NAAMM).

   NAAMM AMP 500, Metal Finishes Manual

11.0 NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION CODE (NFPA).

   NFPA 70, National Electrical Code


   NFPA 77, Recommended Practice on Static Electricity


   NFPA 780, Standard for Installation of Lightning Protection Systems


12.0 UNIFIED FACILITIES CRITERIA (UFC).

   UFC 3-260-01, Airfield Planning and Design

   UFC 3-301-01, Structural Engineering

   UFC 3-310-04, Seismic Design for Buildings

   UFC 3-535-01 Visual Air Navigation Facilities
APPENDIX B


DEFINITIONS


Configuration Management – physical attributes or characteristics. Installation of original
hardware/equipment.


Contracting Officer Representative (COR) – typically the Aircraft Sun Shade Manager, unless
otherwise appointed by the MXG/CC.


Corrosion – the electrochemical oxidation of metals in reaction with an oxidant such as oxygen.
Can occur in any environment.


Dead Load – includes loads that are relatively constant over time, including the weight of the
structure itself, and immovable fixtures such as walls, plasterboard or carpet.


Fatigue – the progressive and localized structural damage that occurs when a material is
subjected to cyclic loading.


Fracture – the (local) separation of an object or material into two, or more, pieces under the
action of stress.

Fraying – to strain; chafe. To wear away (the edges of fabric, for example) by rubbing. To
become worn away or tattered along the edges. A frayed or threadbare spot, as on fabric.


Hardware – a general term for items such as fasteners, bolts, washers, wire, turn buckles, etc.


Metal sun shades – both the Roof and the structure (frame) will be made of galvanized steel.


No Limit Warranty – a warranty that has no limitations on monetary responsibility. Some
warranties are pro-rated, meaning the coverage is reduced proportionately depending on how
many years it has been since installation.

Performance Work Statement (PWS) – specifies the government's requirements for services to
be performed.
Serviceable – safe for use and discrepancies do not pose a hazard to personnel, equipment and/or
aircraft.

Statement of Work (SOW) – a formal document that captures and defines the work activities,
deliverables, and timeline a vendor must execute in performance of specified work for a client.

Structural Failure – loss of the load-carrying capacity below manufacturer’s design. Can refer
to a component or member within a structure or of the structure itself.


Unserviceable – presents a danger to personnel, equipment and/or aircraft.


Wear – erosion or sideways displacement of material from its "derivative" and original position
on a solid surface performed by the action of another surface. Wear is related to interactions
between surfaces and more specifically the removal and deformation of material on a surface as
a result of mechanical action of the opposite surface.
APPENDIX C


DELIVERABLES


DELIVERABLE                     SOW REFERENCE     DUE DATE
Preventative Maintenance Plan   Section C.2.1.2   60 days after contract award
(PMP)


Quarterly Maintenance           Section C.2.2.1   Quarterly
Documentation


Work Schedules                  Section C.2.2.3   NLT 30 days before work is
                                                  scheduled


Phase-In Plan                   Section B.1.3     15 days after contract award


Phase-Out Plan                  Section B.1.4     Per CO request
APPENDIX D


SUN SHADE MAINTENANCE DOCUMENT
APPENDIX E


ANNUAL SUN SHADE MAINTENANCE DOCUMENT
              Attachment 3
             (Sample PWS)

  PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)
                  FOR
EXISTING AIRCRAFT SUN SHADE SUSTAIMENT
              DD MM YYYY
TABLE OF CONTENTS


SECTION A          DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES


  6.0    SCOPE OF WORK
         1.1  Background
         1.2   Mission
         1.3   Scope


  7.0    PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
         2.1 Responsibilities
         2.2   Maintenance Documentation
         2.3   Planned and Contract Work


  8.0    SAFETY
         3.1  Contractor Liability
         3.2   Spill Notification
         3.3   Safety and Health Program
         3.4   Safety Notification and Reporting


  9.0    SECURITY
         4.1 Identification and Credentials
         4.2   Government-Furnished Security Training
         4.3   Escorting
         4.4   Retrieving Identification Media
         4.5   Traffic Laws
         4.6   Weapons, Firearms and Ammunition
         4.7   Reporting
         4.8   Computer Security


  10.0   PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
         5.1  Performance Management
         5.2   Quality Control Manager
        5.3   Performance Evaluation
        5.4   Performance Evaluation Meetings, Conferences and Workshops
SECTION B        SERVICES SUMMARY


  1.0   SERVICES SUMMARY
        1.1   Purpose
        1.2   Components
        1.3   Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
        1.4   Right to Surveil
        1.5   Services Summary Table


SECTION C        GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY AND SERVICES


  1.0   GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERY AND SERVICES
        1.1   General Information
        1.2   Government-Furnished Training


SECTION D        GENERAL INFORMATION


  1.0   TRANSITION
        1.1 Assuming Functional Responsibility
        1.2   Access to Facilities
        1.3   Phase-In Plan
        1.5   Joint Inspection
        1.6   Existing Conditions
        1.7   Phase-Out Plan


  2.0   CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL
        2.1   Contractor Employees
        2.2   Employee Training


  3.0   HOURS OF OPERATION
        3.1   Duty Hours
        3.2    Holiday
SECTION E         APPENDICES


  Appendix A   Definitions
  Appendix B   Deliverables
  Appendix C   Maintenance Documentation
  Appendix D   Annual Inspection Report
SECTION A


DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES


3.0 SCOPE OF WORK.

1.1 Background. Preventative Maintenance is the basis of Air Combat Command’s policy for
aircraft sun shade sustainment. The government’s objective is to maintain safe and reliable
aircraft sun shades.


1.2 Mission. The contractor shall sustain aircraft sun shades through scheduled inspections,
preventive maintenance and repair of deficiencies.


1.3 Scope. The scope of this service is to support existing aircraft sun shades. The Contractor
shall inspect, maintain and repair aircraft sun shades, to include: structure, fabric (as applicable),
lights, electric, bird nesting mitigation, lightning protection, obstruction lighting, safety reflective
devices, fall protection, and any other base-unique attached features, as applicable. The
contractor shall provide documentation of inspection, maintenance, and repair.


2.0 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.


2.1 Responsibilities. At a minimum, accomplish the following, to support aircraft sun shade
maintenance requirements.


                    2.1.1   Inspect, Report, Document. Inspect for, report and document:
    a) Inherent structural weakness
    b) Corrosion
    c) Improper installation
    d) Design defect
    e) Electrical defect
    f) Weather (turbulence) related damage
    g) Improper use
    h) Destruction
    i) Failure (signs of or evidence of electrical, structural or mechanical failure)
    j) Severed item
    k) Evidence of stress/buckling/fatigue/etc.
    l) Fabric tears/rips/rot/etc.
    m) Missing hardware
    n) Loose hardware
    o) Wildlife intrusion
   p) Other discrepancies

2.1.2 Preventative Maintenance Plan (PMP). Submit a document that provides details for how
the contractor shall address all sub-paragraphs in sections 2.2 and 2.3 of the PWS, to include
how aircraft sun shade configurations shall be maintained, and perform preventive maintenance
of aircraft sun shades in accordance with this plan. The PMP shall be submitted to the
Contracting Officer (CO) NLT 60-days after contract award, and shall be non-proprietary.


2.1.3 Requests. Respond to CO requests within CO-requested timeframe. Extensions to CO-
requested timeframes shall be approved by the CO prior to the needed extension. (Per unit-
specified timeframe)


2.1.4 Problem Management. Identify, document, and notify the government of actual or
potential contractor program management problems and deficiencies, and report unresolved
problems to the CO. Report site-specific problems affecting maintenance accomplishment
and/or contractor performance to CO or Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR).


2.1.4.1 Corrective Action Priority. Perform corrective action IAW paragraph 2.3.4.


2.1.5 Meetings. Support meetings convened at the direction of the CO. The government shall
reimburse the contractor for any government-directed travel requirements to support
conferences, meetings, and/or reviews outside of the local commuting area. All travel shall be
reimbursed IAW the contract. Frequency and method of meetings shall be determined by the
CO.


2.1.6 Significant Incident Notification Procedure. Inform the CO within 24 hours of
becoming aware of an incident that involves a contractor’s employee that may subject the
employee, the contractor, or the government to either potential civil or criminal liability.


2.1.7 Compliance. The contractor shall comply with all applicable base regulations/instructions.


2.1.8 Personnel. Ensure that only qualified personnel perform inspection, maintenance and
repair of aircraft sun shades.


2.1.8.1 Site Management. Provide a single point of contact (POC) for management of all
aircraft sun shade activities.
2.2 Maintenance Documentation.
2.2.1 Documentation. The contractor shall maintain and submit maintenance documentation to
the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager, per Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format in Appendix C,
Maintenance Documentation. Maintenance documentation shall include aircraft sun shade
condition (serviceable/unserviceable – see definition), scheduled and unscheduled maintenance
activities, discrepancies, corrosion control actions, repairs needed, corrective actions, identified
trends in discrepancies, and metrics. All documentation shall be considered an integral part of
this contract and shall be nonproprietary in nature. This documentation shall be submitted
quarterly, if any activities have been performed or changed that pertain to section 2.3 of the
PWS. If no activities have been performed, documentation submission is not required.


2.2.1.1 Metrics. Track and report, the number of aircraft sun shades serviceable, needing
repairs, number of repairs performed and service call response times by category. The contractor
may submit additional recommended metrics and improvement efforts.


2.2.1.2 Reference Material. Maintain copies of applicable aircraft sun shade manuals,
drawings, specifications, etc. for use in inspection, preventive maintenance, and or repair.
Provide copies to the CO, as requested.


2.2.1.3 Documentation of Paint and Coating Use. The contractor shall maintain a complete
history of use of paint and any other protective coating. Documentation shall include the date of
the use, type and amount of product used to include any brand name, process used, specific
location where product was applied, and the contractor that performed the work. Provide
documentation to the CO, as requested.


2.2.2 Requirements. The contractor shall perform tasks IAW manufacturers’ recommended
inspection, maintenance, and or repair procedures, or industry standards, or best practices,(in that
order) and be IAW applicable federal, state and local building code and regulations, or
equivalent military standard Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) and Unified Facility Guide
Specifications (UFGS). Advise the CO of any conflicts/ambiguities in the various documents
before beginning any task.


2.2.3 Alternate Procedures. The contractor may propose alternate maintenance procedures as a
cost saving initiative or enhancement to inspection and or maintenance accomplishment. These
procedures include deviations from preventive maintenance requirements when supported by
technical analysis, test results, and documented conclusions. The CO shall approve all
contractor-proposed deviations from preventive maintenance requirements prior to
implementation.
2.3 Planned Work.


2.3.1 Annual Inspection. Perform and report Annual Inspections IAW manufactures’
recommended inspection procedures and/or industry standards or best practices for the
following, but not limited to: lightning protection systems, aircraft sun shade structure, and
lighting. The contractor shall submit annual inspection documentation to the base Aircraft Sun
Shade Manager, per Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format in Appendix D, Annual Inspection
Report. This shall be submitted NLT 30-days after the inspection is accomplished.


2.3.2 Maintenance and Repair (M&R). M&R shall be performed for planned and contracted
work, to include customer-submitted work requests (format to be provided by contractor).
Execute all routine M&R work not exceeding $2,500 (Services micro-purchase threshold) per
inspection, maintenance, or repair action. Any actions over this threshold should be proposed by
the contractor and approved by the CO prior to execution.


2.3.3 Customer Service. The contractor shall incorporate customer-provided work requests
within scheduled maintenance activities.


2.3.3.1 Scheduling. Schedule work with the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager to minimize
disruption to mission requirements. Coordinate inspections, maintenance, and or repair work
NLT 30 calendar days before work is scheduled.


2.3.3.2 Disruption. Coordinate disruptions with the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager prior to
starting work. Provide notification, at least five working days, prior to disruption (e.g. , power
outage, blocked access, inspection process, maintenance process, repair process, cleaning, and
or spraying). Disruptions shall provide the least amount of customer inconvenience. Notify the
base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager (format to be provided by the Aircraft Sun Shade Manager)
within 24-hours of expected downtime due to disruption.


2.3.4 Work Priorities. The contractor shall include, in maintenance documentation, procedures
for assessing, scheduling and performing emergency, urgent, and routine corrective maintenance
(CM) as follows:


2.3.4.1 Emergency Maintenance. Emergency maintenance is classified as an immediate
response to repair hardware or structural failure that renders the aircraft sun shade unserviceable
and/or unsafe. Scope shall be limited to work necessary to eliminate the emergency condition
(i.e., investigation and temporary repair, except where permanent repair is more practical). The
contractor shall have the capability to assess the emergency condition within 2 hours of
notification. The contractor shall initiate actions necessary to render the aircraft sun shade safe
within 24 hours of assessment, unless a waiver has been obtained from the CO. For events so
catastrophic that 24-hour alleviation is not possible, a waiver may become automatic, as
approved by the CO, with guidance from the WG/CC. Once the emergency condition has been
alleviated, the condition shall be re-categorized as urgent or routine (if applicable).


2.3.4.2. Urgent Maintenance. Urgent maintenance is classified as a condition that if not acted
upon immediately and is likely to create an emergency maintenance situation. The contractor
shall have the capability to assess the urgent condition within 24 hours of notification. The
contractor shall initiate urgent action repairs within 48 hours of assessment, and complete urgent
work within five days of notification unless a waiver has been obtained from the CO.


2.3.4.3 Routine Maintenance. Routine maintenance is classified as all other maintenance
actions. The contractor shall incorporate routine maintenance into a planned work schedule.


2.3.5 Estimated Time to Repair (ETR). Establish an ETR for aircraft sun shade repairs.
Provide written status as changes occur and provide to base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager within
8 hours of a known change from the planned schedule.


2.3.6 Work Clearance and Permits. Coordinate work with the base Aircraft Sun Shade
Manager, as required. Obtain digging, welding, and/or paint spraying permits IAW base
operating instructions.


3.0 SAFETY


3.1 Contractor Liability. The contractor shall be liable and responsible for non-compliance of
environmental safety and health (ES&H) provisions, and pay fines and fees resulting from
improper contractor actions and/or process.


3.2 Spill Notification. Notify the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager immediately of
any pollution incident, as per base requirements.


3.3 Safety and Health (S&H) Program. Establish responsibilities and procedures required to
effectively administer conformance with Air Force (AF) Occupational Safety and Health
(AFOSH), Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and AF Safety Instructions.


3.4 Safety Notification and Reporting. Notify the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade
Manager of any mishap involving contractor personnel, AF assets, or AF operations, which
result in injury, illness, or damage. Establish internal mishap notification procedures and brief
all contractor personnel. Document the mishap notification briefing as part of initial safety
orientation. Document and report any mishap using local base procedures. Provide a copy of all
mishap reports to the CO and the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager. Injuries to contractor
personnel shall be reported IAW OSHA requirements. Maintain copies of all mishap reports for
one year.


4.0 SECURITY


4.1 Identification and Credentials. All contractor employees shall properly identify
themselves as contractors during official communication and possess the appropriate
identification for a contractor employee. Employees shall wear reflective vests while operating
on the flight line. The contractor shall ensure all employees have the legal right to perform work
within the United States, and can pass appropriate security checks.


4.2 Government-Furnished Security Training. All contractor personnel shall receive base-
specific security training from the base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager and or unit Security
Manager for restricted access areas prior to being granted access to restricted areas.


4.3 Escorting. Contractor personnel without appropriate security clearance shall be escorted by
authorized personnel within controlled areas.


4.4 Retrieving Identification Media. Retrieve all identification media, including vehicle pass,
from contractor employees upon termination of employment; provide security termination
briefings IAW Department of Defense (DoD) 5200.1-R. section C9.5, and AF Form 2587
according to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-401, Section 8E.


4.5 Traffic Laws. Comply with installation traffic regulations.


4.6 Weapons, Firearms, and Ammunition. Contractor employees shall not possess weapons,
firearms, or ammunition on themselves, or within any vehicle, while on a United States Air
Force Base/Installation.


4.7 Reporting. Report to the CO or base Aircraft Sun Shade Manager any information or
circumstances that may pose a threat to the security of DoD personnel, contractor personnel, or
government resources (format to be determined by the CO or aircraft sun shade Manager) within
24-hours of the incident.
4.8 Computer Security. All contractor personnel shall obtain a favorable National Agency
Check (NAC) and complete the Information Assurance Awareness Computer-Based Training
(CBT) prior to gaining access to ".mil" or “.smil” domains IAW AFI 33-202 and AFI 33-115
Vol.2, chapter 5. CBT is located at
(https://www.smartforce.com/learning_community/Custom/USAF/login.asp). Additional user
training may be developed locally to reflect local needs and concerns.
4.9 Photography. Contractor shall ensure no photographic equipment is permitted on the
flightline by their personnel. If needed in the performance of their duties, contractor shall follow
local base policies prior to taking photographs.


5.0 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT.


5.1 Performance Management. The contractor shall develop, document, implement, maintain,
and continuously improve a comprehensive Quality Control Plan (QCP) that assures compliance
with all PWS requirements of the PWS in general and specifically those items identified in the
service summary table (Section B, Table 1.5). The QCP shall address frequency/interval,
numbers and types of quality control (QC) inspections, the qualifications of personnel
accomplishing those tasks, and how the contractor shall control the quality of any subcontractors.
The contractor shall submit the QCP to the CO NLT 45 days after transition start.


5.2 Quality Control Manager. The contractor’s Quality Control Manager shall lead the
contractor’s quality control efforts in establishing and implementing the QCP. The contractor
shall train personnel in effective methods and techniques for inspecting the contractor’s
conformance to requirements. The contractor shall act as the focal point for inspections, analysis
of inspection results, and corrective actions and reports.


5.3 Performance Evaluation. Contractor performance outputs are subject to surveillance by a
government COR to ensure PWS compliance. At a minimum, the contractor shall:


5.3.1 COR/CO Access. Allow COR(s) access to work areas and data, provide support, and not
interfere with the CORs, State, Federal, and other designated personnel in the performance of
their official duties. Permit the CO or authorized representative access to all records, data, and
facilities used in the performance of the contracted services. Access shall be provided as soon as
possible, but is not to exceed one workday of the request. Extensions shall be approved by the
CO prior to the needed extension.


5.3.2 Non-Conformances. Take effective corrective action(s) for any non-conformance
identified during internal or government surveillance.


5.4 Performance Evaluation Meetings, Conferences, and Workshops. Meet with the CO,
COR, and other government personnel, on a periodic basis or as deemed necessary. The
contractor may request a meeting with the CO when it is believed that such a meeting is
necessary. The government may require meeting with the contractor to discuss compliance,
performance, improvement, quality, and/or training opportunities. The purpose of these
meetings is to foster proactive continuous improvement by analyzing past performance problems
as well as exceptional performance levels. These meetings shall review the contractor’s Quality
Management System (QMS) effort and the government’s Quality Assurance (QA) function
focusing on improving performance. The use of DOD and industry best practices and quality
tools/methods should be explored and implemented whenever possible. The government shall
provide meeting minutes.
SECTION B


SERVICE SUMMARY


1.0 SERVICE SUMMARY (SS). This SS identifies critical success factors for the contract.
The SS items are listed in Table 1.5.

1.1 Purpose. The SS lists performance objectives for the required services the government shall
surveil. The absence of any contract requirement from the SS shall not detract from its
enforceability nor limit the rights or remedies of the government under any other provision of the
contract including the clauses entitled “Inspection of Services” and “Default.”


1.2 Components. The SS states the performance objective (required service), and threshold
(performance standard, accept and reject points, if applicable, in either a qualitative or
quantitative fashion) for each critical success factor.


1.3 Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP). The QASP identifies the audit methods and
procedures the government shall use to evaluate the contractor's performance.


1.4 Right to Surveil. The government reserves the right to surveil all PWS services and
requirements to determine whether the contractor is conforming to requirements and meeting
performance objectives, standards, and thresholds.

1.4.1 Major Non-conformance. A major non-conformance is one that adversely impacts (or
has the potential) mission, safety of personnel and/or equipment, environment, performance
(quality), schedule (delivery), and/or cost. The CO shall communicate major non-conformances
to the contractor on a Corrective Action Request (CAR) form with a suspense date for the
contractor’s corrective action plan. As a minimum, the contractor’s action plan shall address:
            1. Action(s) taken to fix the problem (correction)
            2. Root cause analysis of the problem
            3. Corrective action(s) on the cause of the problem
            4. Action(s) taken to prevent recurrence

1.4.2 Minor Non-conformance. A minor non-conformance is a non-conformance, which by itself
does not adversely impact mission, safety of personnel and/or equipment, performance (quality),
schedule (delivery), or cost. Minor non-conformances are communicated through notices; first
notices are issued for any identified minor non-conformance, second notices are issued for repeat
minor non-conformances or failing to correct minor non-conformance issues within a reasonable
amount of time. A formal corrective action plan is not required for notices.
1.5. Services Summary Table.


PERFORMANCE                    PERFORMANCE                PERFORMANCE
OBJECTIVE                      STANDARD                   THRESHOLD
Maintenance:
Maintain aircraft sun shade    IAW original equipment     No major non-conformances
IAW original equipment         manufacturer (OEM)         allowed
manufacturer (OEM)             specifications
specifications


Scheduled Maintenance
                               Completed and documented   No major non-conformances
                               100% of the time           allowed

Repair:
Completed on time/on budget    Completed on time/on       90% Success Rate with 100%
as proposed                    budget as proposed         success upon initial rework


Emergency Assessment           2 hours                    100% Success Rate**
Response                       24 hours                   100% Success Rate**
Initiate Emergency Repair      24 hours                   90% Success Rate**
Urgent Assessment Response     48 hours                   90% Success Rate**
Initiate Urgent Repair         5 days                     90% Success Rate**
Urgent Repair Completion
Routine Repair                 IAW contractor’s PMP

Estimated Time to Repair       Contractor Estimate        + 10% of contractor Estimate
(ETR)




** Per section 2.3.4
SECTION C


GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY AND SERVICES


1.0 GOVERNMENT-FURNISHED PROPERTY (GFP) AND SERVICES.


1.1 General Information. The government provides no equipment or vehicles.


1.2 Government-Furnished Training. Government-provided training shall be identified and
provided by the unit (i.e., flight line driving certification), and per section 4.2 of the PWS.


1.3 Manufacturer’s Information. The government shall provide available manufacturer's
information related to aircraft sun shades; however the contractor is ultimately responsible for
care and maintenance of the aircraft sun shades.
SECTION D


GENERAL INFORMATION


1.0 TRANSITION.


1.1 Assuming Functional Responsibility. Assume responsibility for all executable functions,
identified in the PWS IAW the contractor’s Transition/Phase-In Plan and Phase-Out Plan.


1.2 Access to Facilities. The contractor shall be allowed access to government facilities
subsequent to transition start date. Access shall not interfere with the work efforts of current
contractor or government personnel. CO shall arrange access to ensure interference does not
occur. The contractor shall be able to familiarize personnel with aircraft sun shades.


1.3 Phase-In Plan. Submit a final Phase-In Plan to the CO NLT 15 days after contract award.
Changes shall be limited to unforeseen conditions that occur prior to transition start.


1.5 Joint Inspection.


1.5.1 Aircraft Sun Shade. The contractor and CO appointed government representative shall
conduct a joint inventory of all aircraft sun shades before contract start.


1.6 Existing Conditions. Identify substandard conditions or incomplete work to include, but not
limited to: environmental, safety, health, equipment, and maintenance condition per individual
aircraft sun shade. This documentation shall be submitted to the base aircraft sun shade Manager
within 30-days of contract award, and shall be in the same format as the Annual Inspection
Report, in Appendix D.


1.7 Phase-Out Plan. Submit a Phase-Out Plan for contract completion tasks when directed by
the CO. The requirements for the plan shall be detailed in CO tasking letter.


2.0 CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL.


2.1 Contractor Employees. The contractor shall not employ persons identified by the CO as a
potential threat to the health, safety, security, general well-being, or operational mission of the
installation or its populace.
2.1.1 National Agency Checks (NAC). Perform a credit check (utilizing commercial
background and investigate entities) on all employees requiring a NAC. The results of the
background and credit check shall accompany all NAC applications. Employees with
unfavorable background or credit history may be denied a favorable NAC. In addition, a
favorable/adjudicated NAC is considered a condition of employment. The contractor shall
ensure employees that are denied a favorable NAC and/or security clearance are not working
under this contract, due to the sensitive environment/location of the work being performed.


2.1.3 Laws, Directives, and Regulations. Comply with the laws, regulations, and directives of
the appropriate Major Command (MAJCOM).


2.1.4 Terminations. Remove employees identified as potential threat to the health, safety,
security, general well-being or operational mission of the installation or its population, or failure
to comply with laws, regulations, and directives of the appropriate MAJCOM.


2.1.5 Conflict of Interests. Do not employ any person who is an employee of the government if
the employment of that person would create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict
of interest.


2.2 Employee Training. Develop, implement, and maintain procedures for training, qualifying,
and certifying employees prior to performance of assigned duties under this contract (i.e.,
welding, electrical, etc.). Formulate and provide comprehensive training, qualification, and
certification procedures for its employees for submission with the QCP.


2.2.1 Records. Develop and maintain individual training records to document training and test
results. Document all initial and supplemental training accomplished in each employee’s
training record. Maintain each training record at the individual’s work location and make
available to government representative(s) upon request.


3.0 HOURS OF OPERATION.


3.1 Duty Hours. Provide required resources during normal duty hours. Establish normal duty
hours that meet the approval of the CO per local base-level procedures.


3.2 Holidays. If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it may be observed on Friday or
Monday as directed. U.S. holidays include (per local base-level procedures):


       New Year's Day
         Martin Luther King Day
         Presidents Day
         Memorial Day
         Independence Day
         Labor Day
         Columbus Day
         Veterans Day
         Thanksgiving
         Christmas


////////////////////////////////////////////////END OF DOCUMENT///////////////////////////////////////////////////
APPENDIX A


DEFINITIONS


Configuration Management – physical attributes or characteristics. Installation of original
hardware/equipment.


Corrosion – the electrochemical oxidation of metals in reaction with an oxidant such as oxygen.
Can occur in any environment.


Fatigue – the progressive and localized structural damage that occurs when a material is
subjected to cyclic loading.


Fracture – the (local) separation of an object or material into two, or more, pieces under the
action of stress.


Fraying – to strain; chafe. To wear away (the edges of fabric, for example) by rubbing. To
become worn away or tattered along the edges. A frayed or threadbare spot, as on fabric.


Hardware – a general term for items such as fasteners, bolts, washers, wire, turn buckles, etc.


Performance Work Statement (PWS) – specifies the government's requirements for services to
be performed.


Serviceable – safe for use and discrepancies do not pose a hazard to personnel, equipment and/or
aircraft. Unit can expand upon specifics for this definition.


Structural Failure – loss of the load-carrying capacity below manufacturer’s design. Can refer
to a component or member within a structure or of the structure itself.

Unserviceable – presents a danger to personnel, equipment and/or aircraft. Unit can expand
upon specifics for this definition.

Wear – erosion or sideways displacement of material from its "derivative" and original position
on a solid surface performed by the action of another surface. Wear is related to interactions
between surfaces and more specifically the removal and deformation of material on a surface as
a result of mechanical action of the opposite surface.
APPENDIX B


DELIVERABLES


DELIVERABLE                     PWS REFERENCE     DUE DATE
Preventative Maintenance Plan   Section 2.1.2     60 days after contract award
(PMP)


Quarterly Maintenance           Section 2.2.1     Quarterly
Documentation


Work Schedules                  Section 2.3.3.1   NLT 30 days before work is
                                                  scheduled


Quality Control Plan (QCP)      Section 5.1       45 days after contract award


Phase-In Plan                   Section D.1.3     15 days after contract award


Phase-Out Plan                  Section D.1.7     Per CO request
APPENDIX C
MAINTENANCE DOCUMENTATION




                            54
APPENDIX D
ANNUAL INSPECTION REPORT




                           55
