BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-120
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            9 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                            Materiel Management

                                                     AIR FORCE SPARES REQUIREMENTS
                                                                      REVIEW BOARD


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A4/7PY                                                            Certified by: AF/A4/7P
                                                                            (Mr. Jeffery Shelton)
                                                                                         Pages: 8
Supersedes:    AFI23-120, 24 November 2003


AFI 23-120, 24 November 2003, is superseded as follows: This instruction implements AF
Policy Directive 23-1, Materiel Management, through the Spares Requirements Review Board
(SRRB) as the process to forecast depot level reparables and Air Force-managed consumable
spares requirements (hereinafter referred to as flying hour spares) for Air Force budget
submission. It applies to Headquarters (HQ) USAF Staffs, Air Force Major Commands
(MAJCOMs), and the Air National Guard (ANG).

See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

Records Disposition. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363 “Management of Records” and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 through the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to
the OPR for coordination prior to certification and approval.

All waivers to this publication must be approved by HQ USAF/A4/7PY.
 2                                                           AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It identifies HQ
USAF/ILPY has been changed to HQ AF A4/7PY and changes Material Support Division to
CSAG-Supply. HQAFMC/LGI is now AFSC/401 SCMS and AFMC/LG and FM are combined
into AFMC/FMR. The document now establishes the current goal of the SRRB is to drive
annual overall requirement disconnects to less than five percent. It replaces the term “spares
requirements” with “buy and repair funding request”. It also updates WCF to SAF/FMBMR.
Furthermore, the AFI has been reorganized. “Spares Requirements for Budget Submission”
moved from Paragraph 1 to Paragraph 2. “Responsibilities and CPFH Development” moved
from Paragraph 2 to Paragraph 3 (with two sub-paragraphs added to clarify organizational
divisions within AFSC). “The SRRB Computation Process” moved from Paragraph 3 to
Paragraph 4. References, abbreviations, acronyms, and terms are also updated.
1. Overview. The SRRB is an annual collaborative effort to develop the total AF FYDP flying
hour spares requirement for Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) funding approval. It
establishes the guidelines, roles and responsibilities for preparation of Headquarters Air Force
Materiel Command (AFMC) Working Capital Fund (WCF) and Fund Holders’ budget
submissions based upon projected spares computations. These reparable and consumable items
are managed through the Supply Division of the Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group
(CSAG-Supply). For more information, the Spares Requirements Review Board Process Guide
can be viewed at: http://cs.eis.af.mil/srrb/default.aspx (if not a member, you must request
access).
2. Spares Requirements for Budget Submission. The Air Force established the SRRB to
combine separate AFMC, MAJCOM and ANG budgeting processes for flying hour spares
requirements and to validate the Air Force Cost Analysis Improvement Group (AFCAIG) Cost
Per Flying Hour (CPFH) budget submission for CSAG-Supply requirements.
     2.1. The SRRB is comprised of representatives from SAF/FM, HQ USAF/A4/7PY, Air
     Force Sustainment Center (AFSC)/401st Supply Chain Management Squadron (SCMS),
     AFMC/Weapon System Single Managers, each of the Lead MAJCOMs and Fund Holders.
     2.2. Each Fund Holder submits a Program Objective Memorandum (POM) identifying their
     flying hour spares requirements. These requirements are validated and incorporated into the
     AFCAIG CPFH Program process. Each MAJCOM submits a POM identifying their non-fly
     spares requirements. Non-fly spares requirements are incorporated into MAJCOM
     organizational and maintenance program processes. This instruction provides guidance on
     the CSAG-Supply (Air Force reparable and consumable items) requirements submitted in the
     POM.
     2.3. HQ AFMC uses the validated requirement to develop, buy and repair funding requests
     and assist in sales and revenue projections for the WCF budget. Pipeline, safety level, and
     readiness spares package requirements are essential to meet the Aircraft Availability (AA)
     goals for each Mission Design Series and are included in the WCF Budget.
     2.4. Results of the annual SRRB process reflect the total projected MAJCOM demand and
     inventory replenishment requirements for CSAG-Supply spares essential to achieve the Air
     Force fleet AA targets derived from assigned mission taskings.
AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    3


   2.5. The CSAG-Supply budget reflecting the SRRB outcome is submitted by the AFSC to
   AFMC/FMR and in turn to SAF/FMBMR. HQ USAF/A4/7PY coordinates CSAG-Supply
   budget submissions with AFCS members.
3. Responsibilities and CPFH Development:
   3.1. The SRRB. HQ USAF/A4/7PY and AFSC/401 SCMS co-chair the SRRB. They
   manage this multi-phased process and are responsible for determining and validating the
   flying hour spares requirements, and submitting the validated requirement to the AFCS for
   funding consideration during the Air Force POM deliberations. Air Force Special Operations
   Command (AFSOC) and Transportation Working Capital Fund (TWCF) follow guidance
   from their Corporate Structure.
      3.1.1. The SRRB uses the D200 Secondary Item Requirements System (SIRS), a
      subsystem of the Air Force Requirements Management System (RMS), to compute the
      CSAG-Supply base level maintenance demand flying hour spares buy/repair requirement
      forecast. This forecast is compared to the requirement submitted by the Fund Holders.
      Disconnects are addressed through a face-to-face meeting and teleconferences, with
      adjustments made based upon known changes or forecast deficiencies. Finalized
      computations are stated in current year dollars. Computations are based upon National
      Stock Number (NSN) level demands placed on the supply system or the quantities of
      each NSN forecast to be consumed by the MAJCOMs per weapon system. Note: While
      the goal of the SRRB is to submit the same forecast for both RMS and the Fund Holders,
      ultimately the Item Manager (IM)/Equipment Specialist (ES), and the Fund Holders must
      be able to defend their own particular requirement. In some cases, a consensus cannot be
      reached due to slight differences in the individual processes. In others, a disconnect may
      require additional research/review for final resolution. The current goal of the SRRB is
      to have an overall requirement disconnect of less than 5 percent.
      3.1.2. The Fund Holders’ final SRRB line requirements (“eaches”) are then priced out
      and converted to a CPFH factor by dividing the dollar requirement for each weapon
      system by the programmed flying hours used to build the forecast. This results in a
      flying hour spares CPFH factor.
      3.1.3. The spares CPFH factors are then computed and converted to a future year
      requirement by multiplying the factors by the most current approved flying hours
      contained in the Automated Budget Interactive Data Environment System (ABIDES) for
      the budget year. AFSOC and TWCF will submit their own requirements through their
      POM process.
      3.1.4. The budget year requirement is then converted to budget year dollar values by
      incorporating known or estimated WCF rate/price changes. ASOC and TWCF will use
      guidance from their Corporate Structure.
      3.1.5. This budget year requirement is then provided to the Air Force Cost Analysis
      Agency (AFCAA) who provides independent risk analysis of the forecast. Office of the
      Undersecretary of Defense Comptroller (OUSD-C) approved inflation from AFI 65-503
      USAF Cost and Planning Factors is applied. The results of AFCAA’s risk analysis are
      then presented to the Executive AFCAIG for final validation and approval of the
4                                                           AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


       requirement. The results of the Executive AFCAIG are presented to the AFCS for
       funding/risk consideration and approval.
       3.1.6. Once approved by the Executive AFCAIG, the Fund Holders include the flying
       hour spares requirement forecast in their POM submission to the AFCS for funding
       consideration in accordance with Air Staff-provided Annual Planning and Programming
       Guidance (APPG) and POM Preparation Instructions (PPI). AFSOC and TWCF use their
       own programming guidance.
    3.2. Air Force Lead Commands. Participate in the SRRB process by validating the
    programmatic changes that need to be incorporated into the Centralized Asset Management
    (CAM) flying hour spares forecast computation. This validation takes place through
    approval of templates developed in the SRRB Input and Retrieval Web Tool at
    https://msdis.hill.af.mil/srrb v2. Each Lead Command designates a primary and alternate
    Point of Contact to work with CAM throughout the SRRB and CPFH factors development
    process.
    3.3. Air Force Fund Holders. Fund Holders will forecast spares requirements utilizing base
    level supply Net Sales consumption. The projection will be based on the same baseline
    timeframe and flying hours used by RMS. Fund Holders designate an Office of Primary
    Responsibility to identify and validate these requirements and coordinate CPFH factors and
    funding requirements with their Financial Management (FM) and Planning (A8P)
    organizations and other Fund Holders organizations as required. Each Fund Holder
    designates a primary and alternate Point of Contact. HQ Air Force Network Integration
    Center (AFNIC) and Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) are the lead agencies for all non-
    airborne requirements (ground communications, space) except for missile systems. The Air
    Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) is the lead for missile systems. Warner Robins Air
    Logistics Center is the lead for life support requirements.
    3.4. AFSC.
       3.4.1. 591 SCMG. Implements methods and maintains models to compute wholesale
       and retail materiel requirements for Air Force centrally procured items, including items
       subject to coordinated procurement by other agencies and military departments.
       AFSC/591 SCMG assigns a working co-chair to reside in the AFSC/591 SCMG/401
       SCMS and to act as the AFSC Office of Primary Responsibility. The AFSC/401 SCMS
       also implements methods to accomplish inventory stratification for each item under its
       management control. AFSC/401 SCMS is responsible for RMS. RMS data maintenance
       is governed by AFMCMAN 23-1, Requirements for Secondary Items (D200A, D200N).
           3.4.1.1. Ensures the latest applicable Air Force planning and programming
           documents are included in the data used to compute requirements.
       3.4.2. 635 SCOW. Participates in the SRRB in an advisory capacity to the Air Force
       Lead Commands. With the exception of non-airborne and CV-22, each Weapon System
       Management Flight will address supportability considerations from an operational
       perspective through the SRRB Input and Retrieval Tool.
       3.4.3. 448 SCMQW. Provides spares support information through the SRRB Input and
       Retrieval Tool. Ensures file maintenance actions by Inventory Management Specialists
       (IMS) and Equipment Specialists (ES) in support of SRRB findings are accomplished and
AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                     5


       accurate. Provides analysis of demand data used to forecast spares, communicating
       findings to Fund Holders and Lead Commands.            Supports SRRB meetings,
       teleconferences, and VTCs as required.
   3.5. System Program Offices, Weapon Systems Program Managers, System Support
   Managers provide changes to system sustainment through the SRRB Input and Retrieval
   Tool. Work closely with IMs, ESs, Fund Holders and Lead Commands to ensure
   information is communicated accurately. Support SRRB meetings, teleconferences and
   VTCs as required.
4. The SRRB Computation Process. The SRRB process begins with a joint SRRB “Call
letter” issued from HQ USAF/A4/7PY and AFSC/401 SCMS each calendar year. The letter
provides general guidance to the SRRB primary participants on the SRRB process, expectations,
and schedule to prepare for the upcoming budget year submission.
   4.1. HQ USAF/A4/7PY and AFSC/401 SCMS conduct periodic teleconferences with the
   SRRB members throughout the various stages of the process to ensure continued progress.
   An annual Collaboration Meeting is sponsored by the Fund Holders on a rotating basis.
   Either AFMC Air Logistics Center Single Managers, AFSC representatives or
   MAJCOMs/Fund Holders may identify weapon system programmatic changes that need to
   be incorporated into the flying hour spares forecast computation. These changes are
   communicated to other SRRB members through templates that are available through the
   SRRB Input and Retrieval Web Tool located at https://msdis.hill.af.mil/srrb v2. Lead
   MAJCOM representatives and Fund Holders review and discuss the program changes to
   ensure the Air Force has complete and validated information to be used by the RMS.
   4.2. The RMS asset cutoff date of 31 March is used in the SRRB forecasting process and
   reflects the most recent validated historical consumption data (8 quarters) immediately
   preceding the SRRB closeout. It computes a worldwide requirement for CSAG-Supply
   reparable and consumable items. The SRRB then stratifies the base level flying hour spares
   requirement and allocates the consumption portion to the appropriate users by MAJCOM and
   weapon system.
   4.3. HQ AFMC/FMR and AFSC/591 SCMG Logistics and FM staffs use the validated
   SRRB requirement as the basis of the buy and repair funding requested in the budget. The
   AFMC/FMR staff will use the funded Air Force customer requirement as the basis for
   revenue from which to develop the CSAG-Supply budget and ensure its compliance with
   applicable SAF/FMBMR and OUSD-C guidance.
5. As advanced forecasting tools (e. g., Advanced Planning and Scheduling) and other system
improvements are fielded as a result of Air Force Logistics Transformation initiatives, they will
be validated and incorporated into the SRRB process.




                                            JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 6                                                        AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 MAR 2007
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management, 15 FEB 2011
AF123-102, Operational Requirements Instructions for Determining Materiel Requirements for
Reparable Items, 24 JUN 2004
AFI 23-103, Determining Materiel Requirement for Air Force-Managed Consumable Items, 6
JUN 1994
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 APR 2009
AFI 65-503, USAF Cost and Planning Factors, 4 FEB 1994
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABIDES—Automated Budget Interactive Data Environment System
AFCAIG—Air Force Cost Analysis Improvement Group
AFCAA—Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ANG—Air National Guard
APPG—Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
CAM—Central Asset Management
CPFH—Cost Per Flying Hour
CSAG—Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group
CSAG- Supply—previously called Materiel Support Division
DLR—Depot Level Reparable
ES—Equipment Specialist
AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    7


FM—Financial Management
FYDP—Future Year Defense Program
IM—Item Manager
IMS—Inventory Management Specialists
NSN—National Stock Number
OUSD- C—Office of the Undersecretary of Defense Comptroller
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPI—POM Planning Instructions
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMS—Requirements Management System
SIRS—Secondary Item Requirements System
SRRB—Spares Requirements Review Board
TWCF—Transportation Working Capital Fund
WCF—Working Capital Fund

Terms
Centralized Asset Management (CAM)—Fund Holder for the Active Air Force Commands.
Represents Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), Air
Mobility Command (AMC), except for TWCF, Air Education and Training Command (AETC),
Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), Pacific Air Command-Air Force (PACAF), and United
States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). Note: While the CAM office is located within AFMC,
they do not represent AFMC. AFMC, as a Funds Holder, is responsible for aircraft flown in
support of Research, Development, Testing and Evaluation (RDT&E) missions.
Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group (CSAG)—The CSAG established 1 October 2008,
is a new, innovative approach to business in the AFWCF. The mission of the CSAG is supply
management of reparable and consumable items, and maintenance activities. CSAG combines
the activities of the Material Support Division (MSD) of the Supply Management Activity Group
and the Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG). Under CSAG, business operations
formerly known as DMAG are now related to the Maintenance Division. Likewise, business
operations formerly known as MSD are now referred to as the Supply Division.
CSAG-Supply Division—Supply Division activities are authorized to procure and manage
reparable and consumable items for which the Air Force is the Inventory Control Point. These
items are generally related to weapon systems and ground support, and include both depot level
reparables and non-depot level reparables.
CSAG-Maintenance Division—Maintenance Division activities are authorized to perform: (a)
overhaul, conversion, reclamation, progressive maintenance, modernization, software
development, storage, modification, and repair of aircraft, missiles, engines, accessories,
components, and equipment; (b) the manufacture of parts and assemblies required to support the
foregoing; and (c) the furnishing of other authorized services or products for the Air Force and
 8                                                             AFI23-120 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


other agencies of the Department of Defense. As directed by the Air Force Materiel Command
or higher authority, the Maintenance Davison may furnish the above mentioned products or
services to agencies of other departments or instrumentalities of the U.S. Government, and to
private parties and other agencies, as authorized by law.
Depot Level Reparable—An item of supply (except explosive ordnance and major end items of
equipment) that is not normally expended or used up beyond recovery in the use for which it was
designed or intended; an AF item that, when broken, can usually be made useful again through
repair. Reparable items are characterized by an Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability
Category Designator (ERRC) code of XD(x).
Fund Holders—Fund Holder designation establishes advocacy for the POM identifying their
flying hour requirements for different appropriations. Fund Holders are CAM (active
MAJCOMS), Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), Transportation
Working Capital Fund (TWCF) and Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC).
Lead Command—Lead Command designation establishes advocacy for weapon systems and
their support systems and equipment directly associated with the weapon systems during their
life cycle and clarifies responsibilities for all using and supporting organizations. The designated
Lead Command provides a primary input into the process of developing and maintaining a force
structure with a balance of complementary capabilities. Lead Command designation is not
exclusive to Major Commands (MAJCOMs); Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) and Direct
Reporting Units (DRUs) may also be designated. Lead Command Assignments are contained in
AFPD 10-9 Attachment 2.
Materiel Support Division—Changed to CSAG – Supply. A division of the Air Force
Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group (CSAG) within the AF Working Capital Fund (WCF).
MSD was implemented in October 1997 as part of the Air Force stock fund directed by the
Office of the Secretary of Defense in Defense Management Decision (DMD) 904. It
incorporated the previous Reparable Support Division (RSD) and System Support Division
(SSD).
Program Objective Memorandum—The final product of the annual programming process
within the Department of Defense which translated planning guidance into programs by aligning
resources with specific requirements to support operations, training, maintenance and base
support.
Requirements Management System—A collection of software systems that captures and
processes supply item demands and usage and computes future requirements of these items.
