                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                            HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                         WASHINGTON DC




                                                                           AFI 23-111_AFGM1
                                                                               29 August 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
              MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ USAF/A4/7
     1030 Air Force Pentagon
     Washington, DC 20330-1030

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 23-111, Management of Government
Property in Possession of the Air Force

        By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Guidance Memorandum implements
requirements of the Wing or Group Commanders (or equivalent) to appoint all Accountable
Property Officers (APO) in writing, APO’s will request appointment letters from Unit
Commanders designating Property Custodians and Property Custodians will be appointed by
Unit Commanders to manage government property IAW AFI 23-111, Management of
Government Property in Possession of the Air Force, 29 October 2013. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

       The change is required to ensure the Wing or Group Commanders (or equivalent) appoint
all Accountable Property Officers (APO) in writing, that APO’s will request appointment letters
from Unit Commanders designating Property Custodians and that Property Custodians will be
appointed by the Unit Commander to manage government property.

       This memorandum will be implemented in the published version of AFI 23-111 as
coordinated and approved in this memo. The approved language will be inserted in the current
published AFI 23-111 (Chapter 2).

      This memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.



                                                JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                                Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support

Attachment:
1. Management of Government Property Update
                                           Attachment 1

                                          AFI 23-111

A1.1. The below Air Force Management of Government Property in Possession of the Air Force
Instruction is updated/changed as follows:

A1.2. Air Force Instruction 23-111, Management of Government Property in Possession of the
Air Force.

A1.2.1. Changes to AFI 23-111, Chapter 2 includes:

(Updated) 2.1.1. Accountable Property Officer (APO) (comparable to the Accountable Officer
(AO). An accountable property officer is an individual who, based on his or her training,
knowledge, and experience in property management, accountability and control procedures, is
appointed by proper authority to establish and maintain an organization’s accountable property
records, systems, and/or financial records, in connection with Government property, irrespective
of whether the property is in the individual's possession. The APO will request appointment
letters from Unit Commanders designating Property Custodians. These responsibilities cannot be
delegated. ANG is an exception as stated in Para 5 of this instruction. The Accountable Base
Medical Supply Officer will adhere to guidance specified in AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics
Support (T-2). Refer to DoD 4140.1-R for depot wholesale and depot retail responsibilities.

(Updated) 2.1.2. Property Custodian. An individual appointed by the Unit Commander, who
accepts custodial responsibility for property, typically by signing a custodial receipt. The
property custodian is directly responsible for the physical custody of accountable property under
their control.

(Updated) 2.2.2. Appoint all APOs in writing.




2
BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 23-111
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                29 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                             Materiel Management

                                                        MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT
                                                    PROPERTY IN POSSESSION OF THE AIR
                                                                               FORCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A4LR                                                                  Certified by: AF/A4L
                                                                          (Maj Gen John B. Cooper)
                                                                                          Pages: 12
Supersedes:    AFI23-111, 7 January 2011


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Materiel Management
Policy and Procedures. Management of non-appropriated fund (NAF) property is addressed in
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-204, Property Management. This Instruction covers materiel for
which accountability and inventory control requirements are prescribed in DoD 4140.1-R, DoD
Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation and DLM 4000.25-2-M, Military Standard
Transaction Reporting and Accounting Procedures (MILSTRAP). It does not apply to
intellectual property (e.g., software) or real property (land, facilities, and real property installed
equipment). This publication prescribes basic guidance and responsibilities for managing
government property under Air Force control through authorizing and directing commanders to
manage government property under their command. It instructs personnel to responsibly manage
and care for AF property under their control. This Instruction applies to all active duty military,
civilian personnel, including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) supplementing this Instruction must coordinate their
supplements with AF/A4LR and will follow guidance in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.              For    assistance    with
interpreting this Instruction, contact your MAJCOM.
 2                                                                AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the removal of Contractors responsibilities as well as the structure of roles and
responsibilities. Also, Attachment 2, Appointment Qualifications for Accountable Positions, By
Type, Section Munitions Supply (FK/FV), FK has been removed from A2.5. Finally,
administrative revisions were made in the Title Page, to change DoD 4000.25-2-M to DLM
4000.25-2-M to accurately update this Instruction.

Section A—General Property Management

1. Statutory Authority. Title 10, U.S.C., 2788, authorizes the Secretary of the Air Force to
prescribe publications for the accounting and assignment of responsibility for Air Force property.
Title 32, U.S.C., 710 identifies the State’s responsibilities for managing federal property issued
to the National Guard.
     1.1. All military and civilian personnel will operate and maintain government systems,
     equipment, and supplies in the best possible condition, in constant readiness, and in the
     absolute minimum quantities necessary to accomplish assigned tasks. (T-2)
     1.2. Air Force property managers will provide the proper allocation, control, use, and
     safeguard of property under Air Force control. (T-2) All persons entrusted with the
     management of government property shall comply with paragraph 4 of DoDI 5000.64,
     Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable Property. (T-2)
     1.3. Supply Discipline is mandatory for all personnel. Subordinate Commanders are
     responsible to their commanders for ensuring effective Supply Discipline.
     1.4. Government property includes equipment, military equipment, and other accountable
     property (e.g., administrative property, special tools, and special test equipment). Other types
     of personal property, such as supplies, material, and records, are not included unless
     expressly stated as being included.
     1.5. Property management, in relation to property accountability referenced in Volume 1,
     Appendix 2 of DLM 4000.25, responsibility includes the determination or assessment of
     pecuniary liability for the loss, damage, or destruction of property resulting from negligence
     due to willful misconduct or deliberate unauthorized use.
     1.6. In the Air National Guard, the United States Property and Fiscal Officers (USPFO) are
     the primary accountable officers in accordance with Title 32 U.S.C. 708. They are nominated
     by the Governor of each state and territory, Puerto Rico, or the commanding general of the
     National Guard of the District of Columbia, and appointed by the Secretaries of the Army
     and the Air Force. They are also commissioned officers of the Army/Air National Guard of
     the United States. They and their duly appointed assistant USPFOs for Property are
     responsible for receiving and accounting for all government property in possession of the Air
     National Guard. All other provisions of this Instruction, as it pertains to accountability and
     management of government property apply to the Air National Guard. Consistent with Title
     32 U.S.C. 710, all military property issued by the United States to the National Guard
     remains the property of the United States.
AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       3


Section B—Roles and Responsibilities

2. Roles and Responsibilities. DoD and Air Force policy provides for varying levels of roles
and responsibility when managing or controlling government property.
   2.1. In addition to the general responsibilities applicable to all Air Force personnel IAW
   DoDI 4140.1-R, establish the appointment, in writing, of the following property
   accountability echelons:
       2.1.1. Accountable Property Officer (APO) (comparable to the Accountable Officer
       (AO)). An accountable property officer is an individual who, based on his or her training,
       knowledge, and experience in property management, accountability and control
       procedures, is appointed by proper authority to establish and maintain an organization’s
       accountable property records, systems, and/or financial records, in connection with
       Government property, irrespective of whether the property is in the individual's
       possession. These responsibilities cannot be delegated. ANG is an exception as stated in
       Para 5 of this instruction. The Accountable Base Medical Supply Officer will adhere to
       guidance specified in AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support (T-2). Refer to DoD
       4140.1-R for depot wholesale and depot retail responsibilities.
       2.1.2. Property Custodian. An individual appointed by the APO, who accepts custodial
       responsibility for property, typically by signing a hand-receipt. The property custodian is
       directly responsible for the physical custody of accountable property under their control.
   2.2. Wing or Group Commanders (or equivalent) Responsibilities for Management of
   Government Property.
       2.2.1. Wing or Group Commanders (or equivalent) will: (T-1)
       2.2.2. Appoint all property custodians in writing.
       2.2.3. Include the identification of the specific record account or functional area of
       responsibility, specific expectations, and mandatory requirement to comply with policy
       and guidance in AFPD 23-1 and this Instruction.
       2.2.4. Determine when re-appointment is necessary in absence of an accountable officer.
   2.3. Accountable Property Officer Responsibilities for Management of Government
   Property.
       2.3.1. Accountable Property Officers will: (T-2)
       2.3.2. Oversee all appropriate record in an Accountable Property System of Record
       (APSR). See attachment 3 for list of APSR’s.
       2.3.3. Ensure property accountability is enabled by item unique identification (IUID) and
       Automatic Identification Technology (AIT) IAW DoDI 5000.54 and DoDI 8320.04.
       2.3.4. Perform inventories of accountable property under their purview at periods
       prescribed in DoDI 5000.64.
       2.3.5. Identify the proper urgency and validity of requests for material in accordance
       with DoD 4140.1-R.
4                                                               AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


       2.3.6. Properly identify, reporting, and determining correct disposition of unserviceable,
       reparable, or excess property.
       2.3.7. Validate the accuracy of accountable records and the validity of property
       locations.
       2.3.8. Provide effective management, direction, and controls for committing or
       obligating public funds.
       2.3.9. Provide guidance and training on accountability standards to custodians, and other
       personnel, as required.
       2.3.10. Provide guidance on required contingency location closure actions under their
       purview.
    2.4. Property Custodian Responsibilities for Management of Government Property
       2.4.1. Property Custodians will: (T-2)
       2.4.2. Manually and/or automatically track and record transactions affecting Classes of
       Supply under their functional control.
       2.4.3. Automatically and/or manually report APSR adjustments to the designated
       accountable officer.
       2.4.4. Identify, report, disposition of serviceable, unserviceable, reparable, and excess
       materiel.
       2.4.5. Maintain and secure auditable and/or accountable documents.
       2.4.6. Initiate Reports of Survey. Refer to AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
       Force Property, for guidance on reports of survey.
       2.4.7. Manage contingency location closure actions affecting their respective Classes of
       Supply.
       2.4.8. Plan and forecast requirements to meet mission goals.
       2.4.9. Prepare and forward materiel requests to the proper agency or individuals.
       2.4.10. Sign custody receipts or listings for property charged to their organization.
       2.4.11. Report losses or irregularities relating to property to immediate commanders and
       APO’s.
       2.4.12. Take action to reconcile and correct property records.
       2.4.13. Report unusual purchase patterns to commanders.
    2.5. Personnel having custodial responsibility may be held pecuniary liable for the loss,
    destruction, or damage to property caused by willful misconduct, deliberate unauthorized
    use, or negligence in the use, care, custody, or safeguard of the property from causes other
    than normal wear and tear.
    2.6. Provide evidence of responsibility for management of government property at
    designated levels of command by:
AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    5


     2.6.1. Properly documented and itemized physical inventories taken at required intervals.
     Inventories will be performed in a “floor-to-book” style.
     2.6.2. Maintaining a copy of each document or computer record that confirms acquisition
     or movement of property.
     2.6.3. Maintaining certificates of transfer between responsible/accountable personnel.
     Temporary issues will be tracked using the AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt.
  2.7. Commanders/Directors will: (T-2)
     2.7.1. Ensure all personnel carefully and economically use and safeguard property.
     2.7.2. Provide adequate security, protection, and storage for property.
     2.7.3. Ensure accountable property that is not identified on an APSR (i.e. items found on
     base) is recorded IAW DoDI 5000.64 regardless of how property was acquired and
     delivered to the owning organization.
  2.8. Supervisors and Subordinates will: (T-2)
     2.8.1. Accurately record/maintain accountable property in an APSR to reflect current
     inventory, location and condition.
     2.8.2. Adjust records to reflect all discovered shortages and make adjustments IAW AFI
     23-101, Air Force Materiel Management and AFMAN 23-122, Materiel Management
     Procedures (when published).
     2.8.3. Make recommendations to accountable officers for the prevention and correction
     of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse activity.
     2.8.4. Government property that does not require APSR recording, such as Government
     Purchase Card (GPC) will be recorded and accounted for at the unit level.
  2.9. Relief from Custodial Responsibility. Commanders provide relief from custodial
  responsibility with:
     2.9.1. Documents or computer records showing turn-in or transfer of items to another
     custodian.
     2.9.2. Approved reports that provide for disposition of, or relief from responsibility for
     items that have become unusable due to damage, loss, deterioration, obsolescence, or
     destruction.
     2.9.3. Approved inventory adjustments, or a prescribed document to adjust losses
     incidental to normal operations.




                                           JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 6                                                            AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 2788, Property Accountability: Regulations,
February 1, 2010
Title 32, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 708, Property and Fiscal Officers, February
1, 2010
Title 32, United States Code, Armed Forces, Section 710, Accountability for Property Issued to
the National Guard, February 1, 2010
DoDI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable
Property, 19 May 2011
DoD 4140.25-M, DoD Management of Bulk Petroleum Products, Natural Gas, and Coal, 22
June 1994
DLM 4000.25-2-M, Military Standard Transaction Reporting and Accounting Procedures
(MILSTRAP), 13 June 2012
DoD 4140.1-R, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, 23 May 2003
DoD 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, May 2009
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management, 15 February 2011
AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management, 18 February 2011
AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, 7 March 2012
AFI 21-203, Nuclear Accountability Procedures, 23 November 2009
AFI 23-101, Air Force Materiel Management, (Not yet published)
AFI 23-201, Fuels Management, 23 January 2012
AFI 34-204, Property Management, 27 August 2004
AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, 30 June 2006
AFMAN 23-122, Materiel Management Procedures, (Not yet published)
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DESC-P-7, Accountability and Custodial Responsibilities for Defense Working Capital Fund
(DWCF) Inventory and Government Property, 4 August 2009
Prescribed Form
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, 1 July 1987
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                    7


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
APSR—Accountable Property System of Record
COCOM—Combatant Command (Command Authority)
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DESC—Defense Energy Support Center
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLM—Defense Logistics Manual
DMLSS—Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support
DoD—Department of Defense
DWCF—Defense Working Capital Fund
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IMM—Integrated Materiel Manager
LRO—Logistics Readiness Officer
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MAJCOM—Major Command
MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
MEDLOG—Medical Logistics
MILSTRAP—Military Standard Transaction Reporting and Accounting Procedures
NAF—Non-appropriated Funds
NCO—Non-commissioned Officer
NWRMAO—Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel Accountable Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PLMC—Petroleum Logistics Management Course
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Non-commissioned Officer
USC—United States Code
 8                                                               AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


USPFO—United States Property and Fiscal Officer

Terms
Accountable Property Officer—An individual who, based on his or her training, knowledge,
and experience in property management, accountability and control procedures, is appointed by
proper authority to establish and maintain an organization’s accountable property records,
systems, and/or financial records, in connection with Government property, irrespective of
whether the property is in the individual's possession.
Accountable Property—Property that meets accountability requirements and is recorded in the
APSR. Accountable property is referenced in DoDI 5000.64.
APSR—The Government system used to control and manage accountable property records; a
subset of existing organizational processes related to the lifecycle management of property; the
system that is integrated with the core financial system.
Property—All references to property contained herein include equipment, military equipment,
and other accountable property (e.g., administrative property, special tools, special test
equipment). Other types of personal property, such as supplies, material, and records, are not
included unless expressly stated as being included.
Property Custodian—An individual appointed by the APO, who accepts custodial
responsibility for property, typically by signing a hand-receipt. The property custodian is directly
responsible for the physical custody of accountable property under their control.
Property Management—A monitoring and control function, charged with assuring that
organization processes related to the lifecycle of property support organization objectives,
represent sound business practice, and are compliant with applicable standards, policies,
regulations, and contractual requirements. Also, the system of acquiring, maintaining, using and
disposing of the personal property of an organization or entity.
Supply Discipline—The control, cost-effective use, protection and availability of government
systems, equipment, and supplies for operational requirements.
AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     9


                                        Attachment 2
 APPOINTMENT QUALIFICATIONS FOR ACCOUNTABLE POSITIONS, BY TYPE
                          ACCOUNT

A2.1. Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS) (FB/FE). The LRS Commander is the accountable
officer for supply system stocks in FB/FE accounts and also serves as the Nuclear Weapons-
Related Materiel Accountable Officer (NWRMAO). At locations where an LRS is not assigned,
the NWRMAO may be a US military officer, US SNCO, or Department of the Air Force (DAF)
civilian (US Citizen) in the grade of GS-11 (minimum). They must complete the NWRMAO
training requirement IAW AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel Management. (T-1)
Note: Contractor managed accounts must have a government accountable officer appointed. The
government accountable officer can either be the functional area chief, quality assurance
evaluator, or other appointed government individual who is qualified in the appropriate AFSC.
The government accountable officer may sign for one or all of the different type accounts at a
particular location as approved by the MAJCOM. (T-2)
A2.2. By Type Account (FB/FE). Core AFSC 21R3/4 or their civilian equivalents, or fully
qualified SNCO, AFSC 2S000/90/71, may be appointed when approved by the MAJCOM. (T-2)
The MAJCOM A4R may waive the AFSC or qualification requirements for the accountable
position if extenuating circumstances exist. Note: Contractor managed accounts must have a
government accountable officer appointed. The government accountable officer can either be the
functional area chief, quality assurance evaluator, or other appointed government individual who
is qualified in the appropriate AFSC. The government accountable officer may sign for one or all
of the different type accounts at a particular location as approved by the MAJCOM.
A2.3. Contingency Supply Accounts (FB/FE). Air Force lead-Major Command/Combatant
Numbered Air Force A4R tasked for Combat Command (COCOM) support will appoint
accountable and/or responsible officers for supply system stocks in the FB/FE accounts. (T-1)
Accountable/responsible officers will be the senior core AFSC 21R3/4 logistics readiness
officers, or SNCO’s in AFSC 2S000/90/71 (i.e. Expeditionary LRS Commander or ranking
Logistics Readiness Officer (LRO) as appropriate). The lead-Major Command/Combatant
Numbered Air Force A4R may waive the AFSC or qualification requirements for the responsible
officer position of FB/FE accounts if extenuating circumstances exist.
A2.4. Depot Supply (FD). Core AFSC 21R4 officer or permanent civil servant in grade GS-11
or higher.
A2.5. Munitions Supply (FV). Refer to AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance
Management, for all conventional munitions account Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
(MASO) AFSC/experience/training requirements. Refer to AFI 21-203, Nuclear Accountability
Procedures, for all nuclear munitions account Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
AFSC/experience/training requirements.
A2.6. Base Fuels/Satellite (FP). The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Energy is the DoD
Integrated Materiel Manager (IMM) and the DoD Executive Agent for Defense Working Capital
Funds’ (DWCF) owned Class III Bulk petroleum products. DLA Energy is the accountable
office/officer for FP accounts. Correspondingly, the responsible officer, is a government
employee who is a U.S. citizen (military or civilian) appointed by proper authority to exercise
care, custody, and safe-keeping of Government property. In accordance with Defense Energy
 10                                                            AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


Support Center (DESC)-P-7 (DESC-P-7 supersedes DoD 4140.25M Chapter 10, Section B
guidance regarding appointment and responsibilities for responsible officers) any AFSC 21R3/4
officer upon completion of Logistics Readiness Officer technical training; GS-9 equivalent
civilians, or SNCOs with AFSC 2F000/91/71 may be the fuels responsible officer. AFSC 21R3/4
officers, GS-9 equivalent civilians (or higher) or SNCOs with AFSC 2F000/91/71 must also
meet training requirements for responsible officers as indicated in DoD 4140.25-M, DoD
Management of Bulk Petroleum Products, Natural Gas, and Coal, Volume II, Chapter 10 and
AFI 23-201, Fuels Management. DESC-P-7. Additionally, NCOs and civilians must attend the
Petroleum Logistics Management Course (PLMC). They must attend PLMC and complete DLA
Energy responsible officer training. Exceptions to the minimum grade level may be waived by
DLA Energy-FI on a case-by-case basis for small fuels accounts where the minimum grade level
requirements cannot be met by an otherwise qualified person. (T-3)
A2.7. Base Civil Engineer (FC). AFSC 21R3/4, or 32X3 officer. If an officer is not available,
AFSC 2S071/90/00, 3EX7X/90/00, or civilian equivalent filling the position of Chief or
Superintendent of Operations, may serve. Accountable officers will attend the Logistics
Management Course, MGT 438, at the Air Force Institute of Technology, Civil Engineering and
Services School. (T-3)
A2.8. Medical Supply (FM). The base Medical Treatment Facility Commander will appoint a
Medical Service Corps officer, AFSC 41AX, as accountable Base Medical Supply officer. If an
officer is not assigned to the Medical Logistics Flight, the AFMOA/SGALS, in coordination
with the Chief, Medical Logistics Division, Air Force Medical Support Agency, may waiver
appointment of a civilian equivalent in the grade of GS-11 or higher, or a fully qualified SNCO
(AFSC 4A1XX). For ANG units, the assistant USPFO serves as the accountable Medical Supply
officer.
A2.9. Weapon Systems Account (FW). Any AFSC 21R3/4 officer or civilian equivalent can be
the accountable officer.
Force Support Squadron:
A2.10. Food Services (FT). AFSC 38F/38P3/4 officer or civilian equivalent. If a qualified
officer or civilian is not available, a SNCO in any AFSC may be assigned upon approval of HQ
AFPC/SV. Note: Contractor managed accounts must have a government accountable officer
appointed. (T-2) The government accountable officer can either be the functional area chief,
quality assurance evaluator, or other appointed government individual who is qualified in the
appropriate AFSC.
A2.11. Base Library (FL). The Force Support Squadron Commander or Civilian Leader appoints
a professional librarian as the accountable property agent for all library materiel and services.
The Force Support Squadron Commander/Civilian leader, or a specialized organization with a
library of information center appoints an interim accountable property agent during periods when
there isn’t an assigned librarian.
A2.12. Force Support Squadron (FF). The Force Support Squadron Commander (CC)/Civilian
Leader (CL) (AFSC 38P or civilian equivalent) is the accountable officer for FF accounts. Note:
Contractor managed accounts must have a government accountable officer appointed. (T-2) The
government accountable officer can either be the functional area chief, quality assurance
evaluator, or other appointed government individual who is qualified in the appropriate AFSC.
AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       11


A2.13. Miscellaneous Accounts (FX). No AFSC restriction. Note: Contractor managed accounts
must have a government accountable officer appointed. (T-2) The government accountable
officer can either be the functional area chief, quality assurance evaluator, or other appointed
government individual who is qualified in the appropriate AFSC. The government accountable
officer may sign for one or all of the different type accounts at a particular location as approved
by the MAJCOM.
 12                                                         AFI23-111 29 OCTOBER 2013


                                      Attachment 3
          ACCOUNTABLE PROPERTY SYSTEM OF RECORD (APSR) TABLE

Figure A3.1. Accountable Property System Of Record (APSR) Table.
 SYSTEM
                      APSR TITLE                 ASSETS STORED
ACRONYM
                                                Depot Wholesale/Depot
               Distribution Standard System        Retail Assets (in
      DSS                                          warehouse only)
                                                AFMC managed assets in
                  Stock Control System            maintenance and at
      D035                                        contractor facilities
                                                Communication Security
                   Cryptologic Depot
                                               (COMSEC)/Cryptographic
                  Accountability System
      CDAS                                              Assets
               Integrated Logistics System-
      ILS-S               Supply                Base Level Retail Assets
                                               Aircraft , Intercontinental
               Reliability & Maintainability   Ballistic Missiles (ICBM),
                   Information System          Satellites, Cruise Missiles,
   REMIS                                         Aerial Targets/Drones
                 Reliability, Availability,
                Maintainability for Pods &               PODs
 RAMPODS           Integrated Systems
                                                Intercontinental Ballistic
                                                        Missiles
               Integrated Missile Data Base
                                                   (ICBM),Uninstalled
      IMDB                                           Missiles Rotors
       CAS     Combat Ammunition System                Munitions
                                                  Equipment (including
                  Air Force Equipment
                                                 Government Furnished
                  Management System
  AFEMS                                             Equipment (GFE))
                Defense Medical Logistics
  DMLSS             Standard Support              Medical Equipment
                 Comprehensive Engine
      CEMS        Management System                     Engines
