BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 38-205
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    24 MAY 2012

                                                                    Manpower and Organization

                                                              EXPEDITIONARY MANPOWER
                                                                         MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A1MR                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/A1M (Mr. John
                                                                                W. Snodgrass)
Supersedes:    AFI 38-205, 18 June 2002                                             Pages: 99


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 38-2, Manpower. This
instruction provides manpower and organization (MO) expeditionary manpower policies,
concepts of operations, and responsibilities for MO personnel at all levels of command within
the Air Force, including those assigned/attached to and under major commands (MAJCOMs) and
component numbered air forces (CNAFs). It also describes processes, procedures and systems
used to implement policies and responsibilities within the concept of operations. In doing this, it
provides the procedures to support AFI 10-201, Status Of Resources and Training System; AFI
10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution; AFI 10-402V1, Mobilization Planning
and Personnel Readiness; AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning; AFI 36-
507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, and AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness
Operations. This instruction applies to Regular Air Force, Air National Guard (ANG) and Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel. The term MO is used to describe organizations
which perform manpower and organization duties and does not necessarily designate a staff
office symbol unless explicitly specified. The term Air Component includes both numbered Air
Force and MAJCOMs performing these duties. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references
and supporting information. Refer recommended changes and questions concerning this
publication to AF/A1MR (afa1mr.workflow@pentagon.af.mil), 1040 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1040 on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Route the AF Form 847 from the field through the MAJCOM publications manager. Any
organization may supplement. The supplement must be reviewed and approved by AF/A1MR.
MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOAs) and direct reporting units (DRUs) must send one
copy of their published and/or posted supplement to AF/A1MR. Other organizations should
send one copy of each published, and or posted supplement to the next higher headquarters. The
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 affects this instruction. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
 2                                                                                         AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records Information
Management               System             (AFRIMS)               located             at
―https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm‖.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
incorporates information concerning the Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), Air Force
Personnel Center Directorate of AEF Operations, Air Expeditionary Wing (AEW), and
Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES) processes that were
not contained in the previous version. It improves the arrangement of information to enhance the
flow and increase reader understanding. It also corrects the identification of redesignated
organizations to include updating the A-Staff designation for Headquarters Air Force (HAF,
which includes Secretariat and Air Staff), the Major Commands, and Component Headquarters.

       1.     Expeditionary Manpower Concept. .......................................................................      3
Figure 1.1.   Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) Force Module Concept. ..........                               5
Figure 1.2.   Organization of Air Force MO Personnel. .............................................................        6
       2.     Expeditionary Manpower Management Responsibilities. .....................................                    7
       3.     Systems Supporting Expeditionary Manpower Management. ...............................                       21
Table 3.1.    Contingency Management Applications. ...............................................................        22
       4.     Expeditionary Manpower Management Processes and Procedures. ......................                          22
Table 4.1.    Contingency Planning Phase Responsibility Matrix. .............................................             23
Table 4.2.    Tasking Type Code (1st Character). ......................................................................   25
Table 4.3.    Deployment Phase Responsibility Matrix. ............................................................        28
Table 4.4.    Contingency Reception/Employment/Sustainment Phase Responsibility Matrix.                                   30
Table 4.5.    UTC Management Responsibility Matrix. .............................................................         33
Table 4.6.    Expeditionary Manpower Planning Responsibility Matrix. ..................................                   36
Table 4.7.    Expeditionary Programming Responsibility Matrix. .............................................              39
Table 4.8.    Expeditionary Manpower Type* (2nd Character of MNT). ..................................                     40
       5.     Expeditionary Manpower Inspection Program. .....................................................            40
Figure 5.1.   Expeditionary manpower Inspection Report Format. ............................................               43
Table 5.1.    Manpower, Organization and Resources Core Inspection Areas. ..........................                      44
Table 5.2.    Manpower, Organization and Resources Items of Interest. ...................................                 44
Table 5.3.    Applying CIAs and IOIs to Inspections and Phases. .............................................             45
Figure 5.2.   Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 1. ....................................................................    50
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                                                    3


Figure 5.3.   Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 2. ....................................................................   51
Figure 5.4.   Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 3. ....................................................................   52
Figure 5.5.   Evaluation Plan of Example Scenario 4. ................................................................    52
Figure 5.6.   Evaluation Plan of Example Scenario 5. ................................................................    53

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                           54

Attachment 2—A2. UNIT TYPE CODE VALIDATION CHECKLIST                                                                     62

Attachment 3—A3. JOINT, AIR FORCE, AND MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION
             OPERATIONS                                                                                                  64

ATTACHMENT 4—A4. EMPLOYED MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION
         OPERATIONS AND SAMPLE FORMATS                                                                                   80

ATTACHMENT 5—A5. EXPEDITIONARY MANPOWER INSPECTION GUIDE                                                                 96


1. Expeditionary Manpower Concept.
   1.1. Expeditionary Manpower Management concept. The concept is intended to portray
   what the Manpower Community must accomplish to ensure our organizational and analytical
   tools are used effectively and efficiently to help the Air Force conduct military operations in
   support of national policies and objectives through unified action. Expeditionary Manpower
   Management is the process of structuring organizations and determining manpower
   requirements to meet both in-place and deployable Combatant Commander (CCDR)
   requirements, exercises, and other contingencies. It encompasses the determination of these
   forces and those required for in-garrison support operations over a range of National Military
   Strategy (NMS) scenarios derived through the strategic analysis process.
   1.2. Working Environment. Manpower leaders at all levels must foster a work environment
   that supports the performance of expeditionary manpower functions in daily operations at the
   employed and in-garrison locations. Leaders will ensure the community is trained, equipped
   and held accountable to perform these functions.
   1.3. Inspection Program. Manpower leaders at all levels must maintain and support the MO
   expeditionary manpower inspection program to evaluate unit efficiency, effectiveness,
   combat readiness, and emphasize the importance of Manpower‘s expeditionary
   responsibilities.
   1.4. Force Management. Manpower analysts at all levels must support commanders and
   leadership by managing authorizations, force requirements, and organizational structures
   during in-garrison operations as well as while preparing and employing forces.
       1.4.1. Authorizations are funded Unit Manpower Document (UMD) positions distributed
       by program element from HQ USAF and allocated to the MAJCOMs. Expeditionary
       manpower management affects the coding of positions and manpower resource decisions.
       Results of expeditionary manpower studies and assessments may be coded in the UMD
       by utilizing the MNT. Detailed coding values are found in Table 4.8. Coding of
4                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


       unfunded positions is appropriate only if current funding line cannot support the results
       of an AF/A1M approved study or assessment.
       1.4.2. Force requirements are positions on a Deployment Requirements Manning
       Document (DRMD) under an operational plan (OPLAN) force requirement number
       (FRN) unit type code (UTC). All force requirements are created and managed by
       expeditionary manpower processes and procedures at different organizational levels.
       Each position in a DRMD has a tasking type made up of the deployment type and the
       supported organization. See Table 4.2 for all the tasking type values. Force
       requirements are used in both contingency and exercise plans.
    1.5. Deploying MO Personnel. Manpower personnel will deploy to operational theaters and
    work diligently to support the deployed commanders and units to which they are aligned to
    organize and size their units for effective operations. Manpower deploys under the Air and
    Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) Force Module Concept as well as to fill AEF
    rotational and Individual Augmentation (IA) requirements.
       1.5.1. AETF Force Module Concept. The AETF force modules (Figure 1.1.) are a
       planning tool for packaging command and control, operational mission, and
       Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) forces. The modules provide a standardized
       template to optimize initial planning through rapid requirements generation. It provides
       rapid global projection and sustainment of combat capabilities through expression of
       military power; it further optimizes base opening, initiating operations from a bare base
       to an AEW, and a seamless transition between operational phases.
       1.5.2. Manpower is a part of the Establish-the-Airbase force module (FM). Manpower‘s
       presence in this FM comes in the form of a two-man team in the RFMAP unit type code
       (UTC). This team performs the Reception/Employment Phase of manpower functions as
       described in Chapter 4. The RFMAN UTC must arrive at the same time as the GCCS-AF
       equipment.
       1.5.3. Manpower capability for the FMs will be primarily sourced to the wing MOs and
       the Manpower Requirements squadrons and flights. Detailed posturing guidance for
       manpower is found in Appendix 1 of the Manpower, Personnel, and Services Functional
       Area Prioritization and Sequencing Guide.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                5


Figure 1.1. Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force (AETF) Force Module Concept.




   1.6. Manpower and Organization Structure. Figure 1.2 depicts the structure of the MO
   community within in-garrison and expeditionary organizations.
 6                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


Figure 1.2. Organization of Air Force MO Personnel.




     1.7. Programming Concept. Expeditionary manpower requirements are dynamic and change
     with variations in threat, equipment, and concepts of operation -often more rapidly than out-
     year program allocation through the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
     System. The premise that the manpower required to accomplish a specific workload in any
     one of three phases of the construct (i.e. non-surge, surge, and post-surge) does not
     necessarily equate to the current funded manpower authorizations forms the basis of the Air
     Force expeditionary manpower planning and programming concept. Therefore, the primary
     goal of expeditionary manpower programming is to accurately define and identify the
     manpower required to meet the unit mission, by Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) level, to
     fully execute current Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) operational requirements in differing
     scenarios. These requirements are compared with manpower authorizations to identify
     overages and shortages likely to occur up to and including full mobilization. This
     identification facilitates near-term management actions and planning necessary to correct
     these mismatches. The long-term goal of Air Force expeditionary manpower programming
     is to meet expeditionary manpower force structure requirements. This is done by projecting
     requirements into the Future Year Defense Program (FYDP) years, developing initiatives to
     eliminate projected mismatches, and funding these initiatives through the programming and
     budgeting process.
     1.8. Planning Concept. Chapters 2 and 4 address the primary functions of the Air Force
     expeditionary manpower management process. The basic functions are to:
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                         7


      1.8.1. Determine and package manpower requirements to accomplish specific and
      usually functionally oriented workload associated with fight in-place or deploying forces.
      This is accomplished in the form of UTCs contained in the Manpower Force Packaging
      System (MANFOR). Manpower requirements for in-garrison support and institutional
      forces are not usually identified in a UTC.
      1.8.2. Ensure accurate use of manpower force packages to satisfy force employment
      requirements needed to accomplish JCS assigned operational tasks and ensure these force
      employment requirements, and associated theater in-place requirements, are documented
      in the appropriate operational plan (OPLAN) time-phased force and deployment data
      (TPFDD).
      1.8.3. Document the unavailable and shortfall manpower force package employment
      requirements associated with the subsequent OPLAN TPFDD.
      1.8.4. Manage the manpower requirements of base-level plans which contain the base-
      level requirements and taskings associated with OPLANs.
      1.8.5. Use OPLANs, OSD planning scenarios, or other force lists comprising the NMS,
      as a tool to conduct manpower assessments identifying required manpower.
2. Expeditionary Manpower Management Responsibilities.
   2.1. Introduction and Universal Expeditionary Manpower Responsibilities. This chapter
   contains expeditionary Manpower management responsibilities for MO personnel at all
   levels of command at the employment and in-garrison location. It is based on the need to
   prepare and maintain our forces so they are ready to perform their missions. All MO staffs,
   offices, flights and elements will:
      2.1.1. Assist commanders and Functional Area Managers (FAM) by determining the
      need for and structure of organizations. Develop and process all Organizational Change
      Requests (OCR) to appropriate command level.
      2.1.2. Assist commanders and FAMs by determining and documenting requirements,
      both in theater and home station. Develop and process all Authorization Change
      Requests (ACR) to appropriate command level.
      2.1.3. Assist commanders and FAMs in identifying available manpower resources.
      2.1.4. Assist commanders and FAMs in comparing and matching manpower resources to
      requirements, documenting results, and recommending solutions to commanders and
      FAMs.
      2.1.5. Operate and maintain standard Air Force contingency manpower and manpower
      resource management systems.
      2.1.6. Ensure the above information is documented and communicated to the appropriate
      agencies.
      2.1.7. Provide other MO services as time and priorities permit.
   2.2. Overarching Organizational Responsibilities.
      2.2.1. AF/A1M:
8                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


           2.2.1.1. AF/A1MR. Develops expeditionary manpower requirements and resource
           management policy for all aspects of contingency planning and Defense Planning
           Scenario (DPS) analysis. AF/A1MR also provides overall MO functional guidance
           for field training, automated systems, and FAM training programs.
           2.2.1.2. AF/A1MO. Develops Air Force organization policy to set up and make
           changes to permanent and provisional (expeditionary) units and approved unit actions
           through the MAJCOMs.
           2.2.1.3. AF/A1MZ.       Develops    manpower     management     automated    systems
           management policy.
       2.2.2. Air Force Manpower Agency (AFMA). Assists HQ USAF, FOAs, DRUs, Air
       Force functional communities and MAJCOMs in making intelligent, fact-based decisions
       to promote the efficient and effective use of resources. The AFMA Management
       Engineering Division, Wartime Analysis Branch (AFMA/MASR) manages the Air Force
       Manpower Force Packaging (MANFOR) data, performs wartime analysis, and develops
       processes, procedures and systems in support of expeditionary manpower and wartime
       analysis.
       2.2.3. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU. Each MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MO staff implements HQ
       USAF manpower policies and procedures related to organizing, training, and equipping
       forces. They assist commanders, functional area managers, and subordinate units in
       establishing organizations and serve as principle manpower requirements resource
       managers to the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU commander.
       2.2.4. Numbered Air Forces (NAFs). NAFs are subordinate to MAJCOMs and may be
       designated as the Air Force component to a unified combatant command or support an
       Air Force MAJCOM component to a unified combatant command. The MO staff will
       report to the CNAF commander‘s A1 directorate and provide manpower and organization
       services to all units subordinate to it, both permanent and provisional. They assist
       commanders, functional area managers, and subordinate units in establishing
       organizations and serve as principle manpower requirements resource managers to the
       commander.
       2.2.5. Wings/Groups at Deployed/Sustained Locations. MO personnel are critical
       advisors to the home station and deployed commander providing manpower expertise as
       required. The MO implements higher headquarters guidance and serves the in-garrison
       wing/group, subordinate units and other units designated by its parent MAJCOM. Wing
       level MO personnel will be located in the Manpower and Personnel Flight of the
       Expeditionary Force Support Squadron (EFSS) at the employment location. System
       connectivity and shared work space may necessitate collocation, in whole or in part, with
       the PERSCO team to promote a healthier and robust information exchange. To
       determine the number of MO requirements required for contingency operations, refer to
       the Manpower Supplement of the War Mobilization Plan (WMP) Volume 1.
    2.3. Contingency and Crisis Action Planning Responsibilities.
       2.3.1. Overview. There are many contingency planning scenarios, and each is based on
       specific threats, mission requirements and/or assumptions stated in the Joint Strategic
       Capabilities Plan (JSCP) and other supporting documents. The JSCP tasks Combatant
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       9


     Commanders (CCDR) to prepare a wide range of plans to meet Chairmen, Joint Chiefs of
     Staff (CJCS) contingency planning requirements. They focus on specific, anticipated
     threats and current force structure from a force employment perspective within a given
     theater of operations. They are based on mission requirements and assumptions stated in
     the NMS and other supporting documents. It also focuses on total (not just in-theater)
     requirements and force structure from a force provider perspective to respond to the
     threats specified in the NMS. Contingency planning focuses on anticipating the future in
     the current time frame. The deployment requirements are those theater requirements
     needed to satisfy the concurrent threats specified by the Operational Plans (OPLAN). For
     Manpower, contingency focuses on establishing organizations; determining deployment
     and in-place requirements; and matching manpower resources to contingency
     requirements. Crisis action planning tailors contingency plans on the shelf to a specific
     crisis in a single point in time, or creating a new plan using an expedited contingency
     planning process. The primary agencies involved in determining requirements and
     managing forces required by the supported CCDR are the Air Components (force
     employers) and the supporting MAJCOMs (force providers).
     2.3.2. AF/A1M will:
        2.3.2.1. Develop policy and provide procedural guidance on determining total force
        requirements and organizational structure to support contingencies and operations;
        and monitor expeditionary manpower requirements through the HQ Air Force Crisis
        Action Team (AFCAT), NAFs, Air Components, MAJCOMs and other field units.
        2.3.2.2. Upon CAT activation, the Manpower, Organization and Resources
        (AF/A1M), Force Management Policy (AF/A1P) and Services (AF/A1S) staffs
        function together to staff and operate the CAT A1 position of the AFCAT cell.
        2.3.2.3. Notify MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs of information expectations, timelines and
        anticipated use of programming information.
     2.3.3. AF/A1MR will:
        2.3.3.1. Oversee and review programs implementing manpower requirements and
        resource management.
        2.3.3.2. Perform analysis, assessment, and validation of wartime capability derived
        from HQ USAF, Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS), and Office of the Secretary of Defense
        (OSD) formulated policies and programming baselines affecting mix of military and
        civilian manpower end strength.
        2.3.3.3. Work with AF/A5XW, Offices of FAM Oversight (OFAMO), and HAF
        FAMs to ensure both overall and functional planning guidance is consistent/sufficient
        for use in determining missions and the manpower required to accomplish those
        missions.
        2.3.3.4. Resolve AEF manpower tasking shortfalls in the event AFPC/DPW
        schedulers, MAJCOM/A1s, or wings are unable to source AEF manpower taskings
        through the AEF Libraries.
10                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        2.3.3.5. Provide the Force Support FAM inputs for the manpower portion of the AEF
        Posturing and Sequencing Guidance, ensuring UTC capability is postured against the
        correct manpower requirements.
        2.3.3.6. Participate as a member of the War Planning and Execution Council of
        Colonels (CoC), the War Planning Integrated Process Team (WPIPT) and the Force
        Projection Community of Interest (CoI) by providing functional representation for all
        manpower issues.
     2.3.4. AF/A1MO will:
        2.3.4.1. Develop policy to create and change permanent and provisional
        (expeditionary) units.
        2.3.4.2. Process organization actions requiring HQ USAF approval per AFPD 38-5,
        Unit Designations, or AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization for expeditionary units
        standing up in the CCDR area of responsibility.
        2.3.4.3. Oversee and review programs implementing organization management.
     2.3.5. AF/A1MZ will:
        2.3.5.1. Oversee and review programs implementing manpower management
        automated systems.
        2.3.5.2. Produce machine data interfaces between the Manpower Programming and
        Execution System (MPES) and expeditionary manpower related systems as required.
     2.3.6. AFMA/MASR will:
        2.3.6.1. Evaluate and enhance contingency/wartime management processes and
        procedures to ensure they support Air Force Expeditionary Manpower Management
        programs.
        2.3.6.2. Develop automated system requirements to implement expeditionary
        manpower management policies, responsibilities, processes and procedures.
        2.3.6.3. Provide AF/A1MR/A1PR/FAMs with contingency requirements, tasking and
        manpower resource information and analysis.
        2.3.6.4. Manage Air Force Unit Type Code information for inclusion into the Joint
        Operational Planning and Execution System (JOPES).
        2.3.6.5. Review Force Support Squadron (FSS) Manpower Section UTC manpower
        validation documentation provided by the MAJCOM MO Staff, and conduct
        assessments of the validation process and forward FSS Manpower Section
        documentation, with AFMA/MASR assessment, to AF/A1MR.
        2.3.6.6. Apply direct code (AFSC, SEI, and FAC) conversions to all standard UTC
        manpower force elements, OPLAN detailed force requirements and AEF Library
        manpower detail and coordinate these updates and direct conversions with
        MAJCOM, Air Component and AFPC/DPW staffs to ensure accurate and timely
        application.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                    11


        2.3.6.7. Participate as a member of the War Planning and Execution Systems
        Integrated Process Team (WPSIPT) by providing functional representation and
        testing support for all manpower related functions.
     2.3.7. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU will:
        2.3.7.1. Assist FAMs in determining total deployment planning and in-place
        requirements for all units and ensure they are documented in Air Force contingency
        and manpower resource management systems. Gaining MAJCOMs determine
        deployment and in-place requirements necessary upon mobilization and the Air
        National Guard (ANG)/Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) determines round-out
        requirements for organizing, training and equipping their forces.
        2.3.7.2. Assist FAMs with matching postured UTC requirements to UMD
        authorizations. The matching process uses automated tools such as the Posturing
        Analysis Tool (PAT), DCAPES Analysis and Feasibility Tool (AFT), or MAJCOM
        unique tools to the greatest extent possible. Matching may be accomplished as
        required by the functional community, but complete matching results, consolidated by
        the host manpower agency (i.e., MAJCOM A1M), are required prior to the Global
        Force Management (GFM) timeline for sourcing nominations. Matching results
        submission will be directed by AF/A1M and passed to AFMA/MASR in a UMD
        position number to Availability Line Number (ALN) format specified by AFMA.
        2.3.7.3. Document requirements in the Manpower Annex to contingency plans.
        2.3.7.4. Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK) Responsibilities.
        (Refer to AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, Chapter 5, for
        complete MEFPAK responsibilities.)
           2.3.7.4.1. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs with MEFPAK Responsibilities.                   The
           MEFPAK Responsible Agency (MRA) will:
               2.3.7.4.1.1. Assist FAMs in determining the need for new, updated, or as
               necessary, to cancel a UTC and review the manpower validation
               accomplished by the pilot unit‘s servicing FSS Manpower Section. Ensure the
               servicing Manpower function maintains the appropriate documentation
               detailing how the validation was accomplished and forwards UTC validation
               documentation to AFMA/MASR.
               2.3.7.4.1.2. Document Mission Capability Statements (MISCAP) and
               manpower detail and approve Manpower Force Element (MFE) details
               submitted internally by the MAJCOM, FAMS or the FSS Manpower Section
               via the DCAPES system.
           2.3.7.4.2. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs without MEFPAK responsibilities. The MO
           staff will:
               2.3.7.4.2.1. Assist FAMs in determining the need for new UTCs.
               2.3.7.4.2.2. Assist FAMs in assessing the manpower requirements for UTCs
               the MAJCOM provides.
        2.3.7.5. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MO staffs and Manpower Sections will:
12                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


            2.3.7.5.1. Develop command-unique guidance.
            2.3.7.5.2. Assist with interpreting Air Force guidance and using Air Force
            systems, and will contact the appropriate agencies for clarification and
            improvement recommendations as necessary.
            2.3.7.5.3. Accomplish Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements
            reviews and compare Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)
            reportable UTC to authorized structure and evaluate UTC MISCAPs for currency.
     2.3.8. Numbered Air Force (NAF). NAFs may be designated as the Air Force
     component to a unified combatant command or support an Air Force MAJCOM to a
     unified combatant command. These responsibilities also apply to MAJCOMs acting as
     the Air Component. The MO Staff will:
        2.3.8.1. Assist the FAMs in determining Area of Responsibility (AOR)
        organizational structures and validate contingency requirements necessary to support
        the current and continuing mission(s) in their AOR.
        2.3.8.2. Translate Combatant Commander (CCDR) Requests for Forces/Capabilities
        (RFF/RFC) sourced to the Air Force into standard UTCs and tailor as necessary to
        meet the required capability. This also includes creating units and/or requirements to
        support and account for Airmen assigned to Joint Expeditionary Tasking (JET) and
        Individual Augmentation (IA) requirements.
        2.3.8.3. State augmentation requirements in the form of standard UTCs in the
        MEFPAK.
        2.3.8.4. Ensure organizational structure and employment requirements in its AOR are
        documented and comply with organization policy.
        2.3.8.5. Conduct theater specific familiarization training for personnel preparing to
        deploy or participating in major exercises.
     2.3.9. Wings/Centers will:
        2.3.9.1. MEFPAK Responsibilities. Refer to AFI 10-401, Chapter 5, for complete
        MEFPAK responsibilities.
            2.3.9.1.1. Wings/Centers with delegated MEFPAK Responsibilities (Pilot Units).
            The servicing Manpower Section will:
               2.3.9.1.1.1. Assist FAMs in determining the need for new UTCs and validate
               the manpower requirements of existing UTCs.
               2.3.9.1.1.2. Document the MISCAP and manpower detail and convey to the
               MAJCOM MO staff.
               2.3.9.1.1.3. Maintain documentation detailing the manpower validation
               process and results and forward to the MAJCOM MO Staff for review. The
               FSS Manpower Section will maintain documentation until the UTC is
               cancelled or until the next annual UTC validation is conducted.
            2.3.9.1.2. Wings/Centers without MEFPAK Responsibility (Non-Pilot Units).
            The servicing Manpower Section will:
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                    13


               2.3.9.1.2.1. Assist FAMs with determining the need for new UTCs.
               2.3.9.1.2.2. Assist FAMs by assessing UTC manpower requirements the
               wing/center provides.
        2.3.9.2. Ensure deployment and in-place planning requirements, resources
        (authorizations) and resources-to-requirements match information available in
        DCAPES.
        2.3.9.3. Provide requirements, resources and UTC/UMD compare information to the
        Installation Deployment Officer (IDO), commanders, their designated
        representative(s), wing leadership and the MPF as requested.
        2.3.9.4. Assist commanders and FAMs with determining continuing in-place unit
        missions and the manpower requirements required to accomplish the mission(s).
        2.3.9.5. Compare and match resources to requirements within acceptable constraints
        and identify potential mismatches, overages and/or shortages. Assist commanders
        and FAMs in satisfying shortfall requirements from within existing wing/center
        resources.
        2.3.9.6. Evaluate requirements, resources (manpower authorizations) and resource-
        to-requirement analyses based upon changes proposed by unit commanders or FAMs;
        also coordinate proposed changes with the wing/center commander and convey
        proposed changes to its MAJCOM MO staff.
        2.3.9.7. Supports readiness programs:
           2.3.9.7.1. Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS)/AEF Reporting
           Tool (ART). Provide unit SORTS/ART monitors with deployment and in-place
           requirements data, and advise commanders of options to resolve discrepancies
           between the total UTC/in-place requirement needs and available UMD
           authorizations.
           2.3.9.7.2. Augmentation Duty. Assist commanders and the Base Augmentation
           Review Board (ARB) with determining and validating ARB requirements to
           support the scenario of the augmentation program (e.g., sustained contingency
           requirements for base survivability, security forces, command post and cargo-
           marshaling.) Document Exemptions and calculate the Fair Share with remaining
           available support IAW AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty.
           2.3.9.7.3. Deployment Planning. Build local exercises, worst case scenarios and
           base support plans in support of local commanders and the IDO.
           2.3.9.7.4. Installation Deployment Plan (IDP).      Provide the Installation
           Deployment Planning Committee and units with deployment and in-place
           requirements, resources (authorizations), and requirements-to-resources
           information and recommend ways to deal with overages and shortages.
           2.3.9.7.5. Civilian Mobilization. Assist commanders and the Civilian Personnel
           Office (CPO) with identifying key and emergency essential civilian authorizations
           and convey this information to the MAJCOM MO staff to update the manpower
           resource management system.
14                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


  2.4. Expeditionary Resource Programming Responsibilities.
     2.4.1. Introduction.   Expeditionary programming is based on approved mission
     requirements and assumptions stated in the NMS and other supporting documents. It
     focuses on total (not merely in-theater) requirements and force structure (from a force
     provider perspective) in order to respond to threats specified in the NMS. Total force
     planning and programming looks out (up to) six years into the future, translates
     programming requirements into useful MPES coding that serves as a baseline to
     accurately posture UTC capability (forces). The primary agencies involved in overseeing
     the programming of forces are the HAF, MAJCOMs, FOAs and DRUs.
     2.4.2. AF/A1M notifies MAJCOM/NAF/FOA/DRU MOs of information expectations,
     timelines and anticipated use of programming information.
     2.4.3. MAJCOM/NAF/FOA/DRU. The MO Staff will:
         2.4.3.1. Ensure all wartime and expeditionary planning actions are up-to-date based
         on guidance from AF/A1M.
         2.4.3.2. Ensure programmed deployment, in-place and institutional requirements are
         accurate and documented in standard Air Force contingency and manpower resource
         management systems. Gaining MAJCOMs determine in-place and deployment
         requirements required upon mobilization. The ANG/AFRC will determine round-out
         requirements for organizing, training and equipping their forces. Table 4.8 contains
         the values for coding expeditionary (MNT) manpower requirements in MPES.
         2.4.3.3. Convey programming requirements to AFMA/MASR (i.e., the Strategic
         Manpower Assessment).
     2.4.4. AFMA/MASR reviews deployment and in-place programming requirements to
     extract the data from Air Force contingency and manpower resource management
     systems and provides to AF/A1M.
  2.5. Execution Responsibilities.
     2.5.1. General. Contingency and/or crisis action planning execution includes two
     distinct operations: deployments and employments. This section outlines the duties and
     responsibilities necessary to ensure their successful accomplishment.
     2.5.2. Deployment (Transition) Responsibilities. Deployment operations include every
     action necessary to successfully identify and/or develop a plan to execute, initiate its
     execution and deploy assets to a known location. Agency responsibilities include:
         2.5.2.1. MAJCOM/NAF/FOA/DRU MO staffs will:
             2.5.2.1.1. Determine deployment and in-place requirements required upon
             mobilization; ANG and AFRC will determine round-out requirements for
             organizing, training and equipping their forces.
             2.5.2.1.2. Compare and match resources to requirements using A3.6 within
             acceptable constraints and document any identified matches/mismatches (i.e.,
             overages or shortages).
             2.5.2.1.3. Advise FAMs of units possessing resource overages and shortages and
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     15


           assist in rectifying shortfall requirement from within existing command resources.
           2.5.2.1.4. Evaluate and staff, with the appropriate FAMs, organizational
           requirements and resource changes as proposed by subordinate locations.
        2.5.2.2. AFPC/DPW. AFPC/DPW provides sourcing solutions for MAJCOM
        verification to meet CCDR requirements using a hierarchical progression using the
        AEF construct.
        2.5.2.3. Supported Air Component. The MO staff will:
           2.5.2.3.1. Assist FAMs with determining theater organizational structures and
           establishing provisional units at each employment location to achieve approved
           organizational structures. Ensure Attached PAS codes are created to support the
           organizational structure and are used in the OPLAN TPFDD requirements.
           2.5.2.3.2. Assist FAMs with determining total contingency employment and
           augmentation contingency requirements necessary to support the current and
           continuing mission(s) in their theater. Augmentation requirements will be stated
           in the form of JOPES standard UTCs and tailored as needed to meet specific
           CCDR requirements.
           2.5.2.3.3. Convey employment/force (including augmentation) requirements to
           the appropriate force provider.
           2.5.2.3.4. Ensure deployment requirements and MAJCOM sourcing (based on
           current sourcing policies) are documented in Joint and Air Force contingency
           management systems, as appropriate.
           2.5.2.3.5. Coordinate with the Force Support staff, as necessary, to resolve
           requirement/sourcing issues.
           2.5.2.3.6. Delegate responsibility for organization and manpower requirements
           management within the specific AFFOR area of responsibility, when the Air
           Component establishes AFFOR to conduct command and control of specific
           operations. Ensure units and/or requirements are created to support and account
           for Airmen assigned to Joint Expeditionary Tasking (JET) and Individual
           Augmentation (IA) requirements.
           2.5.2.3.7. Establish and designate an Expeditionary Force Support Squadron
           (EFSS) Manpower Section to service each employment location in its theater and
           ensure they are documented in the contingency management system, or
           manpower resource management system, as appropriate.
           2.5.2.3.8. Request an Air Force MAJCOM perform specific tasks it cannot
           perform if its MO staff is insufficient or lacks the capability.
           2.5.2.3.9. Supported Air Component A1 cell. Once the Air Component‘s CAT or
           equivalent is activated, representatives from the MO, Personnel and Services
           staffs will operate the Air Component‘s A1 cell.
        2.5.2.4. AFFOR. The MO staff will:
           2.5.2.4.1. Assist FAMs with determining AOR organizational structures and
16                                                           AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        contingency requirements as necessary to support the current and continuing
        mission(s) in their AOR.
        2.5.2.4.2. Evaluate and staff, with the appropriate FAMs, organizational and
        requirements changes proposed by subordinate employment locations.
        2.5.2.4.3. Request establishment of provisional units, as required, at each
        employment location to reflect approved organizational structures.    Request
        Attached PAS codes be created to support the organizational structure and are
        used in the OPLAN TPFDD requirements.
        2.5.2.4.4. Ensure organizational structure and employment requirements in its
        AOR are validated and documented.
        2.5.2.4.5. Coordinate with the Personnel staff, as necessary, to resolve and
        requirement/sourcing issues/discrepancies.
        2.5.2.4.6. Ensure the EFSS Manpower Section has been established and
        designated to service each employment location in its AOR.
        2.5.2.4.7. Operate and maintain standard Air Force contingency manpower
        management systems.
        2.5.2.4.8. Provide other Manpower and Organization services as time and
        priorities permit.
        2.5.2.4.9. Document the AOR‘s employment requirements and serve as the focal
        point between the Air Component and subordinate employment locations for
        manpower requirements issues.
           2.5.2.4.9.1. Ensure augmentation requirements are classified in accordance
           with the CCDR‘s classification guidance.
           2.5.2.4.9.2. Ensure augmentation requirements are stated in the form of
           standard UTCs to the extent possible.
           2.5.2.4.9.3. Ensure the flow of augmentation requirements accurately reflects
           the actual time frame required in place, especially when transitioning to
           rotational operations.
           2.5.2.4.9.4. Ensure employment requirements are annotated in DCAPES.
           2.5.2.4.9.5. Update corrected employing organization         information   in
           DCAPES upon receipt from subordinate locations.
     2.5.2.5. The Supporting MAJCOM/NAF/FOA/DRU MO staff will:
        2.5.2.5.1. Receive deployment requirements via DCAPES from the supported Air
        Component MO staff through AFPC/DPW.
        2.5.2.5.2. Assist FAMs with identifying potential units to deploy when the total
        unit tasking exceeds a unit‘s capability and convey tasking errors to DPW to
        resolve with the supported Air Component.
        2.5.2.5.3. Review and evaluate, with the appropriate FAM, requirements changes
        proposed by the subordinate deploying base(s) and staff coordinated/proposed
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                  17


           changes to DPW for coordination with the supported Air Component.
           Requirements will be reflected in the form of JOPES standard UTCs to the
           maximum extent possible.
           2.5.2.5.4. Advise FAMs which units have overages and shortages and assist in
           rectifying shortfall disconnects from within existing command resources;
           document actions by matching resources to requirements.
           2.5.2.5.5. Perform Air Force Verification Capability (AFVC) in DCAPES for
           each sourced requirement.
        2.5.2.6. Gaining MAJCOM for ANG and AFRC forces will:
           2.5.2.6.1. Coordinate with ANG, AFRC and Air Reserve Personnel Center
           (ARPC) staffs, as appropriate, to assist FAMs in identifying ANG and AFRC
           resources to meet tasking requirement(s).
           2.5.2.6.2. If mobilization is necessary to obtain ANG and Air Force Reserve
           forces, assists MAJCOM A1/A3/A5 staff in creating a mobilization force list
           containing forces needed to be mobilized. MAJCOM A1/A3/A5 staff will
           communicate the force list to the approval authority designated in AFI 10-401.
           2.5.2.6.3. Convey deployment requirements to tasked units via DCAPES and
           prepare a joint message with the Personnel staff to the appropriate MOs and MPS
           notifying them to expect deployment execution requirements and the urgency of
           taking the necessary action expeditiously. Ensure the servicing AFRC/NGB A1
           receives the execution order immediately upon issuance.
           2.5.2.6.4. If a MAJCOM/FOA/DRU CAT or equivalent is activated,
           representatives from the Manpower, Personnel and Services staffs will staff the
           MAJCOM/FOA/DRU A1 CAT position.
           2.5.2.6.5. If a MAJCOM is supporting another MAJCOM, the supporting
           MAJCOM interacts with the supported MAJCOM as if the supported MAJCOM
           were an Air Component.
           2.5.2.6.6. Operate and maintain standard Air Force contingency manpower
           management systems.
        2.5.2.7. Deploying Locations. The Servicing FSS Manpower Section will:
           2.5.2.7.1. Receive deployment requirements data from the supporting MAJCOM,
           in conjunction with the Installation Deployment Readiness Center (IDRC), and
           convey them to the servicing IPR and wing leadership. (Note: receiving this
           information from other agencies requires explicit approval from the supporting
           MAJCOM.)
           2.5.2.7.2. Evaluate UTC deployment requirements in light of other contingency
           taskings with the IDO and UDMs for tasking accuracy (reviewing UTC tasking to
           ensure they are tasked to the correct unit) and tasking validity (reviewing UTC
           tasking and advising its parent MAJCOM MO staff, IDO, and the appropriate
           UDM if tasking is not within the units‘ deployment planning/mobility posture).
           2.5.2.7.3. Evaluate all UTC and non-UTC deployment requirements with the
18                                                               AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        IDO/ UDM to assess each unit‘s ability to support the tasking in light of in-place
        and/or other deployment commitments.
        2.5.2.7.4. Evaluate and staff, with the IDO, all requirement changes proposed by
        commanders and UDMs and convey the coordinated proposed changes to the
        parent MAJCOM MO staff, stating requirements in the form of JOPES standard
        UTCs.
        2.5.2.7.5. Operate and maintain DCAPES, to include using the system to
        annotate a tasking (MO validation), ensure the tasking is ready for personnel
        assignment action, and create the Levy file for load to LOGMOD.
     2.5.2.8. MAJCOMs/NAFs/FOAs/DRUs with continuing in-place missions affected
     by contingency operations. In-place continuing missions are sometimes affected by
     contingency operations when a contingency operation drives manpower requirements
     change for more than 30 days based on the employment of forces, the deployment of
     additional forces, a change in the level of activity (i.e., workload change), a change in
     man-hour availability, or any combination of these. In this situation, MAJCOMs
     have the same responsibilities as a supported Air Component and may also have
     concurrent deployment responsibilities as supporting MAJCOMs. The MO staff will:
        2.5.2.8.1. Assist   FAMs with determining total contingency employment
        requirements and augmentation/contingency requirements (total requirements
        minus those satisfied by forces present during peacetime operations) that are
        necessary to support the current and continuing mission(s).
        2.5.2.8.2. Evaluate and staff, with the appropriate FAMs, organizational and
        requirements changes proposed by subordinate units. Ensure changes are made to
        Air Force contingency and manpower resource management systems, as
        appropriate.
        2.5.2.8.3. Ensure requirements are documented in the standard Air Force
        contingency and manpower resource management systems and conveyed to the
        servicing FSS Manpower Section. Further, the MO staff will ensure these
        manpower contingency requirements are conveyed to the tasked base in a timely
        manner to meet the established deployment timeline. Each UTC must be sourced
        to the proper agency tasked to fill the manpower requirement.
     2.5.2.9. Wings/Centers Outside the AOR with Continuing In-place Missions
     Affected by Contingency Operations. Non-AOR wings/centers have the same
     responsibilities as employment locations (para 2.5.3.1.5) and may also have
     concurrent deployment responsibilities (para 2.5.2.7).
     2.5.2.10. AFMA/MASR. Consolidate all employment and deployment requirements
     for all wartime and contingency operations, JCS exercises and any other military
     operation or exercise into a total statement of contingency requirements for the Air
     Force.
        2.5.2.10.1. Manage AF Manpower Force Packaging System (MANFOR) UTC
        information and convey to AF/A5XW for inclusion into JOPES and to Manpower
        and Personnel staffs at all levels of command.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       19


            2.5.2.10.2. Evaluate and enhance contingency manpower requirements and
            manpower resource management processes and procedures by comparing
            requirements information at all levels of command.
            2.5.2.10.3. Provide AF/A1MR/A1PR/FAMs with contingency requirements,
            tasking and manpower resource information and analysis.
     2.5.3. Employment Operations. Actions required to deploy a force to an existing/bare
     base site and/or stand-up/implement a plan up for sustained operations over an extended
     period of time.
        2.5.3.1. Air Component. Each Air Component‘s A1 office has a MO staff during
        contingency operations. The employed MO staff reports directly to the AFFOR/A1
        or JFACC/J1. The MO staff services the Air Component and all units subordinate to
        it. If a CAT or similar organization is activated, the MO, Personnel and Services
        staffs will work together to staff the A1 CAT position.
            2.5.3.1.1. Assist FAMs in identifying internal manpower authorizations to meet
            its combatant commander‘s joint augmentation requirements.
            2.5.3.1.2. Document the combatant commander‘s joint augmentation
            requirements and internal sourcing in DCAPES, which will convey the
            information to HQ USAF.
            2.5.3.1.3. Air Force Special Operations Command. AFSOC may have a
            subordinate Air Force Special Operations Component Command to perform Air
            Component responsibilities for the Air Force forces operationally assigned to
            AFSOC. If this command is not capable of performing these responsibilities, the
            Air Component under the same combatant command is designated to perform
            them, AFSOC will provide the necessary/appropriate support.
            2.5.3.1.4. Air Force Forces (AFFOR). An Air Component may establish a
            subordinate headquarters to manage specific operations and delegate operational
            management responsibilities. Note that AFFORs do not interact formally with
            MAJCOMs regarding providing forces; this is strictly an Air Component
            responsibility. The MO staff reports to the AFFOR commander and acts as the
            focal point between the Air Component and subordinate employment locations for
            manpower requirement issues; it services the AFFOR and all subordinate units. If
            a CAT or similar organization is activated, MO, Personnel and Services will work
            together to operate the CAT A1 position.
            2.5.3.1.5. Employed Wings and other Subordinate Units. The Air Component
            MO staff establishes or designates an EFSS Manpower Section to service each
            Air Component subordinate unit; the wing servicing EFSS Manpower Section is a
            key advisor to the commander. If feasible, it is highly desirable that Manpower
            collocate with the Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO)
            Team to enhance the exchange of contingency information and share system
            connectivity. MO personnel are available to provide services 7 days a week, 24
            hours a day. Refer to the Manpower Supplement of WMP Volume 1 to determine
            when MO personnel are needed at employment locations. Refer to Attachment 4
            for specific tools to use in carrying out employment location responsibilities. The
20                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


           employed EFSS Manpower Section will:
               2.5.3.1.5.1. Notify the Air Component MO staff and AFMA/MASR within 24
               hours upon activation as well as when it is inactivated. The EFSS Manpower
               Section will submit the notification message using the format in Figure A4.3.
               2.5.3.1.5.2. Receive organizational structure and requirements of the
               locations it services from its Air Component (Note: receiving this information
               from other agencies requires explicit approval from the Air Component).
               Develop organizational information, if not provided, through analysis of
               assigned forces DRMD, and receive G-Series orders from Air Component
               through the MAJCOM and provides to PERSCO for personnel G-Series
               orders.
               2.5.3.1.5.3. Ensure each requirement‘s employment information is correct
               and conveys necessary changes to its Air Component MO staff.
               2.5.3.1.5.4. Provide local commanders and designated representatives with
               command relationships, organizational structure, requirements determination
               assistance and requirements information. Refer chain of command issues to
               the servicing Staff Judge Advocate.
               2.5.3.1.5.5. Coordinate local organizational structure and requirements
               change requests with wing commander and appropriate unit commander or
               FAM. Evaluates organizational structure and requirements changes proposed
               by commanders and designated representatives and conveys proposed changes
               to its AFFOR or Air Component MO staff; requirements will be stated in the
               form of JOPES standard UTCs.
               2.5.3.1.5.6. Recommend alternate pools of resources (i.e., host nation support,
               contracted assistance, or temporary cross-utilization of existing resources) to
               commanders and designated representatives.
               2.5.3.1.5.7. Work with the servicing PERSCO team and AFFOR or Force
               Component Command MO staffs to resolve employment requirement vice
               personnel assigned/attached discrepancies.
               2.5.3.1.5.8. Operate and maintain standard Air Force contingency manpower
               management systems.
               2.5.3.1.5.9. Provide other Manpower and Organization services as time and
               priorities allow.
               2.5.3.1.5.10. Submit an after-action report to AF/A1MR, the supported Air
               Component/MO Staff, AFFOR/A1 Staff, the supporting MAJCOM/MO staff,
               and AFMA/MASR within thirty days following deployment.
  2.6. Unit Type Code (UTC) Management.
     2.6.1. UTC development duties and responsibilities associated with Expeditionary
     Manpower Management (for AFMA, the MEFPAK Responsible Agency (MRA), and the
     MRA Manpower Office) are found in AFI 10-401. The process and procedures
     associated with these duties are documented in paragraph 4.7 of this document.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                          21


      2.6.2. The use of Manpower UTCs is described in the to the USAF War and
      Mobilization Plan, Volume I (WMP), Manpower Supplement.
3. Systems Supporting Expeditionary Manpower Management.
   3.1. Standard Systems. The manpower career field operates within two Air Force systems:
      3.1.1. Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES).
      3.1.2. DCAPES.
   3.2. Non-Standard Systems. Manpower analysts may use non-standard systems to perform
   mission related functions in the absence of a standard system solution or application.
   Manpower functionality within these systems must be communicated to AF/A1MR or
   AFMA/MASR for requirement submissions to the War Planning and Execution Integrated
   Process Team (WPIPT).
   3.3. Description of Systems. (Tables 3.1 and 3.2 describe the systems, users, suppliers and
   their products, system functions, customers and the products that are available.)
      3.3.1. MPES Overview. MPES is a web based resource management portal committed
      to shaping the future of manpower resource management throughout the Air Force. At
      the core of this capability is the requirement to provide real time manpower resource and
      manpower accountability throughout an organization, while ensuring mission
      effectiveness and readiness are maintained. MPES provides an interactive, collaborative
      environment where the system, assisted by powerful web agents, plays an active role in
      allocating manpower resources and analyzing data against the organization's established
      structure while providing programmers, resource managers and analysts the tools they
      need to better manage their manpower resources, analyze trends, make educated
      decisions and effect tangible changes. MPES has an automated interface with DCAPES.
      3.3.2. DCAPES Overview. DCAPES provides the Air Force the ability to perform
      operational planning and execution with a higher degree of precision and detail that
      enhances the overall Global Command and Control System (GCCS) joint planning
      process. DCAPES interfaces with the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
      (JOPES), Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS) and other Air
      Force systems. Table 3.1 lists the application and primary users.
          3.3.2.1. Air Force JOPES Editing Tool (AFJET). AFJET provides the Joint Planning
          and Execution Community (JPEC) a rapid, user-friendly tool to update and maintain
          operation plans (OPLAN) and maintenance of Time-Phased Force Deployment Data
          (TPFDD).
          3.3.2.2. Air Force Query Tool (AFQT)/Dynamic Query Tool (DQT). This is a
          comprehensive, high-speed data query and information-reporting tool that operates
          against the JOPES database, DCAPES tables and portions of the GSORTS database.
          AFQT/DQT can run queries against DCAPES tables and multiple OPLANs
          simultaneously; it can also retrieve status of forces/readiness information and retrieve
          scheduling and movement information (i.e., carrier itinerary, allocation and manifest
          information) rapidly and efficiently.
 22                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


            3.3.2.3. Analysis and Feasibility Tool (AFT). This tool allows users to perform
            analyses such as comparing a unit's tasked/postured UTC(s) to the unit's manpower
            (UMD) authorization.
            3.3.2.4. Unit Type Management (UTM). UTM is the module for registering and
            maintaining UTCs and allows users to request a new UTC; request a change to an
            existing UTC; or request an existing UTC be cancelled. Users can also import and
            view logistics data and create or maintain manpower details, as well as Mission
            Capability (MISCAP) statements.
            3.3.2.5. UTC Availability (UTA). UTA is the module used to posture and sequence
            warfighting UTC capability across the Air Force. UTCs are tied to specific
            organization unit codes and given a posturing code to identify a deploying, or in-
            place, capability.
            3.3.2.6. Personnel Deployments (PD). Personnel deployment functionality is found
            in the Taskings and Deployed Personnel module. This module allows base level
            logistics, manpower and personnel to validate, determine eligibility, and assign
            people to OPLAN taskings for TDY order creation and personnel movement and
            accountability.
            3.3.2.7. Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO). This Web-
            enabled module accounts for deployed personnel at the employment location and
            updates the master deployed personnel database. Manpower and Personnel
            specialists can use this module to track force requirement positions projected at their
            location and update the office symbol code (OSC) of the personnel deployment
            record.

Table 3.1. Contingency Management Applications.
           Applications                                Primary Users/Function
1. AFJET                           Air Component – Editing TPFDD/DRMD
                                   MAJCOM - Editing/View TPFDD/DRMD
                                   In-Garrison and deployed location – Viewing TPFDD/DRMD
2. AFQT/DQT                        All Users - Analysis
3. UTM                             MEFPAK Responsible Agency - Manage UTCs
                                   Wings - Maintain UTC Manpower Details
4. UTA                             MAJCOM AEF Cells - Posturing and Sequencing
5. PD                              In-Garrison Personnel and Manpower function
6. PERSCO                          Employed location PERSCO and Manpower Teams
       3.3.3. Non-Standard Systems are often denoted by the needs, or organizational user
       responsibilities. For example, Air Component systems are developed to manage theater-
       specific functions while MAJCOM/FOA/DRU systems meet the needs of Air Force
       initiatives when standard systems fail.
4. Expeditionary Manpower Management Processes and Procedures.
   4.1. Purpose. Processes describe what is done and procedures describe how to perform a
   process. After understanding the environment, policies, concepts of operations, and
   responsibilities, specify the processes used to carry out all responsibilities. Next, arrange
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                                  23


   them in a logical order as much as possible, realizing these processes are often dynamic and
   interrelated. Then, give step-by-step procedures for each process. This chapter may not
   address every specific manpower and organization process. Notify AFMA/MASR of any
   specific processes to be added to this chapter.
   4.2. The Basic Manpower and Organization Process.
      4.2.1. Analyze the mission and environment.
      4.2.2. Organize and structure units.
      4.2.3. Determine requirements.
      4.2.4. Identify available resources.
      4.2.5. Compare resources to requirements (analysis).
      4.2.6. Resolve mismatches.
   4.3. Planning and Execution Process Overview. These processes are arranged by scenario
   phase in the following order: contingency planning phase, contingency deployment phase,
   contingency reception/employment/sustainment phase, UTC management process,
   expeditionary planning process and expeditionary programming process.
   4.4. Contingency Planning Phase. Deployment planning is part of the planning process that
   focuses on readying/positioning the force to meet the defined mission at the employment
   location. A unit‘s ability to conduct successful deployment operations and accomplish the
   mission once deployed, depends on efficient and effective pre-deployment planning and
   training.

Table 4.1. Contingency Planning Phase Responsibility Matrix.



                                                                                          Employment
                                             MAJCOM /




                                                                      Component
                                             Supporting




                                                          Deploying




                                                                                  AFFOR
                                   USAF




                                                          Wing




                                                                                          Wing
                                             NAF
                                   HQ




                                                                      Air




      Process
      1. Establish, document
      organizational structures
                                                                        X         X
      within the AOR
      2. Build and manage the
                                                                        X         X
      OPLAN.

      3. Assess the
                                                                                            X
      organization and
      adequacy of forces at
      employing wings.
      4. Assess OPLAN at the
                                                X
      supporting MAJCOM:
      4.1. Assess MAJCOM                        X
24                                                                     AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012




                                                                                        Employment
                                           MAJCOM /




                                                                    Component
                                           Supporting




                                                        Deploying




                                                                                AFFOR
                                  USAF




                                                        Wing




                                                                                        Wing
                                           NAF
                                  HQ




                                                                    Air
     Process
     supportability of the
     OPLAN.
     4.2. Mobilization:
     4.2.1. Assess the need for
                                              X
     mobilization.
     4.2.2. Develop the
                                              X
     Mobilization Force List.
     4.3. Assess OPLAN
                                              X
     requirements.
     5. Assess OPLAN at the
                                                          X
     deploying Wing/Center.
     4.4.1. Establish and Document Organizational Structures within the AOR. The AFFOR
     and Air Component manpower function assists FAMs and commanders in determining
     and refining theater organizational structures and with evaluating organizational changes
     received from the employment locations; these functions document approved
     organizational changes; the organizational structure, to include provisional organizations,
     is documented in the OPLANs Annex J.
         4.4.1.1. The Air Component MO Staff will:
            4.4.1.1.1. Identify and define the required theater organizational structure in
            conjunction with the Air Component FAMs using criteria and procedures in AFI
            38-101, Air Force Organization, and the Time Phased Force Deployment Data
            (TPFDD) Letter of Instruction (LOI) or Deployment/Execution Order
            (DEPORD/EXORD).
            4.4.1.1.2. Establish required provisional units using procedures in AFI 38-101.
            4.4.1.1.3. Ensure a unique attached Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) exists
            for each unit.
            4.4.1.1.4. Document organization structures in Annex J, Command Relationships
            IAW AFI 10-401.
            4.4.1.1.5. Evaluate requests for changes to an organization structure within the
            AOR based on Command Relationships contained in Annex J and procedures
            located in AFI 38-101.
         4.4.1.2. The AFFOR MO Staff will:
            4.4.1.2.1. Identify and define the required theater organizational structure along
            with the Joint Task Force (JTF)/Combined Task Force (CTF) Staff FAMs IAW
            AFI 38-101 criteria/procedures.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       25


             4.4.1.2.2. Request provisional units IAW AFI 38-101.
             4.4.1.2.3. Ensure a unique attached PAS exists for each unit.
             4.4.1.2.4. Document organization structures in Annex J, Command Relationships
             IAW AFI 10-401.
             4.4.1.2.5. Evaluate organization (structure) change requests (OCRs) in the AOR
             based upon command relationships contained in Annex J, and procedures IAW
             AFI 38-101.
      4.4.2. Build and Manage the OPLAN. This is a continual process where Air Component
      planners create and document operational requirements in the form of a Joint Operation
      Planning Execution System (JOPES) TPFDD based upon a CCDR request for
      forces/capability (RFF/RFC) or other request formats. The Air Component MO staff
      accesses the appropriate TPFDD and creates individual line-level requirements in
      DCAPES. The Air Component MO staff and AFFOR MO staff, when established, will
      assist FAMs in determining/refining theater requirements, as well as evaluating requested
      requirement changes.     The Air Component MO staff documents sourcing and
      requirements changes. Once the plan is complete, has substantial changes incorporated,
      or goes into a rotation, the Air Component MO staff updates employment location
      requirements.
          4.4.2.1. The Air Component MO Staff will:
             4.4.2.1.1. Interpret RFF/RFC and input the Air Force capability most closely
             designed to meet the CCDR requirement after the requirements are designated to
             fill through the Global Force Management (GFM) process. Air Force capability
             requested will be built in a JOPES TPFDD and line-level requirements created
             using DCAPES procedures.
             4.4.2.1.2. Place the appropriate employing unit code (attached PAS) and Tasking
             Type on each requirement using DCAPES procedures and the theater
             organizational structure. Table 4.2 lists the Deployment Types which make up
             the first character of the two characters Tasking Type.

Table 4.2. Tasking Type Code (1st Character).
 Code            Deployment Type

 F               Unit Rqmt      Standard Force Solution
 G               Unit Rqmt      Joint Expeditionary Tasking (JET) Joint Force/Capability
                                Solution
 H               Unit Rqmt      JET Ad-Hoc Force Solution
 J               Unit Rqmt      JET In-Lieu-of (ILO) Forces
 K               Individual     Individual Augmentation (IA)
 X               Other
 Z               Unknown
             4.4.2.1.3. Receive proposed requirement changes from the AFFOR and
             supporting MAJCOMs and staff the proposal with the appropriate FAMs.
26                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        4.4.2.2. The AFFOR MO Staff will:
            4.4.2.2.1. Document employment requirements and serve as the focal point
            between the Air Component and subordinate employment location for manpower
            requirement issues.
            4.4.2.2.2. Receive proposed requirement changes from the employment location
            and staff the proposal with the appropriate FAMs.
     4.4.3. Assess the Organization and Adequacy of Forces at Employing Wings. The
     servicing EFSS Manpower Section assists commanders and/or the designated unit
     representative(s) with reviewing the organizational structure and plan requirements to
     ensure forces are organized properly and are adequately sized to perform the assigned
     mission(s). The EFSS Manpower Section will:
        4.4.3.1. Obtain incoming deployment requirements for the employment location and
        provide an electronic Deployment Requirements Manning Document (DRMD) for
        OPLANs to the respective commander and contact the AFFOR/Air Component MO
        staff to verify requirements for all operations affecting the given location(s).
        4.4.3.2. Obtain in-place requirements for the employment location(s) and provide an
        electronic DRMD for OPLANs to applicable commanders. The EFSS Manpower
        analyst will contact the AFFOR/Air Component MO staff to verify the employment
        manpower requirements.
        4.4.3.3. Create an organizational chart for the employment location(s) and ensure the
        attached PAS codes are correct and each position is in the correct attached PAS .
        Organizational charts shall include both DRMD positions and permanent
        authorizations (if any) at the employment location.
        4.4.3.4. Coordinate with both the wing and unit commanders to assess the
        organizational structure and requirements based on mission and environment.
        4.4.3.5. Notify the parent AFFOR/Air Component of results and any proposed
        changes—use procedures described in Attachment 4 or theater specific instructions
        to propose changes.
     4.4.4. Assess the OPLAN at the supporting MAJCOM.
        4.4.4.1. Assess MAJCOM Supportability of the OPLAN. The supporting MAJCOM
        MO staff will assist FAMs with determining whether the MAJCOM taskings are valid
        with respect to other contingency taskings and WMP/UTC Availability. The
        supporting MAJCOM MO staff conveys tasking/sourcing errors and/or changes to the
        Air Component MO staff and conveys requirements to the subordinate deployed
        locations. The MAJCOM MO staff will:
            4.4.4.1.1. Process the JOPES TPFDD to create line-level requirements using
            DCAPES if not accomplished by the Air Component. The action must be
            coordinated with the Air Component.
            4.4.4.1.2. Compare all unit taskings to WMP/UTC availability for the unit.
            UTCs crossing multiple units need to be analyzed as a whole to access matching
            compatibility.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                            27


                4.4.4.1.2.1. If a unit is tasked beyond its capability, or the tasking is illogical,
                advise the appropriate FAM and work with the Air Component to resolve.
                4.4.4.1.2.2. If the tasked MAJCOM cannot support the tasking, notify the
                supported Air Component. A change in rotational requirement sourcing must
                be coordinated with AFPC/DPW and managed through the reclama process.
        4.4.4.2. Mobilization.
            4.4.4.2.1. Assess the Need for Mobilization. The gaining MAJCOM MO staff
            assists MAJCOM planners with determining if the gained reserve component
            forces are required to support the contingency operation, either in a deployed or in
            place capacity; if so, mobilization must be considered and planned for. The MO
            staff provides current list of UTCs to functional managers that are identified for
            Air National Guard and Air Reserve taskings.
            4.4.4.2.2. Develop the Activation Force List. The gaining MAJCOM MO staff
            assists MAJCOM planners in forming a Activation Force List. If reserve
            component forces are tasked in the OPLAN, these forces are to be included in the
            ActivationForce List. If reserve component forces beyond those tasked to deploy
            are needed, these forces are also included in the Activation Force List. The MO
            staff may provides MAJCOM planners with list of current OPLAN taskings for
            Air National Guard and Air Reserve.
            4.4.4.2.3. Assess Activation Force List. The Air Reserve Component MO will
            assist ARC MAJCOM planners by ensuring all tasked UTCs are supportable by
            ARC UMDs and the units tasked to support the requesting gaining MAJCOM .
            The gaining MAJCOM MOs will produce an execution message through the ARC
            CAT to mobilize selected gained forces. The ARC produces execution message
            through the CAT to mobilize selected ARC gained forces (i.e. Individual
            Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs)).
        4.4.4.3. Assess OPLAN Requirements. The supporting MAJCOM (or in some
        instances the NAF) MO staff will also assist FAMs in evaluating requirements
        changes initiated by the FAM or from a subordinate deploying location. The
        supporting MAJCOM/NAF MO staff conveys recommended manpower requirements
        changes to the Air Component MO staff for review and approval.
     4.4.5. Assess the OPLAN at the Deploying Wing/Center. The servicing MO can view
     OPLAN taskings once the initial sourcing is complete and in the initial tasking status
     state in DCAPES. The servicing MO works with the Installation Deployment Officer
     (IDO) and Unit Deployment Managers (UDMs) to ensure the correct unit has been tasked
     and conveys required sourcing changes to the supporting MAJCOM MO staff. The
     servicing MO will assist the IDO and UDMs with determining whether the unit‘s UTC
     taskings are feasible in light of other contingency taskings and conveys any tasking
     errors/over-taskings to the supporting MAJCOM MO staff. Requirements under
     rotational OPLANs do not need to be reassessed for each rotation; in this case, only steps
     4.4.5.1., 4.4.5.1., and 4.4.5.4 below apply.
 28                                                                            AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


          4.4.5.1. Obtain outgoing deployment requirements for your location using DCAPES
          and contact the MAJCOM MO staff as necessary to verify the requirements for
          operations affecting your location(s).
          4.4.5.2. Verify the tasked unit (PAS) is correct.
          4.4.5.3. Verify the unit is the logical provider of the UTC.
          4.4.5.4. Identify the required tasking changes and coordinate with the IDO and
          affected UDMs.
          4.4.5.5. Verify whether or not the unit has been organized to provide the capability
          requested.
          4.4.5.6. Verify the unit has the applicable UTC in the AEF Library.
          4.4.5.7. Verify the unit has sufficient authorizations to fill the requirements tasked to
          the unit.
          4.4.5.8. Notify the respective MAJCOM MO staff of tasking errors and any over-
          tasking(s).
   4.5. Contingency Deployment Phase.

Table 4.3. Deployment Phase Responsibility Matrix.



                                                                           Employment
                                                       Component
                              Supporting
                              MAJCOM


                                           Deploying




                                                                   AFFOR
                     USAF




                                           Wing




                                                                           Wing
                     HQ




                                                       Air




      Process
1. Create the
 Mobilization
                                                         X
 Requirements
 Document.
2. Change Tasking
Status at the
Deploying Wing/                              X
Center.
      4.5.1. Establishing the Mobilization Requirements Document. Once mobilization is
      approved, the Air Component MO staff will assist HAF FAMs and MAJCOM planners
      with forming the Mobilization Requirements Document reflecting individual requirement
      levels of detail for gained forces to be mobilized and construct the DRMD of forces
      required for mobilization.
      4.5.2. Changing Tasking Status at the Deploying Wing/Center. Once the execution order
      is issued and the requirements are built, the IDO receives the tasking from the MAJCOM
      in DCAPES and begins the wing verification process. The IDO changes the tasking
      status from ―D‖ to ―M‖ upon verification for MO processing. The servicing MO
      validates line-level detail information and confirms requirements are available at the
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                        29


     installation to meet the tasking. The servicing MO assists the IDO and UDMs with
     determining whether the unit UTC taskings are valid and accurate. NOTE: At Active
     Duty locations where a base MO function exists, once the tasking is verified by the IDO
     the tasking status is changed to “M” for MO validation. At Guard/Reserve locations
     where no base MO function is present, the IDO performs the MO validation as well as
     the verification. Once the tasking has been validated, the tasking status will then be set
     to “P” to signify the start of the personnel assignment process performed by the IPR.
        4.5.2.1. Obtain deployment requirements for your location(s) using DCAPES.
        4.5.2.2. Verify the ULN Line Level detail information.
            4.5.2.2.1. Validate the detail items on the line. SAR, PRP, FAC, AFSC, Mil
            Grade, Civ Grade, Dep Echelon, and Attached PAS
            4.5.2.2.2. Is the tasked unit correct (tasked PAS)?
            4.5.2.2.3. Is the tasked unit the logical provider of the UTC? Is the required
            capability in UTC Availability?
            4.5.2.2.4. Does the tasked unit have sufficient authorizations to fulfill the
            requirement?
            4.5.2.2.5. Does the tasked unit have the applicable authorized AFSC/Grade/Skill-
            level authorizations to fulfill the requirement?
            4.5.2.2.6. If the tasking does not require correction, the servicing MO changes the
            tasking status code from ―M‖ to ―P‖. The IDO then verifies the requirement in
            AFVC, acknowledging that the tasking will be supported, partially supported, or
            short-falled through the reclama process IAW AFI 10-401 and AFI 10-403,
            Deployment Planning and Execution.
            4.5.2.2.7. If the tasked PAS in the requirement necessitates a change to another
            PAS within the same installation and MAJCOM, submit changes to the tasking
            authority (i.e. MAJCOM, AFPC/DPW) through the IDO to re-source the
            requirement via the reclama process.
            4.5.2.2.8. If the requirement is determined to be invalid, change the tasking status
            code from ―M‖ to ―D‖. The IDO will contact the tasking authority (i.e.
            MAJCOM, AFPC/DPW) to re-source the requirement to another appropriate unit
            through the reclama process.
  4.6. Contingency Reception/Employment/Sustainment Phase. During the Reception/
  Employment/ Sustainment Phase, the servicing MO staff uses basic manpower skills to
  ensure commanders have the appropriate and adequate resources to perform assigned
  mission. Table 4.4. identifies the specific processes to be performed and who performs
  them. Typical employed manpower functions may include: identifying the mission and
  environment (OPLAN and Operation Orders (OPORDs); organizing and structuring units
  IAW AFI 38-101; determining requirements (Plan Identifier (PID)), UTC
  MISCAP/Manpower Force Element List (MFEL), AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower
  Requirements and AFI 38-255, Vol 1 Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP) -
  Processes); identifying available resources; comparing resources to requirements
 30                                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


   (PID/Employment Requirements/Manning Document (ERMD) Compare/Analysis); and
   resolving mismatches (see Attachment 3).

Table 4.4. Contingency Reception/Employment/Sustainment Phase Responsibility Matrix.




                                                                                                              Employment
                                                      AFPC/DPW
                                            HQ USAF




                                                                              Deploying
                                                                 Supporting




                                                                                          Component
                                                                 MAJCOM




                                                                                                      AFFOR
                                                                                Wing




                                                                                                                Wing
                                                                                          Air
      Process
      1. Inventory Equipment, Supplies,                                                                         X
      and Documents.
      2. Assess the Organization and
      Adequacy of Forces at Employment                                                                X         X
      Locations.
      3. Match Personnel to Requirements
      at Employment Locations.                                                                        X         X
      4. Maintain the OPLAN.                          X                                     X         X         X
      5. Create Rotational/Replacement
      Deployment Tasking.                             X                                     X         X
      6. Assess MAJCOM Supportability
      of Rotational Deployment Tasking.
      6.1. UTC Tasking.                               X            X
      6.2. Individual Tasking.                        X            X
      7. Assess Deploying Wing/Center
      Supportability of Rotational
      Deployment Tasking.
      7.1. UTC Tasking.                                                         X
      7.2. Individual Tasking.                                                  X
      8. Terminate Requirements.                                                X           X
      4.6.1. Inventory Equipment, Supplies and Documents. Conduct an inventory to include,
      but not be limited to, the GCCS readiness system and associated electronic files for the
      employment location (PID, DRMDs, in-place UMD, etc.); applicable manpower
      instructions and guidance on electronic media (AFIs, manpower standards, etc.); and
      ensure sufficient supplies to conduct operations.
      4.6.2. Assess the Organization and Adequacy of Forces at the Employment Location.
      The servicing EFSS Manpower Section will review the OPLAN and in-place
      requirements to ensure forces are properly organized and adequate to perform assigned
      missions. They assist functional representatives with determining the need for new
      requirements or changes to requirements and document the justification for new
      requirements. The servicing EFSS Manpower Section conveys change request
      information to the appropriate parent AFFOR, Air Component, or MAJCOM MO staff.
          4.6.2.1. Verify incoming deployment requirements for the employment locations
          serviced in DCAPES and ensure the attached PAS is correct and that a unique PAS
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                      31


        exists for each unit. Contact the AFFOR MO staff to verify there are requirements
        for all operations affecting your location(s).
        4.6.2.2. Verify in-place requirements for the employment location(s) serviced in
        DCAPES and contact the parent AFFOR MO staff to verify requirements for
        operations affecting your location(s).
        4.6.2.3. Establish an organizational structure for the serviced employment location(s)
        that reflects deployment requirements and recommend a graphical organizational
        structure (organizational chart with officer, enlisted, civilian and total (O/E/C/T))
        reflecting deployment requirements based on the employed unit (attached PAS). The
        importance/value of this action cannot be emphasized enough.
        4.6.2.4. Coordinate with commanders to assess the organizational structure and
        requirements identified in light of the mission and environment.
        4.6.2.5. Send the Employment Organizational Chart to the AFFOR/Air Component
        MO once completed/approved by the local commander.
        4.6.2.6. Notify the parent AFFOR/Air Component of results and any proposed
        changes using procedures described in Attachment 4 to propose changes.
     4.6.3. Match Personnel to Requirements at Employment Locations. The servicing EFSS
     Manpower Section will assist the servicing PERSCO team with determining whether
     personnel arriving without a unique (valid) OPLAN requirement are actually required at
     that location. Verify and document any unfilled requirements; EFSS Manpower and
     PERSCO teams should be collocated to the greatest extent possible to enhance synergies.
     4.6.4. Maintain the OPLAN. The Air Component MO staff and AFFOR MO staff, when
     established, will work with FAMs to determine and refine theater organization and force
     requirements and evaluate requested organization and force requirement changes. The
     Air Component MO staff documents organizational and requirement changes; once the
     plan is complete or has substantial changes incorporated, the Air Component MO staff
     conveys the requirements to the subordinate employment locations, supporting
     MAJCOMs and the respective FAM(s).
        4.6.4.1. Process the JOPES TPFDD to create line-level requirements using DCAPES.
        4.6.4.2. Using DCAPES and theater organizational structure, place the appropriate
        employing unit code(s) (the attached PAS) on each requirement.
        4.6.4.3. Receive sourcing changes from supporting MAJCOMs.
        4.6.4.4. Receive proposed/recommended requirement changes from employment
        locations and supporting MAJCOMs and staff the recommended changes with the
        appropriate FAMs.
        4.6.4.5. Use DCAPES to modify tasking requirements to reflect sourcing (MAJCOM
        and unit) and approved requirements changes.
     4.6.5. Create Rotational/Replacement Deployment Taskings. AFPC/DPW, in concert
     with the Air Component and AFFOR, creates deployment requirements based on
     augmentation requirements as required to support rotations and replacements. This
     includes creating multiple deployment requirements per rotation as requested by
32                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


     supporting the MAJCOMs based on the tasked units‘ ability to provide resources. Using
     DCAPES, create an adequate number of ULNs in order to fill anticipated rotation
     requirements.
     4.6.6. Assess MAJCOM Supportability of Rotational Deployment Tasking.
        4.6.6.1. UTC Tasking. The supporting MAJCOM MO staff will assist the FAMs in
        determining whether the MAJCOM taskings are valid in light of other contingency
        taskings, WMP/UTC Availability, SORTS rating, ART Conditions and that a units
        taskings are accurate. The supporting MAJCOM MO staff conveys tasking errors and
        changes in sourcing to the Air Component MO staff and conveys requirements to
        subordinate deploying locations.
        4.6.6.2. Individual Tasking. The supporting MAJCOM MO staff conveys an
        individual tasking to the FAMs and assists in determining whether the unit‘s total
        deployment taskings, plus their continuing in-place mission requirements, exceed
        their overall capacity to fully support. The supporting MAJCOM MO staff conveys
        tasking problems and changes in sourcing to the supported Air Component.
        MAJCOM MO provides MPES information to FAMs for possible tasked units.
     4.6.7. Assess Deploying Wing/Center Supportability of Rotational Deployment Tasking.
        4.6.7.1. UTC Tasking. The servicing FSS Manpower Section receives taskings from
        its MAJCOM and works/coordinates with the local IDO and UDMs to ensure the
        correct unit has been tasked and conveys any required sourcing changes to the
        supporting MAJCOM MO staff. The FSS Manpower analyst further assists the IDO
        and UDMs with determining whether the unit‘s UTC taskings are valid in light of
        their in-place, or other contingency taskings, and conveys tasking errors and/or over-
        taskings to the supporting MAJCOM MO staff. Table 4.5. identifies specific UTC
        management responsibilities and who performs them.
        4.6.7.2. Individual Tasking. The servicing FSS Manpower Section assists UDMs
        with determining whether the unit‘s total deployment tasking, plus any continuing in-
        place requirements, exceed their capacity to fully meet their tasking. The servicing
        MO conveys potential tasking issues/changes in sourcing to the supporting MAJCOM
        MO staff.
     4.6.8. Terminate Requirements. As soon as it is known that a capability is no longer
     required, the Air Component MO staff and AFFOR MO staff must terminate the OPLAN
     requirement. Using DCAPES, set the Estimated Tour Length (ETL) of the current
     deployment requirement to reflect the last day required. Delete any projected/future
     rotational/replacement deployment requirements.
  4.7. UTC Management Process.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     33


Table 4.5. UTC Management Responsibility Matrix.




                                                       Responsible
                                             HQ USAF




                                                                     Deploying
                                                        MEFPAK



                                                                     Pilot Unit

                                                                     Wing/Ctr
                                                         Agency




                                                                                  AFMA
 Process
1. Establish a New UTC:
1.1. Determine the Need For a New UTC.       X            X
1.2. Request a New UTC.                                   X
1.3. Document UTC Composition.                            X             X
1.4. Monitor Approval of New UTC
                                             X                                    X
Requests.
2. Modify An Existing UTC.                                X             X         X
3. Cancel a UTC:
3.1. Request Cancellation of a UTC.          X            X
3.2. Cancel HQ USAF Approved UTCs.           X                                    X
4. Maintain the UTC Database.                X                                    X
5. Distribute HQ USAF Approved UTCs.         X                                    X
      4.7.1. Establishing a New UTC:
         4.7.1.1. Determine the Need For a New UTC. The AF/A1M or MAJCOM MO staff
         assists FAMs with determining whether a change in the functional concept of
         operations, or an organizational configuration of the existing force or
         new/programmed mission capability, dictate a new UTC.
         4.7.1.2. Request a New UTC. The FAM requests a new UTC from AF/A5XW; the
         FAM will also designate a MEFPAK responsible agency (MRA) for the new UTC.
         4.7.1.3. Document UTC Composition. The MRA MO staff works with the
         HAF/MAJCOM FAM to determine and document the MISCAP and validate
         manpower detail for the new UTC. If the MAJCOM uses pilot units for developing
         UTCs, the local servicing FSS Manpower Section will work with the pilot unit to
         determine and document the MISCAP and validate manpower detail and convey to
         the MAJCOM MO staff.
             4.7.1.3.1. The MRA MO staff will:
                   4.7.1.3.1.1. Receive AF/A5XW approval notification of new UTCs via the
                   DCAPES newsgroup.
                   4.7.1.3.1.2. Notify the MAJCOM Logistics office of approval and convey the
                   UTC designator, exact title, Deployment Indicator code (DEPID)/Force
                   Category Code (FCC) and Unit Level Code (ULC) information to develop the
                   logistics force detail (LOGFOR) for the new UTC.
                   4.7.1.3.1.3. Notify the FAM of the approval and assist in developing the
34                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                MISCAP and validate the manpower detail by Functional Account Code
                (FAC), Grade, Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), and Special Experience
                Indicator (SEI) to provide the mission capability. The MRA MO staff must
                complete Attachment 2, Figure A2.1. UTC Validation Checklist, documenting
                the method(s) used to validate the manpower requirements. They must further
                maintain the validation documentation until the UTC is cancelled or until the
                next validation has been accomplished and documented. Lastly the MO will
                forward the completed checklist and validation documentation to
                AFMA/MASR.
                4.7.1.3.1.4. Document the MISCAP and manpower detail using DCAPES.
                4.7.1.3.1.5. Convey the new UTC MISCAP and MANFOR detail to
                AFMA/MASR using procedures in both DCAPES and those outlined in AFI
                10-401.
                4.7.1.3.1.6. Certify the FSS MO‘s UTC validation                 checklist   and
                documentation before forwarding to AFMA/MASR.
            4.7.1.3.2. For pilot units, the servicing FSS Manpower Section will:
                4.7.1.3.2.1. Assist the pilot unit with developing the MISCAP.
                4.7.1.3.2.2. Validate manpower detail by FAC, AFSC, Grade, SEI, SAR,
                PRP, Duty Code and quantity to support the MISCAP. Complete Attachment
                2, Figure A2.1 UTC Validation Checklist document the methods used to
                validate the manpower requirement and maintain the validation
                documentation until the UTC is cancelled or until the next validation has been
                accomplished and documented. Lastly, forward the completed checklist and
                validation documentation to the parent MAJCOM Manpower Functional.
                4.7.1.3.2.3. Document the MISCAP and manpower detail and convey to the
                MAJCOM MO staff using DCAPES.
        4.7.1.4. Monitor Approval of New UTC Requests. AFMA/MASR coordinates with
        AF/A5XW to monitor UTC requests through the approval process.
            4.7.1.4.1. Discuss the status of new UTC requests with AF/A5XW.
            4.7.1.4.2. Convey the current status to the requesting MAJCOM MO Staff.
     4.7.2. Modify an Existing UTC. MRA MO staffs update existing approved UTCs when
     there are required data element changes, such as AFSC or FAC (direct AFSC and FAC
     conversions are performed by AFMA/MASR; indirect conversions are performed by the
     MAJCOM MO staff.) The Manpower section also assists FAMs in identifying
     composition changes when a standard or a minor Concept of Operations (CONOPS)
     change impacts the wartime force structure. If the MAJCOM uses pilot units to develop
     manpower detail, the servicing FSS Manpower Section will work with the pilot unit to
     identify changes to the manpower detail and convey to the MAJCOM MO staff. A
     MISCAP should only be modified to clarify or better define the mission capability of the
     unit type. If the update ‗changes‘ the capability of the unit type, a new UTC must be
     requested and justified. Major changes are classified as changes to the original stated
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     35


     mission capability and require a new UTC. Use the procedures outlined in AFI 10-401,
     Chapter 5 to submit a UTC modification request.
        4.7.2.1. The MRA MO Staff will:
            4.7.2.1.1. Assist the FAM with identifying MISCAP changes when required and
            validating manpower detail by FAC, Grade, AFSC, SEI, SAR and PRP.
            4.7.2.1.2. Document the MISCAP and manpower detail using DCAPES at the
            MRA MO staff.
            4.7.2.1.3. Convey the new UTC MISCAP and MANFOR detail to
            AFMA/MASR, using DCAPES process and procedures outlined in AFI 10-401.
        4.7.2.2. For pilot units, the servicing FSS Manpower Section will:
            4.7.2.2.1. Assist with identifying changes required to the MISCAP and validates
            manpower detail by FAC, Grade, AFSC, SEI and quantity to support the
            MISCAP.
            4.7.2.2.2. Document the MISCAP and manpower detail and conveys to the
            MAJCOM MO staff using DCAPES.
            4.7.2.2.3. Attachment 2, Figure A2 1, UTC Validation Checklist, should be
            used to document the methods used to validate manpower requirements. Maintain
            the validation documentation until the UTC is cancelled or until the next
            validation has been accomplished and documented.
     4.7.3. Requesting UTC Cancellation. The MRA MO staff may request UTC cancellation
     when the capability is no longer required, available, or as requested by the responsible
     FAM. Major CONOPS shifts, deletion of the weapon system from the Air Force
     inventory and weapon system shifts (i.e., primary authorized aircraft changes) are
     generally acceptable reasons to request UTC cancellation. Use the procedures outlined in
     AFI 10-401, Chapter 5 to submit a UTC cancellation request.
        4.7.3.1. Cancelling an Air Force-Approved UTC. AFMA/MASR will formally
        cancel a UTC upon AF/A5XW and FAM approval. Canceled UTCs are maintained
        on file for one year, or through a complete planning cycle, whichever is longer. Upon
        notification, using the DCAPES application, change the DEPID/FCC to zero
        (denoting cancellation).
     4.7.4. Maintaining the UTC Database. AFMA/MASR performs AFSC and FAC direct
     conversions and removes deleted UTCs from the UTC database a year after being deleted
     or at the end of the planning cycle, whichever is longer; the MRA MO staff may perform
     AFSC indirect conversions.
        4.7.4.1. In DCAPES, utilize the AFPC AFSC conversion list and the AF/A1MZ
        FAC conversion list to convert appropriate AFSCs and FACs.
        4.7.4.2. Remove the deleted UTCs in DCAPES each update cycle.
     4.7.5. Distributing Air Force-Approved UTCs. AFMA/MASR will distribute Air Force
     approved UTC Titles, MISCAPs and Manpower Detail for offline analysis by creating a
 36                                                                 AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


      MANFOR database and change transactions in DCAPES; and posts change transactions
      and updates the MANFOR database on the AFMA Portal Page.
   4.8. Expeditionary Manpower Planning Processes and Procedures. All installations with
   deployment forces for any CCDR will utilize the following processes. During the Reception/
   Employment/Sustainment Phase, servicing MOs will use basic manpower skills and existing
   planning systems to ensure commanders have appropriate and adequate resources to perform
   their assigned mission. Table 4.6. identifies specific processes to be performed and who
   performs them.

Table 4.6. Expeditionary Manpower Planning Responsibility Matrix.




                                                                    Supporting




                                                                    deploymen

                                                                    Componen
                                                                    MAJCOM
                                                          HQ USAF




                                                                     place and

                                                                     NAF/Air
                                                                     (both in-
                                                                       Wing



                                                                         t)

                                                                          t
 Process
1. Determine and Document Deploying and Non-
                                                                     X        X       X
deploying Operational Force Planning Requirements.
2. Determine and Document In-place Support Force
                                                                     X        X
Planning Requirements.                                    X
3. Identify Available Planning Resources.                            X        X
4. Compare Resources to Requirements.                                X        X
5. Document Results.                                                 X        X
6. Apply the Results.
6.1. Deployment Planning.                                            X        X
6.2. Designed Operational Capability (DOC) Statement
                                                                     X        X
Review.
6.3. Civilian Mobilization.                                          X        X
6.4. Base Support Planning.                                                   X
6.5. SORTS.                                                                   X
6.6. Augmentation Program.                                                    X
6.7. Assess Authorization Change Impacts.                            X        X
      4.8.1. Determining and Documenting Deployment Planning Requirements.     The
      MAJCOM MO staff will assist FAMs in determining the UTC(s) each unit must be
      prepared to provide to the warfighting commands. The FSS Manpower Section
      documents these requirements in DCAPES utilizing a MAJCOM allocated 08-series
      OPLAN and provides the data to the IDO and UDMs.
          4.8.1.1. Reviewing Each Unit‘s OPLAN Tasking, WMP/UTC Availability, and DOC
          statements. The MAJCOM MO will correlate the three, explain any differences and
          assist the FAM identify the UTC(s) each unit must provide. This wartime-planning
          deployment requirement is also known as a ―mobility‖ or ―preplanning‖ requirement.
          4.8.1.2. Document the wartime planning deployment requirements in DCAPES.
      4.8.2. Determine and Document In-place Planning Requirements. The MAJCOM MO
      staff will:
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       37


        4.8.2.1. Participate in AF directed total force or other strategic level manpower
        assessment as required.
        4.8.2.2. Assist FAMs with using functional guidance and/or AF-level assessment
        outputs to determine in-place support requirements for in-garrison missions.
        MAJCOMs may direct subordinate units to work through their servicing FSS
        Manpower Section to recommend in-place requirements.
        4.8.2.3. Obtain the current functional contingency planning guidance from
        AF/A5XW, or AF/A1MR. This should be available in AFI 10-401 and WMP 1.
        4.8.2.4. Assist the FAMs with interpreting the guidance and applying it to each work
        center—this should lead to the number of requirements.
        4.8.2.5. Once approved by the MAJCOM FAM, update the in-place requirements in
        MPES. This will make the in-place requirements available to HAF, AFMA/MASR,
        and FSS Manpower Sections.
     4.8.3. Identify Available Planning Resources.            Available resources are those
     authorizations valid at the end of the current fiscal year that are not matched to wartime
     planning requirements.
        4.8.3.1. Identify the current planning year end—normally the end of the current fiscal
        year.
        4.8.3.2. Ensure all systems have current authorization information.
     4.8.4. Comparing Resources to Requirements.
        4.8.4.1. Using the Analysis and Feasibility Tool (AFT) in DCAPES, PAT, or other
        MAJCOM unique tools, compare available resources to requirements.
        4.8.4.2. Use the substitution rules in applicable instructions (i.e.. AFI 10-403, para
        2.3.3, 5.4.4 or 5.4.5), or in the absence of established guidelines use the information
        in Attachment 3.
     4.8.5. Document Results.
        4.8.5.1. Using AFT in DCAPES, PAT, or other MAJCOM unique tools, match
        authorizations to requirements and document results.
        4.8.5.2. Once approved by the MAJCOM, update the requirements in MPES or other
        AF/A1M approved source. This will make the in-place requirements available to
        HAF, AFMA/MASR, and FSS Manpower Sections.
     4.8.6. Applying the Results. Once the above processes are completed, the information
     may be used for the following programs:
        4.8.6.1. Deployment Planning. The MO Staff supplies the results of the planning
        requirement to assist planners in developing the requirement.
        4.8.6.2. DOC statement/UTA Review. The MAJCOM MO staff, or FSS Manpower
        Section will assist FAMs ensure the unit‘s required designed operational capability
        (DOC) statement does not exceed UMD authorizations. The MAJCOM MO staff or
        FSS MO staff will:
38                                                            AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        4.8.6.2.1. Provide MPES information to FAMs for possible tasked units.
        4.8.6.2.2. Provide AFSC level detail of UTCs required by the DOC or UTA, if
        the DOC references the UTA.
        4.8.6.2.3. Analyze MPES information against DOC required UTCs using AFT in
        DCAPES, PAT or other MAJCOM unique tools.
     4.8.6.3. Civilian Expeditionary Workforce (CEW). The FSS Manpower Section will:
        4.8.6.3.1. Work with the CPO and units to identify civilian emergency-essential
        (EE) positions that are required to deploy or are needed to remain in-place in
        overseas theaters during contingency operations.
        4.8.6.3.2. Identify those civilian authorizations matched to deployment
        requirements and those overseas matched to in-place requirements.
        4.8.6.3.3. Create a project to make necessary adjustments to matches based on
        CPO and unit‘s recommendations, and convey the project to the MAJCOM MO
        staff for coordination and approval using MPES.
     4.8.6.4. In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Plan (IGESP). The FSS Manpower Section
     provides authorization information, to complete Part I, and requirements (deployment
     and in-place) information to complete Part II to the In-Garrison Expeditionary Site
     Planning Council (IGESPC) and other base agencies IAW AFI 10-404, Base Support
     and Expeditionary Site Planning.
     4.8.6.5. SORTS. The FSS Manpower Section will:
        4.8.6.5.1. Provide requirement and          requirements-to-resources    analysis
        information to unit SORTS monitors.
        4.8.6.5.2. Provide the authorization information to the SORTS monitor using
        MPES.
        4.8.6.5.3. Analyze MPES and tasked UTCs to provide a list of matched and
        unmatched authorization to UTC requirements.
     4.8.6.6. Augmentation Program. The FSS Manpower Section must also provide
     requirement information to the Augmentation Review Board (ARB) and assist them
     by identifying those requirements critical to the augmentation scenario as well as
     augmentation scenario-unique requirements. The Manpower Section then assists the
     ARB and FAMs in validating the necessary requirements and identifying those
     available for augmentation.
        4.8.6.6.1. Create augmentation requirements as in-place requirements and
        provide information in the format requested using DCAPES by using the wing‘s
        designated Air Force OPLAN series.
        4.8.6.6.2. Provide MPES authorization information to the ARB.
        4.8.6.6.3. Provide the Augmentation Review Board a listing of currently planned
        deployment requirements using DCAPES.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                          39


         4.8.6.7. Assessing Authorization Change Impact. For each authorization change
         proposed by units that affects the unit (PAS), work center (FAC), skill (AFSC),
         grade, or SEI, the Manpower Section assesses the impact on wartime planning
         mission capability. If a capability is lessened, the Manpower Section will notify the
         unit and attempt to find other options to satisfy the requirement.
             4.8.6.7.1. Using DCAPES, search the UTA to determine whether an
             authorization change negatively impacts current wartime requirements. Such
             impacts include, but are not limited to:
                4.8.6.7.1.1. A UTC change action that eliminates an AFSC or unique skill at a
                wing or unit.
                4.8.6.7.1.2. A change that converts a military authorization to civilian and
                results in a future over-tasking (shortage) to the wing for that Air Force
                specialty/capability.
   4.9. Expeditionary Programming Processes and Procedures.

Table 4.7. Expeditionary Programming Responsibility Matrix.




                                                                                   Component
                                                                  MAJCOM/
                                                        HQ USAF




                                                                                    AFFOR
                                                                   FOA/


                                                                            Wing
                                                                    DRU



                                                                                      Air
 Process
1. Notify MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs of Expectations.            X
2. Determine and Document Programming
Deployable and Non-Deployable Operational               X           X
Requirements.
3. Determine and Document Programming In-place
                                                                    X       X
Support Requirements.
4. Identify Available Programming Resources.            X           X
5. Compare Resources to Requirements.                   X           X
6. Document Results.                                                X
7. Resolution Applying the Results.                     X
      4.9.1. AF/A1M notifies MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs of expectations and AF/A1MR notifies
      the MAJCOM MO staffs of information expectations, timelines and anticipated use of
      programming information.
      4.9.2. Determine and Document Programming Requirements. AF/A1MR and AFMA
      works across the planning and analytical community to identify Defense Planning
      Scenarios approved by OSD for force planning and programming.
         4.9.2.1. Using DCAPES, or other modeling tools, populate OPLAN data with the
         deployment requirements.
         4.9.2.2. Source requirements to the appropriate supporting MAJCOMs.
 40                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        4.9.3. Determine and Document in-place Requirements. The MAJCOM MO staff assists
        FAMs in reviewing in-place requirements to project them through the range of the Future
        Year Defense Plan (FYDP). The MO staff documents the projected in-place
        requirements.
             4.9.3.1. Using DCAPES, or other modeling tools, document the in-place
             requirements.
             4.9.3.2. The MAJCOM MO staff enters requirements sourcing as provided by the
             MAJCOM FAMs.
        4.9.4. Identify Available Resources. Available resources are those authorizations that
        are funded across the FYDP (usually focusing on the out years). Using MPES and FYDP
        information, update authorizations as required.

Table 4.8. Expeditionary Manpower Type* (2nd Character of MNT).
      Code      Abbreviation                          Long Name
       D           DOF                   Deployable Operational (or Support) Force
       N          NDOF                 Non-Deployable Operational (or Support) Force
      I            IGSF                           In-Garrison Support Force
      X             INF                               Institutional Force
      U            UNK                         Not Yet Determined/Unknown
* Coding of this manpower type does not affect the duties of assigned military personnel. For
example, Airmen assigned to a NDOF position can be deployed.
        4.9.5. Compare Available Resources to Requirements. Resources are compared to
        requirements using a variety of criteria based on the comparison restraints. Using
        automated tools such as DCAPES AFT, the PAT, or other MAJCOM unique tools,
        compare authorizations against in-place and deployable requirements.
        4.9.6. Document Results. Provide a listing of matched and unmatched requirements and
        authorizations to the AF/A1MR and AFMA/MASR.
        4.9.7. Applying the Results.     Comparison information is used in the resource
        management decision making processes; use the results to obtain additional
        authorizations through the programming process or relieve the MAJCOMs of wartime
        requirements identified as a shortage.     Provide results to AF/A1MR through
        AFMA/MASR.
5. Expeditionary Manpower Inspection Program.
   5.1. General. The Manpower and Organization expeditionary manpower inspection program
   establishes standards of success/accomplishment, ensures consistency of performance and
   generates an environment where our expeditionary manpower processes evolve to effectively
   support the mission. The Director for Manpower, Resources and Organization (AF/A1M)
   oversees this expeditionary manpower evaluation instrument. The inspection program
   described herein is mandatory for implementation at each command level regardless of
   where the processes reside, or who performs them.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                      41


  5.2. Scope. The AF/A1M expeditionary manpower process supports Air Force operational
  missions from home station/in-garrison to deployed and/or employment locations across the
  world.     They span pre-execution, execution and employment phases of mission
  accomplishment. The AF/A1M expeditionary manpower management processes are among
  the critical first steps to ensure Total Force accountability for both requirements and
  personnel.
  5.3. Responsibilities.
     5.3.1. AF/A1M will:
         5.3.1.1. Work with SAF/IG to ensure that the Inspector General's staff has identified
         the most appropriate aspects of manpower and organization as major graded areas
         during inspector general inspections.
         5.3.1.2. Appoint an Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for oversight and
         management. AF/A1MR is the executive agent for program oversight with support
         from the Air Force Manpower Agency, Headquarters Support Division, Wartime
         Analysis Branch (AFMA/MASR).
         5.3.1.3. Designate core inspection areas (CIAs) and specify performance standards.
         5.3.1.4. Monitor consistency of CIA application across the Air Force.
         5.3.1.5. Establish training programs for expeditionary manpower processes.
         5.3.1.6. Approve and disapprove waivers.
     5.3.2. Air Component Manpower and Organization.
         5.3.2.1. Assess the effectiveness of manpower and organization CIA processes
         supporting operations in the area of responsibility.
         5.3.2.2. Establish data collection mechanisms to ensure CIA feedback from
         employed locations is documented for analysis and action.
         5.3.2.3. Identify performance trends, problems, or enhancements to AF/A1MR for
         further evaluation and action.
     5.3.3. AFMA/MASR will:
         5.3.3.1. Develop and implement expeditionary manpower processes training
         programs in conjunction with the Career Field Enlisted Council (CFEC) for issues
         related to the Specialty Training Standard (STS), the Job Qualification Standard
         (JQS) and other formal training courses.
         5.3.3.2. Create and maintain a expeditionary manpower inspection website.
         5.3.3.3. Deleted.
         5.3.3.4. Review command expeditionary manpower inspection programs for
         consistency of interpretation and application of the CIAs.
         5.3.3.5. Review waiver requests and submit to AF/A1MR.
     5.3.4. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Manpower and Organizations will:
42                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        5.3.4.1. Implement the Air Force Manpower, Organization and Resources
        expeditionary manpower inspection program.
        5.3.4.2. Assist inspected units in the establishment of their programs.
        5.3.4.3. Identify command-unique Items of Interest (IOI), or performance standards
        and issues supplemental policy as required.
        5.3.4.4. Develop command expeditionary manpower inspection guides and/or
        checklists based on AF level inspection checklists, per AFI 90-201, paragraphs 1.6,
        2.1.2, and 2.5.2.
        5.3.4.5. Establish policies and procedures for command-unique training requirements
        and be responsible for the development and execution of base-level FSS Manpower
        Section exercises.
        5.3.4.6. Evaluate CIAs at every subordinate location with an in-garrison or
        deployable MO expeditionary manpower mission and use the frequency established
        by the command IG, and as requested, to support unit self-inspections or other
        command requirements. Although aimed at base-level FSS MO sections, all offices
        with a deployable mission should be periodically evaluated under this program to
        ensure continuity.
        5.3.4.7. Monitor consistency of CIA application across the command and initiates
        corrective measures when Air Force performance standards are not being met.
        5.3.4.8. Document and report overall compliance results and trends for higher
        headquarters analysis and action.
     5.3.5. Base FSS Manpower Sections will:
        5.3.5.1. Implement the MAJCOM MO expeditionary manpower inspection program.
        5.3.5.2. Plan and participate in local IG exercises in order to train and practice
        expeditionary manpower processes within the Manpower, Organization and
        Resources CIAs.
        5.3.5.3. Create internal expeditionary manpower training and exercise events.
        5.3.5.4. Train all appropriate personnel to properly perform expeditionary manpower
        processes.
        5.3.5.5. Document process enhancements or problems and submit to higher
        headquarters for action.
  5.4. Implementation.
     5.4.1. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Inspection Programs.
        5.4.1.1. In addition to AF level ORI/UCI checklist MAJCOMs may develop and
        publish their own inspection checklists and guides to assess the Manpower,
        Organization and Resources CIAs, performance standards, and IOI, as needed to
        satisfy addition command requirements. Development guidance and help is available
        through the IG staff.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                             43


           5.4.1.2. All inspection checklist and guide revisions will be forwarded to
           AFMA/MASR for review.
           5.4.1.3. To facilitate preparation, provide inspection checklists/guides to inspected
           units no later than 30 days prior to their next regularly scheduled higher-headquarters
           inspection.
           5.4.1.4. Inspected units will participate in no less than two training exercises
           annually. Participation in Silver Flag or similar exercises will not satisfy the intent of
           this in-garrison ‗unit training‘ requirement. One of these should emphasize combined
           operations with the Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR) and/or local PERSCO
           teams. Ideally, every deployable Manpower UTC should be covered by at least one
           field training opportunity annually. Training exercises will be designed to
           demonstrate sufficient facets of the CIAs to ensure all personnel are capable of
           performing their duties. Unit-level leadership must ensure all deployable personnel
           can execute UTC mission capability standards and the operating requirements in
           Attachment 4. For guidance on preparing an exercise program see AFI 10-204,
           Readiness Exercises and After-action Reporting Program or contact the local IG
           staff.
           5.4.1.5. Create a trend analysis and feedback mechanism to capture successes and
           problems, and ensures inspections make allowances for, and document exceptional
           process deviation, that enhances mission performance. Failure or unsatisfactory
           findings must attempt to capture contributing environmental issues such as training or
           procedural flaws. The subsequent analysis of systemic factors affecting process
           performance will allow adjustments to processes and/or training as warranted. The
           goal is always to find the best possible way of accomplishing the mission while
           encouraging process consistency across the career field.
           5.4.1.6. Maintains historical inspection results for each inspected unit to document
           recurring problems and facilitate corrective actions.

Figure 5.1. Expeditionary manpower Inspection Report Format.
NOTE: Submit electronically to AFMA/MASR and include the following:

MAJCOM: MAJCOM submitting report.             POC: Name, phone, and e-mail of person with in-
depth information.

CIA/IOI: Specify the CIA or IOI from Tables 5.1. and 5.2. Report command-unique IOIs that
may be of broader interest to the career field.

Process: Identify process examined. Include sufficient detail to answer ―what‖ was tested.

Type: Identify the type of inspection; UCI, ORI, etc.

Standard: Report command-unique performance standards. Otherwise not required.

Quantity: State how many evaluations are covered by this item, whether multiple MOs or multiple
 44                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


test events of the same process in a single MO.

Results: State how personnel did in relation to the standard.

Comments: Address systemic factors leading to negative results, if identified; and actions taken to
mitigate them, if any. Address MO-initiated process enhancements or other lessons learned. Are
standards reasonable?

        5.4.2. AFMA/MASR will:
            5.4.2.1. Post and maintain command inspection checklists and guides to the
            expeditionary manpower inspection website.
            5.4.2.2. Analyze reports, identifies trends and develop recommendations for CFEC or
            others as required to address expeditionary manpower program issues.
     5.5. Core Inspection Areas (CIAs).
        5.5.1. The five CIAs correlate to the primary Manpower, Organization and Resources
        expeditionary manpower mission areas. They are foundational in that they are
        anticipated to have a regular or recurring frequency, are important to the success of the
        overall mission (i.e. will have an adverse impact if performed improperly or not at all),
        and have a persistent methodology and rationale for accomplishment. Table 5.1 depicts
        the CIAs for the expeditionary manpower inspection program.

Table 5.1. Manpower, Organization and Resources Core Inspection Areas.
            Core Inspection Area                               Description
1.   Change Requests                         Both organization and requirements changes.
2.   Plans Management                        Operations accountability within DCAPES.
3.   MEFPAK/MANFOR Processes                 Baseline data support element.
4.   Automated Systems                       Operation and management of DCAPES.
5.   Office Operations                       Employment location operations.
        5.5.2. There are four recognized expeditionary manpower process areas with varying
        levels of implementation or importance throughout the career field. Aspects of these
        processes may be suitable for inspection as command Items of Interest to assess
        compliance with command policy or procedure. Table 5.2 contains the IOI.

Table 5.2. Manpower, Organization and Resources Items of Interest.
       Items of Interest                                   Description
1. Unit Type Codes (UTC)           Pilot unit maintenance, distribution and notification
                                   processes, and general UTC management requirements.
2. Designed Operational            Review and coordination processes linked to change
Capability Statements (DOC)        requests.
3. In-Garrison Expeditionary       As required/requested.
Site Plan (IGESP)
4. Augmentation Program            As required/requested.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                        45


5. Installation Deployment Plan As required/requested
   5.6. Inspections and Phases.
      5.6.1. The CIAs have differing levels of importance and performance depending upon
      type of inspection and the phase of operations being executed. All expeditionary
      manpower processes can be assessed using Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI). Only the
      CIAs should be assessed using Operational Readiness Inspections (ORI). Table 5.3
      depicts, by phase, where expeditionary manpower processes reside and which type
      inspection lends itself to proper evaluation.

Table 5.3. Applying CIAs and IOIs to Inspections and Phases.
                         Inspection
                                                         Inspection Phase
                           Type
                                           Pre-                                     In-
      CIA / IOI          UCI      ORI                   Execution Employed
                                         execution                                garrison
Change Requests           X       X                                     X            X
Force Management          X       X          X             X            X
MEFPAK/MANFOR             X       X          X             X            X             X
Automated Systems         X       X          X             X            X             X
Office Operations         X       X                                     X
UTCs                      X                                                           X
DOC Statements            X                                                           X
IGESP                     X                                                           X
Augmentation Program      X                                                           X
IDP                       X                                                           X
      5.6.2. Inspected units should use the Inspection Phase information in Table 5.3 to
      prepare locally initiated training exercises and understand when certain elements of core
      processes are to be performed and that, knowing whom they serve, is as important as
      knowing how to do them.
   5.7. Process and Performance Standards. All expeditionary manpower processes are subject
   to inspection, however only CIAs have processes and performance standards that are
   mandatory for assessment. The following section stipulates those processes and specific
   performance standards. Commands will evaluate all expeditionary manpower processes and
   may establish their own performance standards provided they are not less than the standard
   for measured CIAs. Ensure inspection reports include command-driven performance
   standards for evaluation as emerging requirements.
      5.7.1. Change Requests.      These include manpower and organization requirement
      changes.
          5.7.1.1. Inspections will address change request evaluation, impact analysis,
          analytical skills, procedural adherence, coordination and communication skills and
          overall administrative compliance.
          5.7.1.2. It is mandatory that in-garrison manpower authorization change requests be
          evaluated against UTCs required by the unit‘s Designed Operational Capability
46                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        (DOC) statement. Ensure evaluations consider the ability to properly address UTC
        MISCAP requirements (especially critical AFSCs), the implications of skill and grade
        substitution and supporting units and their total taskings. AFI 10-201, Status of
        Resources and Training System, provides a central information source for critical
        AFSCs.
            5.7.1.2.1. DOC statements will be analyzed and validated against the fiscal year
            end strength (30-Sep-YYYY) of the year in which the DOC statement will be
            implemented.
            5.7.1.2.2. Compare UMD changes against the required DOC statement UTCs to
            ensure no negative impact occurs as a result of the proposed manpower change
            and the unit‘s ability to meet the tasking.
        5.7.1.3. See Force Support FAM CoP for other mandatory performance standards
        regarding this CIA.
     5.7.2. Force Management. This CIA deals with every aspect of base-level Manpower‘s
     role in applying the capabilities of DCAPES. AFMA/MASR is the career field OPR for
     manpower functionality and processes in DCAPES.
        5.7.2.1. Evaluate all aspects of DCAPES processes and procedures described in
        Chapter 3, Table 3.2 This includes the operator‘s ability to:
            5.7.2.1.1. Perform data management and retrieval duties.
            5.7.2.1.2. Assess mission supportability through comparison of requirements to
            resources.
            5.7.2.1.3. Effectively utilize system data for analytic management purposes and
            the ability to logically deduce appropriate actions/solutions.
            5.7.2.1.4. Effectively operate with installation readiness functions like IDOs,
            UDMs, and IPR, to include PERSCO teams.
            5.7.2.1.5. Create organization charts from resident UTC and requirements
            document data.
        5.7.2.2. The following items are mandatory:
            5.7.2.2.1. Operators must demonstrate functional proficiency in operating
            DCAPES.
            5.7.2.2.2. DCAPES will have the total deployment requirement and manpower
            document (plan) for their location. This will include the locally determined
            worst-case scenario. This information is obtainable from the Installation
            Deployment Officer or plans function. See Attachment 4 for additional
            standards.
     5.7.3. Dynamic Query Tool (DQT)/Air Force Query Tool (AFQT). Timeliness in
     responding to queries, as well as accuracy, should be measured as an indicator of system
     competence.
        5.7.3.1. The following items are mandatory (See Attachment 4 for additional
        standards.):
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                        47


            5.7.3.1.1. Assess the operator‘s ability to generate standard reports as well as the
            ability to research abstract data and generate resulting reports or data extract.
            5.7.3.1.2. Assess operator ability to identify and react to the impact of changes
            from or to the MANFOR. Inspections will assess impacts to tasked UTCs, the
            local UMD and Employed Requirements Manning Document (ERMD) and
            operational planning considerations, particularly those covered by SORTS.
     5.7.4. Automated Systems. This CIA addresses any aspect of DCAPES not addressed in
     Force Management. AFMA/MASR is the career field OPR for all system requirements.
        5.7.4.1. The following items are mandatory for DCAPES systems (In-Garrison and
        Deployed):
            5.7.4.1.1. All required software and programs must be present and in compliance
            with the GCCS-AF baseline. The MAJCOM GCCS office is responsible for
            maintaining all software on the computer. Users will maintain current GCCS and
            DCAPES USER-IDs and passwords in addition to ensuring DCAPES and JOPES
            roles and permissions are sufficient for mission accomplishment. Contact the
            MAJCOM DCAPES program management office for questions regarding roles
            and permissions.
            5.7.4.1.2. Controlled Area Program. All controlled areas will be in compliance
            with AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program and local supplements
            since DCAPES is operated in a classified environment.
            5.7.4.1.3. Proper security markings must be present and in good repair.
            5.7.4.1.4. Demonstrate proficiency at field outage reporting procedures and
            formats.
            5.7.4.1.5. Perform data ―wipe‖ and classified data cleansing activities using the
            approved COMPUSEC program provided.
     5.7.5. Office Operations. Office operations include everything in the employed
     environment not covered elsewhere. These include but are not limited to initial status
     reporting, event logs, briefings, bugout procedures and after action reports. See
     Attachment 4 for specifics regarding this CIA.
     5.7.6. Items of Interest (IOI). Career field IOI should be evaluated within each
     command‘s scope of performance or importance. There are few broad standards
     associated with IOI. Commands performing IOI inspections should ensure the units are
     meeting them.
        5.7.6.1. UTC Processes. The base FSS Manpower Section monitors UTC changes
        affecting those units it services. When a base has been assigned UTC pilot unit
        development and maintenance responsibilities the following pilot unit support
        standards apply:
            5.7.6.1.1. Validate the manpower detail for the new UTC(s) using Attachment 2,
            Figure A2.1 UTC Validation Checklist as a guide to document the validation
            methodology. Maintain the validation documentation until the UTC is cancelled
            or the next annual validation has been accomplished and documented.
48                                                               AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


           5.7.6.1.2. Ensure both pilot unit coordination and distribution processes are
           accomplished whenever ―owned‖ UTC changes affect multiple units, either
           locally or across multiple bases/commands. Has the base FSS Manpower Section
           ensured the pilot unit coordinated UTC changes among all users prior to updating
           the MANFOR? This will include documentary evidence of coordination.
           5.7.6.1.3. Complete the annual review of the MFEL with the pilot unit for
           accuracy using Attachment 2, Figure A2.1 UTC Validation Checklist as a
           guide to document the validation methodology. Maintain the validation
           documentation until the UTC is cancelled or the next annual validation has been
           accomplished and documented.
        5.7.6.2. DOC Statements. A number of Manpower processes impact a unit‘s ability
        to meet its DOC statement tasking. The FSS Manpower Section has a vital role in
        crosschecking UTCs against unit authorization and/or requirement change requests
        impacting grades, skills or AFSCs; especially critical AFSCs. The FSS Manpower
        Section can provide an analysis of available manpower resource to UTC (DOC)
        requirements utilizing AFT in DCAPES PAT or other MAJCOM unique tools. At a
        minimum, the FSS Manpower Section should review installation DOC statements for
        accuracy and ensure the UMD requirements adequately support the DOC statement
        and UIC.
        5.7.6.3. In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Planning (IGESP). Manpower‘s role in
        IGESP has the potential to be extensive. Commanders drive the IGESP process, and
        commands should consider whether the approach used by the base FSS Manpower
        Section is consistent with analytical processes and methodologies routinely employed
        in the career field. AFI 10-404 Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning; Atch
        28 defines information required by Manpower and Organization.
        5.7.6.4. Augmentation Program.    The servicing FSS MO is an advisor to the
        Augmentation Review Board (ARB) IAW AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty. The
        MO validates, while the ARB ‗approves‘ augmentation requirements and exemptions
        based upon the servicing FSS Manpower Sections analysis and recommendation. The
        FSS Manpower Section ARB representative will:
           5.7.6.4.1. Attend all ARB meetings.
           5.7.6.4.2. Review and validate all augmentation requirements and exemptions
           forwarded to the ARB for action and provide a recommendation for each based on
           their assessment of the need for and utilization of the augmentees.
           5.7.6.4.3. Use approved management engineering methods to assist units in
           determining total augmentation requirements under locally defined scenarios.
           5.7.6.4.4. Notify units when additional information/data is required to fully
           review and analyze a request for augmentation.
           5.7.6.4.5. Recommend solutions to source augmentation shortfall/reclama
           actions.
  5.8. Waivers. MAJCOMs will submit expeditionary manpower process and performance
  standard waiver requests to AFMA/MASR; AFMA/MASR will review the request and
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                         49


  provide a recommendation to AF/A1MR within five working days. AF/A1MR must then
  submit a final recommendation to AF/A1M for final approval. Approved waivers are
  returned to the affected command/unit and posted to the expeditionary manpower inspection
  website. Command-wide waivers are renewed bi-annually on the AF/A1M approval
  anniversary. Unit-specific waivers apply to the current Operational Readiness Inspection
  (ORI) cycle and must be renewed once the unit is assessed. No waiver will extend more than
  two years without undergoing revalidation and subsequent approval.
  5.9. How to:
     5.9.1. Choose Evaluation Items. Choose an evaluation item(s) from the processes in
     Chapter 4, Tables 4.1 - 4.7 Include mandatory aspects from the Expeditionary
     manpower Inspection Guide, Attachment 5, and other policy affecting operations.
     5.9.2. Develop an Evaluation Plan. The evaluation plan has two parts: Part I contains
     the evaluation parameters and Part II contains the evaluation scenario(s). Part I is
     releasable to the participants. Part II is not releasable to the participants. An evaluation
     can range from simple to more difficult scenarios.                 Always document each
     correspondence with ―EXERCISE Name of Exercise‖ at the top and bottom of each page.
         5.9.2.1. Part I contains the following:
            5.9.2.1.1. Name (optional). Provide a unique name. Do not use a name or
            acronym of an exercise that is in use or has been used before.
            5.9.2.1.2. OPR. The office conducting the evaluation.
            5.9.2.1.3. Purpose. The broad goal of the evaluation.
            5.9.2.1.4. Objective(s). Specific items to be evaluated.
            5.9.2.1.5. Time of Evaluation. The start time and end time of the whole
            evaluation. The actual time might be held from the participants as in Example 1
            below.
            5.9.2.1.6. Participants. Who is to be evaluated?
            5.9.2.1.7. Part II contains the following:
            5.9.2.1.8. Evaluation Scenario: State the evaluation item from the checklist that
            pertains to the appropriate organizational level.
            5.9.2.1.9. Time Allotted: How long the scenario will take to complete.
            5.9.2.1.10. Situation:    A brief description of what situation is to cause the
            scenario.
            5.9.2.1.11. Inject: When and how will the scenario be injected.
            5.9.2.1.12. Expected Results: What is the expected answer.
            5.9.2.1.13. Props Required: List what is needed to make this scenario work.
     5.9.3. Conduct Local Evaluations. Design, conduct, and evaluate unit-initiated training
     and exercises under "no-fault" conditions. In other words, don't grade individual or unit
     performance. Commands should direct after-action report or exercise analyses as
     required.
 50                                                                 AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


   5.10. Example Scenarios.
       5.10.1. Example 1. This plan contains two evaluation items: Assessing Deploying Wing
       or Center Supportability of the OPLAN (Crisis Action Planning and Execution) and
       Distributing HQ USAF-Approved UTCs. Refer to Figure 5.2 for an Evaluation Plan to
       implement this example.

Figure 5.2. Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 1.
Part I:
   Name: Positive Outlook 12 (PO12)
   OPR: HQ ACC/A3O and AF/A1MR
   Purpose: Are Air Combat Command‘s wings capable of building a deployment plan.
   Objective(s): Create unit line-level requirements.
   Time of Evaluation:
   For participants: Start within the next six months. For evaluators only: 0700 - 1000 17 April
   Participants: Shaw and Langley AFBs

Part II. Two Evaluation Items:
   Item One:
       Evaluation Item: Assessing Deploying Wing/Center Supportability of the OPLAN
       Time Allotted: 3 hours
       Situation: An execution order is received and your Wing is tasked to deploy. The DRMD
       contains 25 UTCs and one of them is a non-standard UTC (Z99). (More description is
       needed as to what the Z99 is for and what is wrong with it, if anything.) The complete size
       of the OPLAN is 500 records. This Master Scenario Events Listing (MSEL) item is the same
       for both Wings.
       Inject: At 0700 7 Apr, a simulated classified message is sent to the two Wings announcing
       the situation. The attached-PAS is HQ ACC/A3OR @ Langley. The Military Personnel
       Flight at Langley must know that an evaluation is going on because they will be receiving
       the taskings upon completion of MO validation process.
       Expected Results: The MO should ensure the Z99 UTC is properly identified (describe how
       it should be corrected) and the tasking status is changed to a ―P‖ in DCAPES.
       Props Required:
            Classified OPLAN XXXX
            OPLAN built in DCAPES
            Inject Message
            What is expected from the Wings

   Item Two:
      Evaluation Item: UTC Maintenance
      Time Allotted: 2 hrs
      Situation: . HQ AFSPC/A1M needs the pilot unit for UTC 1Sxxx to make some changes in
      the MFE due to mission expansion of the capability. AFSPC/A1M creates a working copy
      of UTC 1Sxxx and ―Sends to Base‖ through DCAPES UTM This MSEL event is the same
      for all Wings.
      Inject: At 0900 13 Jun, call the Wing, asking them to make the adjustments in the MFE for
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                   51


      the working copy provided for their edit. The Manpower Section can simulate input from
      the base functional and then add, delete, and change different lines of the MFE. After
      completing the edits, the Manpower Section sends the UTC back to the MAJCOM.
      Expected Results: The Wings should provide the HQ AFSPC/A1M with the correct UTC
      information
      Props Required:
           MANFOR
          List of UTCs to check on
          A phone script to ensure all Wings are asked the same questions.
      5.10.2. Example 2, Maintaining the OPLAN. The Air Component or Supported
      MAJCOM wants to test the ability of two Supporting MAJCOMs to help create a
      centralized DRMD. Refer to Figure 5.3 for an Evaluation Plan to implement this
      example.

Figure 5.3. Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 2.
Part I:
   Name: Force Projection 01 (FP01)
   OPR: AFSOUTH/A1R
   Purpose: Test the AFSOUTH capability in building a centralized DRMD
   Objective(s): Create line-level detail requirements in DCAPES.
   Time of Evaluation: 1000 15 May through 1000 16 May
   Participants: HQ ACC and HQ AMC.
Part II:
   Evaluation Item: Maintaining the OPLAN
   Time Allotted: 24 hours
   Situation: AFSOUTH/A1R is required to maintain a centralized DRMD for OPLAN XXXX.
   An execution order is received and your Supporting MAJCOM is tasked to deploy. The TPFDD
   contains 100 valid UTCs. The complete size of the DRMD is 900 records. (Describe how the
   Supporting MAJCOMs are to provide the DRMD information back to the HQ AFSOUTH/A1R.)
   This MSEL item is the same for both Supporting MAJCOMs.
   Inject: At 1000, 15 May, a simulated classified message is sent to the two Supporting
   MAJCOMs announcing the situation, what is required, and a copy is provided to HQ
   AFSOUTH/A1R by 1000 16 May.
   Expected Results: The Supporting MAJCOMs should provide the Air Component with their
   DRMD information. The Air Component will compare what was received to what was expected
   for evaluation.
   Props Required:
        TPFDD built in DCAPES (Classified OPLAN XXXX)
        Inject Message
        Air Component needs to build the expected return DRMD information for comparison.
      5.10.3. Example 3. Establish and document organizational structures so the Air Force
      Component NAF or MAJCOM commander will know the organizational structure for his
      or her AOR for a particular contingency OPLAN. Refer to Figure 5.4 for an Evaluation
      Plan to implement this example.
 52                                                                 AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


Figure 5.4. Evaluation Plan Example Scenario 3.
Part I:
   Name: N/A
   OPR: AF/A1M
   Purpose: To test if the Appendix J of a contingency OPLAN is accurate.
   Objective(s): Are the Air Force Component NAF or MAJCOM Command/A1s filling in
   Appendix J to include establishing Provisional PAS?
   Time of Evaluation: 0800 15 Nov through 0800 16 Nov
   Participant: USAFE/A1M
Part II:
   Evaluation Item: Establish and Document Organizational Structures
   Time Allotted: 24 hours.
   Situation: A contingency plan has just been completed. AF/A1M wants AFCENT to provide
   them with an organization chart for PID XXXX. The organization chart needs to contain the
   provisional PASs, number of O/E/C/T, and name of wing(s) groups, squadrons, and flights.
   AFCENT/A1R will need to respond within 24 hours.
   Inject: At 0800 15 Nov, send a message to AFCENT/A1R requesting an organization chart be
   sent to AF/A1M for PID XXXX by 0800 16 Nov.
   Expected Results: An organization chart for PID XXXX, based on attached PAS information in
   the DRMD, which matches a predetermined organizational chart.
   Props Required:
        A contingency plan TPFDD (Classified XXXX OPLAN)
        A message to AFCENT/A1R
        An organization chart to be used as the answer.
       5.10.4. Example 4. Creating the Mobilization Requirements Document. The AFCAT
       A1 wants to know if the right personnel are being mobilized to satisfy deployable and in-
       place requirements. Refer to Figure 5.5 for an Evaluation Plan to implement this
       example.

Figure 5.5. Evaluation Plan of Example Scenario 4.
Part I:
   Name: Mobilization Tracking Test 1 (MTT1)
   OPR: HQ AMC/A1M
   Purpose: To assess if the right AFSC and quantity are being identified for mobilization.
   Objective(s): How effectively can some of AMC‘s wings track their mobilized forces
   Time of Evaluation: 0800 5 Sep through 0800 6 Sep
   Participants: Charleston AFB and Andrews AFB.
Part II:
   Evaluation Item: Creating the Mobilization Requirements Document
   Time Allotted: 24 hours.
   Situation: Presidential Selected Reserve Call-up (PSRC) is approved with a Mobilization Force
   List. HQ AMC/A1M wants to ensure we are not mobilizing the wrong AFSC and quantity to the
   AOR
   Inject: At 0800 5 Sep, send a message to Charleston AFB and Andrews AFB requesting a list of
   mismatches by requirement and mobilized resource and what still needs to be mobilized and
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                      53


   provide it to the HQ AMC/A1M for PID XXXX by 0800 6 Sep.
   Expected Results: A report that shows the mismatches and what still needs to be mobilized.
   Props Required:
      A TPFDD (simulated or real) Classified XXXX OPLAN
      A message to Charleston AFB and Andrews AFB
      A line-level detail of what needs to be organized
      PSRC Mobilization Force List
      A mobilization resource file (simulated or real).
       5.10.5. Example 5 relates to Maintaining the OPLAN. As an example of an AF/A1MR
       evaluation, AFMA/MASR wants to exercise the Air Component‘s ability to provide
       deployment tasking data on a particular OPLAN. Refer to Figure 5.6. for an Evaluation
       Plan to implement this example.

Figure 5.6. Evaluation Plan of Example Scenario 5.
Part I:
   Name: N/A
   OPR: AF/A1MR and AFMA/MASR
   Purpose: To test if the Air Component can provide deployment tasking data for the whole
   OPLAN.
   Objective(s): Can the Air Component provide the requirements information within a duty day?
   Time of Evaluation: 0900 16 Jul
   Participants: HQ 13 AF/A1
Part II:
   Evaluation Item: Relates to Maintaining the OPLAN
   Time Allotted: 4 hours.
   Situation: A situation occurred which caused the AF/CAT to be activated. The CAT is
   requesting requirement information from AFMA/MASR on PID XXXX (a real world or
   simulated TPFDD can be used). For AFMA/MASR to respond to these questions, they need to
   get the information from the Air Component within four hours.
   Inject: At 0900 16 Jul, call HQ 13 AF/A1 asking them to provide their requirement data for PID
   XXXX by 1300.
   Expected Results: The requirement information is received by AFMA/MASR within four
   hours. What is provided to AFMA/MASR matches what is expected.
   Props Required:
        A TPFDD (simulated or real) Classified XXXX OPLAN
        A phone script
        What is expected from 13 AF/A1




                                           DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 54                                                              AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations
Joint Publication 5-0, Joint Operation Planning
CJCSM 3122.01A, JOPES Volume I, Planning Policies and Procedures
USAF War and Mobilization Plan (WMP), Volume I: Basic Plan, Manpower Annex).
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives.
*AFPD 10-2, Readiness.
*AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System.
AFI 10-204, Readiness Exercises and After-Action Reporting Program.
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting.
AFI 10-216, Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US
Noncombatants.
*AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty.
AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces.
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces.
*AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
*AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution.
AFI 10-402, Volume I, Mobilization Planning.
*AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution.
*AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning.
AFH 10-416, Personnel Readiness and Mobilization.
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO).
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management.
AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations.
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force.
*AFPD 38-1, Organization.
*AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization.
*AFPD 38-2, Manpower.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                      55


*AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements.
*AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower.
*AFMAN 38-255, Volume I, Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP) - Processes.
*AFMAN 38-255, Vol 2, Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP) - Quantification
Tools
AFMAN 38-255, Vol 3, Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP)--Logistics
Composite Model (LCOM).
AFPD 38-5, Unit Designations.
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities

References marked with an asterisk (*) are required for a FSS Manpower Section. Refer to
Attachment 4, Figure A4.2.
Prescribed Forms
No forms prescribed.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACR—Authorization Change Request
ADCON—Administrative Control
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AEW—Air Expeditionary Wing
AFB—Air Force Base
Air Component—Air Force Component-NAF or Component-MAJCOM
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJET—Air Force JOPES Editing Tool
AFMA—Air Force Manpower Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMA/MASR—Air Force Manpower Agency, Headquarters Support Division, Wartime
Analysis Branch
AFMS—Air Force Manpower Standard
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
 56                                                            AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFQT—Air Force Query Tool
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFT—Analysis and Feasibility Tool
AFVC—Air Force Verification Capability
ALN—Availability Line Number
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
BB—Bare Base
CAT—Crisis action team
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CEW—Civilian Expeditionary Workforce
CFEC—Career Field Enlisted Council
CIA—Core Inspection Area
CivPDS—Civilian Personnel Data System
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CME—Contract Man-year Equivalent
C-NAF—Component-Numbered Air Force
COA—Course of Action
COMAFFOR—Commander Air Force Forces
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COMSEC—Communication Security
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CONUS—Continental United States
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CPG—Contingency Planning Guidance
CTF—Combined Task Force
DCAPES—Deliberate and Crisis Planning and Execution Segments
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                   57


DEPID—Deployment Indicator Code
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DoD—Department of Defense
DQT—Dynamic Query Tool
DRMD—Deployment Requirements/Manning Document
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EAB—Emergency Action Book
ECS—Expeditionary Combat Support
EFSS—Expeditionary Force Support Squadron
ERD—Employment Requirements Document
ERMD—Employment Requirements/Manning Document
ETL—Estimated Tour Length
FAC—Functional Account Code
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FCC—Force Category Code
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FYDP—Future Year Defense Plan
GCCS—Global Command and Control System
GEF—Guidance for Employment of the Force
GEOLOC—Geographic Location
GFM—Global Force Management
GFMIG—GFM Implementation Guidance
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System
HNS—Host Nation Support
HQ USAF—Headquarters US Air Force
IA—Individual Augmentation
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IG—Inspector General
IGESP—In Garrison Expeditionary Site Plan
IGESPC—In Garrison Expeditionary Site Plan Council
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
 58                                                        AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


IOI—Items of Interest
IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
ISS—Inter-Service Support
IAW—In Accordance With
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JET—Joint Expeditionary Tasking
JFACC—Joint Forces Air Component
JMA—Joint Mobilization Augmentee
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
JPEC—Joint Planning and Execution Committee
JPERMS—JOPES Permissions
JQS—Job Qualification Standard
JSCP—Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan
JTF—Joint Task Force
JTMD—Joint Table of Mobilization Distribution
LIMFAC—Limiting Factor
LOGDET—Logistics Force Detail
LOI—Letter of Instruction
MAF—Man-hour Availability Factor
MAJCOM—Major Command (USAF)
MANFOR—Manpower Force Packaging System
MEFPAK—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System
MEP—Management Engineering Program
MFEL—Manpower Force Element List
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MISCAP—Mission Capability Statement
MO—Manpower and Organization. May also be the A1M Staff.
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOB—Main Operating Base
MOPP—Mission Oriented Protective Posture
MPES—Manpower Programming and Execution System
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                 59


MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MRA—M EFPAK Responsible Agent
MSEL—Master Scenario Events Listing
MTT—Mobile Training Team
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NDS—National Defense Strategy
NMS—National Military Strategy
NSS—National Security Strategy
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCC—Occupational Series Code
OCONUS—Other than CONUS
OCR—Organization Change Request
OECT—Officer, Enlisted, Civilian, Total
OFAMO—Offices of FAM Oversight
OPCON—Operational Control
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPORD—Operation Order
OPSEC—Operations Security
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
OSC—Office Symbol Code
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol
PERSCO—Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
PID—Plan Identifier
PIM—Pre-trained Individual Manpower
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
POTUS—President of the United States
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness
PSRC—Presidential Selected Reserve Call-up
PT—PERSCO Team
 60                                                               AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


RC—Reserve Components
RDD—Required Delivery Date
RIMS—Records Information Management System
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SSN—Social Security Number
STS—Specialty Training Standard
TACON—Tactical Control
TDY—Temporary Duty
TPFDD—Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data
TUCHA—Type Unit Characteristics
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UIC—Unit Identifier Code
ULC—Unit Level Code
ULN—Unit Line Number
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code
UTM—UTC Management
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan

Terms
Requirements—Related Terms:
Employment Requirement—A requirement needed to fulfill a capability (usually in the form of
a UTC) at the deployed location identified by the work center and specialty needed. The work
center is identified by the Employment FAC in the MFE detail of the UTC.
Augmentation Requirement—An employment requirement that can‘t be satisfied by in-place
forces. It is the basis for deployment requirements.
Deployment Requirement—A requirement used to satisfy the augmentation requirement for a
specified period of time. A deployment requirement drives a personnel fill action in plan
execution. See paragraph A3.4.4 for additional requirement information. Deployment
requirements and personnel fill actions are categorized as follows:
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                           61


Initial—An initial deployment requirement/fill action refers to the first deployment/fill action of
an augmentation requirement.
Rotational—A rotational deployment requirement/fill action refers to a subsequent
deployment/fill of an augmentation requirement based on rotational policies.
Replacement—A replacement deployment requirement/fill action refers to a subsequent
deployment/ fill action of an augmentation requirement on a case-by-case basis for reasons other
than rotation, for example, replacing a casualty.
Notional Requirement—An augmentation requirement that may be needed at some unknown
time. Before a notional requirement can be levied for personnel fill action, its effective and
through dates must be established, thereby becoming a deployment requirement.
Tasking/Sourcing Information:—MAJCOM—MAJCOM tasking/sourcing information
identifies the MAJCOM tasked to satisfy the augmentation requirement. The attribute is Tasked
MAJCOM.
Unit—Unit tasking/sourcing information identifies the unit tasked to fill a requirement. Tasking
a unit implies tasking its MAJCOM. The attribute is Tasked PAS.
Individual—Individual Tasking/Sourcing information identifies the person tasked to fill the
requirement. Tasking an individual implies tasking an assigned unit and parent MAJCOM. The
attribute is Social Security Number (SSN).
Associated Information—There are several other pieces of information necessary for personnel
fill action management. Line remarks reflect more specific personnel requirements.
Strategic Assessment and Force Sizing Terms:—Deployable Operational (or Support)
Force—Requirements documented to provide capability for direct support of the combatant
commander mission not conducted from home station. These forces fulfill deployment
requirements.
Non—Deployable Operational (or Support) Force—Requirements documented to provide
capability for direct support of the combatant commander mission from home station.
In—Garrison Support Force—Requirements documented to conduct day-to-day support
operations at home station with varying levels of service.
Institutional Force—Requirements designated under an organization with a UDC of X. These
organizations are primarily used for recruiting, organizing, training, and equipping the other
forces.
 62                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                  A2. UNIT TYPE CODE VALIDATION CHECKLIST

A2.1. UTC Manpower Validation. The objective of the manpower validation process is to use
manpower and management engineering techniques to enhance the credibility and accuracy of
deployment force manpower requirements.
   A2.1.1. The focal point of analysis during the validation process is the manpower and
   workload generator expressed in the UTC MISCAP. The relationship between these factors
   is vital in the wartime planning process.
   A2.1.2. To the functional war planner, the workload represents a mission capability (e.g., the
   capability to obtain a specified number of aircraft sorties).
   A2.1.3. To the Manpower war planner, the workload vs. manpower relationship is critical
   because it provides the linkage to define or identify the manpower or man-hours of work
   necessary to produce a mission output. Once man-hours have been defined, requirements
   may be calculated using appropriate man-hour availability factors.

Figure A2.1. UTC Validation Checklist.

                                         Checklist
1. Interview pilot unit POC to ensure you have a comprehensive understanding of the
   capabilities reflected in the UTC's Mission Capability Statement (MISCAP).
2. Does the MISCAP contain the following required attributes: (Ref: 10-401, Chap 5, para
   5.12.3.1.7.)
   a. Is there a statement in the MISCAP that lists the types of bases to which the capability
   can be deployed, i.e. Bare Base (BB), Main Operating Base (MOB), etc...?
   b. Are the workload levels or ranges that can be supported by the UTC included in the
   MISCAP, in quantifiable terms? Things to consider: quantities of equipment, hours/days
   of operation, amount of production required, sortie rates, population supported.
   c. If UTC can be used by ARC Forces, Does MISCAP include statement ARC can
   substitute with higher skill-levels and grades?
   d. Does the MISCAP define the mission the UTC is capable of accomplishing?
   e. Are substitution rules clearly defined, as needed, i.e. AFSC, skill level requirement,
   grade, SEIs, equipment?
   f. Are all acronyms and abbreviations used in the title and MISCAPs spelled out?
   g. Was other pertinent information included? Caution: Aviation UTCs that include the
   WMP 5 rates and factors must be classified. (NOTE: The MISCAP is the only part of
   the UTC that could be classified. Air Force UTCs are generally not classified, but if they
   must be classified, MISCAPs containing crew ratios and monthly flying hour utilization
   must be classified at least CONFIDENTIAL. Classification of MISCAPs must not
   exceed SECRET.)
   h. Does it list supporting/supported UTCs; UTCs that are supporting this UTC? Use
   approved UTCs listed in the MEFPAK or input UTCs under development. UTCs that are
   supported by this UTC. Use approved UTCs listed in the MEFPAK or input UTCs under
   development.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                              63


3. Based on the UTC Title, MISCAP, FAC and Manpower Detail, determine the major
   functional area that is represented by this UTC:
4. Was the applicable manpower standard or determinant used? If not, why?
5. How was the manpower-to-workload relationship established? Was the appropriate
   MAF (i.e., wartime, surge or contingency) used? (Ref: 38-201, Table A2.1
   a. Directed requirement? If so, state the governing directive.
   b. Technical Estimate? If so, did the SME confirm the numbers?
   c. Historical Data from exercises/deployments? If so, explain the findings from these
   experiences.
   d. Some other method? (crew ratio, LCOM, time study, work sampling, queuing
   analysis?) If so, identify the method and explain how it was used.
6.
   Are current manpower tables used to establish the AFSCs, grades and numbers? If so,
   identify the applicable manpower standard or determinant. If not, answer a and b below.
   a. Do the AFSCs identified reflect those actually required during a war/contingency or
   are they showing available peacetime AFSCs?
   b. Do the AFSCs reflect a realistic mix of officers and enlisted? Is there a realistic mix of
   grades within the officer and enlisted categories respectively? Use available manpower
   standards or determinants as a starting point. Ensure actual requirements are stated.
7. Does the UTC Detail limit the use of 3-level requirements to those duties needed to
   perform within the MISCAP?
8. Are the correct FACs assigned to the appropriate MFE detail?
 64                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 3
 A3. JOINT, AIR FORCE, AND MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS

A3.1. Organization and Operation of the US Military. This attachment describes today‘s
operating environment, and lays the groundwork for the business practices used to accomplish
the mission.
   A3.1.1. Organization. It is necessary to understand the relationship between the National
   Command Authorities, military departments -- particularly the Air Force -- and the unified
   combatant commands.
       A3.1.1.1. The President is the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. The President
       delegates responsibility for national defense matters to the Secretary of Defense. The
       President and the Secretary of Defense exercise command over the US armed forces.
       A3.1.1.2. The Military Departments Organize, Train, Equip, and Provide Forces. The
       services organize, train, equip, and provide military forces. The services are organized
       under three departments, generally along the lines of the mediums of warfare: air, land,
       and sea. Each department is charged with the development and cultivation of specialized
       competence in one of the mediums of warfare. The military departments are also charged
       with the responsibility for defining the future requirements of war fighting and deterrence
       with respect to the associated mediums of warfare. When appropriate authorities approve
       requirements, military departments are responsible for acquiring, testing, and fielding
       war-fighting systems.
       A3.1.1.3. Combatant Commands Employ Forces. Forces are provided by the services to
       commanders of unified combatant commands through service component commanders.
       Service component commanders remain responsible for continued training,
       administration, and logistic support of assigned forces. Commanders of unified
       combatant commands are charged with broad mission responsibilities and are empowered
       with operational authority to employ forces provided by the military departments.
       Operational control of the U.S. combat forces is assigned to the unified combatant
       commands. The chain of command runs from the President to the Secretary of Defense
       to the unified combatant commanders. Orders and other communications from the
       President or Secretary are transmitted through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
       (CJCS).
       A3.1.1.4. Operational Relationships. The following recaps the operational relationships
       between the President and Secretary of Defense, JCS, unified combatant commands, and
       the Air Force:
          A3.1.1.4.1. The President and Secretary of Defense exercises command over U.S.
          armed forces.
          A3.1.1.4.2. The JCS transmits orders and other communications between the
          President and Secretary of Defense and combatant commanders.
          A3.1.1.4.3. Unified combatant commands have operational control over the forces
          assigned to them to perform operational military missions.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     65


        A3.1.1.4.4. The Air Force organizes, trains, and equips forces and provides them to
        unified combatant commands to perform operational military missions.
        A3.1.1.4.5. Forces not operationally assigned to a unified combatant command
        remain with the Air Force.
  A3.1.2. The Total Force. Active duty military are not the only resources available to
  perform the Air Force‘s missions. We rely on the total force.
     A3.1.2.1. Components. There are two components of the total force: the active duty
     component and the air reserve component.
        A3.1.2.1.1. Active Duty. The active duty component consists of active duty military
        members, Department of the Air Force civilians, and other types of manpower such
        as contractors and host-nation civilians.
        A3.1.2.1.2. Air Reserve Component (ARC). There are several elements to the
        reserve component: The Air National Guard of the United States (ANG), the United
        States Air Force Reserve (AFR), the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR), and the Pre-
        trained Individual Manpower (PIM). Individuals in the reserve component can only
        be called to active duty by presidential or congressional authority.
            A3.1.2.1.2.1. ANG. ANG personnel are managed by the Air National Guard
            Readiness Center (ANGRC). All ANG personnel are in a unit-based program;
            they organize, train, and equip as a unit to employ as a unit.
            A3.1.2.1.2.2. Air Force Reserve. Reservists are in either the unit or individual
            program.
               A3.1.2.1.2.2.1. Unit Program. Reservists in the unit program are managed by
               the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Personnel in the unit-based
               program organize, train, and equip as a unit to employ as a unit.
               A3.1.2.1.2.2.2. Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) Program.
               Reservists in the individual program are managed by HQ AFRC and organize,
               train, and equip in order to employ with an active duty unit. They are called
               IMAs. While not required, IMAs usually train with the unit they are to
               augment during contingencies.
               A3.1.2.1.2.2.3. IRR. The IRR consists of those individuals that have recently
               separated from the Air Force and still have a service commitment. They are
               assigned to various sub-sections and training categories managed by HQ
               AFRC and present a pool of resources, providing the Air Force an added
               manning capability for needs which can be anticipated.
        A3.1.2.1.3. PIM. The PIM consists of the IRR, active duty retirees, standby reserves,
        and retired reserves.
     A3.1.2.2. Force Structure. Requirements are established and authorizations are provided
     for structuring the active duty component as well as the ANG, USAFR, and IMAs,
     providing the force structure of the Air Force.
     A3.1.2.3. Categories.   There are two broad categories of manpower, each with sub
     categories:
66                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        A3.1.2.3.1. Military. The military category is further broken out into commissioned
        officers and enlisted personnel.
        A3.1.2.3.2. Civilian. The civilian category is further broken out into Department of
        the Air Force civilians (in-service), contractors, and foreign nationals.
  A3.1.3. Force Perspectives. The world can be viewed from a force providing or a force
  employing perspective.
     A3.1.3.1. Force Providing View.          Force providers respond to requirements by
     organizing, training, equipping, and providing forces. This view focuses on the origin of
     forces and responding to requirements. There are two types of requirements.
     Deployment requirements reflect a need to provide forces to go somewhere else to work.
     In-place requirements reflect a need to stay at home and work.
     A3.1.3.2. Force Employing View. Force employers determine requirements for forces to
     perform missions. This view focuses on the destination of forces and placing a demand
     on resources. All requirements are employment (in-place) requirements which may be
     satisfied locally by assigned forces (employer‘s in-place requirements) or by forces
     deployed in (someone else‘s deployment requirements).
     A3.1.3.3. Supported vice Supporting. Force providers support force employers. In
     common usage, Air Components (force employers) are often called supported commands
     and Air Force MAJCOMs that provide forces (force providers) are often called
     supporting MAJCOMs.
  A3.1.4. Controls. When managing forces, it is important to understand who controls what
  and when. There are three types of controls significant to resources and contingency
  requirements management: administrative, operational, and tactical control.
     A3.1.4.1. Administrative Control (ADCON). For the Air Force, the administrative
     branch of the chain of command flows from the President through the Secretary of
     Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force, through the Chief of Staff, and ultimately to
     appointed Air Force commanders. ADCON provides the necessary legal authority and
     mechanism for the Services and their commanders to prepare military forces, to
     administer their organizations, to train and equip those forces, and to support them.
     ADCON is the authority necessary to fulfill Military Department statutory
     responsibilities for administration and support. It includes such items as food and shelter,
     discipline, air traffic control, force protection, logistics support, and much more. The
     Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) will have complete ADCON of all
     assigned forces and specified ADCON of attached forces.
     A3.1.4.2. Operational Control (OPCON). OPCON is the fighting heart of command
     relationships. OPCON includes ―the authority to perform those functions of command
     over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces,
     assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to
     accomplish the mission. OPCON includes authoritative direction over all aspects of
     military operations and joint training.‖ It ―normally provides full authority to organize
     commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in operational
     control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself,
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                             67


       include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline,
       internal organization, or unit training.‖
       A3.1.4.3. Tactical Control (TACON). TACON is the more limited choice of control. It
       is ―limited to the detailed direction and control of movements or maneuvers within the
       operational area necessary to accomplish missions or tasks assigned.‖ It ―provides
       sufficient authority for controlling and directing the application of force or tactical use of
       combat support assets within the assigned mission or task‖
A3.2. National Strategy Documents. National security strategy (NSS), national defense strategy
(NDS), and national military strategy (NMS), shaped by and oriented on national security
policies, provide strategic direction for combatant commanders (CCDRs). These strategies
integrate national and military objectives (ends), national policies and military plans (ways), and
national resources and military forces and supplies (means). Further, the Guidance for
Employment of the Force (GEF) and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP) provide CCDRs
with specific planning guidance for preparation of their top priority plans Figure A3.1 illustrates
how the Contingency Planning Guidance (CPG) and the JSCP fit into the context of national
strategic direction.

Figure A3.1. National Strategic Direction.




   A3.2.1. National Military Strategy (NMS). The NMS is a capstone document that translates
   national and defense guidance into military objectives and reflects CJCS priorities. It
   conveys the Chairman‘s message to the Joint Force on strategic direction to support the
   National Security and Defense Strategies. It derives objectives, missions and capability
   requirements from an analysis of the National Security Strategy, the Defense Strategy and the
68                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


  security environment. If also describes the concepts and capabilities to achieve stated
  military objectives and provides focus for military activities by defining a set of interrelated
  military objectives and joint operating concepts against which the Armed Forces assess risk.
  A3.2.2. Guidance for Employment of the Force (GEF). The GEF is a Secret, single strategic
  guidance document, signed by the SecDef, that directs planning for foreseeable, near-term
  operational activities.
  A3.2.3. Global Force Management (GFM): As part of GEF, GFM integrates the assignment,
  apportionment, and allocation of U.S. forces into one process. Its purpose it to account for
  and manage global forces that are currently committed and those available for planning, thus
  meeting the force requirements of each CCDR. Using the guidance in the GFM and the
  assignment / apportionment tables in the GFM Implementation Guidance (GFMIG), a
  separate document from the GEF, GFM improves our ability to win multiple, overlapping
  conflicts. Judicious use of our scarce resources will also reduce risk and improve our
  response to unforeseen contingencies. The GFM discusses three methods for the distribution
  of forces:
     A3.2.3.1. Assignment. From the recommendations of the Global Force Management
     Board (GFMB), and as shown in the Global Force Management Implementation
     Guidance (GFMIG) tables, forces are assigned to the CCDRs by the SecDef through the
     Service Secretaries. Assignment is the permanent distribution of forces used by the
     CCDRs to perform missions assigned to that command.
     A3.2.3.2. Apportionment.       Apportioned forces are combat and related support
     capabilities provided to CCDRs for planning purposes only. They are forces that the
     CCDR can reasonably expect to be available, but not necessarily allocated, for use when
     a contingency plan transitions to execution. The Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP)
     provides further policy and guidance on force apportionment.
     A3.2.3.3. Allocation. Forces not assigned to a CCDR used to execute a plan or on-going
     operation. In an ideal situation, the forces apportioned in a plan would be the same as
     allocated at execution, but in reality this would be rare. Through the policies in GFM and
     the Global Force Management Allocation Process (GFMAP), forces are provided to
     CCDRs to meet their immediate needs; there are no allocation tables in the GFMIG.
  A3.2.4. Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP). A CJCS Secret document that, in essence,
  implements the GEF. It, along with the GEF, is the link between strategic guidance found in
  the NSS, NDS, and NMS and the military capability described in our operation plans. The
  JSCP provides additional force apportionment guidance, and specifically tasks the combatant
  commanders (CCDRs), Services, and DoD Agencies to prepare campaign, campaign support,
  contingency, and posture plans. It is the primary vehicle through which the CJCS exercises
  his statutory responsibility to provide for the preparation of joint operation plans. It
  establishes synchronizing, supported and supporting relationships among the combatant
  commands and serves as a coherent framework for providing military advice and assistance
  to the SecDef and POTUS.
  A3.2.5. Joint Operations Planning and Execution System (JOPES). JOPES is a command
  and control system for national and theater level commanders and their staff. It is designed
  to satisfy their information needs in the conduct of joint planning and operations. JOPES
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                           69


   provides the guidance on how to document the combatant commander‘s assessment, concepts
   and requirements to support the strategy and communicates their desire to all levels of
   command. It also provides the mechanism for the Joint Chiefs of Staff to approve or
   disapprove the concepts.
A3.3. Key USAF Planning Documents.
   A3.3.1. Operational Guidance. Operational guidance provides mission-oriented information
   on how to plan and execute, and assumptions and factors to be used in determining
   manpower requirements to support contingencies.
      A3.3.1.1. AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution. This instruction
      describes how the Air Force plans and executes, and how it interfaces with the joint
      community. It provides guidance to conduct planning for Air and Space Expeditionary
      Forces (AEF). This planning complements the JSCP and JOPES contingency and crisis
      action planning processes and formalizes the AEF contingency planning process by
      describing the roles, responsibilities, and relationships of Air Force organizations
      involved with AEF operations.
      A3.3.1.2. USAF War and Mobilization Plan, Volume I (WMP 1), Basic Plan. This plan
      gives planning cycle specific guidance on how the Air Force plans and executes.
      Manpower guidance is contained in the Manpower Supplement to Volume I.
      A3.3.1.3. Other Documents. AF/A3/5, A8, A9 and MAJCOMs provide information and
      guidance that specifies each base‘s planned wartime mission and activity levels based on
      Joint Staff and OSD policy. AF/A5XW and AF/A1MR also provides programming
      guidance to be used in sizing support forces.
   A3.3.2. Functional Area Manager‘s (FAM) Guidance. Functional Area Manager‘s guidance
   provides function-oriented information on how to plan and execute and assumptions and
   factors to be used in determining manpower requirements to support planning assumptions
   and contingencies.
      A3.3.2.1. WMP 1, Functional Annexes. Each functional area has an annex. Manpower
      guidance is contained in the Manpower Supplement to Volume I. It contains planning
      cycle specific guidance and should provide sufficient information to apply assumptions
      and factors to determine in-place contingency requirements.
      A3.3.2.2. Other Functional Documents. Headquarters Air Force and MAJCOM FAMs
      may publish additional guidance in their functional publications or memorandums.
A3.4. The Elements of Manpower Management. To be able to manage manpower, you must
understand the pieces, or elements, of manpower management.
   A3.4.1. Mission. The mission is the basis for manpower management. Without a mission
   there is no need for organizations and resources. All efforts need to focus on getting the right
   number and type of personnel to the right place at the right time to accomplish the mission.
   A3.4.2. Environment. The following environmental factors affect the number and type of
   personnel required to perform a given mission:
      A3.4.2.1. Standard of living enjoyed by work centers.
      A3.4.2.2. Level of service provided to customers.
70                                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


     A3.4.2.3. Standard Workweek. This relates to man-hour availability factors (MAF).
     The more hours per month each individual is available to work, the fewer personnel are
     needed to perform a given workload.
     A3.4.2.4. Physical limitations.
     A3.4.2.5. Technological limitations and advantages.
  A3.4.3. Organizations. (Reference: AFPD 38-1, Organization, AFI 38-101, Air Force
  Organization) Organizations are formed and structured to perform missions. Requirements
  are determined, authorizations are established, and personnel assigned and/or attached to
  perform an organization‘s mission.
     A3.4.3.1. Types of Organizations. There are two types of organizations: permanent
     units and provisional units.
         A3.4.3.1.1. Permanent Units. These units are constituted and activated by HAF and
         have a history. They can have requirements, authorizations and personnel assigned
         and/or attached.
         A3.4.3.1.2. Provisional Units. These units are temporary and are activated to
         perform a specific task; expeditionary units are provisional units. They can have
         requirements, however personnel are only attached. Normally provisional units have
         no permanent history. Some provisional units upon inactivation will have their
         lineage and honors bestowed upon the unit which provided the major portion of that
         provisional unit‘s forces. A provisional unit cannot have authorizations or assigned
         personnel.
     A3.4.3.2. Organizational Structure. Organizations have external and internal structure.
     The external structure defines a unit‘s parent unit as well as subordinate units, if any.
     The internal structure defines the work centers performing specific functions within the
     organization. Work centers are identified by office symbol codes (OSC) and functional
     account codes (FAC).
     A3.4.3.3. Provisional/Expeditionary Units for Contingency Operations. Provisional
     organizations are established when temporary organizations are needed for contingency
     operations and during contingency planning and execution if necessary. These
     organizations receive Personnel Accounting Symbols (PAS) when established but the
     organizations are activated only when actually needed. Documents that contain a PAS
     must be treated as classified if combined with an OPLAN title or number, mission, name,
     destination, etc.
         A3.4.3.3.1. Establish Provisional/Expeditionary Units During Contingency Planning.
         The Air Component MO staff identifies organizational structures for each planned
         employment location in their AOR and establishes provisional organizations as
         needed. Provisional organizational structures at and below the wing level must fit
         within the combat wing structure.
         A3.4.3.3.2. Establish Provisional/Expeditionary Units During Execution. While
         provisional organizations established during planning are used during execution,
         provisional organizations may be established during execution if the need arises. In
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       71


        this situation, time is of the essence. The organization must be established and
        registered in the PAS system quickly so the information can be used immediately.
  A3.4.4. Requirements. Requirements state what is needed to perform assigned/planned
  missions in actual/anticipated environments.
     A3.4.4.1. Contingency Planning Requirements. The contingency planning process is
     conducted based on the JSCP. The end result of this process is an OPLAN, with or
     without a TPFDD, detailed to meet each combatant commander‘s requirement. In
     contingency planning, unlike crisis planning and programming, the scenarios focus on
     force employment.
        A3.4.4.1.1. Employment Requirements. These are forces necessary to support the
        contingency missions or in support of contingencies and exercises. They consist of
        in-place and augmentation requirements, which equal total requirements.
            A3.4.4.1.1.1. In-place Requirements. In-place requirements are those needed to
            perform contingency missions at existing installations.
            A3.4.4.1.1.2. Augmentation Requirements. Augmentation requirements define
            ‗what‘ is required at the employment location to satisfy its ‗heightened‘ mission.
            A3.4.4.1.1.3. Deployment Requirements.         This mirrors the augmentation
            required. These two terms essentially have the same meaning, yet different terms
            are used to identify ‗supporting‘ and ‗supported‘ organizations. An employment
            location has an augmentation requirement. What a MAJCOM sends to fill that
            augmentation requirement is defined as their deployment requirement. The forces
            to be deployed are chosen based on current sourcing policies. Augmentation
            requirements and deployment requirements are synonymous in contingency
            planning.
        A3.4.4.1.2. Mobilization Requirements. Mobilization requirements consist of: air
        reserve component (ARC) deployers; ARC forces needed to move the force; ARC
        forces to assist in mobilization, deployment, and sustainment; and ARC forces for
        backfill both on the CONUS and OCONUS.
        A3.4.4.1.3. Relationships Between Contingency Plans.         They may be mutually
        exclusive, simultaneous, sequential, or a subset.
     A3.4.4.2. Wartime Planning and Programming Requirements. The wartime planning
     and programming scenarios focus on providing forces. Requirements in these scenarios
     state the capability units must organize, train, and equip for in order to satisfy mission
     requirements.
        A3.4.4.2.1. In-place Requirements. In-place requirements reflect what is needed to
        perform continuing missions in the CONUS after deployment of tasked forces.
        A3.4.4.2.2. Deployment Requirements. Deployment requirements state what a unit
        must organize, train, and equip to for potential deployment. This should reflect a
        unit‘s maximum simultaneous tasking. These should be synonymous with what is in
        WMP 3 and what is used for deployment planning (formally known as mobility),
        UTC posturing, and SORTS reporting.
72                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


        A3.4.4.2.3. ANG/AFRC Requirements. ARC requirements consist of two types,
        Gaining MAJCOM and ―Round Out‖.
            A3.4.4.2.3.1. Gaining MAJCOM Requirements. These requirements are needed
            by the MAJCOM gaining the forces to perform its assigned missions; they are
            focused on execution as opposed to organizing, training, and equipping.
            A3.4.4.2.3.2. ―Round Out‖ Requirements. Requirements stated by the Gaining
            MAJCOM may not include all requirements needed to organize, train, and equip
            the forces needed at execution. These may include a commander, first sergeant,
            training section, supply section, etc. This term is unique to the ANG and AFRC,
            who quantify and own such additional requirements.
        A3.4.4.2.4. IMA Requirements. These are requirements needed to satisfy wartime
        and mobilization tasking that could not be met with existing peacetime resources.
        They are identified by a peacetime-to-wartime analytical assessment and validated
        using USAF criteria. Once identified as an approved IMA requirement, MAJCOMs
        may request funding and personnel to fill the IMA requirement and begin their
        training.
        A3.4.4.2.5. Joint Augmentation Requirements. Unified combatant commands may
        levy requirements upon the services to augment their staffs during contingencies.
        These are documented in a Joint Table of Manpower Distribution (JTMD). The Air
        Force has its share of these augmentation requirements. The Air Force determines
        whether to use active duty personnel or IMAs to satisfy them. Active duty personnel
        used to satisfy these requirements are known as Joint Mobilization Augmentees
        (JMA) and the requirements they satisfy are known as JMA requirements. Specific
        authorizations are designated to satisfy these requirements and the individual assigned
        to the authorizations train to satisfy the requirements during a contingency.
     A3.4.4.3. Crisis Action Planning and Execution Requirements. The crisis action
     planning process is real-time; it‘s carried out in response to specific situation(s) as they
     occur. The end result of this process is a statement of requirements that address a crisis.
     Like contingency planning, these scenarios focus on force employment.
        A3.4.4.3.1. Employment Requirements. These are forces necessary to support the
        contingency missions or in support of exercises. They consist of in-place and
        augmentation requirements, which equal total requirements.
            A3.4.4.3.1.1. In-place Requirements. In-place requirements are those needed to
            perform contingency missions at existing installations.
            A3.4.4.3.1.2. Augmentation Requirements. Augmentation requirements define
            ‗what‘ is required at the employment location to satisfy its ‗heightened‘ mission.
            A3.4.4.3.1.3. Deployment Requirements.         This mirrors the augmentation
            required. These two terms essentially have the same meaning, yet different terms
            are used to identify ‗supporting‘ and ‗supported‘ organizations. An employment
            location has an augmentation requirement. What a MAJCOM sends to fill that
            augmentation requirement is defined as their deployment requirement. The forces
            to be deployed are chosen based on current sourcing policies. Augmentation
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                          73


              requirements and deployment requirements are synonymous in contingency
              planning.
          A3.4.4.3.2. Mobilization Requirements. Mobilization requirements are a subset of
          total requirements, deployment and in-place, which are to be satisfied by the ARC.
          They are stated on a Force List. These requirements must be prioritized in case the
          authority to mobilize all requested forces is not granted.
          A3.4.4.3.3. Joint Augmentation Requirements.             When the unified combatant
          commander needs staff augmentation, the individuals assigned to the authorizations
          specified to satisfy the requirements are specifically tasked to provide augmentation.
       A3.4.4.4. Relating Requirements to Organizations. A tasked unit is the unit that is
       required to provide resources to satisfy requirements. Only permanent units may be
       tasked. An attached unit is the unit that resources are assigned or attached to satisfy
       requirements. The attached unit is also known as the employing unit.
   A3.4.5. Resources. Resources are used to satisfy requirements.
       A3.4.5.1. Manpower Resources. Manpower resources are used in the contingency
       planning, wartime planning, wartime programming, and peacetime organize, train, and
       equip scenarios. Manpower resources are authorizations as well as other sources of labor
       such as contract man-year equivalents (CME), inter-service support (ISS), and host
       nation support (HNS).
       A3.4.5.2. Personnel Resources. Personnel resources are people; they are used in the
       crisis action planning and execution scenario as well as to fill authorizations, contracts,
       and other agreements in the peacetime organize, train, and equip scenario. Military
       personnel and in-service civilians are typically placed into one or more of the following
       categories:
          A3.4.5.2.1. Assigned. Permanent Party in Permanent Change of Status.
          A3.4.5.2.2. Attached. Personnel in Temporary Duty Status.
          A3.4.5.2.3. Available. Present for duty.
       A3.4.5.3. Relating Resources to Organizations. The Air Force plans and programs with
       authorizations and executes with personnel. Personnel are assigned to units when in a
       permanent party status. Only permanent units may have personnel assigned to them.
       Personnel are attached to units when in a temporary duty status.
A3.5. Time. Requirements and resources are not valid, needed, funded, and/or available all the
time. Time phasing allows us to project requirements and resources over time. We use two
types of time phasing: absolute and relative. Absolute references specific calendar dates.
Relative reference days, plus or minus, computed from an unknown start date.
   A3.5.1. Employment Requirements Phasing. As weapon systems and missions change over
   time, manpower needs change. We use the effective date to show when the need begins and
   the through date to show when the need ends. These dates are relative for contingency
   planning; they are absolute for peacetime, programming, wartime planning, and execution
   scenarios.
 74                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


   A3.5.2. Authorization Phasing. We also use effective and through dates to show the
   duration of manpower authorizations. These dates are always absolute.
   A3.5.3. Deployment Requirements Phasing. We use required delivery date (RDD) to show
   when an individual is needed to satisfy a specific employment requirement and estimated
   tour length (ETL) to show how many days that individual is expected to satisfy that
   requirement. The RDD is an absolute date although it may be derived using the start date of
   a contingency (C-Date) and a day relative to the start of the contingency (C-Day).
A3.6. Comparing and Matching Resources to Requirements. It is necessary to compare
requirements to resources to assess how well a population of resources can satisfy a statement of
requirements. Comparing resources to requirements is always done in context of a scenario.
Use the procedures listed below in the absence of detailed guidance. These scenarios are usually
subsets of those defined in this document or for performing what-if analysis.
   A3.6.1. Comparison Elements. The primary elements by which requirements and resources
   are compared are specialty, grade, category, work center, MAJCOM, unit, location,
   component, and time. The following describes each of the comparison elements and the
   significance of comparing them.
       A3.6.1.1. Specialty. Commanders need capability and specialty is the basic indicator of
       capability. We normally use the AFSC to identify the specialty needed (requirement) or
       provided (resource). We can use occupational series code (OCC) when dealing with
       civilians. NOTE: If the required specialty is stated as an AFSC, it must be translated to
       an OCC before a civilian resource identified by OCC can be compared.
       A3.6.1.2. Grade. Grade indicates a level of experience and responsibility needed
       (requirement) and available (resource). Usually specify grades required for officers.
       Enlisted grades are normally omitted, relying on the skill level of the AFSC to indicate
       experience and responsibility needed or provided. If a specific enlisted grade is required
       for the capability, it must be annotated.
       A3.6.1.3. Category. Category indicates whether military (officer or enlisted) or civilian
       (of specific variety) is needed (requirement) and available (resource).
       A3.6.1.4. Work Center. The FAC title identifies the specific functions performed in the
       work center. The AFSC required to perform that FAC workload is listed on the UMD in
       that work center. When conducting a comparison analysis or contingency match, you
       should match/assign a resource (authorization) from a work center that has the stated
       mission requirement. NOTE: USAF FACs are four-to-six character codes that identify a
       work center mission capability. Hence, when conducting an Air Force analysis/match,
       ignore the last two digits of the FAC, they are MAJCOM specific and therefore irrelevant
       for use across MAJCOM lines.
       A3.6.1.5. MAJCOM. MAJCOM indicates an Air Component/MAJCOM needing a
       capability (supported), a MAJCOM tasked to provide the capability (supporting/tasked),
       and a MAJCOM with available capability it can provide. Two-digit MAJCOM codes
       identify Air Components and MAJCOMs. From a comparison standpoint, a tasked
       MAJCOM is considered a requirement attribute and a MAJCOM with an available
       capability is considered a resource attribute. In joint operations terminology, the tasked
       unit is referred to as Unit Identifier Code (UIC). The UIC consists of the last four
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                           75


     characters of the PAS code being preceded with an F and followed by a zero (i.e., AF
     PAS - FQTR, AF UIC - FFQTR0).
     A3.6.1.6. Unit. Unit indicates the unit needing a capability (attached unit), the unit
     tasked to provide the capability (tasked unit), and the unit with available capability it can
     provide. We use the Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) to identify units. From a
     comparison standpoint, tasked unit is considered a requirement attribute and unit with
     available capability is considered a resource attribute.
     A3.6.1.7. Location.     Location indicates where the unit needing a capability
     (destination/TDY location) and the unit tasked to provide the capability (origin/home
     station) are geographically located. We use four-digit installation codes to identify
     locations. From a comparison standpoint, origin of the tasked unit is considered a
     requirement attribute and origin of the unit with available capability is considered a
     resource attribute.
     A3.6.1.8. Component. Component indicates a component (active, ANG, AFRC) tasked
     to provide the capability and a component with available capability it can provide. From
     a comparison standpoint, tasked component is considered a requirement attribute and
     component with available capability is considered a resource attribute.
     A3.6.1.9. Time. Time is an indicator when a capability is needed (requirement) or
     available (resource).
  A3.6.2. Less-Than-Perfect Matches. Perfect matches rarely occur and certain less-than-
  perfect matches are acceptable. There are two techniques used to identify less-than perfect
  matches: masking and substituting.
     A3.6.2.1. Masking. Certain elements of resources may be masked to allow acceptable
     less-than-perfect matches. These, in order of typical application, are FAC, unit, category,
     location, MAJCOM, and component.
         A3.6.2.1.1. FAC. While it is desirable for the resource to come from the same type
         work center it is needed in, it is not always possible. The FAC is typically masked
         digit-by-digit in reverse order. Often, the last two positions are masked for
         comparison as these are MAJCOM specific and deployment requirements normally
         have only four-digit FACs. If a resource cannot be found in the same/equivalent
         work center (four digits), from the same branch (three digits) tasking from the same
         functional area (two digits) is satisfactory. Masking the last five digits is generally of
         little value. Masking all digits completely disregards the FAC, not restricting
         matching by function.
         A3.6.2.1.2. Unit (PAS). Obviously, the unit tasked to provide resources should
         provide them. But when it cannot, the next best place to look is at the same location.
         Masking the PAS allows this to happen. Masking the unit has implications for the
         SORTs process, especially when analyzing the ability of a unit to meet its taskings.
         AFI 10-201 provides guidance for addressing direct support units. NOTE: By not
         masking the MAJCOM, the resources looked at will belong to the MAJCOM of the
         tasked unit.
 76                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


          A3.6.2.1.3. Category. Masking the category allows, for example, a civilian to satisfy
          a military requirement. This inherently masks the grade as well. Care must be taken
          to appropriately apply category masking.
          A3.6.2.1.4. Location.     Once a MAJCOM has matched its resources to its
          requirements as best it can within location, it should look at all of its unmatched
          resources to try to match to all of its unmatched requirements. Masking the location
          allows this to happen.
          A3.6.2.1.5. MAJCOM. Again, it is obvious the MAJCOM tasked to provide
          resources should provide them. But when it cannot, resources from any MAJCOM
          assuming other MAJCOMs considered have already matched their resources to their
          requirements as best as they can. Masking the MAJCOM allows this to happen.
          NOTE: Not masking the location, the resources looked at will be at the location of
          the tasked unit.
          A3.6.2.1.6. Component. Once all requirements tasked to the various components are
          satisfied as well as possible, other components should be considered. Masking the
          component allows this to happen. Doing this has implications, however. If done
          during contingency planning, wartime planning, or programming, tasking should be
          shifted to the component providing resources. If done during execution, mobilization
          may be needed to be able to use the resources.
      A3.6.2.2. Skill, Grade, and Specialty Substituting. Certain elements of resources may be
      substituted to allow acceptable less-than-perfect matches. The enlisted skill level and
      officer grade substitution(s) must comply with UTC MISCAP, functional AFIs, or the
      USAF WMP-1 annexes. Critical personnel substitutions must have the required AFSC
      and meet or exceed the skill level required. There are program-specific restrictions on
      substituting during analysis. AFI 10-201 provides guidance for SORTS, AFI 10-401
      provides guidance for posturing, and AFI 10-403 provides guidance for deployment
      execution. In addition, there may also be guidance published in functional community
      instructions or AEF UTC Posturing and Sequencing guidance.
   A3.6.3. Iterations. Masking and substituting are sequentially applied, relaxing the criteria
   each iteration or cycle. It typically takes ten to fifteen iterations to step through masking and
   substitution in performing a comparison. NOTE: Masking and substituting may be applied
   in any order and in any combinations. It is up to the analyst performing the comparison to
   apply them in a logical fashion.
   A3.6.4. Results. The results of comparing resources to requirements is a series of resources
   matched to requirements. The fall out is unmatched requirements (shortages) and unmatched
   resources (overages). Customers must be assisted in dealing with these shortages and
   overages.
   A3.6.5. Resolving Overages and Shortages. Once overages and shortages are identified,
   look for options to resolve the mismatches. Examples of options are identifying overage
   resources for use elsewhere, identifying alternate sources of resources, or simply identifying
   and documenting a problem area to be resolved at a later time.
A3.7. Determining Expeditionary Requirements. Expeditionary requirements could be either
contingency, wartime planning/programming, or crisis action/execution requirements.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       77


Determining expeditionary requirements is a management engineering responsibility. Manpower
requirements for in-garrison operations are determined using manpower standards published by
AFMA, while expeditionary requirements are determined using the UTC. UTCs are developed
using the manpower standard as the starting point. Figure A3.2, Requirements Comparison,
shows the relationship between in-garrison manpower requirements and expeditionary
manpower requirements. The primary difference between the traditional and contingency
procedures is the documents used to determine the requirement and the systems used to manage
and document those requirements.

Figure A3.2. Requirements Comparison.




   A3.7.1. Basis. The basis for expeditionary requirements are:
       A3.7.1.1. The mission to be performed. This comes from operational and functional
       guidance.
       A3.7.1.2. The environment in which the mission is performed. This information comes
       from operational and functional guidance and assumptions.
   A3.7.2. Procedures. The following are several methods that may be used to determine
   expeditionary requirements. NOTE: The functional annexes in WMP 1 should have
   sufficient guidance to lead the MO and functional planner to a fair estimation of
   requirements.
       A3.7.2.1. Modified Capability Manpower Standards:
          A3.7.2.1.1. Review the processes performed in non-surge operations. For those
          performed in the contingency environment, estimate a contingency effort factor (for
          example: suggestion-related workload will decrease by 50%, a factor of .5). For
          those not performed in the contingency environment, delete associated hours (factor
          of 0). For contingency only processes, estimate the associated effort.
          A3.7.2.1.2. Determine the contingency workload and apply the modified standard.
 78                                                                 AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


      A3.7.2.2. Functional Estimates. FAMs often have a good feel for what it takes to
      perform during contingencies. Combine Manpower methodologies with the FAMs
      estimate to devise a good estimation based on the mission and environment.
      A3.7.2.3. Skill and Grade Mix. The skill and grade mix should generally be the same as
      for peacetime operations, except that requirements in the crisis environment should
      minimize the use of 3- levels. Only utilize 3-levels when AFSC specific technical skills
      can be applied in the deployment environment (e.g. Third Country National escort or
      Postal augmentation).
      A3.7.2.4. Minimum Manning. The minimum amount of manpower required to perform
      the work when it occurs (i.e. the work of firefighters, security forces, and emergency
      medical staff).
      A3.7.2.5. Shift Profile Analysis. Man-hour shift profile charts are an effective way to
      identify and minimize standby time.
      A3.7.2.6. Operational Audit. Operational Audit is one method to determine the man-
      hours a work center requires, given its workload. You can then translate those man-hours
      to UTC requirements.
      A3.7.2.7. Other tools. Other management engineering, requirements determination tools
      can be found in AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements, AFMAN 38-255,
      Vol 1 Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP) - Processes, AFMAN 38-25,
      Vol 2 Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP) - Quantification Tools,
      AFMAN 38-255, Vol 3 Air Force Management Engineering Program (MEP)--Logistics
      Composite Model (LCOM).
      A3.7.2.8. Stating Requirements for Deployment. Requirements for deployments need to
      be stated in the form of a standard UTC as stated in paragraph A3.8.1.2 Choose the best
      fit. If none apply, the FAM should request a new UTC.
A3.8. Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging (MEFPAK)
   A3.8.1. UTC.
      A3.8.1.1. Purpose. To provide Joint and Air Force planners, at all levels, a standard
      force capability and to document manpower requirements for operations and force
      planning, execution, and readiness measurement. This is achieved through the
      development of an Air Force level approved, standard master database of force packages
      available in Joint and Air Force Command and Control Systems. The terms force
      package and UTC are often used synonymously. Reference AFI 10-401, Air Force
      Operations Planning and Execution Chapter 5, for additional information.
      A3.8.1.2. Structure. A UTC is represented by a 5-character alphanumeric code
      controlled by JCS. The assignment of a UTC is a categorization into a class or kind of
      unit having common distinguishing characteristics. The first character of the UTC and
      the function it represents are provided in Joint Pub 1-03.21, Table 6. Common Air Force
      UTC designators for deployment capability are listed in AFI 10-401 , Chapter 5, Table
      5.1
      A3.8.1.3. Usage. War planners use UTCs to document total Air Force manpower and
      logistics requirements needed to support the national military strategy during contingency
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     79


     and execution planning. These requirements are documented in JOPES Time Phased
     Force Deployment Data (TPFDD) and within DCAPES. The TPFDD listing is identified
     in Annex A, Appendix 1 of the OPLAN and lists total requirements (expressed in UTCs)
     and units tasked to fill those requirements. Chapter 3 of this AFI and the Preface to
     WMP 3, Part 2, Support Forces, provide instructions on how force packages are used in
     OPLAN and TPFDD development. As a rule, only UTCs with a Deployment
     Identification (DEPID) of 1, 2, 3, 6, E, or P are used in TPFDD files. A UTC will not be
     used in TPFDD development for contingency or execution planning until it is registered
     in the MEFPAK, and subsequently in the Type Unit Characteristics (TUCHA). The
     MEFPAK responsible command is responsible for coordinating with all other commands
     that provide forces to the UTC, ensuring that it can be postured.
  A3.8.2. MRAs. The HAF FAM designates a MAJCOM/FOA to be responsible for each of
  its functional UTCs. The MRA maintains the mission capability statement and the logistics
  and manpower detail for all UTCs for which it is responsible.
  A3.8.3. Pilot Units. The MRA may designate a unit to maintain UTCs the unit provides.
  The pilot unit coordinates changes with other units that provide the UTCs.
  A3.8.4. UTC Management. Refer to AFI 10-401, Chapter 5, and paragraph 3.2.2.2.4 and
  Figure A2.1 of this document.
 80                                                                    AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                                      ATTACHMENT 4
A4. EMPLOYED MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS AND SAMPLE
                         FORMATS

A4.1. Purpose. Assist manpower personnel through each of the four phases of a deployment
(pre-deployment, initial arrival, employment, and termination) and to operate at an employed
location.
A4.2. Pre-deployment. There are critical first steps to be accomplished before departing your
home station. Figure A4.1, Pre-Deployment Checklist, is a good start for what should be
reviewed prior to a deployment. Failure to accomplish these items will impact your ability to get
the EFSS Manpower Section up and running.

Figure A4.1. Pre-Deployment Checklist.
                              ITEM                                     YES   NO1     N/A
1. Training:
a. Are all tasked personnel current on required deployment
training?
b. Are all tasked personnel current on Expeditionary manpower
training?
c. Are identified DCAPES operators trained?
2. Review pre-planning tasking (OPLAN, tasking message,
etc):
a. Does it explain the mission and concept of operation (CONOPS)
of the tasking?2
b. Does it explain the objectives of the Manpower team being
tasked?
c. Does it identify any assumptions required for implementation
requirements determination and organizational issues?3
d. Does it identify any planning factors affecting manpower
functions/capabilities?
e. Does it provide detailed guidance for specific Manpower
support, including:
  1. Are there identified LIMFACs affecting the Manpower
function?
    If yes, has a ―get-well‖ been identified, or has the OPR
       provided an alternate action to offset the LIMFAC?
  2. Does it provide the organization structure and contacts for the
      J1/A1 staff?
  3. Does it document sources of equipment support and
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     81


     communication capability?
f. Does it provide guidance on:
  1. Authorization/Requirement change request process?
  2. Organization change request process?
  3. Does it identify any reports or administrative support
      requirements for MO (not identified in AFI 38-205)?
  4. Does it specify command relationships and responsibilities?
g. Does it identify the following communications support:4
  1. Secure and non-secure voice telephone (normally DSN)?
  2. Secure and non-secure fax capabilities?
  3. Accessing/installing of Secure Internet Protocol Router
     Network (SIPRNET) in working area?
    If no, does it outline alternate courses to access SIPRNET?
  4. Operating DCAPES in a classified operating environment?
3. For teams tasked for a deployable system (UTC:
RFMAQ/RFMAN) 5
a. Has an equipment custodian for supply kits and DCAPES been
identified?
b. Is DCAPES equipment loaded and tracked using applicable
tracking system?
c. Is DCAPES operational and accounted for?
d. Are all required software and programs present and in
compliance with the GCCS-AF baseline?
4. Conduct inventories:
a. At least annually?
b. When there is a new equipment custodian?
c. When equipment departs home station for more than 72 hours?
d. When equipment returns to home station?
e. Is all required software loaded on the system?
NOTES:
1. Any item checked as NO is a LIMFAC. Report all LIMFACs to your MAJCOM and the
supported command (courtesy copy AF/A1MR and AFMA/MASR.) Work with your MAJCOM
and the supported command to correct the LIMFAC.

2. The CONOPS briefly states the mission and the general support personnel provides in
supporting the OPLAN or tasking. The supported command should use this area to identify
 82                                                                      AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


unique requirements, designate supporting Manpower Teams for geographically separated
locations, and designate intermediate levels of command.

3. Assumptions are items such as force ceilings and Status of Forces Agreements, an inherent
part to the activation of the tasking. Assumptions listed influence the feasibility of Annex E. If
an assumption is critical to the success of the plan it will list an alternate course of action (COA).

4. All known communications requirements for MO Teams should be listed in the OPLAN.
Communications support is essential for accessing the GCCS-AF platform, DCAPES, and emails.
DSN voice is a must. Without reach-back capability, the service provided to the deployed
location is degraded severely or results in mission failure. Requirements outlined in Annex E
must also be identified in Annex K (Command, Control, and Communications Systems).

5. For missing/broken GCCS equipment, notify local communications support function or the
AFFOR/A1 Staff.
A4.2.1. Contact MAJCOM GCCS/DCAPES administrator, before departing home station, to
establish applicable roles and permissions.
   A4.2.2. Items Required. Unit Type Code (UTC) RFMAQ is the deployable Manpower
   logistics kit for establishing a bare base manpower function. Manpower Sections tasked to
   provide this UTC will have the complete compliment of equipment on hand and ready to
   deploy at all times. To find a listing of items required by the deployed Manpower Section
   see the LOGDET for assigned UTCs. Every deployment environment is different. Care
   must be exercised to anticipate requirements not addressed here or in the UTC. Publications,
   non-expendable and expendable supplies, and a notebook computer are intended to be hand-
   carried. Initial members deploying into a bare base must carry all of these items. Follow-on
   personnel need only take those items as directed by the employed office chief. The list of
   required items will be adjusted accordingly. Authorization for additional baggage may be
   required. Annotate orders as required.
A4.3. Initial arrival. The following actions are required to setup the manpower office upon
initial arrival to the deployed location. Items are not necessarily required to be accomplished in
this order as needs will change depending on the assigned location.
   A4.3.1. Inventory Equipment, Supplies, and Facilities to Ensure All Required Items Arrived.
   Except where noted, actions to set up the office, such as the initial inventory, must be
   completed within 24-hours of arrival and before the Office Activation Notification Message
   is sent, if arrival coincides with PERSCO, the activation message may be consolidated.
   A4.3.2. Establish Filing System. Contact the RIMS manager or site Information Manager
   for assistance/guidance. Consider creating a preliminary file plan as part of the RFMEQ
   capability that is ready to ―unpack‖ on arrival. Guidance can be found in AFI 33-322, Air
   Force Records Management Program.
   A4.3.3. DCAPES Operations.
       A4.3.3.1. Set up computer(s) and peripherals.
       A4.3.3.2. Verify hard drive, monitor, and printer links are operational.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                        83


      A4.3.3.3. Establish and verify communications links are working.         Contact the site
      communications function for assistance.
      A4.3.3.4. Log in to ensure DCAPES USERID and password are operational on
      employed system and the roles and permissions assigned are acceptable for the deployed
      location.
      A4.3.3.5. Prepare the DCAPES initial system report within 48-hours after arrival, if
      arrival coincides with PERSCO, report may be consolidated
      A4.3.3.6. Report system outages within 24 hours after occurrence. Prompt reporting
      results in prompt outage resolution.
      A4.3.3.7. System accountability begins upon accepting custody and will be maintained
      throughout the deployment. The senior EFSS member at the employed site is ultimately
      responsible. Problems pertaining to system accountability must be reported immediately,
      especially when replacement personnel do not overlap with those they are replacing.
   A4.3.4. Office Activation Notification Message. This must be sent within 24 hours after
   arrival. The date and time group of this message establishes your activation date and time.
   Refer to Figure A4.3 Follow-on personnel will also notify AFFOR MO staff (if applicable)
   and supported Air Component MO staff upon arrival at the deployed location via telephonic
   or electronic means within 24 hours after arrival. Permanent changes to areas reported in the
   activation notification message will be reported as soon as practicable using a modified
   version of Figure A4.3 and changing the subject to read ―Operational Status Change.‖

Figure A4.2. Sample Office Activation Notification Message.
FROM: #### EFSS//MO//
TO: AFFOR/MO STAFF (IF APPLICABLE)
  SUPPORTED AIR COMPONENT/MO STAFF
  MAJCOM/A1M
  HQ USAF WASH DC//A1MR//
  AFMA/MASR RANDOLPH AFB TX//CC//
CLASSIFICATION
SUBJECT: EFSS Manpower Section ACTIVATION
1. THIS OFFICE IS NOW OPERATIONAL. IT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING
MANPOWER SERVICES TO THE #### AEW (P), SOMEWHERE AB.
2. MODES OF CONTACT:
A. ADMIN PHONE. DSN 316-234-9876.
B. SECURE PHONE. DSN 316-234-9876.
C. MAILING ADDRESS. #### EFSS/MO, 345 TENT DRIVE, APO AE 04567
 84                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


D. NIPRNET EMAIL. MO@####AEW.OVERTHERE.MIL
E. SIPRNET EMAIL. MO@####AEW.OVERTHERE.SMIL.MIL
3. DCAPES EQUIPMENT. SYSTEM NUMBER ### DEPLOYED FROM 62 FSS/MO,
MCCHORD AFB, WA. CUSTODIAN IS LT JONES.
4. MANPOWER OFFICE CHIEF IS CMSGT MATT MATTHEWS.
   A4.3.5. Mission Briefing. The commander and other key personnel need to have a clear
   understanding of the responsibilities, capabilities, and services provided by manpower.
   Figure A4.4 contains a recommended briefing format and Figure A4.5 contains a sample
   organizational chart for the briefing. Prepare the briefing within 48 hours after activation and
   be ready to brief the commander and key staff as soon as practicable.

Figure A4.3. Recommended EFSS Manpower Briefing Outline.
Responsibilities of the manpower section:
   1. Organization Management
   2. Force Management:
              a. Requirements Management
              b. Alternate Resource Options
   1. Primary Management Document (DRMD)
   1. The Organizational and Requirements Change Process
   1. Other Manpower Services Provided
Specific Responsibilities:
   1. Assist the AEW Commander in communicating manpower issues.
   2. Provide commander(s) copies of messages pertaining to any Unit manpower issue(s)
   3. Meet ―rotational flight‖ aircraft to provide authorization/requirement information to newly
       arriving personnel.
   4. Attend wing/staff meetings to discuss manpower issues.
   5. Provide commander(s) copies of ERD (Employment Requirements Document) or other
       automated requirements listings.
   6. Conduct site visits of geographically separated locations within the AOR.
   7. Identify positions to be used in the Augmentee Program.
   8. Review/evaluate ―out-sourced‖ functions and service contracting requests (i.e., Form 9s).
   9. Review G-series orders for units activating/deactivating.
   10. Develop organization charts, mission directives, mission statements.
   11. Validate functional workloads for manpower authorizations/requirements.
   12. Advise commander(s) on ―wartime organization and management improvements‖.
   13. Process OCRs and ACRs.
   14. Review/Process Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) and Support Agreements (Intra-
       service between USAF units and Inter-service between federal agencies).
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                          85


Wing/Center Overview:
   1. Command Structure.
   2. Organizational Structure.
   3. Current Required/Authorized by Unit (O/E/C/T).
   4. Major Projected Changes:
             a. Changes in Organizations.
             b. Time-Phased Changes in Requirements.
   1. Issues Currently Being Worked.
   NOTE: Utilize Visual Aids; an organization chart depicting the wing/center, its parent
   headquarters (up to CCDR level), and its subordinate units. Include UTC-required for
   wing/center and units below by category (officer, enlisted, other, and total). Consider including
   a primary phone number for each unit to have a quick reference phone list.
- Operational Status of the Manpower Section:
   -- Location.
   -- Required/Authorized/Assigned/Attached.
   -- Duty Hours.
   -- After Duty Hours Contact Procedures.
   -- Specific Needs Unsatisfied (LIMFACs):
       --- Office, Equipment, and Supplies.
       --- Communications.
       --- Computers.
NOTE: Be sure to properly classify and mark briefing items
 86                                                                     AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


Figure A4.4. Sample Organization Chart.




A4.3.6. Event Log. Maintain a hard copy event log during employed operations or as directed
by the supported air component headquarters. While mundane, event logs provide continuity
and enable a successor to quickly grasp the activities of the office prior to their arrival. Logs are
especially useful when operating in a hostile environment where assigned personnel might be
subject to death or injury. It is important to record all log items during the shift when they occur.
Refer to Figure A4.6 for a sample event log. As a minimum, log the following, including item-
specific information in the event description:
       A4.3.6.1. Changes in Operational Status. Include entries for activation, deactivation,
       team rotations, and events affecting operational status such as equipment and
       communications failure or limitations.
       A4.3.6.2. Briefing Provided. Include person or agency briefed, purpose of briefing, and
       a summary of the briefing.
       A4.3.6.3. Request for OCR/ACR. Indicate requesting agency (office, name, phone, e-
       mail address, etc.), OCR/ACR number, and any suspense.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                         87


      A4.3.6.4. Request for Information. Indicate requesting agency (office, name, phone, e-
      mail address, etc.), specific information requested, and any suspense.

Figure A4.5. Sample EFSS Manpower Log.
Date                                            POC                                     Suspense
Time         Event Description                  Phone         Action Taken              Status
4-Apr-2010   Additional Support required for    Capt. Jones   ACR add UTC(s) QFEB2      5-Apr-2010
0705         local security                     2-3333        and QFEXX                 Completed
4-Apr-2010   AFSC Change to ULN XXXXXX          Lt Jackson    ACR                       4-Apr-2010
0855                                            2-3444                                  Completed
   A4.3.7. Emergency Procedures.
      A4.3.7.1. Relocation. Emergency relocation, or bugout, may be necessary to preserve
      life and sustain operations. In an emergency, manpower personnel will relocate to a
      designated area with an operational DCAPES system, manual files, a secure data device
      and required Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP) gear. Other items required to
      sustain operations may be taken at the discretion of the manpower chief, however, speed
      and mobility are the primary factors. Office gear should fit easily into a rucksack or
      aviator‘s style briefcase for quick assemblage and movement. If collocated with
      PERSCO, the MO should receive the emergency relocation briefing from the PERSCO
      team chief and use the EFSS procedures provided. Periodically repeat this briefing and
      consider practicing bugout procedures to ensure assigned personnel stay prepared to
      respond immediately. Specifically:
          A4.3.7.1.1. Define the emergency relocation site and procedures.
          A4.3.7.1.2. Address force protection considerations and potential Nuclear Biological
          and Chemical threats, if not already briefed.
          A4.3.7.1.3. Emergency relocation procedures must address rendering abandoned
          property unusable to the enemy.
      A4.3.7.2. Self Aid and Buddy Care (SA/BC).            Consider a weekly opportunity to
      discuss/practice SA/BC topics.
      A4.3.7.3. Mission Oriented Protective Posture (MOPP). Consider a weekly opportunity
      to discuss and practice MOPP procedures.
   A4.3.8. Figure A4 7., Initial Arrival Checklist, outlines the general responsibilities and
   actions required when personnel initially arrive at a new operating location as previously
   listed in this attachment. Items on this list are not necessarily to be completed in the order
   prescribed because variables exist and situations are different for each location and theater;
   the supported MAJCOM manpower planner must be able and ready to tailor the checklist to
   include known theater or tasking-unique requirements. The checklist must be applied to each
   unique location where a MO Team will be employed. Information for the location must be
   provided to the MO Team prior to its arrival at the employment location.
 88                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


Figure A4.6. Initial Arrival Checklist.
Item                                                                 YES   NO   N/A
- In-process through PERSCO immediately upon arrival and
employed location
- Contact supported command to obtain requirements information
to assist PERSCO teams in establishing accountability.
- Brief commanders of manpower responsibilities and capabilities.
(See Attachment A4, paragraph A4.3.5.).
-- Ensure they understand your capabilities and limitations
--- Brief status and get well dates of LIMFACs (if known)
-- Provide a copy of MO responsibilities to each deployed
commander to include requirement change requests and
organizational change request methodology.
- If you don‘t have proper communication support, identify to your
supporting Communications Squadron the need for:
-- Secure and unsecure phone/fax capability
-- Secure Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNET)
-- Secure and unsecure email accounts.
- Submit a MO activation notification with in 24 hours of arrival.
- Establish routine procedures for:
-- Requirement Change Requests
-- Organizational Change Requests
-- Other MO duties (i.e. Augmentation Program)
-- Evaluating daily DRMD updates
-- Establish procedures for tracking events in a daily log
- Maintain a POC book containing names and numbers of key
personnel at your location, AFFOR, and supported command.
- DCAPES equipment is set up and operational
-- Submit a DCAPES initial report
- Update system defaults reflecting your TDY GEOLOC code
- Establish a routine for backing up information
-Develop event log (See A4.3.6.)
-Develop continuity folder within first week of activation (See
A4.4.4.)
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       89


-Create Manual Files (See A4.3.2.)
-Develop emergency relocation plan (See A4.3.7.)

A4.4. Employment. The following are items the deployed manpower section will perform
during normal operations (sustainment). This is not an all encompassing list, as requirements
will change from location to location.
   A4.4.1. Mission Briefings. Provided upon request and upon arrival of new commanders to
   the deployed location. Refer to para A4.3.5 for format.
   A4.4.2. Manual Files. Maintain the following manual files, at a minimum, for continuity
   and backup in case of lost computer support; if collocated with PERSCO these files may be
   consolidated. The following instructions apply: AFI 33-322, Records Management Program.
       A4.4.2.1. Organization Charts.       Current and historical Organization Charts are
       significant.
       A4.4.2.2. Employment Requirements/Manning Document (ERMD). Query a new
       ERMD weekly and save to a common computer drive. This is the most important and
       dynamic document for any EFSS Manpower Section during the initial days of the
       operation and is subject to frequent changes. A running record of changes can be
       manually annotated. Again, the decision to reduce this frequency can be made once the
       preponderance of forces have arrived and are captured in the system. Be sure to
       document the change in frequency in the Events Log and Local Policy folder. Note: The
       supported air component manpower staff may have local automated products available
       for use within the theater of operations. Check with the staff for products such as
       DRMD-like listings and change logs
       A4.4.2.3. Notifications. Arrival, activation, inventory, etc.
       A4.4.2.4. Mission Briefing. The most current briefing as well as historic briefings with
       special significance or relevance to the current structure.
       A4.4.2.5. OCR and ACR Changes. Requests and their status (approved, disapproved,
       and pending).
       A4.4.2.6. Maintain Daily Events Log.
   A4.4.3. Requesting Contingency Organization and Requirement Changes. The supported air
   component manpower function should provide a change request format. In the absence of
   guidance, or a format, refer to Figures A4.8 and A4.9 for sample organization and
   requirement change requests. All requests for changes will be logged during the shift
   received and must be acted upon within 48 hours of log entry. Follow-up with the supported
   air component manpower staff to track progress and update the requesting unit as necessary.

Figure A4.7. Sample Organization Change Request.
FROM: #### EFSS SOMEWHERE AB//MO//
TO: INTERMEDIATE HQ OR SUPPORTED AIR COMPONENT/MO STAFF
CLASSIFICATION
 90                                                AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


SUBJECT: ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE REQUEST NUMBER XX-XX
1. THE COMMANDER OF THE XX ESFS (P) HAS REQUESTED AN OPERATING
LOCATION BE ESTABLISHED TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE PERSONNEL PROVIDING
SECURITY AT A LOCATION 50 MILES AWAY. THE PERSONNEL ARE CURRENTLY
BILLETED AT THAT LOCATION. THE REQUEST HAS BEEN APPROVED BY THE XX
SUPPORT GROUP (P) COMMANDER AND THE XX AEW (P) COMMANDER. WE
CONCUR WITH THE REQUEST.
2. TO IMPLEMENT THIS CHANGE:
A. REQUEST ACTIVATION OF THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONAL UNIT:
IDENTIFICATION NEW INFO
PAS       NBR KIND TY DET OL PPAS GLOC
****      XX SEP SQ       A HSPS ZZZZ
B. REQUEST CHANGING THE FOLLOWING EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS:
IDENTIFICATION      OLD INFO     NEW INFO
PID ULN UTC      ATCH PAS GLOC ATCH PAS GLOC
XXXXX XXXXX QFEB20 XX3XHSPS XXXX XX3X**** ZZZZ
3. EFSS MANPOWER SECTION POINT OF CONTACT IS TSGT JONES, DSN XXX-XXXX.
SF POINT OF CONTACT IS MAJ SMITH, DSN XXX-XXXX.

Figure A4.8. Sample Requirements Change Request.
FROM: #### EFSS SOMEWHERE AB//MO//
TO: INTERMEDIATE HQ OR SUPPORTED AIR COMPONENT/MO STAFF
CLASSIFICATION
SUBJECT: REQUIREMENTS CHANGE REQUEST NUMBER XX-XX
1. THE COMMANDER OF THE XX ESFS (P) HAS REQUESTED AN ADDITIONAL
SECURITY FORCE SQUAD (UTC QFEB2) TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL SECURITY DUE
TO INCREASED SECURITY VIGILANCE. THE REQUEST HAS BEEN APPROVED BY
THE XX SUPPORT GROUP (P) COMMANDER AND THE XX WING (P) VICE
COMMANDER. WE CONCUR WITH THE REQUEST.
2. TO IMPLEMENT THIS CHANGE, REQUEST ADDITION OF THE FOLLOWING
EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS:
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                         91


IDENTIFICATION        NEW INFO
PID ULN UTC       ATCH PAS EFF/RDD TRU/ETL
XXXXX ***** QFEB20 XX3XHSPS 971001 999999/999
3. EFSS MANPOWER SECTION POINT OF CONTACT IS TSGT JONES, DSN XXX-XXXX.
SF POINT OF CONTACT IS MAJ SMITH, DSN XXX-XXXX.

  A4.4.4. Continuity Folder. Manpower will establish a mission continuity folder within the
  first week after activation. As a minimum, include the following information.
     A4.4.4.1. Mission Narrative. Briefly address the operational mission of the supported
     base and include information regarding the entire base infrastructure as well as all unified
     command elements present. If the manpower office is centrally located, maintain a
     mission statement for all supported bases. This information may be sensitive and should
     be protected from unauthorized disclosure.
     A4.4.4.2. Organization. Include a hard copy of the latest organization chart used to brief
     the commander. If the manpower office is centrally located, maintain charts of all
     supported bases. Ensure charts include the higher headquarters chain of command.
     A4.4.4.3. Policy. Ensure a copy of every policy affecting office operations is included.
     There may need to be several sections to include local, component, Air Force, etc.
     New/replacement manpower Chiefs should always contact higher headquarters to verify
     policies are still in effect prior to beginning operations.
     A4.4.4.4. Challenges. Identify areas requiring attention or factors potentially affecting
     mission accomplishment. Factors might include experience-based suggestions on the
     best means to work with a member of leadership, such as likes, dislikes or specific issues.
     Event log items only need to be addressed in order to provide additional information or to
     identify the location of supporting material.
     A4.4.4.5. Logs. All logs are considered part of the continuity folder.
     A4.4.4.6. Other. Anything relevant to your replacement or to sustain operations.
         A4.4.4.6.1. Employed and higher HQ POC listing; with name, rank, section/office,
         classified and unclassified phone number, e-mail address, and physical location.
         NOTE: A list of POCs and key personnel present OPSEC vulnerabilities and must be
         protected.
         A4.4.4.6.2. Mission Briefing.
         A4.4.4.6.3. Position Descriptions, if applicable.
         A4.4.4.6.4. Equipment listing.
         A4.4.4.6.5. Activation Notification.
  A4.4.5. Security.
     A4.4.5.1. Operations Security. Manpower is in a unique position to know sensitive
     information regarding the movement of forces in and around the area of operations. Care
     must be taken to ensure the inadvertent release of potentially harmful information does
92                                                                   AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


     not occur. Canvas tents and careless conversations are deadly combinations when
     unidentified foreign/enemy agents are roaming forward bases as contractors and host
     nation support personnel.
     A4.4.5.2. Communications Security. Recent operations reaffirmed the vulnerability of
     our forces when making telecommunications contact. The importance, or potential
     identity, of those calling can be readily assessed when personnel answering the telephone
     state their name, grade, and organization. Simply stating ―unsecured line‖ or ―unsecured
     line, this is Captain Jones‖ minimizes this threat to operations. It also affords the caller
     the opportunity to state they need to engage secure communications before any
     identifying information is exchanged.
     A4.4.5.3. Information Security. Manpower personnel will be working with classified
     material (e.g. DCAPES system and documents produced) during contingency operations.
     The supported Combatant Commander provides classification guidance for systems and
     documentation. All classified systems and documents must contain proper classification
     markings. For documentation, mark each paragraph/page with the highest level
     classification contained on each respective paragraph/page. Each paragraph must
     contain a classification code (U-unclassified, C-confidential, S-secret, and T-top secret),
     in parentheses at the beginning of the paragraph, describing that paragraph‘s highest
     security content level. The highest classification of any paragraph on a page determines
     the overall classification of that page, and is marked at the top and bottom of each page.
     Subsequently, the highest classification of any page determines the overall classification
     of the entire document. For example, an entire message is classified SECRET if two
     paragraphs are unclassified and one is classified SECRET. Review AFI 31-401,
     Information Security Program Management and AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
     Program Management for complete security classification requirements. Contact the site
     security manager or Security Force personnel for assistance/guidance. If a document has
     a subject, state the subject and then add the proper classification code in parentheses at
     the end. When lacking specific guidance on OPLAN classification, treat the following
     elements as SECRET when listed together:
         A4.4.5.3.1. PID or plan name.
         A4.4.5.3.2. Attached unit name and code (Attached PAS).
         A4.4.5.3.3. Location name and Geographic Location (GEOLOC) of attached unit.
         A4.4.5.3.4. Country/state name and code of attached unit.
         A4.4.5.3.5. RDD.
  A4.4.6. Prepare DCAPES Systems Outage Reports as required. Reports are required to be
  accomplished within 24 hours of outage, report may be consolidated with PERSCO as an
  EFSS report.
  A4.4.7. Perform analysis, validation, and coordination as required.
  A4.4.8. Provide requirements details as requested and/or when changes are made.
  A4.4.9. Provide organizational information as requested and/or when changes are made.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                       93


A4.5. Termination. The following actions are required to cease operations and close the
employed Manpower Section.
   A4.5.1. Inactivation Message. Sent within 24 hours before departure. Refer to Figure A4.9

Figure A4.9. Sample Inactivation Notification.
FROM: #### EFSS SOMEWHERE AB//MO//
TO: AFFOR/MO STAFF (IF APPLICABLE)
  SUPPORTED AIR COMPONENT/MO STAFF
  MAJCOM/A1M
  HQ USAF WASH DC//A1MR//
  AFMA/MASR RANDOLPH AFB TX //CC//


CLASSIFICATION
SUBJECT: EFSS MANPOWER SECTION DEACTIVATION
1. THIS OFFICE IS NO LONGER OPERATIONAL. #### AEW (P), SOMEWHERE AB, HAS
BEEN INACTIVATED. (OR PERHAPS THE OFFICE HAS BEEN CLOSED FOR
CENTRALIZED OPERATIONS)
2. DCAPES EQUIPMENT. SYSTEM NUMBER ### WAS SHIPPED TO 62 FSS/MO,
MCCHORD AFB, WA. ON….DATE
3. OFFICE FILES AND LOGS WERE SHIPPED TO…
4. CSFA# SUPPLIES WERE…(FULLY EXPENDED…SHIPPED…FINAL STATUS)

5. MANPOWER SECTION CHIEF IS MSGT JANE SMITH
   A4.5.2. DCAPES. Addressed in the inactivation message. At least one week prior to
   termination of operations, contact the local communications function for system disposition
   instructions. Be sure to address items such as preservation or elimination of resident data,
   particularly classified data. Also, obtain shipping instructions. NOTE: Never abandon a
   system without wiping (sanitizing or deleting) all data from its memory. Utilize provided
   software for this purpose.
   A4.5.3. Disposition of Records and Logs. Addressed in the inactivation message. Records
   and logs serve a valuable historical purpose and should be disposed of according to guidance
   provided by the air component Manpower function. In the absence of specific guidance, ship
   all records and logs to AFMA/MASR for review and disposition.
   A4.5.4. Disposition of Office Equipment and Supplies. Addressed in the inactivation
   message. The supported air component should provide guidance for disposing unexpended
   supplies and other office equipment or furniture. Inventory and dispose as required.
 94                                                               AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


   Remember, some items are accountable while others may be reconstituted as a deployable
   capability.
   A4.5.5. After-Action Report. Sent within 10 days after departure. After action reports are
   invaluable tools to pass on what is working and what needs to be improved. After action
   reports should be written at the end of a deployment by the senior manpower person and
   submitted to each Manpower staff agency, to include AF/A1MR and AFMA/MASR, in the
   supported and supporting chain of command for review and action. Refer to Figure A4.10
   for a sample after-action report format. Problems involving our expeditionary manpower
   processes should be reported promptly anytime they occur.

Figure A4.10. Sample After Action Report Format.
FROM: EMPLOYED MANPOWER TEAM CHIEF’S UNIT
TO: AF/A1MR
  SUPPORTED AIR COMPONENT/MO STAFF
  AFFOR /MO STAFF (IF APPLICABLE)
  MAJCOM/A1M
  AFMA/MASR RANDOLPH AFB TX //CC//


CLASSIFICATION
SUBJECT: AFTER ACTION EMPLOYMENT REPORT
1. THE FOLLOWING IS SUBMITTED FOR YOUR INFORMATION AND ACTION.
A. OPERATION NAME.
B. ATTACHED ORGANIZATION, LEVEL OF COMMAND, AND LOCATION.
C. DATES OF EMPLOYMENT.
D. EFSS Manpower Section MEMBERS:
GRADE, NAME, ASSIGNED ORGANIZATION/OFFICE AND LOCATION FOR EACH MEMBER
E. OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS. DESCRIBE AREAS OF CONCERN THAT
IMPACTED YOUR ABILITY TO PERFORM YOUR ASSIGNED MISSION AND GIVE
RECOMMENDATIONS TO CORRECT THE SITUATION. EXAMPLES OF AREAS TO
CONSIDER ARE:
(1) TIMING OF ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE OF ROTATIONAL TEAMS.
(2) AVAILABILITY AND ADEQUACY OF OFFICE SPACE, COMMUNICATIONS (VOICE AND
DATA), POWER, AND CLASSIFIED STORAGE AREA/SPACE.
(3) AVAILABILITY AND ADEQUACY OF ITEMS IN THE EFSS Manpower Section
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                     95


EMPLOYMENT PACKAGE.
(4) COMPUTER OPERATIONS INCLUDING HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE ADEQUACY.
(5) ACCURACY AND TIMELINESS OF REQUIREMENTS INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM
AIR COMPONENT.
(6) APPLICABILITY AND USEFULNESS OF AFI 38-205 MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION
EXPEDITIONARY MANPOWER MANAGEMENT.
(7) APPLICABILITY AND USEFULNESS OF EFSS Manpower Section EXPEDITIONARY
MANPOWER TRAINING RECEIVED PRIOR TO DEPLOYMENT.
2. POINT OF CONTACT IS EMPLOYED MANPOWER TEAM CHIEF, DSN XXX-XXXX, E-
MAIL XXX@XXX.XX.MIL.
 96                                                                  AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 5
              A5. EXPEDITIONARY MANPOWER INSPECTION GUIDE

A5.1. This guide is extracted from Chapter 5 and Attachment 4. It represents guidance areas
lending themselves to the ―yes/no‖ form of review used during expeditionary manpower
inspections. Each MAJCOM should use this guide in the preparation of their own inspection
checklist/guides for evaluating the health of base-level expeditionary manpower processes.

Table A5.1. Manpower Inspection Guide.
INSPECTIO                                       GUIDANCE                                     Ref AFI
 N PHASE                                                                                      38-205
ALL            Does the FSS Manpower Section plan for and participate in local IG            5.2.5.2.
               exercises, address core inspection items and command items of interest?

ALL            Has the FSS Manpower Section chief established internal expeditionary         5.2.5.3.
               manpower training or exercise events?

ALL            Are all deployable and appropriate in-garrison personnel trained to perform   5.2.5.4.
               appropriate expeditionary manpower processes?

ALL            Has the FSS Manpower Section participated in at least two training            5.3.1.4.
               events/exercises annually, with at least one combined with IPR/PERSCO
               Team?

               Combined with above

IN-            Does the in-garrison system document the locally determined worst-case        5.6.2.2.2
GARRISON       scenario as defined by the IDO, plans function, or base commander?            .

IN             Is the equipment associated to UTCs tasked to the unit completely stocked     A4.2.2.
GARRISON       and ready for immediate deployment?

ALL            Can DCAPES operators generate standard reports and generate abstract          5.6.3.1.1
               queries for data?                                                             .
                                                                                             5.6.2.2.1

ALL            Do personnel properly react to changes from/to the MANFOR as they impact      4.8.6.2
               unit DOC statements?

INGARRISO      Has a designated representative been identified to be on the direct support   AFI 10-
N              staff of the Installation Deployment Readiness Cell (IDRC)?                   403,
                                                                                             1.5.9.1.

EMPLOYED       In the absence of an Air Component guide for submitting change requests,      A4.4.3.
               does the employed EFSS Manpower Section properly fill out and submit the
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012                                                                     97


            sample format in AFI 38-205, Figures A4.8. and A4.9.?

EMPLOYED    Has the EFSS Manpower Section logged all change requests into the event        A4.4.3.
            log during the shift in which it was received?

EMPLOYED    Have all logged change requests been acted upon within 48 hours of log         A4.4.3.
            entry?

            Is the electronic copy of the ERMD no more than one week old?                  A4.4.2.2
                                                                                           .
EMPLOYED

EMPLOYED    If the ERMD frequency has been changed, has it been annotated in the Events    A4.4.2.2
            Log and Local Guidance folder?                                                 .

EMPLOYED    Do personnel complete DCAPES system inventories and initial reporting?         4.6.1,
                                                                                           5.7.5

EMPLOYED    Can personnel establish/verify DCAPES communications links?                    A4.3.3.3
                                                                                           .

EMPLOYED    Are the DCAPES USERIDs and passwords operational on employed system            A4.3.3.4
            and roles and permissions assigned acceptable for the deployed location?

EMPLOYED    Was the initial system report prepared and submitted within 48 hours after    A4.3.3.5.
            arrival? (reports may be combined with PERSCO if co-located)

EMPLOYED    Are system outages reported with 24 hours after occurrence? (reports may      5.6.4.1.9.
            be combined with PERSCO if co-located)                                        A4.3.3.6.

EMPLOYED    Was a filing system created IAW Air Force guidance?                           A4.3.2.

EMPLOYED    Was the office activation notification accomplished within 24 hours after     A4.3.4.
            arrival using the format in Figure A4.3.?

EMPLOYED    Do follow-on personnel notify the appropriate offices of arrival within 24    A4.3.4.
            hours after arrival?

EMPLOYED    Is an Operational Status Change notification sent when required? (may be      A4.3.4.
            combined with PERSCO notification when co-located)

EMPLOYED    Are proper Operation Security (OPSEC) and Communications Security             A4.4.5.1.
            (COMSEC) practices employed at all times?                                     A4.4.5.2

EMPLOYED    Was the mission briefing prepared within 48 hours after office activation     A4.3.5.
98                                                               AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012


           using the formats in Figures A4.4. and A4.5. (per the date time group of the
           activation message A4.3.4.)?

EMPLOYED   Was a hard copy Event Log established using Figure A4.6. and does it           A4.3.6.
           contain minimum required items and details?

EMPLOYED   Did the EFSS Manpower Section establish a Continuity Folder within the         A4.3.6.
           first week after activation?

EMPLOYED   Was an emergency relocation briefing conducted not later than 6 hours after    A4.3.7.1.
           arrival on the first day?

EMPLOYED   Did the EFSS Manpower Section conduct a bugout with the minimally              A4.3.7.1.
           required items to sustain operations?

EMPLOYED   Are attached PASs correct for incoming forces? Are these PAS codes             4.6.2.1
           included in the ADCON chain of command?

EMPLOYED   Does EFSS Manpower have copies of G-series orders for the provisional          2.5.3.1.5.
           units?                                                                         2

EMPLOYED   Has EFSS Manpower created an organizational structure chart for the            4.6.2.2
           serviced locations listing o/e/c/ totals for each unit?

EMPLOYED   Did the Continuity Folder contain the minimum required items and               A4.4.4.
           information detail?                                                            thru
                                                                                          A4.4.4.6.
                                                                                          5.

EMPLOYED   Are manual files kept and do they include the minimum required items and       A4.4.2.
           information detail?                                                            thru
                                                                                          A4.4.2.6.

EMPLOYED   Have classified documents been properly marked and stored?                     A4.4.5.3.

EMPLOYED   Was the inactivation message submitted within 24 hours before departure        A4.5.1.
           using Figure A4.10.?

EMPLOYED   Did the inactivation message address all other closure issues?                 A4.5.2.
                                                                                          thru
                                                                                          A4.5.4.

EMPLOYED   Was an After Action Report submitted within 10 days of reconstitution?         A4.5.5.
AFI38-205 24 MAY 2012   99
