BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-114
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 13 MAY 2004
                                                 Incorporating Through Change 2, 23 OCTOBER
                                                                                        2008
                                                   WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                                  22 APRIL 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                                  SOFTWARE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFCA/ITXD                                                         Certified by: USAF/ILC
(MSgt Robert C. Lowry)                                               (Col Ronnie D. Hawkins, Jr.)
                                                                                         Pages: 25
Supersedes:    AFI33-114, 1 July 2000.
                                (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)
OPR: 88 CS/SCOO                                                          Certified by: 88 CS/SCO
                                                                               (LtCol Rick Johns)
                                                                                           Pages:7


This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Executive Order (E.O.) 13103, Computer Software
Piracy, September 30, 1998; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3405.1, Computer
Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987; and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resource Management. It identifies responsibilities for management of commercial
off-the-shelf (COTS) and Air Force-unique software acquired by the Air Force (other than
software internal to a weapon system; see AFPD 63-1, Acquisition System). Send recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications, using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFCA/EASD, with an information copy
to the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter Systems Integration and Deployment
Directorate, Ground Networks, (SAF/XCDIG), 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC
20330-1800. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Reference path on AF portal:
 2                                    AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) This supplement expands the guidance provided in AFI 33-
114, Software Management, and AFI33-114_AFMCSUP, Software Management. This applies to
all supported organizations located on Wright-Patterson AFB. This publication does not apply to
AFRC and ANG units. Send comments and suggestions about this publication for improvements
on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR). Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2 and is the result of an Air Force audit requesting
additional wording be inserted to clarify the guidance on actions to take when purchasing COTS
software; updates Section B, Responsibilities, and Section C, Installation-Level Software
Management, and updates office symbols.

(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) AFI 33-114_AFMCSUP, 18 November 2006, is supplemented
as follows.

SECTION D (Added) – Wright-PattersonAFB Software Licensing Program Roles and
Responsibilities (Added)

Section A—Introduction                                                                                                                       3
       1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   3
       2.      Objectives. .............................................................................................................     3

Section B—Responsibilities                                                                                                                   3
       3.      Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter Systems Integration and Deployment Directorate
               (SAF/XCD). ........................................................................................................... 3
       4.      Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), Field Operating Agency
               (FOA), and Organizational Commanders. ............................................................. 4
       5.      Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency. ...............................................                                 4
       6.      Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command. .........................................................                            5
       7.      Headquarters Air Education and Training Command. ...........................................                                  5
       8.      Individual Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software Users. ........................................                                  5

Section C—Installation-Level Software Management                                                                                             6
       9.      Managing Licensed Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software. ...................................                                      6
       10.     Software Developed Using Commercial Off-The-Shelf Office SoftwareTools. ...                                                   7
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                                                                                3


       11.       Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) Software
                 Development; Reuse; and Release. ........................................................................                      8
       12.       Software Configuration, Change, and Release Management. ................................                                       9
       13.       Information Assurance. ..........................................................................................              9
       14.       Open Systems Guidelines. .....................................................................................                 9
       15.       Software Reuse. .....................................................................................................          9
       16.       Deleted. ..................................................................................................................   10
       17.       Bandwidth. .............................................................................................................      10
       18.       Checklists. ..............................................................................................................    10
       19.       (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Blank ........................................................                                     10

Section D—(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Wright-Patterson AFB Software Licensing Program
             Roles and Responsibilities                                              10
       20.       (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Wright-Patterson AFB Software Licensing
                 Program Roles and Responsibilities: .....................................................................                     10
       21.       (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Enterprise License Management. ............                                                        15
       22.       (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Adopted Forms. .......................................                                             15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 16

Attachment 2—RELEASE OF SOFTWARE                                                                                                               22

Attachment 3—(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) INVENTORY DISCREPANCY PROCESS25


Section A—Introduction

1. Purpose. This instruction provides the guidance and procedures that personnel must use to
plan, develop, use, maintain, or support Air Force software to effectively and efficiently
complete their assigned missions. It applies to Air Force-procured COTS software and software
developed for unique Air Force purposes (other than software internal to a weapon system; see
AFPD 63-1).
2. Objectives.
   2.1. Gives commanders and users of software at all levels guidance for managing licensed
   and other software used by Air Force personnel.
   2.2. References requirements for standardizing documentation and implementation
   processes.

Section B—Responsibilities

3. Secretary of the Air Force, Warfighter Systems Integration and Deployment Directorate
(SAF/XCD).
 4                           AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


     3.1. Establishes and oversees computer software management regulatory and policy
     guidelines.
     3.2. Implements Federal Chief Information Officers Council's recommendations for Air
     Force acquisition and use of computer software, and monitoring and combating the use of
     unauthorized computer software.
     3.3. Ensures compliance with DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26,
     1991.
     3.4. Establishes criteria for formal licensed software management courses identified by
     SAF/XCDI in coordination with Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ
     AETC/SCX).
4. Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), Field Operating Agency
(FOA), and Organizational Commanders.
     4.1. All MAJCOM/DRU/FOA communications and information systems officers (CSO),
     where assigned, or commanders representatives where not assigned, will:
        4.1.1. Conduct and document an annual inventory of licenses as required by E.O. 13103.
        4.1.2. Establish a process to track licenses (see paragraph 9).
        4.1.3. Develop performance measurements and metrics for software license requirements
        as required by E.O. 13103.
        4.1.4. Identify enterprise software license requirements and management training
        requirements not covered in existing courses to SAF/XCDI.
     4.2. Air Force personnel are to contact the responsible functional or program management
     office before purchasing software licenses to determine if COTS software licenses are
     available, or if there is a standard product to buy. Reference path on AF portal: Air
     Force\Enterprise IT Initiatives\Enterprise COTS Software Agreements.
     4.3. Air Force personnel are to coordinate with the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
     designated product center to obtain volume pricing for products available through the DoD
     Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI). The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFAR)
     Supplement, Part 208, Required Sources of Supplies and Service, Subpart 208.74, Enterprise
     Software Agreements (ESA), requires purchasers to first consider DoD Enterprise Software
     Agreements found at https://www.esi.mil.
     4.4. Coordinate with the host communications unit or servicing Network Control Center
     before implementing any software.
5. Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency.
     5.1. Surveys and consolidates MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU requirements for potential Air
     Force enterprise software licenses for COTS computer and network management software.
     5.2. Recommends candidate software products for potential Air Force-wide licensing to the
     Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) product center designated with the responsibility for
     enterprise license management.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                             5


   5.3. Consolidates new MAJCOM training for managing software licenses (including
   computer-based initiatives) and sends them to Headquarters Air Education and Training
   Command (HQ AETC/SCX, 61 Main Circle Suite 2, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4545) for
   incorporating formal courses or in long-distance learning approaches.
   5.4. AFCA Combat Information Transport System (CITS) will implement the Information
   Technology (IT) Asset & Systems Management (ITASM) which will provide for a USAF-
   Enterprise Configuration Management Database (CMDB) that will hold information for all
   USAF COTS entitlements and software implementation metrics. This will be the
   authoritative source of information for software entitlement and implementation metrics.
      5.4.1. AFCA CITS ITASM USAF-Enterprise CMDB will enable Air Force adoption of
      the International Standardization Bodies/International Electrotechnical Commission
      (ISO/IEC) 20000, Information Technology - Service Management, also known as
      Information Technology Infrastructure Library practices for Software Asset
      Management. This will complement ISO/IEC 19770, Software Asset Management
      (SAM).
      5.4.2. AFCA CITS ITASM will provide mechanism for USAF-Enterprise Evaluated
      Approved Products List that will publish to the USAF-Portal the COTS Software
      Products that have been certified for use on USAF networks.
      5.4.3. AFCA CITS ITASM CMDB will publish to DoD ITAM (DoD IT Asset
      Management) metrics for both software entitlements and implemented software.
      5.4.4. CITS ITASM CMDB Initial Operating Capability (IOC) for Network
      Management Software Entitlements is targeted for December 2009. IOC for Server
      Software Entitlements is targeted for December 2010, and IOC for Desktop Software
      Entitlements is targeted for December 2011.
6. Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command.
   6.1. Designates a product center as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for managing
   the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program and, when designated, acts as executive
   agent for establishing DoD-wide enterprise software licenses.
   6.2. Designates a product center as purchasing agent for software licenses to support
   consolidated and programmatic Air Force requirements.
   6.3. Manages Air Force Enterprise Software Licenses for COTS computer and network
   management software.
7. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command.
   7.1. Develops training plans and materials for comprehensive training that addresses all
   aspects of managing the operation of installation-level licensed software.
   7.2. Establishes curricula for formal licensed software management courses identified by
   SAF/XCDI.
   7.3. Provides training through centrally managed computer based training courses or other
   distance learning approaches.
8. Individual Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software Users.
 6                             AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


     8.1. Do not install and use copies of government-owned software on a home computer
     unless the software license explicitly allows users to do so and the base CSO has authorized
     such use. When authorized for installation on a home computer, only use the software for
     official Air Force business. Personal use may be a violation of The Copyright Act, rendering
     the individual user accountable and liable.
     8.2. Do not install freeware, shareware, or personally owned software on government
     systems without approval of the system administrator or network manager servicing your
     organization, according to AFI 33-115V1, Network Management; and AFI 33-202, Computer
     Security.
     8.3. Do not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.

Section C—Installation-Level Software Management

9. Managing Licensed Commercial Off-The-Shelf Software. The communications squadron
commander or CSO at each installation who implements licensed COTS or other software shall:
     9.1. Develop and implement a documented process to ensure that all software (including
     freeware, shareware, licensed COTS products, and pre-production versions) is free of viruses
     and malicious logic.
     9.2. Annually instruct personnel on licensed software usage; The Privacy Act and The
     Copyright Act considerations; and Air Force, DoD and E.O. provisions.
     9.3. Register organization ownership of licensed COTS software and ensure an annual
     inventory is conducted of all licensed COTS software in the organization.
     9.4. Use a metering mechanism if licensed for server-hosted, concurrent-user application
     software to prevent exceeding the authorized number of copies and users. Record network
     manager or system administrator inventory of licensed client and network software as part of
     the annual installation licensed software inventory.
     9.5. Maintain a record of the COTS software controlled by the organization.
     9.6. Store evidence (e.g., user manual, purchase documentation, compact disk, etc.) of
     licenses in a secure location (e.g., a locked file cabinet).
     9.7. Dispose of old versions of COTS software according to licensing agreements. Upgrades
     from the original software source are normally considered a continuation of the original
     license, not an additional or new license.
     9.8. Redistribute excess or superseded COTS software if it:
        9.8.1. Is allowed under the license agreement or upgrade policy for that software.
        9.8.2. Is not classified.
        9.8.3. Did not provide direct security protection to automated data processing equipment
        in systems that processed classified information.
        9.8.4. Is not directly related to or associated with a weapon system, intelligence system,
        command and control system, communications system, or tactical system.
        9.8.5. Still operates as intended.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                               7


   9.9. Dispose of excess or superseded COTS software not redistributed by one of the
   following methods:
       9.9.1. Return the software package (distribution media, manuals, etc.) to the company
       that developed the software.
       9.9.2. Destroy the software according to the provisions of the licensing agreement.
       (NOTE: Document the method of destruction to establish an audit trail.) This may
       include:
          9.9.2.1. Destroying the documentation and distribution media.
          9.9.2.2. Formatting or erasing the master floppy disks.
          9.9.2.3. Using the master floppy disks as scratch disks.
       9.9.3. Audit all computer and server software annually to ensure there are no illegal or
       unauthorized copies of COTS or other software installed. Sampling procedures may be
       used if active inventorying is available.
   9.10. Installations that deploy and manage COTS software shall utilize ITASM to track
   software entitlements and implementation information.
       9.10.1. Installations are to utilize AutoDiscovery Tools to acquire implemented software
       information that is to be reported by the ITASM system. Installations are to utilize CITS
       ITASM standard tools where applicable. AutoDiscovery Tools will suffice for audit on
       implemented software on network attached computers and servers.
       9.10.2. Installations utilization of ITASM will complement the AFCA CITS ITASM
       deployment schedule.
10. Software Developed Using Commercial Off-The-Shelf Office SoftwareTools. Air Force
computer users are encouraged and expected to use their licensed COTS office software to
increase their individual professional productivity and overall unit effectiveness. Users must
coordinate networked or ―group‖ computer applications that are user built with these tools with
the installation CSO. This precludes later impact on network and server capacity, avoids
duplication of effort on similar application software within the installation or MAJCOM, and
ensures continued software support after departure of one or more of the original user-
developers. Air Force user-developers shall:
   10.1. Ensure the Air Force retains property rights to the computer software developed in the
   course of their duties.
   10.2. Not by-pass computer/network server operating systems, security systems, or access
   controls provided by higher authority.
   10.3. Provide the CSO a software documentation package in appropriate digital format. The
   software package must include:
       10.3.1. The author or point of contact, organization, and telephone number.
       10.3.2. A descriptive unclassified title with version number as the first delivery (use
       Version 1.0).
 8                            AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


        10.3.3. A brief (one paragraph) unclassified description of the software’s functionality
        for use in publishing software reuse catalogs; and a classified description, if necessary, to
        more fully explain the software’s capabilities.
        10.3.4. A brief description of all testing (such as Year 2000) performed on the mission
        application software and its databases.
        10.3.5. A brief user’s guide. The user’s guide should include:
           10.3.5.1. The hardware configuration required.
           10.3.5.2. The supporting software required to include the operating system and (if
           any) supporting COTS software with version release number.
           10.3.5.3. Compiling and linking instructions, if applicable.
           10.3.5.4. Descriptions of the software installation process, required hardware setup,
           menus, and software capabilities and functions.
           10.3.5.5. Samples of terminal output screens and print products produced (if any).
           10.3.5.6. Other information useful for continued effective use and maintenance of the
           mission application software.
11. Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence (C4I) Software
Development; Reuse; and Release. Adhere to DoDD 3405.1; DoDD 4630.5, Compatibility,
Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I)
Systems, November 12, 1992; DoD Instruction (DoDI) 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility,
Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I)
Systems, November 18, 1992; and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6212.01A,
Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications,
Computers, and Intelligence Systems, 30 June 1995; when developing mission or application
software for C4I systems.
     11.1. Organic Development. Do not develop software organically unless quality, cost,
     performance, schedule, or interoperability requirements cannot be met with COTS or non-
     developmental item software.
        11.1.1. Acquire an approved mission needs statement before developing organic
        software requiring over 6 man-months of effort or costing in excess of $50,000, and
        follow guidance for software acquired under DoD 5000-series acquisitions.
        11.1.2. All units that develop or maintain software will have a software process
        improvement (SPI) program and a documented SPI plan, including at least:
           11.1.2.1. A baseline of their current capabilities.
           11.1.2.2. Goals and milestones they intend to reach.
           11.1.2.3. Metrics to measure their progress toward their goals and milestones.
           11.1.2.4. Timeline for SPI appraisals. The Software Technology Support Center
           (STSC) at Hill Air Force Base UT is available on a fee-recovery basis for SPI
           appraisals, but any qualified SPI appraiser may be used.
           11.1.2.5. Identify life-cycle support requirements for the life of developed software.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                                   9


   11.2. Releasing COTS Office Software Tools. It is Air Force policy to release, upon
   consideration of a valid written request, specific software developed exclusively with
   government funds or otherwise owned by the Air Force. The OPR for the software decides to
   release or disclose that software. The approval authority may be at a higher level depending
   upon the recipient (e.g., approval authority for all foreign release requests is Secretary of the
   Air Force [SAF/IADD]). When not for foreign release and the OPR is in doubt regarding the
   release of software, send the request to HQ USAF/SCX, 1250 Air Force Pentagon,
   Washington DC 20330-1250, for resolution. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests
   must be sent to the local FOIA manager to control and respond using guidelines in the Air
   Force supplement to DoD 5400.7-R (DoD 5400.7-R/AFSUP), DoD Freedom Of Information
   Act Program, 22 July 1999. Before releasing the software, the OPR shall require the
   requester to sign a memorandum of agreement (see Attachment 2). Releases of Air Force-
   owned or developed software from software reuse libraries, or software under Air Force-
   industry Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADA), are exceptions to
   this policy.
   11.3. When developing mission or application software for information systems, it is
   desirable to utilize that Software Engineering Institute’s Software Capability Maturity Model
   Integrated (CMMI) as advocated by the Software Technology Support Center (STSC) at Hill
   AFB UT (www.stsc.hill.af.mil), or the 754th Electronic Systems Group’s Systems
   Engineering Process (www.gunter.af.mil/sw).
12. Software Configuration, Change, and Release Management. Use ISO/IEC 20000, or
ITIL (Information Technology Infrastructure Library), Configuration Management, Change
Management, and Release Management processes to plan, identify, control, monitor, verify, and
manage software configuration items. Typically, software configuration items would include
information such as purchase order number, purchase date, software manufacturer, software title,
and version implemented.
13. Information Assurance. Program managers and software developers must integrate
information assurance into their systems using guidance contained in AFPD 33-2, Information
Protection (converting to Information Assurance), and the Air Force 33-200 series publications.
These publications give policy guidelines for developing and using the computer,
communications, and emissions security programs needed for all Air Force communications and
information systems.
14. Open Systems Guidelines. The Air Force is committed to meeting the DoD objective of
developing interoperable and maintainable systems based on open standards. To that end, system
developers, contract administrators, and maintainers must adhere to the guidance given in the
DoD Joint Technical Architecture (JTA) and JTA-Air Force (JTA-AF). These documents
identify a common set of mandatory information technology standards and guidelines used in all
new systems and system upgrades in the DoD. Each unit ensures that upgrades to systems under
maintenance comply to the maximum extent possible with the JTA and JTA-AF.
15. Software Reuse. Software reuse is the practice of using existing software components to
develop new software applications. Software reuse benefits the Air Force through increased
developer productivity, improved quality and reliability of software-intensive systems, enhanced
system interoperability, lowered program technical risk, and shortened software development
and maintenance time.
 10                           AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


      15.1. Reusable software components may include executable software binaries, source code
      segments, program documentation, project plans, requirement descriptions, design and
      architecture documents, database schemas, test data and test plans, user’s manuals, software
      tools, and object classes. These assets can be most efficiently used when designed and
      packaged to fit into a product-line architecture at each software development location for a
      specific mission area or functional domain, using interface standards and common
      communications protocols. The domain product-line components can then be used to create
      families of related systems designed to share common software architecture for the domain.
      15.2. Each Air Force software development location should:
         15.2.1. Establish a software reuse library or repository for internal sharing of the
         reusable software components developed at the location.
         15.2.2. Report each reusable software component to the Air Force Reuse Center,
         Standard Systems Group, Maxwell AFB-Gunter Annex AL, for storage in the Air Force
         Defense Software Repository System.
         15.2.3. Upon valid written request, release software component using the software
         release memorandum of agreement at Attachment 2.
16. Deleted.
17. Bandwidth. The Air Force is faced with restrictions on the amount of information that can
be provided to our forces, particularly in remote areas of the world. Therefore, software systems
designers and developers must discipline themselves in the quantity and content of non-mission
essential information sent over supporting network infrastructures (that is, ensure sending only
operationally necessary data). In addition to DoD direction, follow all policy and procedures in
AFIs 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities; 33-
115V1; 33-119, Electronic Mail (E-Mail) Management and Use; and 33-129, Transmission of
Information Via the Internet; on downloading from the Internet, transmission of e-mail
attachments, video teleconferencing, Web browsing, and conservation measures during periods
of surge or network degradation. Air Force-developed software (including that developed
specifically for the Air Force) will accommodate network infrastructure considerations into its
systems design and internal code, such that it does not overtax the infrastructure that it relies and
operates.
18. Checklists. Use AF Form 2519, All Purpose Checklist (available electronically), to
develop a checklist on software and software license management using paragraphs 3 through 8
19.    Blank

Section D (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)—Wright-Patterson AFB Software Licensing
Program Roles and Responsibilities

20. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Wright-Patterson AFB Software Licensing
Program Roles and Responsibilities:
      20.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) 88 CG/CC Responsibilities. As the Base
      Communications and Information Systems Officer (Base CSO), 88 CG/CC will:
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                              11


     20.1.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) As                 the   Wright-Patterson    AFB
     responsible official for software license management, designate primary and alternate
     Base Software License Managers (BSLM) to manage the wing and base software license
     programs.
     20.1.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Forward             BSLM     appointment
     memorandums to the Command Software License Manager (CSLM, HQ AFMC).
     20.1.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Recommends each organizational
     primary and alternate Information Security Systems Officer (ISSO) as that organization’s
     primary and alternate Unit Software License Managers (ULSM).
     20.1.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Review BSLM recommendations for
     enterprise licenses and forward to command for decision on command-wide or base-wide
     action.
  20.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Unit Commander Responsibilities. Each unit
  commander will:
     20.2.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Appoint                    Primary     and    Alternate
     USLMs. Notify BSLM of Appointees.
     20.2.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure outgoing and incoming
     software license managers conduct a joint physical inventory of all software, endorse all
     inventories and include this transfer action as part of unit personnel out processing
     activities.
     20.2.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Certify and submit an annual inventory
     of all unit computer software and licenses. Accomplish certification by signing the
     annual inventory spreadsheet or memorandum and indicate the unit's annual software
     license inventory has been accomplished. Annual certification will be accomplished by
     the first Friday in February annually, or when a new USLM is assigned.
     20.2.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure software acquisitions are
     coordinated through the USLM prior to purchase and delivered software is routed
     through the respective software license manager. 20.2.5. (Added) Ensure unit personnel
     who buy new personal computers (PC) indicate on Requirements Documents that
     promotional software will not be sent with the order. If such software is received from a
     vendor, the buyer will either return it to the vendor immediately or destroy it.
     20.2.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure unit personnel who buy new
     personal computers (PC) indicate on Requirements Documents that promotional software
     will not be sent with the order. If such software is received from a vendor, the buyer will
     either return it to the vendor immediately or destroy it.
     20.2.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure appropriate enterprise license
     agreement contracts are used to procure common-user desktop software on new PC
     orders.
  20.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Base                    Software       License     Manager
  Responsibilities. BSLM will:
12                        AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


     20.3.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Initiate annual Time Compliance
     Network Order (TCNO) with spreadsheet, the first Monday in December to all
     organizations requiring they conduct an annual inventory of their software and licenses.
     The certified, reconciled inventory is due to the BSLM by the first Friday in February
     annually.
     20.3.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Review host-tenant support agreements
     to ensure all base units are required to participate in the host-base software license
     program if they use Air Force command, control, communications, and computer (C4)
     systems or are connected to Air Force local area networks.
     20.3.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Conduct an on-going software license
     management awareness program. Place semi-annual reminders of the need for proper
     software license management in base bulletins and other media to increase and reinforce
     the legal requirement of maintaining software licenses according to their stated
     conditions.
     20.3.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Perform periodic visits to base units
     and WPAFB tenant organizations as part of the Information Assurance Assessment and
     Assistance Program (IAAP) which will ensure each organization is in compliance.
     20.3.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Conduct annual software licensing
     meetings/training for USLMs.
     20.3.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Maintain a current list of all USLMs.
     20.3.7. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Promote the use of automated tools to
     the maximum extent possible for tracking software licenses.
     20.3.8. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Provide software license training for
     newly appointed USLMs and ongoing awareness between USLMs, and Client Support
     Administrator (CSA)s. Use the base Intranet as a tool to educate users to the extent
     possible. This training will include, but not be limited to:
        20.3.8.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM familiarization with AFI
        33-114, AFI 33-114_AFMCSUP, AFI 33-115V1, and EO 13103.
        20.3.8.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM completion of Air Force
        Software License Management and Anti-Piracy computer-based training. (ITE
        Learning Course).
        20.3.8.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Software                 license   management
        records maintenance methods.
        20.3.8.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Basic orientation of software
        licenses and The Copyright Act.
     20.3.9. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Conduct periodic meetings with the
     Information Technology/National Security Systems (IT/NSS) Requirements Document
     process manager to identify potential enterprise software license requirements. Provide
     recommendations to 88 CG/CC.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                              13


     20.3.10. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Conduct periodic meetings with Base
     Training Office to identify potential software training consolidation efforts for the base.
     Provide recommendations to 88 CG/CC.
     20.3.11. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Perform periodic Systems Center
     Configuration Manager (SCCM) checks on all units' software.
  20.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Unit                    Software       License      Manager
  Responsibilities. Each USLM will:
     20.4.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure approval is obtained from the
     Designated Approval Authority (DAA) before any Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS),
     Government Off The Shelf (GOTS) or locally developed software is placed on computers
     or computer systems on the base network. Procedures are located in the Certification &
     Accreditation      (C&A)         tab      at      the        following         website:
     https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/Wiki/default.aspx?page=Certification+and+Accred
     itation&Filter=OO-SC-IA-01.
     20.4.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Become familiar with software license
     agreements of software used in their organization and act as the liaison between PC users
     and the BSLM.
     20.4.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Obtain coordination with the BSLM,
     Functional System Administrator (FSA), Client Support Administrator (CSA), users,
     and/or purchasers on all software acquisitions. The BLSM has the approved listing of AF
     authorized software.
     20.4.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Be                responsible for   submitting
     Information Technology/National Security Systems (IT/NSS Requirements Document to
     88 CG/SCXP for all software license purchases. Upon approval of purchase, ensures
     IT/NSS Checklist Software License Management is adhered to.
     20.4.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Properly redistribute (as allowed)
     excess software, destroy (according to the provisions of the licensing agreement)
     remaining or superseded COTS software.
     20.4.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Combine software acquisitions,                       as
     applicable.
     20.4.7. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Receive and inventory all new software
     and become familiar with license agreements prior to releasing software to CSAs. Ensure
     inventory updates are provided to the BSLM.
     20.4.8. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Perform an annual inventory of all
     software, licenses, and corresponding documentation of unit software. Ensure the unit
     commander endorses the hard-copy report and is briefed on any non-compliance issues.
     20.4.9. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Perform a joint inventory of software
     before transferring responsibility to another software license manager. Ensure the unit
     commander endorses the hard-copy report and is briefed on any non-compliance issues.
14                        AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


     20.4.10. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Store evidence of license agreements
     or licenses (user manuals, purchase documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical
     software media in a secure location (locked drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
     20.4.11. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Identify software that does not have
     associated licenses assembles proofs of purchase, and request replacement licenses from
     publishers, as needed.
     20.4.12. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Ensure newly assigned personnel
     receive software license training within 30 days of their arrival and annually thereafter.
     Minimum training includes:
        20.4.12.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Proper                     use     of    computer
        software.
        20.4.12.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Penalties of unauthorized or
        illegal use of software.
        20.4.12.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Procedures                        for    acquiring
        software.
        20.4.12.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Identifying                      unauthorized   or
        illegal software.
        20.4.12.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Conditions when software can or
        cannot be copied.
        20.4.12.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Review of the base software
        license program. (Attachment 2 and Attachment 3).
  20.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) CSA Responsibilities. Each CSA will
     20.5.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Maintain a record of non-enterprise
     licensed software installed, uninstalled, upgraded, or when any action is performed that
     will change the amount of license software products installed. Notify the USLM of these
     changes. Ensure no software is transferred with hardware when performing Automated
     Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) transactions.
     20.5.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Obtain coordination from USLM prior
     to software installs or uninstalls.
     20.5.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Be                    the     responsible      individual
     authorized to install or uninstall software.
     20.5.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Not make any illegal copies of
     copyrighted software.
     20.5.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Remove all software not authorized.
  20.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) PC User Responsibilities. Each PC user will:
     20.6.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Assist                      USLMs       with    software
     inventories on PCs as required.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                              15


     20.6.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Identify suspected unauthorized or
     illegal software on Air Force computer systems to the unit level FSA, CSA or USLM for
     resolution.
     20.6.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Complete                   initial   software    license
     training within 30 days of arrival and annually thereafter.
     20.6.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Not install government owned software
     on home computers. Note: Exception Home use Program (HUP).
21. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Enterprise License Management.
  21.1. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) The Base Software License                            Manager
  (BSLM) is responsible for Air Force and AFMC enterprise software licenses.
  21.2. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) The BSLM will limit access to enterprise
  software libraries to the USLMs, FSAs, and CSAs as required.
  21.3. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Installation of the software requires
  administrative access to the end computer and therefore should be limited to the above (para
  21.2).
  21.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Upon request the USLM will provide the
  BSLM with the system name and Media Access Control (MAC) address of all systems that
  receive enterprise software.
  21.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) The BLSM will provide USLMs access to all
  appropriate enterprise software installation scripts.
  21.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) The BSLM will provide management with
  current usage information from SCCM inventories and collected information.
  21.7. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Enterprise licensed software may not be
  downloaded for home use. Contact the BSLM for information concerning purchase of
  software for home use (HUP).
22. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication




                                          MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                          Chief Information Officer

                                          (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)

                                          MICHAEL J. STINSON, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 16                        AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March
2008
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) AFI 33-114_AFMCSUP, Software Management, 18
November 2006
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS), 24
May 2006
E.O. 13103, Computer Software Piracy, September 30, 1998
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. section 552, as amended by Public Law No. 104-231, 110
Stat. 3048
The Copyright Act
The Information Technology Management Reform Act (Division E of Public Law 104-106)
The Privacy Act
CJCSI 6212.01A, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control,
Communications, Computers, and Intelligence Systems, 30 June 1995
DFAR Supplement, Part 208, Requires Sources of Supplies and Services, Subpart 208.74,
Enterprise Software Agreements, 25 October 2002
DoDD 3405.1, Computer Programming Language Policy, April 2, 1987
DoDD 4630.5, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control,
Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 12, 1992
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command,
Control, Communications, and Intelligence (C3I) Systems, November 18, 1992
DoD 5400.7-R/AFSUP, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 22 July 1999
DoDD 8320.1, DoD Data Administration, September 26, 1991
DoD 8320.1-M, Data Administration Procedures, March 29, 1994
DoD 8320.1-M-1, Data Standardization Procedures, April 2, 1998
ISO/IEC 19770, Software Asset Management (SAM)
ISO/IEC 20000, Information Technology - Service Management
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics
AFPD 33-1, Information Resource Management
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                       17


AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program
AFI 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS)
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging
AFI 33-129, WEB Management and Internet Use
AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIND—Air Force Index
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM—Base Software License Manager
C4—Command, Control, Communications, and Computers
C4I—Command, Control, Communications, Computers, and Intelligence
CITS—Combat Information Transport System
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CMDB—Configuration Management Database
COMPUSEC—Computer Security
COTS—Commercial Off-the-Shelf
CRADA—Cooperative Research and Development Agreements
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) CSA—Client Support Administrator
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) CSLM—Command Software License Manager
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DFAR—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
E.O.—Executive Order
 18                        AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


ESA—Enterprise Software Agreement
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) FSA—Functional System Administrator
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) GOTS—Government Off The Shelf
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) HUP—Home Use Program
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) ISSO—Information Security Systems Officer
IT—Information Technology
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) IT NSS—Information Technology/National Security
Systems
ITASM—IT Asset & Systems Management
ITIL—Information Technology Infrastructure Library
JTA—Joint Technical Architecture
JTA-AF—Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) PC—Personal Computer
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAM—Software Asset Management
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) SCCM—Systems Center Configuration Manager
SPI—Software Process Improvement
STSC—Software Technology Support Center
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) TCNO—Time Compliance Network Order
USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
AutoDiscovery Tool—Applications that can audit computers and services for physical and
software configuration information.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Certificate to Operate (CtO)—Issued by the CIO or
designee as a result of a favorable assessment that has verified the system is information
technology (IT) ready.
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                                19


Certification—For purposes of this instruction, the act of determining that software performs
without defects and viruses, and does what the supporting documentation says it will do in
accordance with any specified acceptance criteria.
Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems—Integrated systems of
doctrine, procedures, organizational structures, personnel, equipment, facilities, and
communications designed to support a commander’s exercise of command and control, across
the range of military operations. Also called ―communications and information systems.‖
Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Software—Software developed, tested, and sold by
commercial companies to the general public. Examples include word processors, databases,
application generation, drawing, compiler, graphics, communications, and training software.
Communications and Information Systems Officer (CSO)—Identifies the supporting CSO at
all levels. At base level, this is the commander of the communications unit responsible for
carrying out base communications and information systems responsibilities, the base CSO.
Tenant organizations may also have CSOs. At MAJCOM, and other activities responsible for
large quantities of communications and information assets, it is the person designated by the
commander as responsible for overall management of communications and information assets
budgeted and funded by the MAJCOM or activity. The CSO function, when under the base
communications unit, uses the office symbol ―SC‖ that expands to three and four digits to
identify specific functional areas.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Concurrent License (requires metering)—A license
that allows a limited number of users to connect simultaneously to a software application.
Because this license is only used in the network environment, it is becoming quite popular due to
proliferation of networks.
Configuration Management Database (CMDB)—A CMDB is a database that contains all
relevant information about the components of the information system used in an organization's
IT services and the relationships between those components. Typically includes hardware,
software, and topology information.
Computer Security (COMPUSEC)—1. The protection resulting from all measures to deny
unauthorized access and exploitation of friendly computer systems. See also ―communications
security‖. 2. Measures and controls that ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
information systems assets including hardware, software, firmware, and information being
processed, stored, and communicated.
Copyright—Without a license that specifies otherwise, the purchaser’s use of software is
restricted to making an archival copy and installing the computer program onto a single
computer, in accordance with the Copyright Act of 1976. Do not reproduce or use copyrighted
software in any other manner.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Designated Approval Authority (DAA)—An official
with the authority to formally assume responsibility for operating an information system or
network within a specified environment.
Documentation—Records required to plan, develop, operate, maintain, and use electronic
records and software. Included are systems specifications, file specifications, code books, record
layouts, user guides, and output specifications.
 20                           AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI)—A DoD Chief Information Officer-led joint DoD
project to develop and implement a DoD enterprise process to save money and improve
information sharing on COTS products. The objective is to reduce problems identified with
procuring software for DoD (including price, acquisition cost, distribution, training,
maintenance, and support) for common-use, standards-compliant software.
Enterprise License—Allows the purchasing organization to use multiple copies of a specific
COTS software program, usually up to a specified number, across the organization for a set
price. This is usually a more cost-effective acquisition strategy than purchase of individual
copies. Either the Air Force Enterprise Software License Program or DoD ESI should be
considered for commonly used software.
(WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Enterprise License—The DoD Enterprise Software Initiative
(ESI) and the Enterprise Software Agreements (ESA) entered into by DoD components who
manage the acquisition of commercially available software at the DoD Enterprise level to reduce
the cost of acquiring and maintaining software products. By aggregating requirements and
leveraging DoD’s buying power together with the buying power of related communities of
interest such as the Intelligence Community, the DoD is able to achieve the most favorable terms
and pricing for commercially available software and software maintenance.
Enterprise Software Agreement (ESA)—Agreements, such as contracts or blanket purchase
agreements, by which organizations acquire software or software maintenance under specified
terms and conditions.
Hardware—The physical equipment and devices forming a computer and peripheral
components.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Individual License—A license for use on a single
machine only.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept
services from other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them
to operate effectively together. The condition achieved among communications-electronics
systems or items of communications-electronics equipment when exchanging information or
services directly and satisfactorily between them and/or their users.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) License Agreement—A contract between the software
publisher and the user which instructs and limits how the software is to be used. When software
is purchased, the purchaser acquires a license to use it, but the publisher retains full rights to the
software and can further distribute and reproduce it. License agreements generally fall into the
following categories:
License Agreements—Contracts between the software publisher and the user that instructs and
limits the software use. When purchasing software, the buyer only acquires a license to use it.
The publisher retains the full rights to the software and has the sole right to its further
distribution and reproduction.
Maintenance—Any job described as one that eliminates faults or keeps hardware or software
running in satisfactory working condition falls into the maintenance category. (See AFI 21-116,
Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics.)
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                                  21


Network—Two or more computers connected to each other through a multi-user system or by
other electronic means to exchange information or share computer hardware or software.
(Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Network License—A license that allows every
member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or
base.
Requirement—A need for a new or improved information processing capability that, when
satisfied, increases the probability of operational mission success or decreases the cost of mission
support.
Reuse—The process of developing or supporting a software-intensive system using existing
software assets. (See DoDD 3405.1.)
Sensitive Information—The loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of
information that could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs,
or the privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. Section 522a (The Privacy
Act), but that has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an E.O. or an Act
of Congress to be kept SECRET in the interest of the national defense or foreign policy. (See Air
Force Directory [AFDIR] 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information
Terminology.)
Shareware—Privately or commercially developed software that users receive free of charge but
pay a fee for continued or extended use. Normally, implied or promised support by the author is
minimal or nonexistent. (See AFDIR 33-303.)
Software—A set of computer programs, procedures, and associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system (for example, compilers, library routines, and
manuals).
User—The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
 22                          AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                                  RELEASE OF SOFTWARE

A2.1. Software Reuse. It is HQ USAF policy to consider releasing specific software upon
receiving a valid written request.
A2.1. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)88 CG to initiate TCNO with spreadsheets annually
   A2.1.1. Software is available from the Central Archive for Reusable Defense Software, the
   Defense Software Repository System, or the Air Force Defense Software Repository System.
   In such releases, the memorandum of agreement at paragraph A2.3 need not be completed.
   A2.1.2. As government furnished property software is available under the provisions of an
   acquisition contract. NOTE: When the government has unlimited rights in computer software
   in the possession of a contractor, the government will not pay for the use of such software in
   performance of government contracts or for the later delivery to the government of such
   computer software, provided that the contractor be entitled to compensation for converting
   the software into the prescribed form for reproduction and delivery to the government. In
   addition to adhering to the specific contract's provisions, the contractor also must sign the
   memorandum of agreement at paragraph A2.3.
   A2.1.3. Software is also available to organizations with which the Air Force does not have a
   contractual arrangement. In such situations, the recipient must sign the memorandum of
   agreement at paragraph A2.3.
A2.2. Software Release or Disclosure. Each OPR bases the decision to release or disclose
software on review of all significant factors including but not limited to, national security,
militarily critical technology/dual use, royalty arrangements, potential for Air Force-industry
CRADA, or pre-existing license agreement terms and conditions.
A2.2. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)USLM reconcile number of licenses/software installed
   A2.2.1. In all software releases, the Air Force must ensure that it will not be held liable for
   any failure of the released software or its continued maintenance. This also applies to Air
   Force software deposited in all software reuse libraries. As such, the OPR must ensure that
   recipients of software from the reuse libraries understand this waiver of warranties and
   damages liability.
   A2.2.1. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) Note: If discrepancies are found follow inventory
   discrepancy process (Attachment 3)
A2.3. Memorandum of Agreement: I/We the undersigned, on behalf of the Requesting
Organization listed below (hereafter referred to as the "Requester"), request release of (software
name) and understand and agree to the following:
 a. NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT. The Requester requests some or all of the following
from ______________ (insert the name of the specific Air Force organization or software reuse
library): data, technical data, computer software, computer software documentation, computer
programs, source code, firmware, and other information of like kind, type, or quality, either
commercial or non-commercial, all of which may be subject to limited rights, restricted rights,
government-purpose license rights, patents, copyrights, trade secret rights, or other confidential
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                                    23


or proprietary constraints (collectively, the "Data"). In consideration therefore, the Requester
agrees:


    1) That the Data shall be used only for government, non-commercial, or non-profit purposes.
    2) To strictly abide by and adhere to any and all restrictive markings placed on the Data, and
the Requester shall not knowingly disclose or release the Data to third parties who are not
engaged in work related to government, non-commercial, or non-profit purposes.
     3) That any restrictive markings on the Data shall be included on all copies, modifications,
and derivative works, or any parts or portions thereof; in any form, manner or substance, which
are produced by the Requester including but not limited to incorporation of the Data into any
other data, technical data, computer software, computer software documentation, computer
programs, source code, or firmware, or other information of like kind, type or quality. In all such
events, Requester shall clearly denote where such Data initiates and concludes by use of
annotations or other standard markings.
     4) That the government is entitled to royalty-free use of the Air Force-owned or -developed
software that is released.
A2.3. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)Organization Commander certify spreadsheets
  b. WAIVER OF WARRANTIES AND LIMITATIONS OF DAMAGES AGREEMENT.
The requester and the Approving Authority agree that:
     1) No guaranties, representations, or warranties either expressed or implied shall be
construed to exist in any language, provision, or term contained in these materials or in any other
documentation provided herewith (all such items are collectively referred to as the "Agreement"),
and furthermore, the releasing organization disclaims and the requester waives and excludes any
and all warranties of merchantability and any and all warranties of fitness for any particular
purpose.
     2) The Requester shall obtain from the releasing organization all of the "Data" (defined in
the Non-Disclosure Agreement above), or any other products or services contemplated by the
Agreement, in an "as is" condition.
      3) The Requestor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the Air Force against any and all
loss, liability, cost or expense arising out of the use of any Data released under this agreement, to
include, but not limited to, litigation costs or expenses.
  c. The Requester's use of the Data shall not prevent the government from releasing the Data at
any point in the future.
   d. The Requester shall not offer the released Data or any modified version thereof for resale to
the government, in whole or as part or subpart of a government deliverable, without explicitly
stating that he is doing so by providing certification documentation (e.g., Section K of the
Government Solicitation) to the contracting officer before contract award.
  e. The Requester may use the released Data in a contract with the government, but
understands that the government shall not pay the Requester for rights of use of such Data in
performance of government contracts or for the later delivery to the government of such Data.
The Requester may be entitled to compensation for converting, modifying, or enhancing the Data
 24                          AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011


into another form for reproduction and delivery to the government, if authorized under a contract
with the government.
   f. The Requester is not entitled to any released Data that are subject to national defense
security classification or the proprietary rights of others. The Requester shall report promptly the
discovery of any such restricted Data to the USAF release approving authority below, and follow
all instructions concerning the use, safeguarding, or return of such Data. The Requester shall not
copy, or make future study or use of any released Data later found to be subject to such
restrictions.
   g. As required, the Requester shall be responsible for compliance with any proscriptions on
foreign disclosure of the released Data (contained, for example, in the Department of State
International Traffic in Arms Regulations or the Department of Commerce Export
Administration Regulations).
  h. There may be a fee to cover the copying and shipping of the Data and any documentation.
 i. The Requester and the Approving Authority intend that all agreements under this
Memorandum of Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the United States of America.


NAME OF REQUESTOR                       NAME/TITLE OF USAF APPROVING AUTHORITY
Requesting Organization/Address        Air Force Organization/Address
City, State, Zip Code                  City, State, Zip Code
Signature of Requestor and Date        Signature of USAF Approving Authority and Date
A2.4. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM return completed spreadsheets by the
first Friday in February annually
A2.5. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM review information for accuracy by
comparing to SCCM inventories
A2.6. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM advertises overages which may be
available for base-wide reutilization
A2.7. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM required to forward updates to their
license inventories to BSLM as changes occur
A2.8. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM conduct periodic on site inventory
validations as part of the IAAP checklist
A2.9. (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM maintain spreadsheet information for
compliance, metrics, and history
AFI33-114_WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBSUP_I 22 APRIL 2011                                           25


                   Attachment 3 (Added-WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB)
                        INVENTORY DISCREPANCY PROCESS

A3.1. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM run network scans for number of installed
software
A3.2. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM compare network scan to organizations certified
spreadsheet of owned licenses
A3.3. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM identifies discrepancies and prepares a report
A3.4. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) BSLM sends discrepancy report to USLM. Immediate
action required
A3.5. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM reviews discrepancy report and determines if
requirements are valid
   A3.5.1. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) If Yes, Option 1, determine if more licenses are
   needed; Option 2, determine if funds are available; or Option 3, use normal purchasing and
   funding process
   A3.5.2. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) If No, remove software, take appropriate action to
   ensure compliance
A3.6. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM indicate overages to BSLM which may be
available for base-wide reutilization
A3.7. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) USLM report action taken to BSLM
A3.8. (WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB) If immediate action is not taken within three (3) work
days, BSLM will direct NCC to shutdown application upon notification
