                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                        HEADQUARTERS 377TH AIR BASE WING (AFMC)


                                            AFI31-401_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBGM2014-02

                                                                                  24 April 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR KIRTLAND AFB

FROM: 377 ABW/CC
      2000 Wyoming Blvd SE Kirtland AFB, NM 87117

SUBJECT: Kirtland AFB Guidance Memorandum (GM) to AFI 31-401 AFMCSUP_I,
         Information Security Program Management

Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

    By order of the Installation Commander, this is a Kirtland AFB Guidance Memorandum
immediately implementing AFI 31- 401_AFMCSUP_I, Information Security Program
Management. Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory and applies to all activities and
associate organizations per host/tenant support agreements with the 377th Air Base Wing (377
ABW) and is effective immediately. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other AF
publications the information herein prevails, in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

     The attachment contains guidance pertaining to the Kirtland AFB Information Security
 Program, and supersedes AFI31-401_AFMCSUP_I_KIRTLANDAFBGM1, 9 April 2013.
 Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
 maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
 IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
 Schedule (RDS). The following changes to 18 September 2013 AFGM3 to AFI 31-401, 1
 November 2005, are effective immediately.

     The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date
of this memorandum, or upon publication of an interim change, publication or rewrite of AFI 31-
401, or publication of AFI 16-1404, Information Security Program Management, whichever is
earlier. Please contact 377 ABW/IPI at DSN 246-3973 with additional recommendations.


                                                                TOM D. MILLER
                                                                Colonel, USAF
                                                                Commander

Attachment:
Guidance Changes
                                            Attachment

                                        Guidance Changes

1.3.4. Information Security Program Managers (ISPM). At Kirtland AFB, the 377th Air Base
Wing Chief/Director of Information Protection (377 ABW/IP) is the ISPM, AFNWC Center
Senior Functional for Information Protection, and dual-hatted as the AFNWC Chief of
Information Protection (CIP) and Installation CIP. The 377th Air Base Wing Chief of
Information Security (377 ABW/IPI) will manage the program on behalf of the CIP.

1.3.5.1. Security managers (SMs) will be at a minimum E-5/GS-6 or above. The CIP may
waive the grade requirement on a case-by-case basis upon written request of the commander. At
least one alternate will be appointed. Submit SM appointment memorandums to 377 ABW/IPI.
Include full name, rank/grade, organization, office symbol, and phone number.

1.3.5.1.1. Contractors will not sign any official security memorandums or forms on behalf of the
appointed SM.

1.3.5.2. Newly appointed SMs must receive initial training from 377 ABW/IPI within 90 days of
appointment.

1.3.5.4. (Added). Ensure SMs have access to all levels within the organization, as necessary, to
resolve or work security issues.

1.3.5.5. (Added) Appoint additional duty office security managers (OSMs) to assist SMs as
necessary. The number appointed depends on the size of the organization, number of security
containers, and physical layout of organization. One OSM may be enough; however, large
organizations may require more. The primary SM will be responsible for training OSMs.

1.3.6.2. If a unit security Operating Instruction (OI) is deemed not required, a plan shall be
developed for the following areas, as applicable:

1.3.6.2.1. (Added) For existing areas not designated a Secure Room, but which are used for
classified processing (i.e., SIPRNet, DIAMONDS, or other classified systems located in non-
open storage areas) written procedures will be in place and available to aid users. As a minimum
the plan (note: a User Checklist suffices) should address activation and deactivation procedures,
rules for continuous observation, any required warning signage, details addressing prohibited
items such as Personal Electronic Devices (PEDs), cameras, USB thumb drives, video recording
devices, and wireless devices, and required physical security requirements. If windows afford
visual observation of classified activities, drapes or curtains must be available, and will be closed
as needed. Locations of classified computer systems must be listed on the SF 701 to ensure the
end-of-day check includes verifying classified hard drives, laptops, TACLANE key, etc., have
been removed and properly stored in the security container. All media and IT equipment in the
room must be marked to the highest level of classified processed or stored, to include marking all
unclassified IT equipment and media with SF 710, Unclassified Label. Monitors do not have to
be marked if a banner is present when the system is powered on.

1.3.6.2.2. (Added) All new requests for SIPRNet, DIAMONDS, or other classified systems will
include SM coordination and assurance that requirements identified in para 1.3.6.2.2 of this GM
are completed prior to install. 377 MSG/SCXS will not finalize compliance review for EMSEC
study until requirements identified in para 1.3.6.2.1 of this GM are completed.

1.3.6.2.3. (Added) Classified storage area emergency plan. The SM will develop written
security instructions for safeguarding classified information during emergency situations. A
sample Emergency Plan is available at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site. The plan will be readily
available at all security containers, secure rooms, and vaults.

1.3.6.9. All assigned contractors will receive training required by this GM.

1.3.6.10.1. All permanent party military and civilians will be in-processed as “owning”. All
contractors assigned to the organization will be in-processed as “servicing”. Personnel TDY to
the unit may be in-processed as “servicing”.

1.3.6.11. (Added) Complete and post “Your Security Manager Is” signs throughout areas of
responsibility. A template is available at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

1.3.6.12. (Added) Maintain a SM Handbook, tabbed in the order as follows. Items may be
posted in a separate binder, folder, or network folder as long as the location is cross-referenced in
the handbook.

1.3.6.12.1. (Added) SM memorandum of appointment.

1.3.6.12.2. (Added) Unit internal operating instructions and/or written plans, as applicable.

1.3.6.12.3. (Added) List of security containers within the organization, showing manufacturer,
unit unique container ID #, lock type, and location. The list must also contain all vaults and
secure rooms approved by the CIP. Memos listing custodians and names of persons having
knowledge of the combinations will also be posted in this tab.

1.3.6.12.4. (Added) Annual security self-inspection reports and completed checklists.
Maintain last two, to include corrective actions and commander endorsement.

1.3.6.12.5. (Added) Information Protection Management Evaluation (IPME) reports from 377
ABW/IP. Maintain last two, to include corrective actions.

1.3.6.12.6. (Added) SM meeting minutes. Maintain last two.

1.3.6.12.7. (Added) Information, Industrial, and Personnel Security publications and memos.
This includes, but is not limited to, AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management;
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management; AFI 31-601, Industrial Security
Program Management; DoDM 5200.01 V1-4, DoD Information Security Program; DoD 5200.2-
R, DoD Personnel Security Program; and all associated supplements. These publications may
be posted in a separate binder, maintained on CD-ROM, or posted to a shared unit network drive
as long as the location is cross referenced in the handbook.

1.3.6.12.8. (Added) Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) reports. SMs download and
post an updated Personnel and Periodic Reinvestigation report every 30 days as a minimum.
Electronic copies are acceptable as long as the location is cross referenced and the files are
accessible to all SMs.

1.3.6.12.9. (Added) Copies of signed AF Forms 2587, Security Termination Statement.
Maintain for 2 years.

1.3.6.12.10. (Added) Copies of AF Forms 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action. For
submitted security clearance investigations and interim clearances, maintain until JPAS shows
clearance eligibility has been granted. For special access such as Critical Nuclear Weapon
Design Information (CNWDI) or North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), maintain until
access is no longer required.

1.3.6.12.11 (Added) Training documentation, to include initial and quarterly refresher training.
Maintain all training documentation for 2 years.

1.3.6.12.12 (Added) Miscellaneous, to include security incident reports, lessons learned, annual
position code review memo, cleanout day memo, etc.

1.3.6.13. (Added) Register as a member of the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

1.3.6.14. (Added) Ensure the SM is included in the organization in/out processing checklist.

1.3.8. The Foreign Disclosure Officer (FDO) for all AFMC organizations on Kirtland AFB is
AFRL/RDMS, 3-1966. Non-AFMC organizations receive FDO support from either their
MAJCOM or their headquarters in Washington, DC.
1.4.4.3. The annual IPME conducted by 377 ABW/IPI counts as one semiannual inspection.
Commanders will ensure self-inspections are conducted 6 months after the 377 ABW/IPI review
to meet the semiannual requirement. The inspector will utilize the inspection checklists provided
by 377 ABW/IPI. Inspection results, to include recommendations for corrective actions and
follow-up actions, will be submitted to the commander for endorsement/approval. Do not
forward these reports to 377 ABW/IPI; post them in the SM handbook as outlined in para
1.3.6.12.4 above.

1.4.6.4. 377 ABW/IPI will provide an IPME report to the commander after each review. The
initial reply to corrective actions for findings will be signed by the commander and forwarded to
377 ABW/IPI by the suspense date noted in the report (approximately 30 days). If the first
response does not close all findings, the inspected unit commander will provide written replies to
377 ABW/IPI every 30 days thereafter until all actions are resolved or closed.
1.5.1.2.1. Commanders and two-letter staff agency chiefs/directors may grant access to CNWDI.

1.5.1.2.2. A CNWDI briefing is available at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

1.6.1. Send waiver requests through 377 ABW/IPI.

1.7.1.1. 377 ABW/IPI will notify SMs of the 2-week sample period dates via email.

2.1.6. 377 ABW organizations send through 377 ABW/IPI. Tenant organizations with oversight
from 377 ABW CIP provide 377 ABW/IPI a courtesy copy and submit through command
channels.

2.5.2. Send challenge through 377 ABW/IPI. SM records challenge and preserves anonymity of
challenger when requested, and processes challenge within 72 hours of receipt. 377 ABW/IPI
ensures follow-up and review with Original Classifying Authority (OCA) accomplished within
60 days. Send 377 ABW/IPI a copy of all damage assessment results.

2.5.3. Send reclassification challenges to 377 ABW/IPI.

2.6.2.3. Forward draft Security Classification Guide (SCG) and DD Form 2024, DOD Security
Classification Guide Data Elements, to 377 ABW/IPI for review prior to OCA signing and
publishing.

2.6.3.2. Submit a copy of each SCG and accompanying DD Form 2024 to 377 ABW/IPI.
Electronic copies are preferred.

4.2.12. Bound documents, including binders (½ inch or greater), will also be conspicuously
marked on the spine (end) with highest level contained therein. Single page documents must be
marked with the classification on both sides.

4.2.13. (Added) Envelopes and hanging file folders used to store classified will be
conspicuously marked on the top and bottom, front and back, with highest level contained
therein.

4.2.14. (Added) Classified media storage cases and sleeves will be marked on all sides equal to
the media contained within.

4.8.2. USB thumb drives are prohibited in classified processing areas and will not be used in
classified computer systems. Thumb drives used in violation of this policy will be confiscated,
properly secured, and turned in to 377 MSG/SCXS for sanitizing or destruction. 377 ABW/IPI
will also be notified of any violations.

4.8.4. (Added) For classified storage media, utilize and annotate Standard Form 711, ADP Data
Descriptor Label, or locally devised label, with the following: unit, office symbol, phone
number. A permanent marker may be used to annotate this information on a classified CD-ROM
or DVD in lieu of the SF 711.
4.11.10. (Added) Rubber stamps such as UNCLASSIFIED, CONFIDENTIAL, and SECRET,
will be available at all SIPRNet and/or classified printers in order to facilitate proper marking.

5.2.2. Unit SMs are responsible for inputting non-SCI access in JPAS after initial training is
completed.

5.3. Unit SMs are responsible to update JPAS by inputting Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA)
status for military and AF civilian personnel. The SM will ensure a NDA is signed and JPAS is
updated if JPAS indicates “N/A” in the “NDA Signed” block.

5.8.1.1. Send designations of Top Secret Control Officers (TSCO) to 377 ABW/IPI. Notify 377
ABW/IPI in writing when establishing or closing Top Secret Control Accounts (TSCA), or
changing a TSCO.

5.10. The location of all classified computers, to include SIPRNet terminals, will be listed on the
SF Form 701, to ensure hard drives and other storage media have been removed. Unit unique
security container ID numbers, required by para 5.21.1 of this GM, will also be listed on the SF
Form 701. A fillable electronic version of the SF 701 is available from 377 ABW/IPI. Spin the
dial of the X-07/8/9 lock several times each way to ensure positive locking. This also applies to
vaults and secure rooms. Maintain a copy of each completed SF Form 701 and 702 on file for
30 days.

5.12.1. The Kirtland Command Post, building 20604, is the designated storage facility for transit
collateral classified information/material up to the TOP SECRET level.

5.13.3. AFMC organizations contact the FDO at AFRL/RDMS for approval.

5.13.5 (Added) Approved Installation Security Advisory Group procedures, Guidelines for
Electronic Devices in Classified Areas memo, is available at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

5.15.1. It is highly encouraged that two appropriately cleared personnel be present during
reproduction for immediate assistance should problems occur. Run 3 blank sheets through the
copier to clear latent images and completely power off the copier to clear memory cache and
digitizer. Handle and destroy blank sheets as classified waste. Post KAFB VA 31-9, Classified
Reproduction Rules, on all copiers authorized for reproducing classified. Copiers and fax
machines not authorized for reproducing classified will be posted with KAFB VA 31-10, No
Classified Reproduction.

5.15.2. If classified Information System (IS) media is input into an unclassified system, it will be
immediately reported to the SM and computer support technician (CST) as a security incident.
Receipt of a classified email or attachment via NIPRNet will also be immediately reported as a
Classified Message Incident (CMI). Conversely, unclassified IS media inserted into a classified
system must be treated as classified. See Attachment 1 for CMI procedures.

5.15.4. If classified is printed on a printer not located in a certified open storage area, the printer
must be cleared. Print 3 blank sheets, destroy them in a shredder authorized for classified
destruction, and power the printer off. See TO 00-33B-5008, Remanence Security for Information
Systems, for more information.

5.16.6. (Added) Wireless devices (cell phones, PDAs, cordless phones, etc) and cameras create
an unacceptable risk and are prohibited in areas where classified is processed. This includes all
certified secure rooms and vaults. Custodians will ensure these areas are posted with warning
notices, notifying users of the prohibition. Contact Security Forces at 6-7913 if an unauthorized
device or camera is discovered, and it is suspected the owner had access or time to covertly
gather classified information. The 377 SFG Desk Sergeant will contact the on-duty AFOSI
agent or Security Forces investigator to respond. The responding agent or investigator will
inspect the device or camera for unauthorized photos, outgoing calls, saved documents, or any
other evidence that classified was compromised. Waivers to this requirement must be submitted
to 377 MSG/SCXS thru 377 ABW/IPI, and will only be approved to meet critical mission needs.

5.17.5. (Added) Safe custodians will ensure all personnel granted access to a classified security
container receive training on the proper operation of the container. A Safe Custodian Training
PowerPoint presentation is available from 377 ABW/IPI through the SM.

5.18.2. Coordinate all collateral secure room or vault construction/modification with 377
ABW/IPI. All alarm requirements will be coordinated with 377th Security Forces Squadron
Resource Protection (377 SFS/S3RP). A survey will be done by 377 ABW/IPI and 377th
Mission Support Group Civil Engineer (377 MSG/CE) in order to certify construction standards
per DoDM 5200.01, Vol 3, Appendix to Enclosure 3. KAFB Form 50, Secure Room/Vault
Certification, will be used for approval of open storage. A representative from 377 MSG/CE,
377 ABW/IPI, and the CIP will sign the KAFB Form 50; post the completed form on the interior
of the main entry door. Open storage will not be approved solely for convenience.

5.18.2.1 The secure room owner will prepare and submit a plan for each secure room prior to
final certification. A single plan may be used for multiple secure rooms within the unit. The
commander or director’s signature on the plan denotes approval of open storage of classified. As
a minimum the plan will specify the area/location, policy applicability, responsibilities, access
and access controls to include related Entry Authority List (EAL) procedures, physical security
and related alarm check and maintenance requirements, all required warning signage
requirements, appropriate procedures associated with KAFB Form 50, Secure Room/Vault
Inspection Record, AFTO 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment, SF Form 701,
Activity Security Checklist, SF Form 700, Security Container Information, and details addressing
prohibited items such as Personal Electronic Devices (PEDs), cameras, USB thumb drives, video
recording devices, and wireless devices. The plan must be approved/signed by the unit
Commander or Director and made accessible and familiar to personnel using the area. A sample
plan is available from 377 ABW/IPI.

5.18.2.5. (Added) The XO-7/8/9/10 combination lock can remain in the open mode only when
the secure room is manned by a cleared individual, or the entry door is under continuous
observation. Use of a cipher lock is only authorized as a convenience during duty hours when
the room is manned or the entry doors are under visual control. Manned means personnel within
the area can readily detect unauthorized entry into the secure room. The intrusion detection
system (IDS) will be activated at all times during non-duty hours. During duty hours, the IDS
can remain inactivated for short times (no more than 30 minutes) when unmanned as long as the
XO-7/8/9/10 combination lock is engaged.

5.21.1. Collateral containers – mark with a unit unique permanent office symbol/number
combination to the front upper left or right corner of containers (example: SFS-01; MXS-02; 373
TRS-03). Marking with a permanent marker will suffice. Ensure these numbers are recorded on
the container listing required in para 1.3.6.12.3 above.

5.21.2. The first name listed on the SF Form 700, is designated the “Safe Custodian” and is
responsible for container serviceability, preventive maintenance, and contents. A contractor may
not be the first name listed. All blocks will be annotated, and a minimum of two names will be
listed on the form. Seal the form in an envelope marked “Unclassified//FOUO” front/back and
“Security Container Information” front. Post the envelope in the control drawer or on the back of
the secure room/vault door so it is readily identifiable by anyone that may find the container or
door open and unattended.

5.21.3.2. Combinations to CNWDI or NATO security containers may only be stored in
containers cleared for storing this information. Ensure the SF Form 700, Part II is properly
marked (i.e., SECRET - NATO or SECRET - CNWDI).

5.22.1. There are no GSA-certified locksmiths assigned to Kirtland AFB. SMs must utilize
local off-base GSA-certified locksmiths and pay for their service with a government purchase
card. Contact 377 ABW/IPI for a list of certified locksmiths.

5.23. SMs will conduct an initial inspection on newly purchased security containers and
annotate the date and “New Container – Initial Inspection” in the Type of Maintenance block of
the AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment. GSA-certified
locksmiths or trained GS-0080 security managers must conduct preventive maintenance
inspections (PMI) every 5 years on security containers and secure room doors, and every 2 years
on vault doors. Record the PMI results on the AFTO 36. Maintain the AFTO Form 36 inside
locking drawer or door for the life of the container/door. It is highly encouraged to post copies
of each AFTO Form 36 in tab 3 of the SM handbook in case the original is lost. A missing
AFTO 36 will require recertification by a GSA-certified locksmith. Immediately notify a
locksmith anytime operability issues are noted; failure to do so could result in a lockout. If a
security container is no longer required, SMs must pull out all drawers and closely examine
interior for classified material, set combination to default combination (50-25-50), remove
exterior security container markings (i.e., SFS-01), and contact 377 ABW/IPI for disposition
instructions. Do not remove the AFTO Form 36.

5.24.1. Copier designation and those authorized to exercise reproduction authority may be
included in one letter, which is signed by the commander. Post a copy of the letter adjacent to
the copier. Post applicable labels as outlined in para 5.15.1. above.

5.24.2. Classified reproduction will not be approved/authorized for copiers connected to the
unclassified network or those equipped with an internal hard drive.
5.25. Duty positions should be listed instead of names to preclude preparing new letters each
time someone departs PCS, retires, etc.

5.27.2. Commanders and staff agency chiefs will ensure annual cleanout days are conducted the
second Friday of March. During this week all classified holdings are reviewed for retainability,
required markings, possible downgrading, destruction, and declassification. Place a memo for
record in tab 12 of the SM handbook stating this was accomplished.

5.28.1. Shredders, disintegrators, optical media destruction devices, and degaussers used to
destroy or sanitize classified material must be certified by 377 ABW/IPI prior to being used for
destruction of classified. These devices will be posted with KAFB Form 53, Destruction
Equipment Certification, and KAFB VA 31-20, Authorized For Destruction of Classified
Information. Recertification of shredders by 377 ABW/IPI is required if there are major repairs
or replacement of blades/cutting devices. All destruction devices not authorized to destroy
classified will be posted with KAFB VA 31-19, Not Authorized for Destruction of Classified.
Contact 377 ABW/IPI prior to ordering new classified destruction equipment to ensure it meets
current National Security Agency criteria.

5.28.3. Kirtland AFB has a Central Destruct Facility (CDF) available for destroying large
quantities of classified and unclassified-sensitive paper products. Reservations must be made in
order to use the CDF by contacting the Official Mail Center (OMC) (377 MSG/SCSB) at 846-
7760.

5.28.4. (Added) 377th Mission Support Group Information Assurance (377 MSG/SCXS)
maintains a classified CD-ROM destroyer and degausser for use by the base populace. To
destroy classified or sensitive CD-ROMs, hard drives, tapes, and other media call 846-6398.

6.1.7. (Added) Personnel discovering classified material sent or received improperly will
immediately notify the SM, who will in-turn notify the commander and 377 ABW/IPI. In
addition, the CST and 377 MSG/SCXS will be immediately notified in cases of classified sent,
received, or discovered on uncleared computer systems. See Attachment 1 for CMI response
procedures.

6.1.8. (Added) Treat and protect all unopened accountable correspondence delivered by OMC
or other courier means as classified until the contents are determined to be unclassified.
Accountable correspondence consists of First Class (marked “Return Service Requested”),
Registered, and Certified U.S. mail; overnight authorized GSA carriers such as FedEx and UPS.
This correspondence must be stored in a GSA-approved security container if unopened, hand
delivered to the addressee, or opened to determine the contents. Unattended accountable
correspondence found to contain classified will be reported to 377 ABW/IPI as a security
incident. Kirtland OMC is the Defense Courier Service representative POC.

6.8. A DD Form 2501, Courier Authorization Card, is required to hand-carry classified off-base
in the local area. A DD Form 2501 is also required if the courier has to pass through a check
point (i.e., base gate or DTRA entry control point). An authorization memorandum is required
for all hand-carrying of classified beyond local area limits. At Kirtland AFB, the local area is
defined as within the cities of Albuquerque, Rio Rancho, and Los Alamos. SMs are responsible
for ordering DD Forms 2501.

8.3.3.1. SMs will receive training from 377 ABW/IPI within 90 days of appointment.

8.3.6.1. Conduct initial information security and NATO training as soon as possible (within 2
weeks of arrival) for all newly assigned military, civilian, and contractor personnel, but prior to
having access to any classified material. Utilize the PowerPoint slides provided by 377
ABW/IPI to conduct this training. These slides should be edited and tailored to meet unit
requirements. All training related slides are posted at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

8.3.6.4. All training must be documented and maintained for 2 years. Documentation may be
accomplished via certificates, sign-in logs, email acknowledgment receipts, databases, or other
means as deemed appropriate by the commander. Simple email read receipts are not an
acceptable form of documentation; using Outlook vote response buttons or direct replies are
acceptable, as the trainee must take action to respond.

8.4.1. All military, civilian, and contractor personnel who will act as a derivative classifier must
complete derivative classifier training in addition to training outlined in para 8.3.6.1. above. This
will include all personnel who receive a SIPRNet account. Derivative classifier training slides
are posted at the 377 ABW/IP SharePoint site.

8.9.1. Refresher training will be conducted annually for uncleared personnel; quarterly for
cleared personnel. Cleared personnel are those who create, process, or routinely handle
classified. Personnel with a SIPRNet account or access to a security container will be considered
cleared. SMs are responsible for identifying the cleared personnel in their organizations.
Uncleared personnel will comply with the annual training requirement by completing the
Information Protection course on the Advanced Distributed Learning Service web site. 377
ABW/IPI will provide PowerPoint slides to facilitate quarterly training for cleared personnel.
Ensure all assigned contractors are included.

8.10.1.1. SMs must ensure there is a “Yes” annotated in the “NDA Signed” block in JPAS for all
personnel with security clearance eligibility. If the block states “No”, the SM will prepare a
NDA, have the subject sign it, and input the data into JPAS. The SM is not required to maintain
copies once the data is input into JPAS and the form is forwarded per AFI 31-401, para 5.3.1.

8.10.1.3. A NATO briefing and sample AF Form 2583 are posted at the 377 ABW/IP
SharePoint site.

8.10.1.4. A CNWDI briefing and sample AF Form 2583 are posted at the 377 ABW/IP
SharePoint site.

8.10.3. (Added) CNWDI and NATO indoctrination may be documented on one AF Form 2583
if access is required for both. A sample CNWDI/NATO AF Form 2583 is posted at the 377
ABW/IP SharePoint site.
8.11.1.2. SM will retain a file copy of the AF Form 2587 for 2 years.

9.3. The Kirtland Information Assurance Office (377 MSG/SCXS) will notify the CIP (377
ABW/IPI) of all actual or suspected classified message incidents.

9.9.1. Inquiry officials will be an E-7/GS-9 or above, assigned to a different duty section for
impartiality, and be available for at least 30 days. The inquiry official will be equal to or higher
in grade than the person responsible for the incident if identity is known. Provide a copy of the
appointment memo to 377 ABW/IPI.

9.9.3. The inquiry official will not share the inquiry report with anyone except 377 ABW/IP
office. The appointing authority may approve extensions via email message to 377 ABW/IPI.

9.11.2. 377 ABW/CC will appoint formal investigation officials and close investigation reports.

9.12.2.1. The appointing authority will close preliminary inquiries within 5 duty days of receipt
from 377 ABW/IPI.

9.14. (Added) These forms are prescribed by this supplement and are available through
377 ABW/IPI: KAFB VA 31-9, Classified Reproduction Rules; KAFB VA 31-10, No Classified
Reproduction; KAFB VA 31-19, Not Authorized for Destruction of Classified; KAFB VA 31-20,
Authorized For Destruction of Classified Information; KAFB Form 50, Secure Room/Vault
Certification; KAFB Form 53, Destruction Equipment Certification.

A2.5.4. (Added) When sending DOD UCNI via NIPRNet email, mark the subject line (DoD
UCNI) and include the following statement at the top of the email – “This email and/or attached
documents contain DOD UNCLASSIFIED CONTROLLED NUCLEAR INFORMATION (DoD
UCNI). Transmission of DoD UCNI shall be by means which preclude unauthorized disclosure
or dissemination (e.g., secure phone, encrypted e-mail). DoD UCNI shall not be discussed or
transmitted over an unprotected telephone or telecommunications circuit (to include facsimile
transmissions) except in case of an emergency. During normal working hours, documents and
materials determined to contain DoD UCNI shall be safeguarded and controlled by measures
designed to reduce the risk of access to DoD UCNI by unauthorized individuals. A person
granted access to DoD UCNI must have a need to know the specific DoD UCNI to which access
is granted in the performance of official duties or of DoD-authorized activities. DoD UCNI is
exempt from mandatory disclosure pursuant to section 552(b)(3)FOIA.”
(Added) Attachment 9

(Added) Classified Message Incident (CMI) Response Procedures

A9.1. If classified information is accidentally placed, found, or received on your unclassified
(NIPRNet) computer system or on the network, IMMEDIATELY accomplish the following:
A9.1.1. (Added) Treat all details of the CMI itself as classified.

A9.1.2. (Added) Do not delete the suspect message, file, or attachment.

A9.1.3. (Added) Physically disconnect your computer from the network.

A9.1.4. (Added) Do NOT turn off your computer.

A9.1.5. (Added) Have someone with the appropriate security clearance physically safeguard the
computer, or secure it in a GSA-approved security container or area cleared for open storage of
classified. The computer must be handled and safeguarded as classified until properly sanitized.
A9.1.6. (Added) Notify in person or via secure phone your Computer Support Technician or
Information Assurance Officer, Security Manager, and the Kirtland Help Desk (6-5926/*611, Ext
3). If a secure notification method is unavailable, use an unsecured phone and state ONLY that
you have a possible CMI to report and your location. Do NOT send out email notifications or
discuss the subject/title of the email, or attachment, via unsecured means.
A9.1.7. (Added) Stay at the location you reported in your notification until contacted by the
Information Assurance Office.
A9.1.8. (Added) Security manager notifies commander and 377 ABW/IPI (6-3973) for initiation
of investigation.
A9.1.9. (Added) Do not destroy any possible evidence, such as printed copies, hard drives, CD-
ROMs, etc. Treat as classified and immediately secure them in a GSA-approved security
container until the investigation is closed. The security manager should have a copy of the
suspect email or attachment printed, marked as classified, and secured in a GSA-approved
security container for investigation use. Properly clear the printer by printing 3 blank sheets, and
destroy them in a shredder authorized for classified destruction.
