Administrative Changes to AFI 36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP, Absence and Leave

OPR: 42 FSS/FSMC

OPR should be changed from 42 MSS/DPM to 42 FSS/FSMC; references to 42d Mission
Support Squadron should be changed to 42d Force Support Squadron; references to Personnel
Office or Personnel Flight should be changed to Personnel Section.

11 April 2011
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-815
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)                                               MAXWELL AFB
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                        27 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                             Certified Current 13 February 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                      ABSENCE AND LEAVE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the E-Publishing web site at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 MSS/DPC                                       Certified by: 42 MSS/DPC (Mr. Dennis F.
Supersedes: AFI 36-                                                                 Paquette)
            815_MAXWELLAFBSUP, 1                                                     Pages: 9
            October 2003


AFI 36-815, 5 September 2002, is supplemented as follows:

This supplement implements AFI 36-815, Leave and Absence. It establishes the Maxwell AFB
policy on the use of duty time for employees who want to voluntarily participate in physical
fitness activities. Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This
supplement applies to all Appropriated Fund Civilian Employees employed by the Headquarters
Air University, Air University Schools and Directorates, the 42d Air Base Wing and all other Air
Force employees serviced by the Maxwell AFB Civilian Personnel Office, their supervisors and
commanders.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision: Shifts responsibility from the Physical Training Leader to the employee’s
immediate supervisor for assuring commanders that duty time granted to civilian employees is
used for the purposes approved (paragraph 8.15.2); updates paragraphs 1 and 2 in the Example
Letter of Notification to Employees (Attachment 5); updates the Use of Duty Time and On-Base
 2                                  AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005


Facilities paragraph and subparagraph 2 of the same in the Example Information Sheet to
Employees (Attachment 6; updates paragraphs 1, 3, and 7 in the Example Commander’s Policy
on Civilian Employees Physical Fitness Activities (Attachment 7); updates the 2d Indorsement of
the Example Employee Request Memorandum (Attachment 8); and removes references to the
Civilian Personnel Flight maintaining copies of physician’s statements in the Record Keeping
section of the Decision-Making Chart (Attachment 9).
Section 8C – Excused Absence for Physical Fitness Activities
8.15. (Added) HQ USAF/DPP policy memo dated 23 Jun 03, allows civilian employees up to 3
hours of duty time per week to participate in voluntary regular physical fitness activity. This
policy will be incorporated into the next revision of AFI 36-815.
8.15.1. (Added) Local commanders are authorized to fully implement this supplement,
implement it in a limited version, e.g., less than 3 hours, decline to implement, or implement it
with any combination of these three alternatives within their organizations. Supervisors are
prohibited from altering established hours of work to encompass physical fitness activities that
take place outside those hours. Absent extraordinary circumstances, overtime (or compensatory
time) will not be assigned on a day when duty time for physical fitness activities is granted.
8.15.2. (Added) An employee must receive prior approval from the immediate supervisor in
order to use duty time for physical fitness activities. The immediate supervisor must monitor the
employee’s use of duty time to identify and prevent abuse. The grant of duty time is only
permitted for participation in physical training (PT) taking place on the installation. The
immediate supervisor bears responsibility for assuring the commander that duty time granted to
civilian employees is used for the purposes approved. The immediate supervisor must annotate
time cards (or time sheets) to show duty time used for physical activities.
8.15.3. (Added) The grant of duty time is subject to mission requirements. Duty time is granted
or denied at the discretion of the commander or other responsible management official. Grants
of duty time are not and do not become entitlements and can be revoked solely at the election of
the commander or other responsible management official without advance notice.
8.15.4. (Added) The following attachments provide guidance for commanders in implementing
this publication: Example Letter of Notification to Employees (Attachment 5); Example
Information Sheet to Employees (Attachment 6); an Example Commander’s Policy on Civilian
Employees Physical Fitness Activities (Attachment 7); an Example Employee Request
Memorandum (Attachment 8); and a decision-making chart commanders may consider prior to
deciding on implementation (Attachment 9).
12.4. (Added) Forms Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF
Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief.




                                            PAUL H. MCGILLICUDDY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                        3


                                     Attachment 5 (Added)
               EXAMPLE LETTER OF NOTIFICATION TO EMPLOYEES

                                                                                           (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR APPROPRIATED FUND CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES AND THEIR
               SUPERVISORS

FROM: Local Commander
      Street Address
      Maxwell AFB AL 36112-XXXX

SUBJECT: Civilian Participation in Physical Fitness Activities

1. There are occasions when civilians may be absent from their normal assignment to participate
in activities supported by the Air Force. This policy permits appropriated fund civilian
employees duty time to participate in physical training (PT) where such training takes place on
the installation. It also holds the immediate supervisor responsible for assuring that duty time
granted to civilian employees for physical fitness activities is used for the purpose granted.

2. The (name of organization) has supported a variety of events to benefit specific activities
which may include intramural sports events, runs, sports days, and other general recreational
events. Maxwell AFB Supplement 1 to AFI 36-815 now permits (name of organization)
supervisors, at their option, to authorize duty time for physical fitness activities described in
paragraph 1 above during duty hours without charge to the employee’s leave. Employees may
participate in activities taking place either before or after established hours of duty; however, a
change of hours of duty to encompass these activities so that they then occur during duty time is
prohibited.

3. Activities are specifically physical fitness in nature and are limited to a maximum of 3 hours
per week using the procedures contained in the Maxwell AFB Supplement. Regular
participation as a member of an intramural sports team could be considered a physical fitness
activity.

4. Authorization to participate in activities not clearly defined within the Maxwell AFB
Supplement should be examined by the supervisor in consultation with the Maxwell AFB Labor
Relations Officer, who can be reached at 953-2995.

5. This policy remains in effect until superseded or revoked.




                                           (Commander’s signature element)
 4                                  AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                     Attachment 6 (Added)
                  EXAMPLE INFORMATION SHEET TO EMPLOYEES

                           CIVILIAN HEALTH PROMOTION CRITERIA

FITNESS EDUCATION ASSESSMENT: Civilian employees wishing to participate in a local
program must get a fitness education assessment from their primary care provider/physician.
Participants should maintain a log or record of their activities, goals, and progress

FITNESS FUNDAMENTAL: A complete fitness program should address cardiovascular/
aerobic endurance, muscular strength and endurance, flexibility and body composition.

   1. For an activity to be considered aerobic, the heart rate should be elevated into the age and
physical condition-specific training zone for at least 20 minutes. Walking, jogging and biking
are examples of activities that give this result. Golfing, bowling and softball are examples that
do not.

   2. Muscular strength and endurance exercises increase lean body mass, protect joints and
increase the body’s metabolism. Machines, free weights and general calisthenics are activities
that provide these results

   3. Flexibility exercises involve stretching all major muscles in the body and help reduce
injury risk and promote flexibility and mobility at each joint. Stretching sequences at the
beginning and end of exercise sessions promote this result.

    4. Body composition relates to the amount of muscle tissue and fat tissue in the body. High
level of body fat should be reduced through a combined program of aerobic activity and strength
training.

USE OF DUTY TIME AND ON-BASE FACILITIES: Participation in a health promotion
program established under this authority may include up to three hours of duty time per week
and is restricted to use of facilities under the direct control of the installation commander. The
use of duty time for this program is authorized under AFI 36-815, paragraph 8.1 and may be
considered similar to other OPM-approved health promotion activities such as smoking cessation
classes. The authority found in 5 U.S.C. 7901 permits the expenditure of appropriated funds on
health facilities construction and maintenance allows the use of civilian pay (i.e., duty time) for
the same purpose.

   1. Use of duty time (excused absence) is appropriate only if approved by the first level
supervisor in accordance with locally developed procedures. Mission impact is the key element
in making the decision. Normally, overtime and compensatory time may not be approved nor
earned on days when use of duty time is approved under this program.

   2. In order to maintain the integrity of this program, fitness activities may only be performed
using on-base facilities.
AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                           5


                                            Attachment 7 (Added)
    EXAMPLE COMMANDER’S POLICY ON CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES PHYSICAL
                      FITNESS ACTIVITIES

42D MISSION SUPPORT SQUADRON                                                                               SOI 36-X
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)                                                                                    [DATE]
MAXWELL AFB AL 36112-XXXX
                                                                                                           Personnel

                                     SQUADRON CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES PHYSICAL FITNESS ACTIVITIES

                        COMPLIANCE WITH THE PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

1. Excused absence, not to exceed three (3) hours per week, may be authorized for the sole purpose of participating
in physical fitness activities on the installation.

2. Employees may only utilize on-base facilities during any period of excused absence for physical fitness activities.

3. Employee participation is subject to supervisory scheduling and chain of command approval.

4. If an employee’s request is not approved or the employee cannot be released from work for physical fitness
activities due to mission requirement, such disapproval is a function of the employer’s discretion and the employee
shall accept the decision.

5. Employees must record each absence on their time sheet with the appropriate code for excused absence (LV)
along with the remark “Physical Fitness.”

6. Employees’ “on the clock” three hours per week will be spread throughout five days or used in three days; the
time will not be accumulated; the time will include time spent dressing/showering/cleaning up.

7. Employees must report to work prior to going to the exercise site and must report back to work prior to the end of
their duty day. Exercise in which they engage either before or after duty hours occur during their own time and their
hours of work will not be altered to include those time periods.

8. Employees must sign in and out as directed at the appropriate level to record participation.

9. In order to enhance mission effectiveness, employees must make every effort to improve their health and well
being during any periods of excused absence for the purpose of physical fitness.

10. Each employee’s request (Attachment 1) must be accompanied by a doctor’s statement, at the employee’s
expense, that physical fitness activities are permitted with or without limiting conditions.

11. Should the employee’s ability to participate in physical fitness activities become limited in any manner, they
will notify their supervisor immediately.



                                                                (Commander’s signature element)
 6                                 AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                   Attachment 8 (Added)
                  EXAMPLE EMPLOYEE REQUEST MEMORANDUM

                                                                                     (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (SUPERVISOR’S OFFICE SYMBOL)
               (SECOND-LEVEL SUPERVISOR’S OFFICE SYMBOL)
               IN TURN

FROM: Employee’s Office Symbol
      Street Address
     Maxwell AFB AL 36112-XXXX

SUBJECT: Request to Participate in Physical Fitness Activities

I have read and understand the guidance in the 42d Mission Support Squadron SOI 36-X (use
appropriate policy). I am requesting authority to participate in physical fitness activities as
outlined in the SOI. Attached is the required medical clearance from my physician.



                                            (Employee’s signature element)

Attachment:
Physician’s Statement

1st Ind, (Supervisors Office Symbol)                                                  (Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR (SECOND-LEVEL SUPERVISOR’S OFFICE SYMBOL)

I certify: 1) The requestor is assigned to me; 2) Enhancement of mission accomplishment
considered; 3) Recommend approval/disapproval.



                                            (Supervisor’s signature element)

2d Ind, (Employees Office Symbol), (Date)

Approved/Disapproved. File this memorandum and the physician’s statement in the employee’s
AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief.


                                            (Second-level Supervisor’s signature element)
AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                     7


                                     Attachment 9 (Added)
                                DECISION-MAKING CHART


ISSUES/CONCERNS                               OPINIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
- Productivity                                Those organizations that are paying
-- If every employee at ________AFB           overtime should carefully consider the
participated, excused absences for physical   return for their money.
fitness would equal approximately ____
man-years of lost time. Will the gain in      Health and Wellness activities have always
health and wellness make up the               been recognized as beneficial and
difference?                                   supported by AF leadership. However,
-- Should overtime be allowed for the         there has never been any mechanism to
organization that allows regularly            allow participation during duty time. This
scheduled physical fitness activities for     excused absence would enable civilian
civilian employees?                           employees to work out at the gym and or
                                              participate in intramural sports teams.

                                              The Second-line Supervisor should be the
                                              approving official for excused absence for
                                              the purpose of physical fitness activities if
                                              the Installation Commander approves
                                              implementation.
- Liability                                   If the employee desires to participate, then
-- If an employee requests the physical       the employee should also be responsible
fitness time, how is management assured       for providing the supervisor a doctor’s
the employee is physically able to exercise? statement that physical fitness activities are
Most civilian employees do not pass           permitted with or without limiting
physicals in order to perform the duties of   conditions.
their position.
-- Any injury that occurs on official time is
compensable through Worker’s
Compensation. The injury could be
extremely expensive for the AF, up to
paying all medical costs and or a tax-
exempt compensation.
- Mission effectiveness:                      Established procedures should allow the
-- Does physical fitness contribute to        supervisor to disallow participation for a
mission effectiveness?                        short period of time due to mission
-- Can the supervisor afford to allow the     requirements and for the second-line
employee physical fitness time?               supervisor to cancel the approval in its
                                              entirety.

                                              RECOMMENDATION: The supervisor
                                              recommends/does not recommend approval
8                                AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                            and the second-line supervisor
                                            approves/disapproves.

ISSUES/CONCERNS                              OPINIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
- Participation:                             Temporary employees should/should not
-- What about those employees who do         be approved for excused absences for the
not choose to participate?                   purpose of physical exercise. These
-- Wing-wide or organization’s choice?       employees are short-term employees
-- Can temporary employees participate       hired for a specific purpose.
as well as permanent employees?
-- What options does an employee have if     Employees should only be allowed to
their request for physical fitness is        challenge decisions to deny the excused
disapproved?                                 absence if the denial was either arbitrary
                                             or capricious.

                                             RECOMMENDATION: The
                                             participation by employees should be
                                             completely voluntary, but supported by
                                             the immediate supervisor/second-line
                                             supervisor. Further, the opportunity to
                                             participate should be encouraged wing-
                                             wide with the actual approval of
                                             individual requests being the
                                             responsibility of the second-line
                                             supervisor in the organization.
- Accountability                             The employee is required to show
-- How can wing leadership be assured        physical fitness time on the time card
the AFB’s mission is realizing a benefit?    with appropriate time coding for excused
-- How can management be assured the         absence, which requires both the
employee is actually performing physical     employee and the supervisor’s signature.
fitness activities?
                                             Because the employee is on “official
                                             time”, the supervisor must ensure the
                                             employee is where they are supposed to
                                             be and doing what they are supposed to
                                             be doing. No more, no less that when the
                                             employee is performing the official duties
                                             of their position. No excused absence
                                             may be authorized for employees not
                                             actively participating, e.g., going to the
                                             gym to stand around and visit.

                                             RECOMMENDATION: The program
                                             should be a constant theme on the
                                             commander’s agenda and be subject to
                                             discussion at any time. The ability of the
AFI36-815_MAXWELLAFBSUP 27 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                      9


                                                second-line supervisor to cancel
                                                participation at any given time should
                                                help to ensure the program is not
                                                compromised.

 ISSUES/CONCERNS                                OPINIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
 - Record keeping                               The actual request for physical fitness
 -- Where are the records filed?                time should be filed in the employee’s
                                                Supervisory Record (AF Form 971)
                                                whether approved or disapproved. The
                                                doctor’s statement should be filed with
                                                the request.


 - Where?                                       If the employee is allowed to utilize an
 -- Should the physical fitness activities as   excused absence for one hour/3 times a
 an excused absence be restricted to on-        week anytime during the day, on-base
 base facilities?                               facilities should be available to them in
                                                line with the current policy, which is
                                                space-available.

                                                Due to the travel distance to other
                                                physical fitness facilities, it would not be
                                                reasonable to believe that any mission
                                                benefit would be derived from utilizing
                                                off-base facilities.
