BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-154
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    1 MAY 2013

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                    AIR FORCE ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
                                                 PRODUCTS FOR CYBERSPACE SUPPORT
                                                      ENLISTED SPECIALTY TRAINING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this publication.

OPR: AF/A3CF/A6CF                                                     Certified by: SAF/CIO A6
                                                                        (Lt Gen Michael Basla)
Supersedes:   AFI36-2233, 21 March 2001                                               Pages: 19


This instruction is related to Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1 Cyberspace Support and to
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. It establishes procedures and
assigns responsibilities for developing, distributing, evaluating and using Air Force training
products for qualification training. It applies to all active duty, Air National Guard, Air Force
Reserve Command, and civilian Cyberspace Support personnel in a training status or filling a
crew position that requires specific certification, training or qualification. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision generally updates terminology and unit nomenclature. Also, the content of this AFI
was reorganized into chapters. Information on product development timelines has been added
and is displayed in Table 2.1. Several attachments have been added to provide templates of
documentation required to process training product requests. Attachment 3, Table 3.1 has been
 2                                                                                                               AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


lengthened to include the steps for incorporating training products into Training Business Area
(TBA).

Chapter 1—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                 3
       1.1.     General. ..................................................................................................................          3
       1.2.     Secretary of the Air Force (SAF), Office of Information Dominance and Chief
                Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). ......................................................................                             3
       1.3.     Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) (AF/A3CF/A6CF). ...........................                                                   3
       1.4.     Major Commands. .................................................................................................                    4
       1.5.     81st Training Support Squadron Qualification Flight (81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight)).
                .................................................................................................................................    5

Chapter 2—TRAINING PRODUCTS AND RESOURCES                                                                                                            7
       2.1.     Introduction. ...........................................................................................................            7
       2.2.     Types of Training Products. ...................................................................................                      7
       2.3.     Requesting New Training Products. ......................................................................                             7
       2.4.     Training Resources. ...............................................................................................                  8
       2.5.     Developing Training. .............................................................................................                   8
       2.5.1.   When a need for CBT is identified it is important to ensure the resource is not
                currently available and the correct channels are notified of the need. ...................                                           8
       2.6.     Managing Training Products. .................................................................................                        8
Table 2.1.      Training Product Development Timelines (in working days). ...............................                                           10
       2.7.     Funding Training. ..................................................................................................                10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                      11

Attachment 2—PRIORITIES FOR DEVELOPING AIR FORCE CYBER TRAINING
             PRODUCTS                                                                                                                               13

Attachment 3—STEPS IN PUBLISHING AFJQS/AFQTPS AND REQUESTING FUNDS
             FOR CYBERSPACE SUPPORT SCHOOLHOUSES                                                                                                    14

Attachment 4—SPECIALIZED TRAINING PACKAGE (STP) ENROLLMENT                                                                                          16

Attachment 5—INFORMATION REQUEST FOR PROJECT MEMORANDUM                                                                                             17

Attachment 6—OPR REQUEST LETTER                                                                                                                     18

Attachment 7—FORMAT FOR REQUESTING TRAINING PRODUCTS                                                                                                19
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                           3



                                          Chapter 1

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. General. The following paragraphs provide a summary of the objectives, organizational
and functional relationships, and responsibilities that form the foundation for the cyberspace
support training environment. Specific guidance, when required, is covered in the functional
area of this instruction.
1.2. Secretary of the Air Force (SAF), Office of Information Dominance and Chief
Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6).
   1.2.1. The Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Information Dominance and Chief
   Information Officer, SAF/CIO A6, is the Air Force OPR on formulating strategy and
   establishing policy and guidance on the development of all officers, enlisted and civilians in
   the 17D, 3D, and 1B4 career fields. They do this through the efforts of dedicated cyberspace
   support professionals which include the Directorate of Policy and Resources, cyberspace
   support Air Force Career Field Managers, MAJCOMs and associated MAJCOM Functional
   Managers. Note: For this instruction, the term MAJCOM also applies to Numbered Air
   Forces (NAF), Field Operating Agencies (FOA) and Direct Reporting Units (DRU).
1.3. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) (AF/A3CF/A6CF). AFCFMs will:
   1.3.1. Provide overall force development guidance and management operations to the
   MAJCOMs.
   1.3.2. Advocate for funding contract administration and system administration responsibility
   for self-paced, web and sustainment program requirements.
   1.3.3. Maintain and publish the master/standard Task Group indicators list for
   communications.
   1.3.4. Coordinate on and approve AETC developed training products.
   1.3.5. Manage qualification training processes and act as the final authority for approving
   and prioritizing Air Force Cyber training products.
   1.3.6. Approve low flow course continuation.
   1.3.7. Consolidate MAJCOM inputs for improvement of the Training Business Area (TBA)
   system to prioritize upgrades to that system, approve/publish core training products and
   official TBA training task documents and be responsible for the overall management of TBA
   for the Cyberspace Support community.
   1.3.8. Sponsor Training Advisory Groups (TAG). TAGs will:
       1.3.8.1. Coordinate with AF/A4M to establish and maintain a TBA configuration control
       process. Coordinate with MAJCOM Functional Managers and other AFCFMs on
       designing, implementing and budgeting for TBA capability changes.
       1.3.8.2. Assign a project priority and MAJCOM OPR for new or revised product
       taskings. As a rule, the MAJCOM that has the largest number of systems or most equity
 4                                                                     AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


        from a mission criticality viewpoint should assume MAJCOM OPR responsibilities. See
        Attachment 2 “Priorities for Developing Air Force Cyber Training Products”.
        1.3.8.3. Forward written taskings for all new Air Force Job Qualification Standards/Air
        Force Qualification Training Packages (AFJQS/AFQTP) to 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight).
        See Attachment 3, Table 3.1, “Steps in Publishing Air Force Cyber Support Training
        Products”.
        1.3.8.4. Review the bimonthly standup report posted on the 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight)
        website to reference the status of all products published, in work or awaiting work, start
        date and expected completion date of production phases.
        1.3.8.5. Include discussions, as required, to prioritize/reprioritize training product
        development in order to meet changing training demands or suggest modifications in 81
        TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) processes.
1.4. Major Commands. MAJCOMs implement the following guidance for their cyberspace
support communities. Regardless of size and type of organizational structure or activity, the
functions and duties outlined in this instruction are the minimum mandatory requirements
necessary to ensure effective, quality training of cyberspace support Airmen. MAJCOMs will:
     1.4.1. Appoint a member to each TAG.
     1.4.2. Identify the need for standardized training products.
     1.4.3. Respond to OPR Request Letter from 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) when requested (see
     Attachment 6).
     1.4.4. Forward product requests with a recommended priority to 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight)
     for coordination, prioritization and approval of the AFCFM.
     1.4.5. Monitor the training program and consolidate training/certification data from their
     subordinate units as needed.
     1.4.6. When acting as the Lead Command include 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) as a training
     advisor to develop AFJQS/AFQTP in lieu of contractor-developed training.
     1.4.7. Identify unique training requirements, and before internally developing training
     products, coordinate with 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) for assistance with Instructional Systems
     Design (ISD) process tips, lessons learned, format layout, and product development.
     1.4.8. Support the development, revision and validation by 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) of
     AFJQS/AFQTPs by:
     1.4.8.1. Tasking three organizations to provide subject matter experts (SME) who have a
     thorough working knowledge of the subject system/process to support the completion of
     training product validations and revisions.
     1.4.8.2. Provide 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) with a final copy of all new or revised Technical
     Orders (T.O.) prior to general publication and distribution to support the compilation of
     technical references in AFJQS/AFQTPs received from subordinate units.
     1.4.8.3. Advise 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) of equipment modifications, availability of
     technical data and changes to T.O.s, or other documentation received from subordinate units
     that may affect the production of training products.
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                            5


   1.4.8.4. Support the acquisition of digital photo or full motion media by local graphic
   support personnel to standards established by 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight).
   1.4.8.5. Evaluate the quality and effectiveness of training products when assigned as project
   OPR by:
    a. Supporting product development.
    b. Performing task analyses.
    c. Conducting product validations.
    d. Appointing a TBA POC to manage the cyberspace support training program.
1.5. 81st Training Support Squadron Qualification Flight (81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight)). 81
TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) will:
   1.5.1. Develop Air Force Cyber Support training products in accordance with priorities set
   forth by the AFCFM.
   1.5.2. Finalize and post electronic TBA training products when new/revised publications are
   approved. (E.g. CFETP or AFJQS)
   1.5.3. Educate AFCFMs and MAJCOM Functional Managers (MFM) about TBA impacts
   when developing or revising training materials during the U&TW.
   1.5.4. Assist with identifying and solidifying TBA interface solutions (E.g. IT E-Learning,
   ADLS, MilPDS, etc.).
   1.5.5. Ensure the accuracy of new cyberspace support training products, or products that
   may have undergone major revision. If possible, validation should take place in an actual
   training environment provided by the product OPR using a sample representative of the
   target population. If possible, the target audience should include the Air Reserve component
   (ARC); as draft changes should be coordinated with the ARC prior to final publication.
   1.5.6. As needed, solicit cyberspace support community field unit assistance for product
   validation and development. Refer to Attachment 5 for information request for project
   memorandum format.
   1.5.7. Facilitate the TDY travel and attendance of the flight chief, director or their designee
   to all TAG and U&TWs for all Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC) assigned to 81 TRSS/TSQ
   (Q-Flight) to consolidate, revise or update CFETPs and to receive and/or discuss training
   taskings.
   1.5.8. Announce all new, revised, or rescinded cyberspace support continuation training
   products in the monthly Air Force Publishing Bulletin.
   1.5.9. Publish all new or revised products on the 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) website.
   1.5.10. Publish a bimonthly report on the 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) website that displays the
   status of projects in work, awaiting work or published.
   1.5.11. Project fiscal requirements for operational support of the analysis, development,
   graphic media acquisition, authoring, publication and revision of products tasked to 81
   TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight).
   1.5.12. Submit updated training product report for TAG member review 30 days prior to
   each TAG meeting.
6                                                                      AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


    1.5.13. Establish and maintain a customer service and help desk function to facilitate
    cyberspace support continuation training products used in the field.
    1.5.14. Establish and maintain internal process training for assigned curriculum developers.
    1.5.15. Establish and maintain an internal cyberspace support continuation training product
    development process in order to develop and deliver standardized cyberspace support
    continuation training products to field units.
    1.5.16. Schedule and fund the continuing proficiency training for all 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-
    Flight) personnel through formal schools and internal training programs to insure the timely
    and reliable delivery of standardized cyberspace support continuation training products to
    field units.
    1.5.17. Participate in DoD/Air Force ISD conferences and working groups as required.
    1.5.18. Evaluate training materials from other government, Department of Defense, or
    commercial sources to determine their usefulness in developing cyber training products.
    1.5.19. Coordinate with AETC technical training centers to obtain formal course materials
    for the development or revision of Air Force Cyber Support training products.
    1.5.20. Schedule and fund the continuing proficiency training for all 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-
    Flight) personnel through formal schools and internal training programs to insure the timely
    and reliable delivery of standardized continuation training products to field units.
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                             7


                                           Chapter 2

                        TRAINING PRODUCTS AND RESOURCES

2.1. Introduction. In order to field and train qualified professionals, the Air Force provides
various training tools and resources to the field. Included among them are AETC formal and
supplemental courses; 5-, 7- and 9-level upgrade standardization within the cyberspace support
community using the CFETP, AFJQSs, Command JQSs and formal training.
2.2. Types of Training Products. Supervisors use qualification training products to plan and
conduct standardized qualification training programs. These training products address valid
requirements and ensure logical, organized, and efficient training progression.
   2.2.1. 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) publishes and revises AFJQS and AFQTP products for the
   cyberspace support community. This function is accomplished using any combination of
   full-motion video, text, audio and or digitized pictures selected in accordance with ISD
   principles that enable an airmen to occupy duty positions or maintain systems or equipment
   to an Air Force-established standard. Handbooks may not be used for training purposes and
   are intended for reference only.
   2.2.2. 81st TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) develops the following training:
       2.2.2.1. Air Force Job Qualification Standards (AFJQS). The AFJQS consists of a cover
       letter and an AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, as a
       minimum. It may also contain elements of an Air Force Qualification Training Package.
       An Air Force Form 797 lists tasks requiring training, qualification and/or certification for
       a particular job type or duty position.
       2.2.2.2. Air Force Qualification Training Packages (AFQTP). An AFQTP is used to train
       personnel to maintain a piece of equipment, occupy a duty position or to perform a
       particular task. It contains a cover letter, Skill Training Material, and an optional
       Diagrams Book. If the AFQTP includes performance evaluations, it is considered part of
       the AFJQS.
       2.2.2.3. Handbooks. A handbook provides information and guidance only. It is
       designed for use as needed on the job for reference purposes only and may not be used
       for training purposes.
       2.2.2.4. The AF Training products for cyberspace support can be found on the 81
       TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) website.
2.3. Requesting New Training Products.
   2.3.1. How to Request Qualification/Continuation Training Product development. Training
   products are tasked, assigned, prioritized or reprioritized for 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) by the
   AFCFM. Any member of a cyberspace support AFSC may suggest the development, of
   training products in writing to 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight). Suggestions for development of
   qualification/continuation training products are forwarded for coordination and approval by
   the AFCFM. If approved for development, the suggested training product will be prioritized
   by the AFCFM and assigned to 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) for development.
 8                                                                        AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


     2.3.2. How        Qualification/Continuation      Training     Products     are     prioritized:
     Qualification/continuation products are prioritized within each AFSC. Package priorities are
     published on the Chiefs’ Report by their priority number. Prioritization/reprioritization may
     be suggested at any time. However, the appropriate AFCFM is the final authority for the
     prioritization of qualification/continuation training products. Priority categories are located
     in Attachment 2.
2.4. Training Resources. Computer Based Training (CBT), Field Training Detachments, Field
Training Units, formal courses and vendor training are available.
     2.4.1. IT E-Learning. CBTs will be used as a first line training tool in order to meet specific,
     position related, training requirements as identified in applicable CFETPs, AFJQSs, and AF
     Form 797s. These CBTs are available on the IT E-Learning system. The IT E-Learning
     system is a commercial, enterprise-wide system that provides interactive, self-paced, web-
     based training and reference material directly to users’ desktops. This system allows Air
     Force personnel to obtain up-to-date training on the technology they need to carry out their
     missions. It supports the Air Force communications and information (cyberspace support)
     functional community in meeting information technology training requirements. The
     program is managed by Air Force Space Command, through the IT E-Learning Program
     Management Office (AFSPC CYSS/DOT). USAF cyberspace support developed CBTs,
     commercially developed IT CBTs and access to web-based unabridged commercial IT books
     can be found on the IT E-Learning site which is accessed via AF Portal website IT E-
     Learning link.
     2.4.2. Specialized Training Packages (STP) are type 6 distance learning self-paced training
     courses prepared by AETC, approved by NSA, and administered by a qualified STP trainer.
     STPs consist of lesson plans, test materials, instructions for the trainer, instructions for the
     students, policy, doctrine, and procedures necessary to conduct training. Refer to Attachment
     4 for STP enrollment procedures.
2.4.3. Field Training Detachments (FTD). Field training provides hands-on maintenance
training at operational locations. Training can include: specific systems and associated support
equipment and systems; aircraft/systems; engines; Aerospace Ground Equipment; Theater
Deployable Communications equipment; certification training; partial courses; and training
sessions. FTDs or Mobile Training Teams are responsible for conducting field training.
     2.4.4. Field Training Units (FTU) are locally developed training organizations. These units
     are developed to address training needs at a local level. An example would be the Savannah
     FTU located in Savannah, Georgia.
2.5. Developing Training. In order to provide the most current training to Airmen, it is
imperative that any required task have a training source. Aside from using locally developed
trainers, a MAJCOM can submit information for recommending training that affects all Airmen.
2.5.1. When a need for CBT is identified it is important to ensure the resource is not
currently available and the correct channels are notified of the need. Before working to
develop a new CBT, contact AFSPC CYSS/DOT to check the existing AF IT E-Learning CBT
catalog for CBTs which may meet the training requirement.
2.6. Managing Training Products.
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                                 9


   2.6.1. How Qualification/Continuation Training Products are identified.
Products published on 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight)’s website and in the bimonthly report use an
alphanumeric combination assigned by the support element to all AFJQSs/AFQTPs. A project
number consists of either 10 or 11 characters. For most AFJQSs/AFQTPs, the first five
characters identify the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), the sixth character is a dash, and the
last four or five characters (also called the alphanumeric extension) are unique for each project.
The AFJQSs/AFQTPs applicable to more than one AFSC have a different numbering system.
The first five characters show an overall function to which the project applies. For example,
projects applicable to more than one 3D maintenance function have 3DXXX as the first five
characters followed by a dash and the project alphanumeric extension. Where AFJQSs/AFQTPs
concerning general training (or training management) for all AFSCs, the first five characters
used are XXXXX and the dash and project alphanumeric extension.
   2.6.2. How Qualification/Continuation Training Products are developed/revised.
   Development of an approved new training product or the revision of a previously published
   product begins when that project is moved from the Awaiting Work section to the In Work
   section of the bimonthly report. Then the assigned curriculum development team begins
   work.
   2.6.3. Published products are reviewed and/or revised every two years on the anniversary of
   their publication to determine their necessity, applicability, currency, and accuracy. Special
   evaluations may occur at any time upon request to correct errors or inconsistencies or when a
   significant event or action occurs that adversely affects a published training package (for
   instance, safety or security issues).
   2.6.4. How Qualification/Continuation Training Products are validated. All
   qualification/continuation training products are validated in an actual training environment
   provided by the product OPR using a sample representative of the target population. If
   possible the target audience should include the ARC.
   2.6.5. Qualification/Continuation Training Product Development Timelines. The chart
   below provides approximate times, expressed in working days, for development/revision of
   qualification/continuation training product. Delays due to additional duties, T.O. or
   developmental information delay, UTC tasking or higher priority projects will affect product
   delivery.
 10                                                                  AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


Table 2.1. Training Product Development Timelines (in working days).
Phase Name             New        AFJQS     Major       Minor
                       Project    Only      Revision    Revision
Project Preparation
                       5          5         5           5
Preliminary Analysis
                       31         31        31          2
Task Analysis          9.5        0         9.5         0
Planning               8          25        6           6
Authoring              35         10        35          7
Validation             10         10        10          0
Publication            30         30        30          10
Estimated Project
Time                   128.5      111       126.5       30


   2.6.6. Qualification/Continuation Training Product Revision. Qualification/continuation
   product revision may be classified as either major or minor depending on the level of work
   required.
       2.6.6.1. Major Revisions. A major revision is accomplished when the package evaluation
       worksheet identifies the following conditions:
   a. A training reference change that alters subject matter or the AF Form 797.
   b. Safety issues.
   c. New or additional tasks.
       2.6.6.2. Minor Revisions. Minor revisions are accomplished to correct typographical
       errors, update templates, or format changes.
   2.6.6.3. Change Pages. Change pages are accomplished to correct errors in AFJQSs found
   between normal publication dates.
2.7. Funding Training. Every schoolhouse has requirements that are critical to mission
accomplishment. To aid units in obtaining funding to meet their training needs, the 81 TRG and
364 TRS will work with the AFCFM to acquire funds needed for training.




                                           MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Chief of Informatin Dominance and
                                           Chief Information Officer
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development
Adopted Forms
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training
DD Form 1435, COMSEC Maintenance Training and Experience Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force (used for designated forms only)
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJQS—Air Force Job Qualification Standard
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFQTP—Air Force Qualification Training Package
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CBT—Computer-Based Training
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
COMSEC—Communications Security
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
 12                                       AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


FOA—Field Operating Agency
FTD—Field Training Detachment
FTU—Field Training Unit
HQ—Headquarters
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
IQT—Initial Qualification Training
ISD—Instructional System Design
IT—Information Technology
JQS—Job Qualification Standard
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OJT—On-The-Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SME—Subject Matter Expert
STP—Specialized Training Package
TAG—Training Advisory Group
TBA—Training Business Area
TDY—Temporary Duty
T.O.—Technical Order
TRG—Training Group
TRS—Training Squadron
UTC—Unit Type Code
U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop
UTW—Utilization and Training Workshop
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                       13


                                        Attachment 2
   PRIORITIES FOR DEVELOPING AIR FORCE CYBER TRAINING PRODUCTS

A2.1. Use one of the following priority codes when requesting training products for Cyberspace
Support systems, equipment or functions:
   A2.1.1. Priority 1 - Mission Essential. Use if you cannot sustain operations without the
   requested training product.
   A2.1.2. Priority 2 - Critical Mission Impairment. Use if system, equipment, functions or
   operation will be severely restricted without the requested product.
   A2.1.3. Priority 3 - Deficiencies to Mission Support. Use if failure to support your
   product request will result in damage to your mission.
   A2.1.4. Priority 4 - Personal Competence Reduced. Use if lack of this training will result
   in personnel with less than satisfactory skills or insufficient knowledge to accomplish
   mission goals.
   A2.1.5. Priority PUB - Published. Published packages remain on the Chiefs’ Report until
   the next scheduled meeting of a TAG. Newly published products are also announced by e-
   mail to all 81st TRS/TSQ (Q-Flight) customers.
   A2.1.6. Priority XXX – Unprioritized. Work on unprioritized packages may be
   superseded by any prioritized package awaiting work.
 14                                                          AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


                                     Attachment 3
       STEPS IN PUBLISHING AFJQS/AFQTPS AND REQUESTING FUNDS FOR
                   CYBERSPACE SUPPORT SCHOOLHOUSES

Table A3.1. Steps in Publishing AFJQS/AFQTPs.
A      B                C        D            E         F           G           H
                                              MAJCOM 81 TRSS/       OPR
       Required
Step                    AFCFM    TAG          Functional TSQ        (Assigned
       Action                                                                   SME
                                              Managers (Q-Flight)   by AFCFM)
       Identify
       requirements
       for
1      new or revised   X        X            X
       AFJQS/
       AFQTP

       Establish
2      development      X        X
       priority

       Develop
3      tentative                                        X
       AFJQS

       Review and
       coordinate                                                               X
4.                                            X         X
       tentative
       AFJQS
       Develop draft
5                                                       X
       AFQTP
       Review and
6.     coordinate                             X         X                       X
       draft AFQTP




       Prepare final
7                                                       X
       AFJQS/
       AFQTP
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                         15



A      B                C             D            E            F             G              H
                                                   MAJCOM       81 TRSS/         OPR
       Required
Step                    AFCFM         TAG          Functional   TSQ           (Assigned      SME
       Action
                                                   Managers     (Q-Flight)    by AFCFM)
       Approve final
       AFJQS/
       AFQTP and
       complete AFI
8                       X
       36-2201
       requirements
       for
       AFJQSs
       Review
9      AFJQSs                                                   X
       biennially

       Send final PDF
       to TBA PMO
10                                                              X
       for upload to
       UTW


       CFM and CFA
       review and
       approve
11                      X
       AFJQS/
       AFQTP in
       UTW

       Send approval
       to TBA PMO
12                      X
       to publish in
       TBA
       Provide timely
       answers to
       Q-Flight
13     requests for                                                              X           X
       developmental
       information
       (See Note)
Note: Failure to respond in a timely manner to requests for information regarding the
development of new products or the review/revision of published products will cause a work
stoppage.
 16                                                                       AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


                                           Attachment 4
              SPECIALIZED TRAINING PACKAGE (STP) ENROLLMENT

A4.1. AETC announces STPs as they become available through the on-line Education and
Training Course Announcements (ETCA) webpage at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/.
A4.2. STP courses can be requested via the STP email box at: 338trs.stp@us.af.mil.
A4.3. For each STP request, the commander or commander’s representative (for example, Unit
Training Manager or Maintenance Training Manager) provides an official memorandum with the
following information:
   A4.3.1. Course       Number       requested.     (E.g.   E6AZS3D152        01MA).       See
   https://etca.randolph.af.mil/ for course list.
   A4.3.2. Course title requested. (E.g. COMSEC Awareness Training)
   A4.3.3. Availability of a qualified STP trainer.
   A4.3.4. Availability of equipment, maintenance key material, and technical manuals.
   A4.3.5. Certification that all trainees meet the AFSC prerequisites.
   A4.3.6. Point of contact with voice and FAX phone numbers.
   A4.3.7. Mailing address for the unit and the trainer.
A4.4. Each STP includes training objectives on COMSEC doctrine, policy, and procedures and
includes information on security threat awareness of protective technology.
A4.5. Each STP includes specific controls and administrative procedures.
   A4.5.1. Record STP training completion on DD Form 1435 or in Automated Training
   Management System after verification of successful completion (receipt of AF Form 1256).
A4.6. AFSC course prerequisites: Current STP course information can be found on the ETCA
site at https://etca.randolph.af.mil/. 81 TRSS/TSQ (Q-Flight) lists current AFJQS and AFQTP
products        on      its    website       under    the        respective     AFSC      at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=20946.
   A4.6.1. Cyberspace support STPs are limited to those who have an operational need to be
   certified. AFSC prerequisites to order STPs are 3DXXX or civilian equivalent. Other
   AFSCs will be considered on a case by case basis.
A4.7. Contractor personnel: Employees of companies or corporations under contract to the Air
Force, other armed forces, or other government agencies who require Air Force training must
submit requests through the AF Unit Training Manager. Requirement for AF-provided training
must be specified in the contract.
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                             17


                                          Attachment 5
              INFORMATION REQUEST FOR PROJECT MEMORANDUM

<<Edit information in double brackets. This letter is e-mailed to the MAJCOM from the
OPR.>>
<<Insert Current Date>>
MEMORANDUM FOR << MAJCOM OPR >>
<<ATTENTION: XXX XXX (delete if not needed)>>
FROM: 81 TRSS/TSQ
601 D Street
Keesler AFB MS 39534-2229
SUBJECT: Information Request for Project <<project number and title>>
1.      Request the following information in accordance with AFI 36-2233.
    a. The number of systems/units in the field and the number of locations currently in use.
    b. The number and AFSC of personnel who operate, maintain, and install this system/are
assigned to these units. Please list all applicable AFSCs and percentage for each if known.
    c. The expected life cycle of this system.
    d. Any known or pending modifications or replacements affecting this system/training
package.
    e. The number of MAJCOMs affected by this system/training package. Please list applicable
commands.
    f. Any specific areas or information that you want the developer to address during analysis
phase development.
    g. Any electronic or printed material that the developer may use to enrich training.
    h. A definition on how this differs from the unit level JQS already in existence and what is to
be included in this JQS.
    i. Request you identify three Subject Matter Experts (SME) in support of this project. Identify
SMEs by name, rank, unit, base assigned, and DSN number. SMEs must be qualified to maintain
the <<project title>> at the force level and possess an in-depth knowledge of the subject equipment.
2.      Your inputs will assist us in developing high quality training material for this system. To
help us meet our milestone dates, please provide the requested information by <<dd mmm yy>> to
<<Rank Name>>, <<insert DSN phone number, insert e-mail address>> and courtesy copy (cc) the
SMEs’ unit commanders.




<<Insert Signature Block>>
 18                                                                      AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 6
                                   OPR REQUEST LETTER

<<Edit information in double brackets. This letter is e-mailed from the OPR to MAJCOM.>>
<<Insert Current Date>>
MEMORANDUM FOR <<MAJCOM OPR>>
ATTENTION: <<MFM NAME>>
FROM: 81 TRSS/TSQ
601 D Street
Keesler AFB MS 39534-2229
SUBJECT: Subject Matter Expert (SME) Request for <<AFJQS/AFQTP>> <<project number
              and name>>
1. In accordance with AFI 36-2233 request you identify three Subject Matter Experts (SME) in
support of this project to assist us in developing high quality training material. Identify SMEs by
name, rank, unit, base assigned, and DSN number. SMEs must be qualified to operate, maintain, or
install the <<insert project name>> at the force level. In addition, they must possess an in-depth
knowledge of the duty position. If possible, select SMEs not scheduled for extended TDY,
deployment, or other duties that would affect their ability to carry out this tasking.
2. To help us meet our development milestone dates, please provide the requested information by
<<dd mmm yy>> to <<insert CD rank and name>>, <<insert CD DSN phone number>>, <<insert
CD email address>> and courtesy copy (cc) the SMEs’ unit commanders.




<<Insert Signature Block>>
AFI33-154 1 MAY 2013                                                                          19


                                         Attachment 7
                 FORMAT FOR REQUESTING TRAINING PRODUCTS

<<Edit information in double brackets. This letter is sent from the requester to 81 TRSS/TSQ
(Q-Flight)>>
 (MAJCOM Letterhead
<<Insert Current Date>>
MEMORANDUM FOR: 81 TRSS/TSQ
FROM: <<Insert Three Line Address>>
SUBJECT: Training Product Development Request for (System/Equipment/Function)
1. Request a training product be developed for subject (system/equipment/function). The
following information supports this request:
a. MAJCOM OPR and Item Manager. (Provide names, addresses, phone numbers, and e-mail
addresses).
b. This (system/equipment/function) supports the (name) mission.
c. Subject Matter Experts (SME) and Item Managers. (Provide names, addresses, phone
numbers, and e-mail addresses of at least three SMEs.)
d. There are (number of) (systems/equipment) in the field at (number of) locations.
e. Number and AFSC of personnel who operate, maintain, and install this system, equipment, or
function.
f. The expected life cycle of this (system/equipment) is (years)(unknown).
g. List any known or pending modifications or replacements affecting this system, equipment, or
function.
h. State the operation/maintenance concept of this (system/equipment).
i. Identify any formal training available, either through commercial or formal DOD schools. (List
schools and contacts, if available.)
j. The technical data for this (system/equipment/function) is (available/preliminary/not
available).
k. This (system/equipment/function) affects the following MAJCOMs: (List applicable
commands)
l. Request priority (1) (2) (3) (4) (see attachment 1) for the following reasons: (List reasons)
2. Include any specific areas or information that you want the developer to address during the
analysis phase of development. Provide the developer with any pertinent feedback received from
divisions or field units. Be as specific as possible when defining the scope of the project.




<<Insert Signature Block>>
