BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1032
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              15 OCTOBER 2003
                                                                      MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
                                                                                Supplement
                                                                                 4 AUGUST 2009
                                                                      Certify Current, 16 AUGUST 2012
                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                         PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING
                                                APPROPRIATED FUNDED MAINTENANCE,
                                                 REPAIR, AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/ILERP (Robert P. Doerschner)                           Certified by: HQ USAF/ILER
                                                                              (Rita J. Maldonado)
Supersedes:    AFI 32-1032, 24 September 2002                                           Pages: 50

                                  (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)
OPR: 366 CES/CEPD                                                       Certified by: 366 CES/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col David W. Bruce)
                                                                                         Pages: 5



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. It provides guidance and instruction for planning and programming projects for real
property classified as maintenance, repair, unspecified minor military construction, and facilities
for operational requirements using operation and maintenance (O&M) funds. To ensure a full
understanding of the process of providing unspecified minor military construction, facilities for
operational requirements, and maintenance and repair support to real property, users of this
instruction should also be familiar with other Air Force 32-(Civil Engineer) and 65-(Budget)
series publications. (AFI 65-601, Volume I, Finance Management, Budget Guidance and
Procedures, is particularly important for determining funded and unfunded costs for all projects.)
Forward any issue not fully addressed by this instruction to the major command (MAJCOM) or
Air Staff for clarification. MAJCOMs may supplement this instruction to include
command-unique requirements.
2                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


Records Disposition. Maintain and dispose of all records created by processes prescribed in this
publication IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

(MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFI 32-1032, 15 October 2003 is supplemented as follows. This
instruction establishes procedures for the 366th Fighter Wing (366 FW) Facilities Board (FB)
and the Facilities Board Working Group (FBWG). This instruction implements applicable
checklist items which appear in the Civil Engineer Squadron (CES) Unit Self Assessment list in
accordance with (IAW) Air Combat Command Directory 90-285, Compliance and
Standardization Requirements List (C&SRL)-Civil Engineering (CE) Functional Area. The FB
provides corporate review and approval of real property issues, facilities repairs, renovations and
new construction as well as base land use and infrastructure requirements. This publication
pertains to the FB, the FBWG and specified 366 CES personnel. Maintain records prescribed by
processes in this publication according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
dispose of them according to the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule located at the AF
Portal link for the AF Records Information Management System. Contact supporting records
managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions regarding this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route AF Forms 847 through the base publications and forms manager.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

It replaces real property maintenance (RPM) references with more appropriate sustainment,
restoration and modernization (SRM) terminology throughout. It also provides definitions of the
sustainment, restoration and modernization funding categories; updates the Element of Expense
Investment Code (EEIC) table; and provides examples of SRM in Attachment 3. It updates
examples and current interpretations. It also adds current direction on the Facility Investment
Metric (FIM). It includes significant changes to O&M programming policy including: permitting
the movement of existing interior load-bearing members within a facility as repair; deleting the
automatic designation as construction of the conversion of a facility or portion of a facility from
one primary function to another (making it a case-by-case determination based on the planned
work) ; permitting projects solely to correct force protection deficiencies to be considered as life,
safety, or health-threatening measures under 10 U.S.C. 2805; a modification to the 70% rule on
facility repairs; and a change in the required approval level and dollar threshold for troop labor
projects and augmenting the in-house work force. It updates and better defines the authority to
construct facilities supporting operational requirements, as previously defined by an interim
change to this AFI.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                    3



                                          Chapter 1

                                         OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to provide instruction and guidance for those
responsible for planning, programming, and executing cost-effective O&M-funded unspecified
minor military construction, facilities for operational requirements, and maintenance and repair
projects for real property in compliance with law and Department of Defense (DoD) and Air
Force policies.
1.2. Responsibilities:
   1.2.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) (SAF/IEI). S A F / I EI
   establishes and provides oversight of policies relating to real property, real property
   systems and components, and engineering services, and grants waivers to those policies in
   appropriate circumstances. SAF/IEI is the approval authority for facility projects exceeding
   a certain cost or of a certain type.
   1.2.2. The Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE). HQ USAF/ILE provides programming
   guidance, oversight, and policy as required. HQ USAF/ILE reviews, validates, and approves
   O&M-funded projects classified as repair, unspecified minor military construction, or for
   operational requirements exceeding the Active Air Force MAJCOM commander's
   delegated approval authority. HQ USAF/ILE, through the Installation Support Panel,
   makes recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial
   Management (SAF/FM), and the Air Force Group, Board, and Council on requirements for,
   and appropriate allocation of, resources. The Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force
   Reserve Command (AFRC) Civil Engineer will process packages for SAF/IEI
   approval for O&M-funded (repair or unspecified minor military construction) projects
   exceeding approval authority of their MAJCOMs.
   1.2.3. MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs provide oversight to ensure compliance with law and DoD
   and Air Force policies. MAJCOMs are responsible for establishing quality standards;
   providing command-unique guidance to supplement Air Force policies, procedures, and
   instructions; validating requirements identified by their installations; developing and
   advocating command budgets for SRM projects; promoting timely obligation of funds;
   project approval within delegated approval authorities; and execution of projects. The
   ANG and AFRC Civil Engineer perform these MAJCOM functions for their installations.
   1.2.4. United States Property and Fiscal Officer (USPFO).
       1.2.4.1. The USPFO is accountable for all ANG property with a federal interest.
       1.2.4.2. The USPFO may approve funding projects as shown in Table 1.1. Submit
       projects greater than these limits to ANG/CEP. The USPFO may delegate some or all of
       this authority to the installation commander.
   1.2.5. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) and the Air Force Center
   for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE). AFCESA and AFCEE provide technical
   engineering guidance, assistance, and services.
4                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


    1.2.6. Installation Commander. The Installation Commander has overall
    responsibility and accountability for the operation of an Air Force installation. The
    Installation Commander, assisted by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE), is responsible and
    accountable to ensure all work accomplished for the Air Force on Air Force
    owned/controlled real property is properly authorized and funded in accordance with all laws,
    policies, and regulations. The Commander is also responsible for (1) ensuring the effective
    and efficient use of Air Force real property; and (2) planning and programming all
    O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction and maintenance and repair for real
    property requirements necessary to properly support assigned missions and people
    (including tenants) and to care for and preserve Air Force real property.
    1.2.7. The Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG).
       1.2.7.1. HQ USAF/SG advocates for and distributes resources to
       MAJCOM/SGs for O&M-funded (Defense Health Program funds) unspecified minor
       military construction and maintenance and repair of medical facilities.
       1.2.7.2. Air Force Medical   Support    Agency/Health     Facilities Division
       (HQ AFMSA/SGSF) provides technical and functional design guidance for medical
       facilities.
       1.2.7.3. Air Force Medical Logistics Office/Engineering, Facilities, Equipment &
       Procurement Branch (AFMLO/FOM) provides Planning, Programming, and Budgetary
       guidance, direction and oversight as required to the MAJCOMs for using appropriated
       funds for medical SRM projects.
1.3. Scope. This instruction provides general procedures for planning, programming, and
executing O&M-funded projects for real property classified as maintenance, repair or
unspecified minor military construction. It applies to all projects, including, but not limited to,
those planned for accomplishment by organic forces (which include overhires and temporary
duty augmentees), troop labor, or contract (including Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineer
Requirements (SABER)). This instruction addresses only O&M-funded unspecified minor
military construction, facilities for operational requirements, and maintenance and repair
projects for real property. These funds are normally in the 3400 appropriation (3740 for AFRC
and 3840 for ANG), but may include 3600, Research, Development, Test and
Evaluation (RDT&E); Working Capital Fund (WCF); or Defense SRM accounts when made
available for O&M purposes. See AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, for guidance on
functions at the installation level.
    1.3.1. A project is unspecified minor military construction, operational requirement, or a
    plan of maintenance and repair work necessary to produce complete and usable real property
    or real property systems or components, or a complete and usable improvement to real
    property or real property systems or components. Projects are not defined by a dollar
    amount, but commands may find it useful to designate a limit for work management
    purposes. This instruction does not address:
       1.3.1.1. Construction work funded by Military Construction Appropriations (MCA),
       including MCA-funded unspecified minor military construction (commonly referred to
       as P-341). See AFI32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction Projects.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                   5


      1.3.1.2. Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities work. See AFI 32-1022, Planning and
      Programming Nonappropriated Fund Facility Projects.
      1.3.1.3. Military family housing work. See AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning,
      Programming, Design and Construction.
   1.3.2. Maintenance and repair are classes of work that are different from construction,
   whether O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction, MCA-funded unspecified
   minor military construction, or MILCON. Not only do funding sources at times differ, but the
   nature of work is different. As noted in Chapter 4, maintenance and repair do not change
   the nature of a facility, but simply ensure it can continue to be used effectively. Repair
   does not normally increase the volume or foot-print of a building, although it may result in
   greater usable floor space due to reconfiguration of the interior.
1.4. Approval Levels. By Secretary of the Air Force Order (SAFO), 715.2 for the Active
Component and 714.1 for the Reserve Components, the Secretary’s authorities under 10
U.S.C. §2805 (10 U.S.C. §18233 for Reserve Components) and 10 U.S.C. §2811 have been
delegated to SAF/IE, who has further delegated them to SAF/IEI. Table 1.1 and Table 1.2
provide the approval levels hereby delegated by SAF/IEI for O&M-funded unspecified minor
military construction, operational requirements, maintenance, and repair projects.
   1.4.1. AF/ILE may, by memorandum, further delegate its approval authority for
   O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction, maintenance and repair projects.
   Delegations for ANG and AFRC are accomplished by the Chief, National Guard Bureau and
   the Chief of the Air Force Reserves respectively.
   1.4.2. SAF/IE and SAF/IEI may, for particular projects, reduce or otherwise impose
   restrictions on the approval levels delegated by Table 1.1 and Table 1.2.

Table 1.1. O&M Funded Unspecified Minor Military Construction Approval Levels.
                   SAF/IE          SAF/IEI         AF/ILE¹       MAJCOMs Installations
 Life, health or   NTE             NTE             NTE           As delegated As
 safety-threatenin $1,500,000      $1,500,000      $750,000                   delegated
 g deficiencies
 Facilities for    No limit2       No limit2
 Operational
 Requirements
 All others       NTE              NTE             NTE           As delegated As
                  $750,000         $750,000        $750,000                   delegated
6                                    AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009



Table 1.2. Maintenance and Repair Approval Levels.
                SAF/IE         SAF/IEI      AF/ILE¹         MAJCOMs       Installations
    Maintenance Unlimited      Unlimited    Unlimited       Unlimited5    Unlimited5
    Repair         Unlimited3 Unlimited3 NTE                As delegated As delegated
                                         $5,000,0003,4
             1. Includes the Air Force Civil Engineer; Director, Secretary of the Air Force
             Space Launch; Chief of Air Force Reserve; and Chief of Air National Guard.
             2. Requires concurrence of the Undersecretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)).
             3. Repair projects over $7,500,000 require Congressional notification.
             4. See approval limitations in paragraph 4.4.
             5. For Reserve Components, as delegated.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                       7



                                           Chapter 2

                                          PLANNING

2.1. Planning Defined. Planning is the identification of a scope of work of facility
requirements to satisfy current and future mission needs. It should address the ultimate goal to be
achieved as well as including the specific work required. Only by identifying the ultimate
goal for a facility can planners successfully plan multi-year phased maintenance and
repair projects and any needed construction projects.
2.2. Facility Requirement Identification and Approval. The BCE uses a variety of methods
to identify facility requirements, including, but not limited to: projections of mission changes;
base comprehensive planning; space utilization surveys; installation condition surveys
(pavements, roofs, etc.); assessments of compliance with environmental, safety, security, and
other laws, codes, and regulations; energy conservation surveys and audits; and user or occupant
identified requirements.
2.3. Planning Determinations. After user requirements are defined, the BCE determines:
(1) special technical engineering requirements; (2) project cost estimates; (3) most life-cycle
cost-effective solutions; (4) energy conservation projects (see paragraph 6.7); and (5) work
classification (see paragraph 3.3).
8                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


                                           Chapter 3

                                      PROGRAMMING

3.1. Programming Defined. Programming is the process of acquiring both the authority
and the resources necessary to accomplish planned work. (See AFI 32-7001, Environmental
Budgeting, for additional guidance on programming environmental projects.).
3.2. Prioritization. After facility requirements are identified, the BCE will develop facility
project programming proposals and present them for approval by the proper authority.
Prioritizations will normally be based on local policy. See AFPD 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, for prioritization guidance. For ANG, the Base Facilities Board (FB) does
prioritization of facilities. MAJCOMs prioritize projects consistent with current AF
programming guidance.
    3.2.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Facilities Board Process. The FB is made up
    of senior wing leadership with full authority to make decisions. The FB structure provides
    corporate review and direction to facilitate efficient use of BCE resources in accomplishing
    the wing mission, goals and objectives. The following facility and infrastructure actions will
    be presented for FB validation, priority determination and approval:
       3.2.1.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Space use requirements including real
       estate in/out grants, facility disposal, land acquisitions and facility occupancy.
       3.2.1.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Programmed O&M work requirements
       including all maintenance, repair, renovation, new construction and demolition projects
       designated for contract execution.
       3.2.1.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Military Family Housing (MFH) O&M
       program.
       3.2.1.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Military Construction program.
       3.2.1.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Community                      planning      requirements
       including future land use, facility siting, transportation network, capital improvements,
       area development and air installation compatible use.
       3.2.1.6. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Non-Appropriated Funds program.
       3.2.1.7. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) DESC and Defense Logistics Agency fuels
       program.
       3.2.1.8. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MFH MILCON.
       3.2.1.9. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Energy Conservation Program MILCON.
       3.2.1.10. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Energy SRM funded program.
       3.2.1.11. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Any private organization/program.
       3.2.1.12. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Any other non-DoD program such as
       other United States of America government agencies, state, county, city including any
       foreign government.     The 366th Civil Engineer Squadron, Senior Programmer
       (366 CES/CEPD) will act as the Recorder. Agenda will be prepared by the Recorder and
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      9


     sent with read ahead slides to each member not less than 5 working days prior to the FB
     meeting. Official minutes will be taken by the Recorder and staffed up to 366 FW for
     signature by the Chairperson not less than 10 working days after the meeting.
  3.2.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Facilities Board Procedures. 366 FW/CC
  (Commander) establishes the FB with duties and responsibilities as follows:
     3.2.2.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) The                  FB     is   normally     chaired   by
     366 FW/CC.
     3.2.2.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Non-voting members are appointed as
     needed.
     3.2.2.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) The FB meets as the schedule permits.
     Typically, the FB meets four times per fiscal year on the second Tuesday of the first
     month of each quarter in the Wing Conference room. Four meetings per year are
     optimal; in no case shall the FB meet less than twice per fiscal year.
        3.2.2.3.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Typically at the October meeting, the
        O&M Program List should be approved. Real property actions and site issues are
        presented at every FB. Presentation of the "Area Development Plan", or "2030 Plan"
        to discuss development of future MILCON construction for MHAFB prior to
        prioritization of MILCON.
        3.2.2.3.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Typically at the January meeting,
        MILCON priorities will be re-assessed and approved, and the Airfield Waiver
        Program (an annual requirement) is presented and approved.
        3.2.2.3.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Typically at the April meeting
        information will be presented on anticipated funded projects and potential straddle
        bid projects for submission at year end, if available. If not available, this information
        will be presented later.
        3.2.2.3.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Typically, at the July meeting
        potential End of Year (EOY) projects (Wing locally fundable) will be presented and
        prioritized.
     3.2.2.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Attendance at scheduled FB meetings is
     mandatory for voting members or their alternates. Alternates are expected to vote with
     full authority of the primary member.
     3.2.2.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 FW Facility Board Membership:
        3.2.2.5.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Members:
            3.2.2.5.1.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander,                       366th   Fighter
            Wing (Chairperson).
            3.2.2.5.1.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander, 366th Operations
            Group (366 OG/CC).
            3.2.2.5.1.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander,                                 366th
            Maintenance Group (366 MXG/CC).
            3.2.2.5.1.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander,                     366th     Mission
10                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


                Support Group (366 MSG/CC).
                3.2.2.5.1.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander, 366th                      Medical
                Group (366 MDG/CC).
            3.2.2.5.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Advisors:
                3.2.2.5.2.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander,                    366th     Civil
                Engineer Squadron (366 CES/CC) (facilitator).
                3.2.2.5.2.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander,                              366th
                Comptroller Squadron (366 CPTS/CC).
                3.2.2.5.2.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Commander, 366th Contracting
                Squadron (366 CONS/CC).
                3.2.2.5.2.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Staff Judge Advocate, 366th
                Fighter Wing.
     3.2.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Facilities Board Working Group. Within the
     FB structure, the FBWG primary function and responsibility is to establish relative priority
     of facility projects, review and make recommendations on all other agenda items being
     presented to the FB for approval. Typically, the FBWG meets one month prior to any
     scheduled FB meeting. Approximately eight weeks prior to a typically scheduled FB, the
     date and time for both the FBWG and FB is verified and finalized and reservations/schedules
     are accomplished for the conference rooms. Also, 366 CES/CEPD prepares the FBWG/FB
     proposed agenda and slides with input from 366 CES/CEP (Chief, Programs Flight) and 366
     CES/CEAC (Real Property Officer) and presents them through 366 CES chain of command
     for review and revision as needed, normally occurs at six (6) weeks prior to the date set for
     the FB. Also during this timeframe prior to the FB, the programmer sends a project listing
     pertaining to each group for their review and prioritization. At approximately five (5) weeks
     prior to the FB, the group representatives are notified of the FBWG date, and agenda with
     slides for their review.
        3.2.3.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Facilities                 Board     Working       Group
        Membership:
            3.2.3.1.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Voting Members:
                3.2.3.1.1.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366                    MSG/CD         (Deputy
                Commander) (Chairperson).
                3.2.3.1.1.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 OG/CD.
                3.2.3.1.1.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 MXG/CD.
                3.2.3.1.1.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 MDG/CD.
                3.2.3.1.1.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 FW/DS.
            3.2.3.1.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Advisors:
                3.2.3.1.2.1. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 CES/CC (facilitator).
                3.2.3.1.2.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 CPTS/CC.
                3.2.3.1.2.3. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) 366 CONS/CC.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      11


               3.2.3.1.2.4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Staff Judge Advocate, 366th
               Fighter Wing.
       3.2.3.2. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) The FB and FBWG meetings are open to
       members of any organization when an action affecting that unit is being considered.
3.3. Work Classification. One of the keys to properly program facility requirements is work
classification. Work authorization and approval levels and appropriate funding sources vary
with work classification, i.e., with the type of work necessary to accomplish facility
requirements in the most life-cycle cost-effective manner. Most often, SRM O&M work will be
classified as maintenance or repair. However, there may be instances when work that could be
classified as maintenance or repair will be accomplished as construction, either because it is part
of a very large project or because a decision has been made to use other available funding
mechanisms, such as Military Construction Appropriations (MCA) funded unspecified
minor military construction.
   3.3.1. Demolition. The removal of a facility (or portion of a facility) unrelated to any
   O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction project or maintenance or repair
   project is not considered to be a special class of real property sustainment work. Contract
   costs for such independent facility removal work should be charged to PE***93F,
   Element of Expense Investment Code (EEIC) 592, Miscellaneous Contract Services, and
   cost account code 60000. If demolition work is required to accomplish an O&M-funded
   unspecified minor military construction project or a sustainment or repair project, the
   cost for demolition or removal work is a cost of the associated project and will be funded as
   an integral part of the associated project and carries the same class of work as the associated
   project. See AFI 32-9004, Disposal of Real Property, and AFI 32-9007, Managing Air
   Force Real Property, Chapter 4, for Air Force property disposal procedures.
       3.3.1.1. Facility Consolidation. Beginning in FY04, installations may consider using
       funds from PE ***93F to repair or add to existing facility space for the purpose of
       consolidating base functions into one facility and thereby demolish the resulting
       excess facility space. Work may be accomplished under the following stipulations:
           3.3.1.1.1. The end result of accomplishing required repairs and/or minor
           construction will be to demolish facility space occupied by functions being
           relocated to the repaired/newly constructed space.
           3.3.1.1.2. Work classified as repair will be properly costed against EEIC 522, minor
           construction work will be costed against EEIC 529, and demolition work will be
           costed against EEIC592.
           3.3.1.1.3. Proposed work must be within the limitations and work classification
           descriptions established for O&M-funded repair and minor construction work as
           described in Chapters 4 and 5 of this AFI.
   3.3.2. Non-Construction/Repair Work. The BCE may perform other types of work
   which are not directly related to O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction or
   repair and which do not fit the work categories described in this instruction. Examples
   include burying communication cables, work on non-real property equipment
   (e.g., equipment listed on the Equipment Authorization Inventory Data (EAID) account), or
   installing raised flooring or non-capitalized air conditioning to support computer equipment
12                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


     (see AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures). This type of work is not
     subject to the limitations placed on O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction or
     repair work.
     3.3.3. Work on Non-DoD Property. 10 U.S.C. §2012 authorizes certain support and
     services to eligible organizations and activities outside the Department of Defense for the
     purpose of addressing community and civic needs when such assistance is incidental to
     military training or otherwise authorized by law. The purpose is to build upon the
     long-standing tradition of the Armed Forces, acting as good neighbors at the local level, in
     applying military personnel to assist worthy civic and community needs. See DoD Directive
     1100.20, Support and Services for Eligible Organizations and Activities Outside the
     Department of Defense, and AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property, for further
     guidance.
3.4. Planning, Programming, and Accomplishing Projects. Plan and program projects to
effectively support the mission. Each O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction,
maintenance, or repair project must provide a complete and usable facility or improvement to a
facility. Therefore, it essential that the facility requirement is fully defined. For example; if the
"requirement" is defined as billeting for thirty airmen, then the solution is a facility or a
complex of individual facilities that are constructed in a single requirement (i.e., project or set of
projects) subject to the appropriate statutory limitations.
     3.4.1. Phasing. A project may be phased to minimize the impact of work on a facility’s
     mission. For phased projects which extend over multiple years, work accomplished in each
     year must result in a complete and useable improvement at phase completion. Do not split
     projects into increments to circumvent approval authorities, reporting requirements, or
     programming policy. Be sure to include all phases when determining appropriate
     approval levels.
     3.4.2. Work on New Facilities. As a matter of policy, do not modify newly constructed
     facilities within 12 months of the beneficial occupancy date (BOD) unless the modification is
     necessitated by a mission or equipment change which was unforeseen prior to BOD. Do not
     use O&M funds to correct deficiencies in MCA-funded projects.
     3.4.3. Concurrent Work. To the extent possible, construction, maintenance, and repair
     requirements for a particular facility should be accomplished concurrently to take advantage
     of economies of scale.
        3.4.3.1. Each concurrent project in a facility must result in a complete and usable
        improvement without being dependent on another project. The programming documents
        for concurrent projects must be cross-referenced.
        3.4.3.2. There may be instances when it is cost effective or otherwise prudent to have a
        particular type of construction, maintenance, or repair work accomplished on several
        facilities at the same time, even though one or more of those facilities may also have
        other, concurrent construction, maintenance, or repair requirements; e.g., a
        multi-facility asbestos abatement program might be desirable even though one or more
        affected facilities also are in need of other repair.
     3.4.4. Facility Security. Force protection will be a primary consideration in the planning,
     programming, and design of Air Force facilities and utilities. All new construction and
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                     13


   any renovations, regardless of funding source, that exceed 50% of the replacement cost or
   change the use of the facility must comply with the DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards
   for Buildings, United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-010-01. Advice and assistance of security
   specialists and numerous references governing threat assessment, force protection, and
   physical security will guide programmers and designers in the preparation of facility criteria
   and final plans and specifications for all Air Force facilities and utilities. Refer to DoDD
   2000.12, DoD Combating Terrorism; DoDD 5200.8, Security of DoD Installations and
   Resources; DoDI-O-2000.16, Combating Terrorism Program Standards; AFI 65-601,
   Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures; AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements for
   additional information.
   3.4.5. Obsolete Facilities. Limit construction, maintenance, and repair work in facilities
   identified for disposal to the minimum required to ensure safety and security, to protect
   health and the environment, and to permit the facility to accomplish its mission.
   3.4.6. Temporary Facilities. Site work (foundations, utilities, parking, walkways, patios
   and other recreational support structures) for temporary facilities, to the extent it is not
   permanent and will be removed when the project is complete, will be funded as maintenance
   or repair if it supports a maintenance or repair project, and as unspecified minor military
   construction if it supports an unspecified minor military construction project. If it will not
   be removed when the project is complete, it will be funded as construction. Site work is not
   a separate project when it is accomplished to support temporary facilities that are
   supporting a maintenance, repair, or unspecified minor military construction project. See
   AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction Projects, for more guidance
   on use of relocatable buildings and temporary facilities.
   3.4.7. Communications Prewiring. Refer to the policy contained in ETL 02-12,
   Communications and Information System Criteria for Air Force Facilities, and AFI 65-601,
   Volume I, Budget Guidance and Procedures, for guidance on communications prewiring for
   O&M-funded sustainment, restoration and modernization projects.
   3.4.8. Contamination Cleanup. Removal and disposal of contaminated material
   (e.g., soil, fuel, asbestos containing material, etc.) that is identified in anticipation of or
   during a facility maintenance, repair, or construction project (within the project footprint)
   will be funded by the project.
   3.4.9. Military Family Housing. In accordance with Public Law 107-248, use of
   SRM(O&M) funds is prohibited for maintenance, repair, and construction on military
   family housing units, including areas in such units that may be used for the purpose of
   conducting official Department of Defense business.
3.5. Project Documentation. The BCE will prepare appropriate project documentation
based on the work classification and total funded cost of a facility project.
   3.5.1. Document projects within installation approval authority on AF Form 332, Base Civil
   Engineer Work Request; AF Form 327, Civil Engineering Work Order; or DD Form 1391, FY
   Military Construction Project Data. All projects exceeding Installation Commander
   approval authority must be documented on a DD Form 1391. See Attachment 2 for
   guidance on preparing DD Forms 1391/1391c.
14                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


     3.5.2. Project documents (DD Form 1391, or AF Form 332 or 327) must be signed by an
     appropriate approving official and must include an approval date.
     3.5.3. All project documents must be sufficient to allow an independent reviewer to
     understand the requirement, the benefit, the classification of work, the total cost
     (funded and unfunded), current impact to installation mission, the impact if not provided,
     and the timing of project requirements, including all potential phases.
     3.5.4. User organizations must help develop a project’s scope and justification (e.g., current
     impact to installation mission, mission requirement and impact if the project is not
     accomplished) for user originated projects.
     3.5.5. The appropriate approval authority must verify that a project is programmed
     according to this instruction before signing and dating the approval document. DD Forms
     1391 forwarded to AF/ILE for approval must contain the following signed certification
     from the MAJCOM Civil Engineer Programmer (CEP): “I have reviewed this document
     and certify it is complete and accurate. I have validated the project’s primary and
     supporting costs and work classification. It has been fully coordinated with the user
     and other appropriate agencies and approved by the Installation Commander”.
     3.5.6. IAW AFI 65-501, Economic Analysis, the Base Civil Engineer must notify financial
     analysis offices when an economic analysis must be accomplished because investment costs
     equal or exceed $2 million. For relocatable buildings, the threshold for the economic
     analysis requirement is $1 million or annual recurring costs over $200,000.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                       15


                                           Chapter 4

                              MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR

4.1. Maintenance and Repair Authority.
   4.1.1. Maintenance (EEIC 521). Maintenance is work required to preserve real property
   and real property systems or components and prevent premature failure or wearing out of
   the same. Maintenance includes work to prevent and arrest component deterioration, as well
   as landscaping or planting work done in conjunction with a facility repair project, which is
   not capitalized.
   4.1.2. Repair (EEIC 522 and 524). Repair means to restore real property and real property
   systems or components to such condition that they may effectively be used for their
   designated functional purposes. Real property and real property systems or components need
   not have failed to permit a repair project. See Paragraph 6.1 of this instruction for further
   definition and guidance on appropriate use of EEICs for repair.
      4.1.2.1. Existing components of a facility may be repaired by replacement, and
      replacements may be up to current Industry, Federal, DoD or AF standards or codes.
      As examples, repair may include the following:
          4.1.2.1.1. Existing heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment
          can be replaced with functionally sized, state-of-the-art equipment.
          (Note: Installation of HVAC where none exists or replacement of window air
          conditioners with a central system is construction.).
          4.1.2.1.2. Interior rearrangements and restorations of an existing facility, including
          provision of mezzanines to increase usable floor space, can be classified as repair if
          they allow for effective use of existing space or to meet current building standards
          and code requirements (for example, accessibility, health, safety, seismic, security,
          and fire). For the purposes of this AFI, a mezzanine is defined as an intermediate
          story in a facility, not exceeding 25% of the useable footprint of the story
          immediately below. A mezzanine is not to be a complete additional story of a facility.
          4.1.2.1.3. Replacement of one type of roof system (e.g., a flat roof) with another, more
          reliable or economical type of roof (e.g., sloped roof). However to be considered
          repair, the new roof must be supported by the existing structural members of the
          facility.
          4.1.2.1.4. Installation of exterior appurtenances as a means of complying with
          building codes and access laws; for instance, fire escapes and elevators (even if
          enclosed), ramps directly adjoining facilities, and reservoirs, pipes, and pumps that
          are integral parts of interior fire protection system installations.
          4.1.2.1.5. Installation of force protection measures outside the foundation
          footprint of the facility they protect, if specific to that facility. Unlike other aspects
          of a facility’s infrastructure, force protection (security) measures often must
          extend beyond the foundation of the facility to be effective. To the extent that the
          force protection measures are installed for the protection of a particular facility,
          they may still be considered repair of that facility, even though they are located
16                              AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


        outside the footprint of the facility. This is not intended to permit an increase in the
        footprint of a facility. Installation of new force protection measures associated with
        multiple buildings or a whole installation (e.g., fence) would be construction class
        work.
        4.1.2.1.6. Installation of backflow prevention devices in accordance with
        building/uniform plumbing code on drinking water systems.
     4.1.2.2. Although repair and construction overlap to some degree, there is a line
     constituting construction beyond which repair may not go. As examples, repair does not
     include the following:
        4.1.2.2.1. Expansion of any part of a facility’s foundation system beyond its current
        footprint and elevation, or expansion of functional space, including, but not limited
        to, ground level landings and sidewalk systems, balconies, and new basement areas.
        4.1.2.2.2. Increases to a facility’s total volume, although increases in usable floor
        space and interior volume are properly classified as repair if they result from
        reorganizing the existing space within a facility.
        4.1.2.2.3. Installation of types of equipment not presently installed (e.g., upgrading
        an existing ventilation system with air conditioning) unless required to comply
        with accessibility, health, safety, seismic, security or fire standards and codes. For
        those types of equipment that are considered as Real Property Installed Equipment
        (RPIE), a representative list is found in AFI 32-9007.
        4.1.2.2.4. All work required to relocate a facility, including transportation, site
        work at the new location, and restoration of the vacated site.
        4.1.2.2.5. Upgrading the surface of unpaved roads, walks, trails, parking areas,
        driveways, runways, and taxiways. For instance, converting from compacted soil to
        crushed rock/gravel or from crushed rock/gravel to asphalt pavement.
        4.1.2.2.6. Increasing the dimensions of paved surfaces, except to comply with
        applicable code(s) or Air Force standard(s).
        4.1.2.2.7. Changing the permanent route of roads, walks, trails, or other real
        property transportation systems, except when done solely to reduce the cost
        resulting from, or to avoid, unacceptable traffic disruption during repair. However,
        costs to temporarily reroute traffic during repair projects are an integral part of the
        repair and should be classified as repair.
        4.1.2.2.8. Installation of real property walkways.
        4.1.2.2.9. Installation of roadway accessories such as curbs and gutters, not currently
        in place.
        4.1.2.2.10. Installation of bicycle or jogging paths and related benches, lighting, or
        other real property support structures.
        4.1.2.2.11. Work which entails complete replacement of a vertical section of any
        building, including a substantial portion of its foundation system. For instance,
        replacement to the same dimensions and in the same footprint of a 1,000 SF wing of
        a 10,000 SF facility, including a substantial portion of that wing’s foundation, is
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      17


          properly classified as construction. This does not apply to foundation work required
          solely to correct seismic deficiencies.
          4.1.2.2.12. Installation of underground storm water conveyance systems not
          currently in place.
          4.1.2.2.13. Adding or expanding utility service (water, electric, etc.) to a section of a
          building that currently does not have it.
          4.1.2.2.14. Add an additional story (beyond a mezzanine) within the existing
          footprint and volume of a facility.
       4.1.2.3. Replacement. The decision to replace, rather than repair, a facility should be
       based on sound engineering judgment, economic analysis, and be in the long term best
       interests of the Air Force.
       4.1.2.4. Companion Projects. When repair work is to be done in a facility and a
       companion construction project is also necessary to allow the work to be complete and
       usable, both the repair and the minor construction work must be programmed together,
       but with costs identified separately, with the repair classified as EEIC 522 or 524
       appropriately and the minor construction classified as EEIC 529. For example, if a
       dormitory repair (reconfiguration) requires construction of balconies to be complete and
       usable, a single project, with the reconfiguration work classified as repair and the
       balcony work classified as construction, will be programmed.
4.2. Maintenance Funding. Maintenance is funded using O&M funds. There is no
limitation on the amount of O&M funds that may be used for maintenance. For Reserve
Components, see Table 1.2 for approval levels.
4.3. Repair Funding. Repair of facilities or functional areas of multipurpose facilities,
using O&M funds, is authorized by 10 U.S.C. §2811. There is no limitation on the amount of
O&M funds that may be used for repair, but there are approval and notification requirements,
depending upon the amount getting expensed.
4.4. Approval and Notification Levels.
   4.4.1. Section 2811 of Title 10, United States Code (10 U.S.C. §2811), requires Secretary of
   the Air Force approval for O&M-funded repair projects costing more than $5,000,000; that
   authority has been delegated to SAF/IEI. Failure to obtain SAF/IEI’s approval before funds
   are committed on any phase of such a project may expose personnel to an Anti-Deficiency
   Act violation.
       4.4.1.1. 10 U.S.C. §2811 requires all current repair requirements in a facility be
       considered when determining the appropriate approval authority for a repair project. To
       make that determination, the estimated cost of all phases of a repair project and the
       estimated cost of all other current repair requirements for the same facility must be
       totaled to determine if the $5,000,000 limit has been reached. The cost to design repair
       projects and O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction will not be included in
       this total.
          4.4.1.1.1. For the purposes of 10 U.S.C. §2811, the phrase current repair
          requirements used in this (paragraph 4.4) means anticipated repair requirements in a
          facility that have not been executed (no funds committed) but which are needed
18                                 AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


           and planned for accomplishment (the funded program) during the current or
           following fiscal year. All phases of a repair project projected to run consecutively
           from year to year even though they extend beyond the current and following fiscal
           years should also be included in the current repair requirements.

Table 4.1. Example of Combining O&M Repair Costs.
 BUILDING XXX:
 Current FY: $1,500,000 multi-phase, multi-year plumbing project.
 $2,500,000 HVAC repair identified last year, and the contract has been awarded.
 Next FY:       $4,000,000 of other repair requirements ($2,000,000 of which had received
 earlier approval by SAF/IEI) which are planned to be executed before the end of the FY.

 In this case the $1,500,000 plumbing project must be approved by SAF/IEI before funds are
 committed for any part of the effort because current repair requirements for the facility total
 $5,500,000:

 The HVAC repair was identified before the current known requirements. Since it was
 formulated before the current requirements and funds are obligated, it does not fit the definition
 of current repair requirements in paragraph 4.4.1.1.1. It is not added in determining whether
 the $5,000,000 limit has been reached.

 The $1,500,000 plumbing project is a single project with multiple phases. Though phases
 extended beyond the Next FY, all phases are added in determining whether the $5,000,000 limit
 has been reached.

 The $4,000,000 planned to be funded and executed Next FY, including the $2,000,000 of those
 requirements already approved by SAF/IEI, have not been executed. Therefore, those
 requirements must be included when determining the approval level for the plumbing project.

 The DD Form 1391 for the plumbing project must document the cost of each of its phases as well
 as other current repair requirements, whether or not the plumbing project and the other
 requirements had been approved for accomplishment previously. As demonstrated in this
 example, repair approval levels specified in Table 1.2. are not applied just to individual
 projects; they are also applied to multiple repair requirements in a facility.
           4.4.1.1.2. Do not time manage the programming of a repair project or ignore
           repair requirements to influence a project’s appropriate approval level.
       4.4.1.2. Once approval for a scope of work is obtained in accordance with this
       (paragraph 4.4.1) repairs may proceed without further review under 10 U.S.C. §2811.
       However, if the project’s cost increases for any reason to the point where it, in
       combination with other current repair requirements in the same facility, exceeds
       $7,500,000, see paragraph 4.4.2.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      19


       4.4.1.3. Failure to obtain SAF/IEI’s approval, where required, prior to the commitment of
       funds is a statutory violation. Obtain SAF/IEI’s approval prior to starting repairs if
       additional phases of the same project are likely, or other current repair requirements in
       the same facility may collectively cost more than $5,000,000. Funds may not be
       obligated until SAF/IEI’s approval is obtained.
       4.4.1.4. The limitations of this (paragraph 4.4.1) do not apply to emergency repairs
       required solely to correct a life, health, or safety threatening deficiency; except when the
       emergency repair project standing alone is in excess of $5,000,000, in which case that
       emergency repair project must be approved by SAF/IEI in advance of obligation of
       funds (without regard to other pending non-emergency repair projects).
   4.4.2. O&M-funded repair projects estimated to exceed $7,500,000 must be reported to
   Congress, and may not proceed until AF/ILE notification to the MAJCOM, of congressional
   approval. Requests for SAF/IEI approval of projects over $5,000,000 that are estimated to
   exceed $7,500,000 will be reported to Congress after review and approval by SAF/IEI.
   If, after SAF/IEI approves an over $5,000,000 but less than $7,500,000 O&M-funded
   repair project, it becomes obvious project costs will, for any reason, exceed $7,500,000, no
   further phases of the project will start until after SAF/IEI has made the necessary report to
   Congress. Additionally, if the current phase will itself cause the project to exceed
   $7,500,000, increased expenditures on that phase should be kept under $7,500,000, while
   avoiding unnecessary delay claims, pending a report to Congress. Do not proceed with
   obligation of funds until AF/ILE notification that the congressional review period has
   ended. See Attachment 2, Paragraph A2.14 for details on the contents of a project
   approval package. ANG/CE and AFRC/CE will work directly with SAF/IEI to obtain
   necessary approvals and notifications for O&M-funded projects.
4.5. Project Cost Increases. As a matter of policy intended to help provide prudent oversight
of major repairs to facilities, a repair project approved by SAF/IEI at a cost in excess of
$5,000,000 may not exceed 125% of the approved amount without reapproval by SAF/IEI.
20                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


                                             Chapter 5

                   UNSPECIFIED MINOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

5.1. Unspecified Minor Military Construction Authority (EEIC 529).
     5.1.1. Construction. Construction means to build, develop, convert, or extend real property
     and real property systems or components. The product of a construction project must be
     complete and independently functional for its intended purpose. Although the conversion of
     a facility from one primary function to another does not automatically constitute
     construction class work, examples of construction class work provided in Chapter 4 and this
     chapter are still applicable for planned facility requirements. Make sure that work for
     facility conversions is classified properly in accordance with this guidance. Refer to
     AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction Projects, for more detailed
     information on the classification of work as construction.
     5.1.2. Unspecified Minor Military Construction. O&M-funded unspecified minor
     military construction projects (often referred to as Minor Construction) are authorized by
     10 U.S.C. §2805(c) (10 U.S.C. §18233a(b) for Reserve Components). MCA-funded
     unspecified minor military construction projects (often referred to as P-341) are authorized
     by 10 U.S.C. §2805(a) (10 U.S.C. §18233(a) for Reserve Components) and are unlike
     O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction projects both in funding source and
     permissible project size.
        5.1.2.1. O&M-funded unspecified minor military construction projects may not exceed
        $750,000 in cost, except for projects intended solely to correct a deficiency that is
        life, health, or safety threatening, in which case the cost may not exceed $1,500,000.
        Projects solely to correct existing force protection deficiencies are considered in the
        life/health/safety category. Projects solely to correct a life, health, or safety threatening
        deficiency and that cost more than $750,000 must have the prior approval of SAF/IEI
        and require prior congressional notification. Failure to obtain this prior approval or
        provide this prior notification is an Anti-Deficiency Act violation.
        5.1.2.2. Unspecified minor military construction projects may not be used to construct
        new military family housing units.
        5.1.2.3. In addition to the examples provided in paragraph 4.1.2.2 of this instruction,
        the following will, as a minimum, be classified as construction and, subject to the other
        limitations in this instruction, will qualify as unspecified minor military construction:
            5.1.2.3.1. Creating new or enlarging existing real property facilities (volume or
            footprint) or expanding the coverage of real property facility systems or components
            which are not inside a building. However, during repair, these systems may be
            resized to current requirements (for example, replacing 8-inch pipe with 12-inch
            pipe) plus some allowance for possible future growth is repair.
            5.1.2.3.2. Repair work when replacement of the facility is more cost effective. If
            proposed repairs exceed 70 percent of a facility’s replacement cost, an economic
            analysis must accompany the DD Form 1391 documenting that repair is more cost
            effective than constructing a new facility. MAJCOM Civil Engineers must
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                    21


          approve requests to perform facility repairs which exceed 70% of the facility’s
          replacement cost. In no case shall the cost of facility repairs exceed the replacement
          cost of the facility. This is a matter of policy and will not apply where a facility is
          being repaired in lieu of replacement because it is on the national or state historic
          register.
          5.1.2.3.3. Purchase and installation of real property installed equipment (RPIE)
          when part of a construction project.
5.2. Unspecified Minor Military Construction Funding. The source of funds for
unspecified minor military construction can be either O&M or MCA. This instruction only
covers unspecified minor military construction funded with O&M funds. MCA-funded
unspecified minor military construction is covered in AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming
Military Construction Projects.
5.3. Consolidating Projects:
   5.3.1. As a matter of policy, all known unspecified minor military construction work
   required for a facility within the next 24 months, whether O&M or MCA-funded,
   should be planned and programmed for accomplishment as a single unspecified minor
   military construction project. Do not combine funds from different appropriations
   (i.e., O&M, P-341-Unspecified Minor Military Construction funded from the Military
   Construction Program appropriations, NAF) for a single unspecified minor military
   construction project. MAJCOM Civil Engineers may consider exceptions to this general
   policy for work within their approval authority. (See also paragraph 3.4, but note that
   resource availability is never a justification for phasing a construction project.).
   5.3.2. Additional Unspecified Minor Military Construction Projects in a Single Building.
       5.3.2.1. Program additional unspecified minor military construction projects, without
       regard to funding source, in a single building for accomplishment within a planned
       24-month period only if:
          5.3.2.1.1. The requirement for an additional unspecified minor military construction
          project in a 24-month period could not have been reasonably anticipated at the time
          the previous unspecified minor military construction project was initiated; or
          5.3.2.1.2. The requirement for an additional unspecified minor military construction
          project is for a distinctly different purpose or function from the previously initiated
          unspecified minor military construction project and each can be independently
          complete and usable.
       5.3.2.2. This 24-month programming period begins upon contract award for contract
       projects, including SABER, or upon the start of construction for non-contract projects.
       5.3.2.3. For multiple unspecified minor military construction projects, the appropriate
       authority must approve and sign the individual programming documents.
       5.3.2.4. Large facilities exceeding 100,000 square feet (e.g., medical, academic,
       industrial, depot maintenance, laboratory, and testing) deserve special consideration.
       Clearly unrelated and noncontiguous construction requirements in such facilities which
       also have differing category codes should be programmed as separate projects. Prior
       written approval by HQ USAF/ILE must be obtained when the total, combined cost of
22                                AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


        such projects exceeds $750,000. MAJCOM/CEs may approve multiple projects within
        their delegated approval authority.
     5.3.3. Project Documentation. Project documents for multiple unspecified minor military
     construction projects in a building within a 24-month period, which exceed MAJCOM
     approval level, must be signed and dated by the MAJCOM/CEP before submitting to
     HQ USAF/ILER for processing to HQ USAF/ILE or SAF/IEI. ANG/CE and AFRC/CE will
     work directly with SAF/IEI to obtain necessary approval and notification for O&M-funded
     projects.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                     23


                                           Chapter 6

                    SPECIAL PROGRAMMING CONSIDERATIONS

6.1. Fund Sources. NOTE: This paragraph addresses the source of funds for
O&M-funded work classified according to Chapter 4 and Chapter 5. Work classifications
are defined by statute and are not replaced. O&M-funded projects are programmed, budgeted
and funded in two ways: (1) as sustainment; and (2) as restoration and modernization (R&M).
   6.1.1. Definitions:
       6.1.1.1. Sustainment. Includes annual maintenance and scheduled repair activities to
       maintain the inventory of real property assets through its expected service life. Includes
       regularly scheduled adjustments and inspections, preventive maintenance tasks, and
       emergency response and service calls for minor repairs. Also includes major repairs or
       replacement of facility components (usually accomplished by contract) that are
       expected to occur periodically throughout the life cycle of facilities. This work
       includes regular roof replacement, refinishing of wall surfaces, repairing and
       replacement of heating and cooling systems, replacing tile and carpeting and similar
       types of work. Assign these projects to EEIC 521 (Sustainment Maintenance) or EEIC
       524 (Sustainment Repair). All costs for this work should be charged to Program Element
       ***78F.
       6.1.1.2. Restoration and Modernization (R&M) Using O&M Funds: Restoration
       includes repair and replacement work to restore facilities damaged by inadequate
       sustainment, excessive age, natural disaster, fire, accident or other causes. Modernization
       includes alteration of facilities solely to implement new or higher standards (including
       regulatory changes) to accommodate new functions, or to replace building components
       that typically last more than 50 years (such as foundations and structural members).
       Projects in this category will be classified as repair and/or minor construction. Assign
       these projects to EEIC 522 (Repair) or EEIC 529 (Minor Construction O&M). All
       costs for this work should be charged to PE ***76F. (There is also an R&M component
       of MILCON funding. i.e., R&M can also be funded from the MILCON
       appropriation (3300)).
       6.1.1.3. Examples: Detailed examples of both categories of work are in Attachment 3.
   6.1.2. Programming for Different Categories: Sustainment and R&M work must be
   identified separately on the programming document even if the work will be accomplished
   in the same contract or at the same time, and even if the sustainment and R&M projects are
   dependent upon each other for the facility to be complete and useable.
   6.1.3. EEIC Table. Table 6.1 lists the EEICs assigned to - work classifications.
24                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


Table 6.1. Element of Expense Investment Code (EEIC) Table.
 Work Classification         Description                          EEIC PE Fund Source
 Maintenance                 See Paragraphs 4.1.1. and 6.1.1.1. 521       PE ***78
                                                                          Sustainment

 Repair (Life Cycle)         See Paragraphs 4.1.2. and 6.1.1.1. 524       PE ***78
                                                                          Sustainment

 Repair (Non-life cycle)     See Paragraphs 4.1.2. and 6.1.1.2. 522       PE ***76 R&M

 Minor Construction     See Paragraphs 5.1.2. and 6.1.1.2. 529            PE ***76 R&M
 (Construction < $750K)

NOTE: First three digits (***) of the Program Element (PE) are MAJCOM and mission area
specific.
6.2. Other Funding Considerations.
     6.2.1. Bona Fide Need. Bona fide need requires use of funds only for the purpose(s) for
     which they were appropriated and are only for payment of expenses properly incurred during
     the period of availability of funds. This particularly applies to SRM projects accomplished
     by contract. See AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures for more guidance
     on bona fide need.
     6.2.2. Severability. Maintenance, repair, or minor construction projects which can
     reasonably be separated into components (e.g., multiple facilities) are considered to be
     severable, if they can independently be performed to meet a separate need of the
     government. As such, they must be contracted so as to include the amount of work which
     can be performed in one year. Maintenance, repair, or minor construction contracts for a
     single facility may be considered as non-severable, and therefore may include a period of
     performance greater than one year.
     6.2.3. Environmental Compliance (EQ) Funding Eligibility. Primarily, EQ funding is to
     be used for the cost of initial construction, modification, or upgrade of a facility, system or
     component(s) to comply with new environmental laws or regulations. Once constructed,
     maintenance and repair of these systems should be accomplished with non-environmental
     funds even if the need to perform maintenance or repair is cited by an environmental law,
     regulation, or permit.
     6.2.4. Funding of Replacement Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE). If RPIE is
     b eing replaced and would have been funded by MILCON when the facility was
     constructed, the repair or replacement of the item should be funded using O&M funds under
     10 U.S.C. 2811. This is applicable whether the equipment is being replaced as part of a
     larger repair project or as a stand-alone replacement. If the equipment was initially funded
     with procurement funds (e.g., production or moveable equipment), then its replacement
     would be funded with procurement funds. See AFI 65-601, Volume I for more information.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                    25


6.3. Use of Troop Labor. As a matter of policy, the MAJCOM Civil Engineer must approve
minor construction or repair projects in the United States, including Guam, Puerto Rico, and
the Virgin Islands, planned for accomplishment with RED HORSE or Prime BEEF, if total
funded and unfunded costs exceed $750,000. Further approvals may be required per the
approval levels designated in Chapter 1 of this AFI. Retain documentation for such projects
totaling over $100,000 at the installation. This policy does not apply to facilities whose
construction fund source is non-appropriated funds. Reference AFI32-1021, Planning and
Programming Military Construction Projects and AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and
Procedures for more information on funded project costs. (For ANG, SAF/IEI approval is
required.).
6.4. Augmenting In-House Work Force. Also as a matter of policy, the MAJCOM Civil
Engineer must approve repair projects over $750,000 planned for accomplishment by
augmenting the in-house workforce with civilian overhires or temporary duty personnel.
Further approvals may be required per the approval levels designated in Chapter 1 of this
AFI. Furthermore, to use civilian overhires or temporary duty augmentees in the U.S., the
Installation Commander must certify at least one of the following conditions exists: (1) use of
troop labor or overhires is required as a consequence of a labor strike which precludes work
being done on schedule and delay will seriously impede the Air Force mission; (2) there are no
responsive bids to an Air Force invitation for bids; (3) security clearance requirements prevent
contractor accomplishment; (4) there is an overriding urgency for completion of the project by a
specified date, not allowing time to prepare detailed plans and specifications; or (5) the safety
and health of workers or the public is jeopardized.
   6.4.1. Projects with scopes of work limited to demolition and asbestos and lead based paint
   abatement may be accomplished by organic, temporary duty, overhire, or contract labor, so
   long as the choice is made to achieve best value for the Air Force while continuing to
   recognize the imperatives of mission accomplishment, and adherence to the principles and
   provisions of Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76. This limited authority will
   not be used in conjunction with repair projects and must be supported by an economic
   analysis that compares contract accomplishment to other options considered.
6.5. Host-Tenant Relationships and Responsibilities. General responsibilities are outlined
in AFI25-201, Support Agreement Procedures, and AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance
and Procedures.
   6.5.1. Host Base Planning Responsibility. Tenants will provide appropriate input to
   hosts in the preparation, implementation, and maintenance of the Base Comprehensive Plan
   (BCP). The host will work with tenants to integrate tenant plans into the BCP. Establish
   support for programming and accomplishing tenant required work per AFI 32-7062,
   Base Comprehensive Planning.
   6.5.2. Tenant Programming Responsibility. A tenant is responsible for providing the host
   with the tenant’s requirements and justification data to support construction and repair
   projects.
   6.5.3. O&M Funding Responsibility:
       6.5.3.1. Air Force Tenants (Intraservice). An Air Force host is responsible, in Air Force
       buildings, for funding minor construction costing up to $2,000 (if over $2,000, the tenant
26                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


        is responsible) and all work classified as maintenance or repair. Consistent with the Fund
        Sources described in Paragraph 6.1 above, this means that the host funding
        responsibility includes all Sustainment work, Repair work that falls under Restoration
        and Modernization, and all minor construction less than $2,000. Nothing precludes a
        tenant from funding facility support it deems necessary. Whoever funds the project
        approves it, but the tenant must follow appropriate procedures for coordinating new
        facilities and modifications to existing facilities with the host. The Air Force host always
        prepares the programming document. The tenant’s real property permit and
        Interservice Support Agreement may provide for reimbursement for support provided
        by the host or other requirements. (See AFI 65-601, Volume I, Budget Guidance and
        Procedures, for additional guidance on host-tenant funding responsibilities.).
        6.5.3.2. Contractor, Interservice, Interdepartmental, and Interagency Tenants. The real
        property permit, license, lease, or other outgrant to the tenant, and the Interservice
        Support Agreement with the tenant, provide guidance for determining when a tenant
        will provide reimbursement for support provided by the host.
        6.5.3.3. The tenant is responsible for funding those repair projects which are unique to
        the operation of the tenant, such as rearrangement of interior partitions to improve
        operations or force protection measures necessitated by the nature of the tenant’s
        operation.
        6.5.3.4. ANG. The ANG is responsible for all costs of exclusive use facilities,
        including those used by ANG units that are tenants on military installations. When the
        ANG is a tenant, the host is responsible for all O&M costs of jointly used areas which are
        not licensed to the ANG. O&M costs for unlicensed facilities used by ANG personnel
        performing an active duty mission shall be provided by the MAJCOM responsible for
        the mission.
6.6. Air National Guard Facilities Considerations:
     6.6.1. Program Submission. The BCE will update and submit the sustainment, restoration
     and modernization (SRM) program to ANG/CEP each year as requested. A current DD Form
     1391 is required for each project included in the submission, which requires ANG approval.
     Submit a new DD Form 1391 each year. A current DD Form 1391 is necessary to ensure the
     scope, requirements, and costs are updated and revalidated. In addition, include an updated
     certificate of compliance and a SRM checklist for each project.
     6.6.2. ANG Facilities on Other Component Installations. The ANG is responsible for
     authorizing and funding all repair projects for licensed, exclusive use ANG facilities per
     AFI 32-1012, Reserve Components Facilities Programs. The host installation engineer
     must review all ANG-funded construction and repair projects for potential conflict with
     other installation work.
     6.6.3. ANG Cooperative Agreements:
        6.6.3.1. ANG SRM(O&M). ANG SRM (O&M) projects outside Air Force owned
        or leased property require an agreement between the ANG and local authority. This is
        done via a Military Construction Cooperative Agreement (MCCA).
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      27


       6.6.3.2. Military Construction Cooperative Agreements (MCCA). The MCCA
       program is comprised of requirements for the terms, conditions, and cost sharing ratios
       for the ANG share of improvements on non-federal land. Refer to NGR 5-1/ANGI
       63-101, Grant and Cooperative Agreements, Chap 40.
   6.6.4. Design and Execution of SRM (O&M) Projects. Refer to ANGI 32-1023, Criteria
   and Standards for Air National Guard Construction.
6.7. Energy Conservation. Consider energy efficiency to the maximum extent possible in all
construction and repair projects. ASHRAE 90.1-1999 with ASHRAE/IESNA approved
addendums will be the interim guidance used on these projects until the energy criteria is
incorporated into the Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) documents. To help meet the mandated
energy goals, several funding avenues are available to the designers/programmers. Utility
Energy Services Contract (UESC) and ESPC should be investigated as potential sources to
provide funds to retrofit or repair the Air Force facility infrastructure out of energy savings
produced. Certificates of compliance are required from the designers (as part of final design)
and construction agents (at acceptance) verifying that energy efficient equipment and systems are
included. Forward these certificates through HQ AFCESA/CES (for technical review) and the
MAJCOM/ CEs to HQ USAF/ILEC. ANG will submit to ANGRC/CEC for processing.
6.8. POL Systems. Defense Energy Support Center (DESC) is responsible for approving and
funding all projects on Air Force installations (including ANG installations) for the aircraft fuel
systems and related appurtenances which process DESC owned fuels. Prepare project
submittals in accordance with DESC guidance through the MAJCOM.
6.9. Working Capital Fund (WCF). WCF activities are responsible for costs
associated with SRM(O&M) projects in accordance with DoD Regulation 7000.14R, DoD
Financial Management Regulation, Vol. 11B, Chapter 62, Section F. WCF activities use WCF
funds to reimburse host installations for such work. When a WCF activity partially occupies a
building, WCF will, as established above, fund costs in support of the space occupied by the
WCF activity. WCF projects are subject to the same statutory limitations as O&M-funded
projects.
6.10. Accessibility. The scope of each construction and repair project will be carefully
reviewed with respect to applicable accessibility standards. Refer to the Uniform Federal
Accessibility Standards and the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for
additional information.
6.11. Sustainability. Incorporate sustainable design principles consistent with current Air
Force sustainable development policy to the maximum extent possible, consistent with budget
and mission constraints.
28                                    AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


                                              Chapter 7

                    FACILITIES FOR OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS

7.1. Authority and Limitations. During wartime, occasional needs arise for facilities,
required temporarily, that do not fit within other authorities discussed in this Instruction. This
chapter addresses those types of requirements. Use of authority provided by this chapter must
be exercised with the greatest care and discretion.
     7.1.1. The fund source for facilities provided under this chapter will be O&M.
     7.1.2. This chapter only applies to a contingency operation                      as   defined   in
     10 U.S.C. § 101(a)(13)(A) occurring outside the United States.
     7.1.3. This chapter only applies to that geographical area for which the combatant command
     conducting the contingency operation is responsible and then only in the area where
     actual operations are being conducted. It does not apply to a rear echelon even if that
     echelon provides support to the front-line troops.
     7.1.4. This chapter does not apply to any facility requirements costing less than
     $750,000. Such requirements will be provided under other available authority, such as
     10 U.S.C. § 2805, Unspecified minor construction.
     7.1.5. This chapter only applies to an operational requirement the need for which is not
     expected to exceed two years.
     7.1.6. Without regard to standard Air Force or Department of Defense facility construction
     standards, any facility provided under the authority of this chapter will be designed and built
     as temporary construction. (The exception to this requirement is when the host nation
     requires a higher standard to obtain its approval or where the temporary standard and the
     permanent standard are essentially identical. The DD Form 1391 should explain the exception
     when one exists.) The applied construction standard will recognize that the facility is only
     being provided to meet a temporary need and will be abandoned at the termination of
     operational requirements. No facilities provided under the authority of this chapter will be
     built with the expectation that they will eventually be turned over to other organizations and
     used by them beyond the original Air Force requirement. All such facilities will meet
     appropriate safety standards applicable in a combat area, but will not necessarily be expected
     to meet the safety standards that would apply to permanent construction.
     7.1.7. This chapter does not apply to construction to be carried out at a military installation, as
     defined under 10 U.S.C. § 2801(c)(2), or at a location where the U.S. is reasonably
     expected to have a long-term interest or presence. In the context of this chapter, a military
     installation is defined as a location where the Air Force has operational control by virtue of a
     written basing agreement.
     7.1.8. No facility supporting MWR activities will be provided under the authority of this
     chapter.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                        29


7.2. Characteristics of Projects.
   7.2.1. Projects to which the authority of this chapter may be applied include erection of
   facilities, acquisition of temporary interests in land and design.
   7.2.2. The need for such projects must be so pressing that use of other authorities would not
   allow the requirement to be met.
   7.2.3. The requirement for such projects should be in immediate and direct support of
   combat operations or force protection for those engaged in combat operations. This
   authority is particularly applicable in countries, friendly or not, where the United States
   does not currently have a significant permanent military presence.
   7.2.4. Such projects may combine work typically considered as construction with work
   considered as services.
   7.2.5. Such projects may include repair of pre-existing facilities.
   7.2.6. Use relocatable or semi-permanent construction to the maximum extent possible. The
   types of structures normally used should be trailer, modular, K-span, stress-tension, or
   pre-engineered buildings. More permanent construction materials should normally not be
   used, unless specifically required for security, force protection, or other mission operations.
   Any departure from the use of semi-permanent construction must be well-documented and
   justified on the DD Form 1391. Program projects with all costs being funded for the
   structure, transportation, erection, site preparation, and related costs.
7.3. Project Documentation. Facilities that are part of a single undertaking (i.e., are
accomplished at the same time, for the same general need, and are required for the same period of
time) can be listed on a single DD 1391 provided that each facility requirement to be approved
under this authority is identified separately with its associated justification, purpose, and
cost. It is important to identify each facility requirement in accordance with Paragraph 3.4,
as part of the same undertaking so a cost for each facility requirement can readily be identified.
General costs such as site preparation should be spread over the associated facilities with
which it is associated. Facilities that are satisfying separate facility requirements (e.g., lodging,
administrative, base operations, aircraft maintenance, utilities) but satisfy a general purpose such
as a beddown should be submitted and approved as part of the same undertaking. If facilities
are meeting different contingencies, are not being accomplished at the same time, or are required
for differing periods of time, they should be programmed on different 1391s.
7.4. Approval Limitations.
   7.4.1. Without regard to dollar value, project approval authority is delegated to the
   Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations). Submit project requests to
   AF/ILER who will coordinate projects with SAF/GCN before sending to SAF/IEI.
   Upon project approval by SAF/IEI, SAF/FMB will seek approval of the proposal with
   the Undersecretary of Defense (Comptroller) (USD(C)) before proposed work may
   proceed.
   7.4.2. SAF/IEI will make appropriate notification to Congress no less often than once a
   quarter.
   7.4.3. As a matter of policy, a project approved under this chapter may not exceed
   125% of the approved cost without reapproval.
30                                AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


7.5. Documentation. All projects constructed under this authority must be documented on a
standard DD Form 1391 project document and signed by the appropriate approving official
including the approval date. The document must be dated and clearly identify the military
operation the work supports, and define the period of time the facility will be required, based
on known planning factors. The document must explain the urgency and how the temporary
construction will satisfy the mission requirements. The document can be classified, or not,
depending on the operational details and dates written in the text, and current classification
guidance for the military contingency. Personnel will mark classified documents in accordance
with AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management. Classification of a project’s
information neither excuses nor waives compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
7.6. Certification. When the project is located in a friendly nation, the Air Force component
commander must certify the host nation has approved construction of the U.S. facility and the
site, prior to any work being done (Figure 7.1). Include the signed certification in the
approval documentation, using a DD Form 1391c. Adhere to the provisions of any applicable
international agreements to ensure compatibility with applicable host nation construction
criteria.
7.7. Related Authority. The authority provided in this chapter is separate from the
provisions of short-term facilities defined in AFI 32-1021, and is not related.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                        31


Figure 7.1. Certificate of Authorization for Construction.
1. COMPONENT           FY        MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT DATA 2. DATE      REPORT CONTROL
                       (Continuation)                                            SYMBOL
                                                                    (YYYYMMDD)   DD-A&T(A)1610

AF (MAJCOM)

3. INSTALLATION AND LOCATION                  4. PROJECT TITLE

Location and Country

5 PROGRAM ELEMENT 6. CATEGORY CODE            7. PROJECT NUMBER    8. PROJECT COST ($000)



CERTIFICATION OF AUTHORIZATION
FOR
FACILITY PROJECTS

UNDERTAKEN WITH O&M FUNDS
I have reviewed the DD Form 1391 for this project and certify that the document is accurate. I
certify the host nation has approved construction of the U.S. facility and the site, prior to any
work being done. I certify that the project is required and in compliance with AFI 32-9001,
Acquisition of Real Property and AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and
Maintaining International Agreements. I am acting based on properly delegated USAF project
approval authority.




APPROVED BY:              DATE:



Name, Rank, Signature
(AF Commander)




SAMPLE

DD FORM 1391C, JUL 1999           PREVIOUS EDITION IS OBSOLETE                       PAGE NO.
32                              AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009



7.8. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 327, Civil Engineering Work Order
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1391, FY ___Military Construction Project Data
DD Form 1391c, FY ___Military Construction Project Data (continuation)




                                         L. DEAN FOX, Maj Gen, USAF
                                         The Civil Engineer, DCS/Installations & Logistics

                                         (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)

                                         JOHN D. BIRD II, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                    33


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C. §101\10 U.S.C. §2012
10 U.S.C. §2805\10 U.S.C. §2811
10 U.S.C. §2854\10 U.S.C. §18233
10 U.S.C. §18233a
28 C.F.R. Part 36, Appendix A, Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for
Buildings and Facilities
41 C.F.R. Chapter 101, Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards DoDD 1100.20, Support and
Services for Eligible Organizations and Activities Outside the Department of Defense
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) ACC Directory 90-285, Compliance and Standardization
Requirements List (C&SRL)-Civil Engineering (CE) Functional Area
DoDD 2000.12, DoD Anti-terrorism/ Force Protection (AT/FP) Program
DoDD 5200.8, Security of DoD Installations and Resources
DoDDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards
DoD 7000.14R, DoD Financial Management Regulation
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management
AFI 32-1012, Reserve Components Facilities Programs
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Non appropriated Fund Facility Construction
Projects
AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning, Programming, Design and Construction
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning
AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property
AFI 32-9004, Disposal of Real Property
AFI 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements
34                                AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
AFH 32-1084, Facility Requirements
ETL 02-12, Communications and Information System Criteria for Air Force Facilities
NGR 5-1/ANGI 63-101, National Guard Grants and Cooperative Agreements
SAFO 714.1, Facilities and Unit Stationing for the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Forces
SAFO 715.2, Facility-Related Authorities
UFC 4-010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings
ANGI 32-1023, Criteria and Standards for Air National Guard Construction

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BCP—Base Comprehensive Plan
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CC—Commander
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CD—Deputy Commander
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CEAC—Real Property Officer
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CEP—Programs Flight (366 CES/CEP)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CEPD—Senior Programmer (366 CES/CEPD)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CES—Civil Engineer Squadron (366 CES)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CONS—Contracting Squadron (366 CONS)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CPTS—Comptroller Squadron (366 CPTS)
DESC—Defense Energy Support Center
DoD—Department of Defense
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) DS—Director of Staff
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FB—Facilities Board
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FBWG—Facilities Board Working Group
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                         35


FOMA—Facilities Operation and Maintenance
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FW—Fighter Wing (366 FW)
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCA—Military Construction Appropriations
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MDG—Medical Group (366 MDG)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MFH—Military Family Housing
MILCON—Military Construction
(Added- MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MILCON—Military Construction
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MSG—Mission Support Group (366 MSG)
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MXG—Maintenance Group (366 MXG)
NTE—Not to Exceed
O&M—Operation & Maintenance
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) OG—Operations Group (366 OG)
OH&P—Overhead and Profit
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
SIOH—Supervision, Inspection and Overhead
SRM—Sustainment, Restoration and Modernization
(Added- MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) SRM—Sustainment, Repair & Modernization
USPFO—United States Property and Fiscal Officer
WCF—Working Capital Fund
36                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


                                          Attachment 2
                                PREPARING DD FORMS 1391

A2.1. Preparing DD Forms 1391 and 1391c, FY Military Construction Project Data. Use
the following directions to prepare DD Forms 1391 for all projects funded from funds
available for operation and maintenance. Since the DD Form 1391 is the basis on which
individual projects and some Air Force-wide programs are justified and approved, they must
be carefully prepared to provide complete, accurate, and essential information. The project
documents must provide a complete word picture of the work planned and the reason for the
work. For phased work, a clear description of the ultimate goal of the phased program should be
included. The appropriate authority must approve project documents on the front sheet DD
Form 1391 or DD Form 1391c for each facility project. Project documents for operation and
maintenance-funded projects should follow the same format as those for MILCON projects to
the maximum extent possible.
A2.2. Item 1, Component. Enter "AF" followed by the MAJCOM (or "ANG" or "AFRC")
requesting the project.
A2.3. Title Block. Enter the fiscal year of the funds paying for the project.
A2.4. Item 2, Date. Enter date of current project document. Every DD Form 1391 must have
the date of the current document.
A2.5. Item 3, Installation and Location. Put the name of the installation and the state or
country where located. Also, enter the name of the installation where work will be done if it is an
off-base site.
A2.6. Item 4, Project Title. First word will be "Maintain", "Repair", “Construct”, or “Add”.
Make it clear what the work is to do. If more than one class of work, say so. Be sure to use the
name of the facility in the title, not just the facility number.
A2.7. Item 5, Program Element Number. Indicate the five-digit number INCLUDING
SUFFIX (“f” if Air Force) corresponding to the source of funds to be spent and the
corresponding EEIC.
A2.8. Item 6, Category Code. Show the six-digit code for the facility or component involved.
A2.9. Item 7, Project Number (Active Forces). This number is locally assigned and should
be consistent with the Automated Civil Engineer System-Project Management module. Enter the
types of funds to be used for the work, such as O&M, RDT&E, Medical O&M, Defense SRM
(O&M), etc.
A2.10. Item 8, Project Cost. Show element of expense investment code and total funded
project cost, for example EEIC 529 - $000K. Round project cost to the nearest thousand.
Maintenance/Repair and Minor Construction projects should be identified separately. Project
documentation should clearly specify project cost for each EEIC being used to fund the proposed
work.
A2.11. Item 9, Cost Estimates. This section provides for a breakout of costs by identifiable
elements of work such as electrical, mechanical, etc. Use these or other useful measures to
provide a summary of the project cost. This area also provides the opportunity to show elements
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      37


that are part of the costs of the overall effort but which are funded from other sources such as
equipment. Refer to AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures and
AFI 32-1021 for a detailed breakout of funded versus unfunded costs. Show Overhead and
Profit (OH&P) expenses here as funded costs (when appropriate), however, do not show a line
item with a zero cost. Use local experience for amount. Show Supervision, Inspection, and
Overhead (SIOH) when applicable. Ensure there are no mathematic errors in the cost estimate.
Design costs, when paid from operation and maintenance funds, are unfunded. Use current
inflation indices to bring appropriate project costs into the year of expected execution
(especially for phased work). If the programmed amount is close to a statutory threshold,
include an explanation in the requirement of what measures you will take to ensure the statutory
limitation is not exceeded. Provide a separate cost estimate for companion maintenance, repair,
and minor construction projects. Include demolition costs if appropriate and applicable.
   A2.11.1. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate. Enter the rate used, when applicable.
   A2.11.2. Contingency Costs. Identify contingencies as a percent of total, when
   appropriate.
A2.12. Item 10, Description of Proposed Work. Cross out the word "Construction" in the
item 10 heading and replace with the word "WORK." Describe the major work planned by
work classification. When an unspecified minor military construction project is companion to
a repair project, ensure each project references the other related project. Unspecified minor
military construction should be on a separate project number; however, ensure that each
project’s programming document(s) reference other related projects. For phased work,
describe the work included in each phase. Be succinct, but descriptive.
A2.13. Item 11, Requirement. Tell why the project is being done, including the ultimate
goal for a phased project. Be specific to define the requirement. Ensure the description of the
requirement coincides with the classification of work. Avoid use of verbs or other language
which would indicate another work classification. For example, “install” and “upgrade” may
give the idea that work is new (e.g., construction) whereas “replace” would likely indicate
repair class work. The requirement will include age of the facility or associated components;
general conditions of the items requiring work; energy conservation or environmental
considerations; current impact to installation mission; etc.; which help describe the current
situation. Succinctly state the current situation and realistically state the impact if the work is
not provided. Include any information which helps form a word picture of why this project is
being done. Clearly identify, by project number and title, any companion projects associated
with this work. (Companion projects are those being accomplished simultaneously but with a
different work class.) If rented or leased facilities are involved, provide the following
information:
   A2.13.1. Location. City, State (or Country), and street address.
   A2.13.2. Occupied By. Official name of agency using facility.
   A2.13.3. Lease Number. Official lease number under which facility is being used.
   A2.13.4. Annual Rental. Annual rent paid for use of the property.
38                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


A2.14. Supporting Documentation (Not applicable to ANG) Do not hesitate to use DD
Forms 1391c in your programming documentation. When submitting projects to the MAJCOM
and HQ USAF, submit the following:
     A2.14.1. Provide current copies of DD Form(s) 1391.
     A2.14.2. In addition to the other requirements of Paragraph A2.14, for repair projects.
        A2.14.2.1. Provide current copies of DD Form(s) 1391 for any companion construction
        projects.
        A2.14.2.2. Clearly show that no minor construction is involved in the repair work.
        A2.14.2.3. State the replacement cost of the facility as compared to the proposed repair
        cost (See Paragraph 5.1.2.3.2).
     A2.14.3. Single Line Drawing. Provide a drawing of the facility to show its general
     layout and all areas of work in the project. "Before" and "after" site or floor plans are
     required for repair projects.
     A2.14.4. Site Plan. This plan will show only immediate areas involved in the project.
A2.14.5. Certificates.
        A2.14.5.1. Provide appropriate certification if required by Paragraph 3.5.5 of this AFI.
A2.14.5.2. See AFI 32-1021 for possible additional certificate requirements.
     A2.14.6. Cost Estimate DD Form 1391c. Provide a cost estimate in enough detail to
     complete a word picture of the proposed work. Include a separate entry for SIOH (when
     applicable) and OH&P. Ensure all cost estimates are up-to-date and that proper inflation is
     used for phased work.
     A2.14.7. Unique Requirements for Airfield Pavements:
        A2.14.7.1. Furnish a single line drawing to clearly show the pavement configuration of
        the runways, taxiways, aprons, and other airfield pavements and the project location.
        Include a drawing providing a detailed before and after pavement cross section.
        A2.14.7.2. Projects submitted for approval to the MAJCOM must include a current
        Pavement Condition Index. Include the pavement questionnaire and photographs
        describing the project. A current pavement evaluation report is also good justification for
        project funding. Provide a copy of the project documents concurrently to HQ
        AFCESA/CES for review and concurrence in the technical aspects of the project.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                  39


                                          Attachment 3
      EXAMPLES OF SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION

A3.1. Applicability. This attachment is solely for the purpose of illustrating Sustainment,
Restoration and Modernization funding categories and is not to be confused with work
classifications. For work classification examples, refer to Chapter 4 and Chapter 5 of this
instruction.
A3.2. Sustainment: This category of work provides resources for annual maintenance and
scheduled repair activities to maintain the inventory of real property assets through its
expected service life. It includes regularly scheduled adjustments and inspections, preventive
maintenance tasks, and emergency response and service calls for minor repairs. It also includes
major repairs or replacement of facility components (usually accomplished by contract) that are
expected to occur periodically throughout the facility life cycle. This work includes regular
roof replacement, refinishing of wall surfaces, repairing and replacement of heating and
cooling systems, replacing tile and carpeting, and similar types of work. Not included is the
repair or replacement of non-attached equipment or furniture, or building components that
typically last more than 50 years (such as foundations and structural members). Sustainment
does not include requirements funded elsewhere, such as restoration, modernization,
environmental compliance, historical preservation or costs related to unexpected events.
   A3.2.1. Examples of sustainment projects include, but are not limited to:
       A3.2.1.1. Repairing a roof on a cyclic basis (built up roof, standing seam metal roof,
       etc).
       A3.2.1.2. Replacing telephone poles periodically.
       A3.2.1.3. Rebalancing an HVAC system.
       A3.2.1.4. Inspecting/repairing fire detection/suppression systems.
       A3.2.1.5. Repainting the exterior or interior of facilities.
       A3.2.1.6. Performing spall repair or crack sealing on the airfield.
       A3.2.1.7. Cleaning out storm drainage systems on a periodic basis.
       A3.2.1.8. Repairing a water line break (emergency response).
       A3.2.1.9. Replacing the floor covering in a facility.
       A3.2.1.10. Chip sealing a road surface.
       A3.2.1.11. Restriping base parking lots.
       A3.2.1.12. Replacing wastewater treatment process components on a cyclical basis as
       required to satisfy the installation wastewater permit.
   A3.2.2. Sustainment Credit. Consistent with paragraph 6.5.3.1 of this AFI, Air Force
   hosts are normally responsible for funding construction costing up to $2,000 and all work
   classified as maintenance or repair. This responsibility clearly crosses funding sources
   described in paragraph 6.1 of this AFI. The Department of Defense (DoD) Facilities
   Sustainment Model normally credits sustainment requirement for facilities to the
40                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


     MAJCOM or agency that “owns” a facility on its real property records. Exceptions to
     this general rule need to be addressed through the MAJCOM and worked out between
     relevant MAJCOMs before requesting a change to Air Staff coordination with DoD.
A3.3. Restoration and Modernization (R&M): Restoration includes repair and replacement
work to restore facilities damaged by inadequate sustainment, excessive age, natural disaster
(storm damage), fire, accident, or other causes. Modernization includes alteration of facilities
solely to implement new or higher standards (including regulatory changes), to accommodate
new functions, or to replace building components that typically last more than 50 years
(such as foundations and structural members). R&M also includes mission beddowns.
     A3.3.1. Examples of Restoration and Modernization projects include, but are not limited to:
        A3.3.1.1. Repairing facility damage caused by a leaking roof (i.e. collapsed ceiling,
        drywall, floor, etc, resulting from lack of sustainment). May include the roof itself.
        A3.3.1.2. Repairing damage to a facility caused by a natural disaster (fire, tornado,
        hurricane, flood, earthquake, etc).
        A3.3.1.3. Replacing a section of water line that has exceeded life expectancy or does not
        perform as designed.
        A3.3.1.4. Replacing a runway or taxiway (concrete, base course, drainage system, etc)
        that hasn’t been replaced in 50 years.
        A3.3.1.5. Repairing a facility (to include structural members) as a result of an explosion.
        A3.3.1.6. Complete replacement of an existing road due to failure.
        A3.3.1.7. Replacing a HVAC system that was poorly designed and never worked
        properly.
        A3.3.1.8. Replacing the existing lighting with more energy efficient system.
        A3.3.1.9. Converting a former commissary into an orchestra performance hall.
        A3.3.1.10. Renovating a facility to accommodate new modular furniture.
        A3.3.1.11. Altering a facility (new walls, ceiling, floor covering, etc) to house a new
        function (administrative, shop, etc).
        A3.3.1.12. Altering a facility (new walls, ceiling, floor covering, etc) to bed-down a new
        mission.
        A3.3.1.13. Replacing the roof trusses or floor joists of a facility after 50 years.
        A3.3.1.14. Installing a new fire suppression system to comply with a new fire code.
        A3.3.1.15. Constructing a new road within O&M funding limits.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                   41


                                        Attachment 4
                           FACILITY INVESTMENT METRIC

A4.1. Purpose.
   A4.1.1. The purpose of the Facility Investment Metric (FIM) is to put a mission face on
   existing facility and infrastructure restoration and modernization requirements in order to
   advocate for funds at the Air Force Corporate Structure. It also provides the Air Force
   leadership with a tool to identify the Air Force’s most urgent facility needs.
   A4.1.2. The FIM provides credible information to assist senior leaders in making key
   resource decisions in the facility and infrastructure business. The FIM improves the Air
   Staff’s ability to advocate and defend repair and minor construction funds within the Air
   Force Corporate Structure by clearly identifying the most urgent facility requirements and
   their impact on the Air Force mission. FIM requirements are one of the factors used to
   develop the Installation Readiness Report (IRR) for the Air Force. The IRR is provided to
   Congress annually and identifies the readiness of installations and facilities. Since the Air
   Force will use the FIM, as well as the IRR, as a means of advocacy, we must ensure that funds
   are expended in the same manner as they were earned. Bottom Line: The Air Staff will use
   the FIM in conjunction with the IRR, to advocate for the level of Operation and Maintenance
   (O&M) funding necessary to address the most urgent facility needs of the Air Force.
   A4.1.3. The FIM collects facility project requirements and stratifies them by facility class
   and installation/tenant mission impact. The eleven facility classes are the IRR facility
   classes (Operations and Training; Mobility; Maintenance and Production; Research,
   Development, Testing and Evaluation (RDT&E); Supply; Medical; Administrative;
   Community Support; Military Family Housing (MFH); Dormitories; and Utilities and
   Ground Improvements) and are determined by the category code associated with the facility.
   Each project is also categorized as Critical, Degraded, or Essential, depending on the
   project’s impact on the installation’s/tenant’s mission. The FIM data is collected annually
   from the Automated Civil Engineer System - Project Management (ACES-PM) Database
   after the end of the fiscal year.
   A4.1.4. FIM involves only Restoration and Modernization (R&M) O&M funded, non-
   sustainment projects. FIM does not include design funds, studies, and projects funded from
   other accounts (i.e., Military Family Housing (MFH), Environmental, Defense
   Commissary Agency (DeCA), Defense Energy Supply Center (DESC), Research,
   Development, Testing & Evaluation (RDT&E), Medical, Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF),
   Military Construction (MILCON), Transportation Working Capital-Fund (TWC-F), etc.).
A4.2. Concepts.
   A4.2.1. Facility Classes. Facility classes are groupings of like facilities, summarizing
   more than 1,500 facility categories currently used for real property record keeping. These
   facility classes are similar to the groupings traditionally used for military construction
   budgets. DoD requires formal reporting for only nine IRR facility classes. However,
   because of high interest in the specific areas of family housing and dormitories, the Air
42                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


     Force also breaks out DoD’s “Community and Housing” facility class into three sub
     classes; Military Family Housing, Dormitories, and Community Support. The facility classes
     are:
        A4.2.1.1. Operations and Training. Includes facilities and infrastructure such as, and in
        direct support of, airfields, training ranges, class rooms, aircraft parking, refueling
        hydrants, and flight simulators, used for operations and training.
        A4.2.1.2. Mobility. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting
        mobilization of forces, including staging areas and transportation systems.
        A4.2.1.3. Maintenance and Production. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly
        supporting vehicle and avionics maintenance; facilities such as tactical equipment shops
        and aircraft maintenance hangars.
        A4.2.1.4. RDT&E. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting RDT&E.
        Facilities with this classification include test chambers, laboratories, and research
        buildings.
        A4.2.1.5. Supply. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting supply
        activities; facilities such as warehouses, hazardous material storage facilities, and
        ammunition storage facilities.
        A4.2.1.6. Medical. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting medical
        facilities such as hospitals, and medical and dental clinics.
        A4.2.1.7. Administrative. Includes general administrative office space, computer
        facilities, and the like.
        A4.2.1.8. Community and Housing. Due to high interest in the specific areas of family
        housing and dormitories, the Air Force breaks out the “Community and Housing”
        facility class into three sub components:
            A4.2.1.8.1. Community Support. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly
            supporting community activities. This facility class includes facilities such as
            dining halls, physical fitness centers, and child development centers.
            A4.2.1.8.2. MFH. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting the
            housing of military families.
            A4.2.1.8.3. Dormitories. Includes facilities and infrastructure directly supporting the
            housing of single airmen.
        A4.2.1.9. Utilities and Ground Improvements. Includes facilities and infrastructure
        supporting utilities production and distribution; includes electrical power production
        and distribution facilities and systems, water and wastewater facilities and systems, roads
        and bridges, and fuel storage tanks.
     A4.2.2. FIM Requirements Matrix. The FIM Requirements Matrix (Figure A4.1) groups
     all restoration and modernization projects according to facility class and impact on the
     installation/tenant’s mission. This two-dimensional layout helps decision-makers
     characterize the types and significance of an installation’s, MAJCOM’s, or the entire Air
     Force’s requirements. Requirements matrices help identify the mission impact of R&M
     requirements.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                        43


Figure A4.1. FIM Requirements Matrix.
                                            IMPACT RATINGS

Facility Class                              Critical           Degraded           Essential

Operations and Training

Mobility

Maintenance and Production

RDT&E

Supply

Medical
Administrative

Community Support

MFH

Dormitories

Utilities and Ground Improvements

   A4.2.3. Multi-Facility Projects. Multi-facility projects must not cross category codes. For
   projects which combine several facilities, the installation must ensure that all facilities in the
   project have the same category code. For example, a single project to repair fire suppression
   systems may not combine a dormitory (category code 721312) with a hangar (category code
   211116). This will ensure all facilities in the project are in the same FIM facility class and
   will also allow project costs to be captured in the correct Installation Readiness Report (IRR)
   facility class.
   A4.2.4. Multi-Facility Class Facility Projects. Projects in a single facility with multiple
   category codes that cross facility classes will carry the facility class that most correctly
   reflects the overall intent and scope of the work. For example, an electrical upgrade of a
   10,000 SF warehouse that includes a 2,000 SF command post may reflect the Command
   Post’s facility class if the majority of the cost is attributed to the command post; however, if
   the majority of the cost is attributed to the warehouse, the project should reflect the facility
   class for the warehouse.
   A4.2.5. Impact Ratings. Impact ratings identify the requirement’s current effect on the
   overall installation/tenant mission. The installation commander approves Impact
   Ratings using criteria defined below. Impact Ratings must reflect the intent and scope of
   the work to satisfy the current installation mission impact.
       A4.2.5.1. Critical: Critical impact ratings are assigned to those projects which fulfill
       one of the following requirements:
44                                   AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


            A4.2.5.1.1. Significant loss of installation/tenant mission capability and frequent
            mission interruptions.
            A4.2.5.1.2. Work-arounds to prevent significant           installation/tenant   mission
            disruption and degradation are continuously required.
            A4.2.5.1.3. Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1.
            A4.2.5.1.4. Fire Safety Deficiency Code (FSDC) 1.
        A4.2.5.2. Degraded: Degraded impact ratings are assigned to those projects which
        fulfill one of the following requirements:
            A4.2.5.2.1. Limited loss of installation/tenant mission capability.
            A4.2.5.2.2. Work-arounds to prevent limited installation/tenant mission disruption
            and degradation are often required.
            A4.2.5.2.3. RAC II or III.
            A4.2.5.2.4. FSDC II or III.
        A4.2.5.3. Essential: Essential impact ratings are assigned to those projects which fulfill
        one of the following requirements:
            A4.2.5.3.1. Marginal or little adverse impact to installation/tenant mission capability.
            A4.2.5.3.2. Some work-arounds may be required.
            A4.2.5.3.3. To prevent obsolescence.
            A4.2.5.3.4. Any requirement which does not meet the Critical or Degraded criteria.
            A4.2.5.3.5. Included in this rating category are requirements that would (1) improve
            the quality of life in work and living centers, (2) improve productivity and (3) lead to
            reduced operating costs (i.e., some facility consolidation and energy conservation
            initiatives).
        A4.2.5.4. The facility class of a facility does not dictate the impact rating that it can
        receive and will not preclude a facility from receiving a Critical, Degraded or Essential
        impact rating. Any facility can be assigned a Critical impact rating if it meets the above
        criteria.).
     A4.2.6. Rating Multiple Requirements in a Single Project. A project that combines
     multiple requirements, each with the potential to have a different Impact Rating, will
     reflect the least severe Impact Rating for the entire project. For example, an Essential impact
     requirement to replace lighting throughout a facility, combined with an isolated, Mission
     Critical HVAC upgrade requirement in a clean room of the same facility, must be rated as
     Essential if accomplished as one project.
A4.3. HQ USAF/ILE Actions.
     A4.3.1. Establish policy and procedures for FIM as well as provide oversight.
     A4.3.2. Issue FIM Call. HQ USAF/ILE will initiate each FIM cycle with implementation
     guidance to the MAJCOMs to meet the timelines established in paragraph A4.6 of this
     attachment. MAJCOMs may supplement this Guide and HQ USAF/ILE Instructions as
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                     45


   appropriate. The FIM Call will identify the date that all MAJCOM-validated data must be
   released to HQ USAF/ILE. This date should be about the same time each year to ensure
   statistical consistency.
   A4.3.3. Consolidate      MAJCOM        Data    and      Prepare   FIM     Requirements
   Matrix: C on vene F I M Integrated Process Team to review and validate MAJCOM data.
   After data is validated, accomplish necessary analysis and produce the FIM Requirements
   Matrix.
   A4.3.4. Provide Feedback. HQ USAF/ILE will provide feedback on the FIM program to
   the MAJCOMs and Air Force Corporate Structure. This includes, publishing a listing of each
   MAJCOM’s FIM Requirements Matrix and briefing all MAJCOM/CEs annually.
A4.4. MAJCOM Actions. MAJCOMs will validate base and tenant project data in
ACES-PM; coordinate tenant data with appropriate MAJCOMs; and ensure all project data
from the last FIM submission designated as unfunded is accounted for in ACES. The
MAJCOMs will:
   A4.4.1. Issue Guidance and Instructions . MAJCOMs will distribute implementation
   instructions to their installations and geographically separated units.
   A4.4.2. Data Validation. MAJCOMs will ensure that installation data is uniformly rated
   using the definitions for impact ratings in paragraph A4.2.5. The MAJCOM/CEs will be
   the executive agent to review installation data, resolve any differences with the installations
   and ensure the data is acceptable for HQ USAF/ILE extraction. The MAJCOM/CEP will
   utilize the MAJCOM ACES-PM FIM Check Box field to annotate that they have reviewed
   the record and the record is a valid FIM requirement, ready for submission to HQ
   USAF/ILER.
   A4.4.3. IPT Review. MAJCOMs will provide representation at IPT meetings to review
   all critical projects and discuss pertinent FIM issues. If discrepancies are found, the
   MAJCOM will rectify all discrepancies prior to the final submission date.
A4.5. Installation Actions. The installation will validate requirements, assign corresponding
impact ratings, obtain installation commander approval and notify the MAJCOM. These
actions will allow the MAJCOMs and HQ USAF/ILER to compile the final FIM results and
provide feedback to the installations. The effectiveness of the FIM depends on the accuracy
of each installation’s ACES-PM data, ACES-Real Property (RP) records, and strict adherence
to impact rating definitions.
   A4.5.1. The BCE will review and update Real Property records and ACES-PM to ensure
   each facility/project is properly categorized. This includes:
       A4.5.1.1. Updating real property records to reflect the proper category codes, user
       codes, and functional space allocation.
       A4.5.1.2. Reviewing ACES-PM data to ensure projects are current and accurate in
       accordance with this AFI and AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
          A4.5.1.2.1. Installations will provide a justification for each critical requirement
          submitted in the ACES-PM justification field of the project text.
       A4.5.1.3. Assigning impact ratings for each requirement.
46                                  AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


            A4.5.1.3.1. Installations will ensure a process is in place to validate that Restoration
            and Modernization projects are uniformly rated in accordance with the impact
            ratings found in paragraph A4.2.5. As the installation executive agent, the BCE
            will (1) accomplish the initial rating of requirements for review and validation by
            the installation’s Facilities Board, (2) resolve any differences; and (3) prepare the
            submission for installation commander approval using the installation’s existing
            project approval and prioritization process.
            A4.5.1.3.2. BCEs will enter impact ratings in the FIM tab of ACES-PM. Impact
            ratings will be based on current condition and impact, and not on the projected impact.
            Critical projects are only allowed in the first two years of the FIM data for a given
            cycle.
        A4.5.1.4. Entering the Installation Commander approved project priority in the
        ACES-PM Supplemental Information tab Wing Priority field.
        A4.5.1.5. Notifying the MAJCOMs when ACES-PM FIM update is complete.
     A4.5.2. Tenant commanders will work with host installations to ensure their requirements
     and impact ratings are correct.
A4.6. Process Timeline. The Air Staff will request FIM data to be provided annually after the
end of the fiscal year. The FIM cycle is initiated more than four months before the results are
due. The timeline for submission (Figure A4.1) should coincide with the annual development
of the POM, Financial Plans, and IRR to ensure consistency and minimize duplication of effort.

Figure A4.2. FIM Process Timeline.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                      47


A4.7. Case Study Examples of FIM Impact Ratings.
   A4.7.1. CRITICAL
      A4.7.1.1. Title: REPAIR TAXIWAY E2.
         A4.7.1.1.1. Description/Justification: Repair 100,000 SF of pavement on Taxiway
         E2. The resin modified portion of taxiway E-2 has about 100,000 SF of pavement that
         is cracked extensively, resulting in water infiltration into the asphalt and base
         material. This has resulted in stripping the asphalt away from the aggregate and the
         retention of water between the two layers of asphalt and within the compacted base
         material. With the saturated base material and the loss of bond between the two layers
         of asphalt and the stripping of the asphalt from the aggregate, the pavement deflects
         when aircraft taxi on or near these damaged areas. Heavier than normal rains have
         accelerated the pavement deterioration. Airfield operations now close this taxiway
         during and after significant rainfalls due to the instability of the structural pavement
         system. Closing this taxiway requires aircrews to back taxi in order to use an alternate
         taxiway to enter/exit the runway. This reduces the frequency at which aircraft can
         land and take off from the runway.
         A4.7.1.1.2. Comments: Current           condition  causes     significant    loss    of
         installation/tenant mission capability and frequent mission interruptions (i.e. taxiway
         is closed during and after significant rainfalls due to instability of the structural
         pavement system.) Without this project, mission capability will continue to be lost.
         Therefore, a critical rating is warranted.
      A4.7.1.2. Title: CONSTRUCT MUNITIONS PAD
         A4.7.1.2.1. Description/Justification: Construct a 36,000 SF reinforced concrete
         munitions pad with lightning protection and access road. The installation mission
         includes renovating bombs on a recurring basis. A concrete munitions pad is
         required to park bomb trailers where bomb renovation will be conducted in the
         Munitions Storage Area. Currently, the installation does not have a munitions pad on
         which to park the bomb trailers. Installation workarounds are continuously required.
         A4.7.1.2.2. Comments: In this case, the installation/host mission capability of
         renovating munitions is significantly impacted due to continuous workarounds.
         This drives a rating of critical.
      A4.7.1.3. Title: REPAIR CHILLER, RADIATION SCIENCE LAB
         A4.7.1.3.1. Description/Justification: Building 1162 houses the Tri-Service
         Directed Energy Bioeffects Research Laboratory. The Building houses several
         species of research animals including non-human primates and rodents, which require
         strict climate control. Also, the building houses delicate and costly electronic
         equipment that is sensitive to both heat and humidity and therefore requires precise
         environmental control. In May of 01, both of the facility’s chillers failed, requiring all
         animals to be moved from the building, which stopped mission testing. Chiller #2
         was brought back on line with limited capacity. Chiller #1 is still down and cannot be
         repaired. Chiller #2 cannot maintain the 64-79 degree temp range when exterior temp
         exceeds 95 degrees. Tests have been scrapped and animals destroyed because
48                                 AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


          temperatures exceed tolerances. Exterior temp has exceeded 95 degrees 22 times this
          year suspending test and temp is expected to reach 95 degrees 113 times per year.
          One chiller cannot provide adequate temp and humidity controls causing testing and
          research to be suspended on a routine basis.
          A4.7.1.3.2. Comments: The mission of this installation/tenant is scientific research.
          Without functional chillers to provide required climate control, mission capability
          required to conduct scientific research is lost. This results in a Critical impact rating.
       A4.7.1.4. Title: REPAIR DRINKING WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
          A4.7.1.4.1. Description/Justification: The base water distribution system became
          contaminated making the water non-potable. The installation shut down the system
          to prevent further contamination and to prevent the base populace from consuming
          the contaminated water. This curtailed all but emergency flight line operations since
          water was no longer available to support fire-fighting capability. Additionally, other
          essential activities were halted due to the lack of water (e.g., maintenance activities,
          feeding of essential personnel at the flightline kitchen and dining facility, etc.)
          Further compounding the problem, the distribution system is over 50 years old and in
          need of repair/replacement. When the base attempted to flush the water distribution
          system and then pressurize it, numerous water lines broke. These breaks prevented
          the installation from bringing the water distribution system back on line. Bottled
          water was procured for mission essential personnel, porta-potties and hand washing
          stations were provided, and bulk water was shipped in for basic necessities.
          A4.7.1.4.2. Comments: This project is rated critical due to the significant loss of
          installation/ tenant mission due to lack of water. Flightline operations, as well as
          other critical activities such as maintenance, are significantly impacted.
          Additionally, continuous work arounds are required to provide safe water to sustain
          the base populace.
     A4.7.2. DEGRADED
       A4.7.2.1. Title: REPAIR RUNWAY LIGHT FIXTURES
          A4.7.2.1.1. Description/Justification: Replace all runway light fixtures. Existing
          light fixtures are old and corroded. These fixtures were installed over 40 years ago
          and are no longer manufactured. They are obsolete and are not repairable due to a
          lack of spare parts. All available resources have been cannibalized to keep existing
          light fixtures operational to the greatest extent possible. Work arounds such as
          cannibalization and retrofitting old fixtures with new parts are frequently required to
          keep sufficient airfield lights operational. Retrofitting old fixtures with new parts
          often results in a poor seal allowing water infiltration and shorted circuits.
          A4.7.2.1.2. Comments: As light fixtures fail, they cannot be replaced due to lack
          of parts. Work arounds are often required to prevent limited mission disruption and
          degradation. Eventually, this can become a “critical” project if a sufficient number of
          lights fail and the airfield is shut down due to lack of sufficient airfield lighting.
AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009                                                     49


     A4.7.2.2. Title: REPAIR LODGING FACILITY
       A4.7.2.2.1. Description/Justification: This 127 room VQ, 21 unit TLF facility is
       literally falling apart. Ceilings and walls in many units have deteriorated beyond
       repair. Lead base paint is scaling in many areas, especially in bathrooms. Water
       infiltration through the outside walls is a major factor in the deterioration. The
       existing mechanical systems do not control humidity, allowing the moist
       environment to become unbearably musty and smelly. Because of these extreme
       problems, the existing building finishes have deteriorated to a point where the entire
       facility has been closed. The annual cost for the facility closure is over $2.8
       million. This additional lodging burden will be required until this facility is repaired.
       A4.7.2.2.2. Comments: This project is at a training base which supports numerous
       TDY as well as PCS personnel. Closing this facility reduces the mission capability
       of the installation since TDY students must be provided lodging off-base vs.
       on-base. This results in increased lodging costs as well as increased commute time
       which decreases the time students can dedicate to study or training. While not
       resulting in a significant loss of mission capability, the situation does result in limited
       loss of mission capability.
     A4.7.2.3. Title: REPAIR SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM AND
     LIFT STATIONS
       A4.7.2.3.1. Description/Justification: The installation has experienced numerous
       raw sewage overflows and discharges due to broken sewer lines, crumbling
       manholes and failed lift stations. Additionally, significant amounts of rainwater have
       infiltrated the sanitary sewer system adding to the overflows. Raw sewage has
       overflowed and discharged into airfield facilities to include aircraft maintenance
       facilities. These occurrences have caused negative impact to maintenance operations
       while the discharge is cleaned up. The sewage has also backed up into housing units
       causing health hazards to the base populace. Base Civil Engineer personnel
       implement work arounds by pumping sewage from the non-functioning lift
       station/line into another sewage line. This is very labor intensive and not always
       successful.
       A4.7.2.3.2. Comments: The mission of this installation suffers a limited loss when
       the sewage overflows/discharges into the flight line facilities. Aircraft
       maintenance activities are halted. Work arounds are often required, but not always
       successful. Without a dependable and functioning sanitary sewer system, the mission
       of the installation will continue to suffer a limited loss. This results in a degraded
       impact rating.
  A4.7.3. ESSENTIAL
     A4.7.3.1. Title: REPAIR EXTERIOR INSULATION
       A4.7.3.1.1. Description/Justification: Install Exterior Insulation Finish System
       (EIFS) on multiple base facilities to provide necessary insulation for energy
       conservation and occupant comfort. EIFS will also protect facilities from weather
       and improve the facilities' and base appearance. Current siding is severely
50                          AFI32-1032_MOUNTAINHOMESUP_I 4 AUGUST 2009


     degraded and in need of repair. Facility exterior is poorly insulated resulting in
     increased heating/cooling costs.
     A4.7.3.1.2. Comments: Marginal or little adverse impact to installation/tenant
     mission capability. This project would result in energy savings.
