BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-208
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 30 JULY 2009
                                                           Certified Current on 10 January 2014
                                                                                       Security
                                                                CORRECTIONAL CUSTODY
                                                              (REMOTIVATION) PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFSFC/SFC                                 Certified by: AF/A7S (Mr. David R. Beecroft)
Supersedes: AFI31-208, 10 May 2001                                                   Pages: 9



This instruction implements AFPD 31-2, Air Provost Operations. It provides guidance on
general Security Forces duties and law enforcement operations. This instruction applies to
Department of the Air Force military, civilian, and Reserve personnel from other US military
branches assigned or attached to Air Force units, contract Security Forces, and government-
owned, contractor-operated (GOCO) and contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO)
facilities. This publication is not applicable to the ANG. The terms "must," "shall," and "will"
denote mandatory actions in this instruction. Refer recommended changes to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Any organization may supplement this instruction. This publication requires the
collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The
authority to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C. &
8013 and DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident Base Reporting System. Forms affected by the PA
statement. The applicable Privacy Act Statement of Record notice is available online at:
http:www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notice/usaf. The commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Records Disposition:
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.
2                                                                      AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
changes the AFI title and corrects administrative and typographical errors throughout the text. This
document adds that Security Forces Staff are not assigned to, nor part of, the program. This
document also changes that the programs should not be run by the SF personnel and should be
re-evaluated at least annually. This document identifies that the OPR will develop a local plan
governing its operation in coordination with the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). The installation
commander will review and approve the installation’s program plan. This document states the
Installation Commanders will incorporate a physical training routine at least three times a week
into the entrant’s curriculum. This document also expands on Commanders responsibility for
providing escorts to required referral appointments. Additionally, approves using Airman thru
SMSgt’s outside their CAFSC for 24 months. HQ AFPC assignment managers may approve
periods in excess of 24 months. This document also identifies steps prior to assigning members
to the program staff, the Installation Commander must require each individual have proper CPR
and other first-aid related training as determined by MDG/CC. This document further
incorporates that each facility will use offices such as base legal, a local PME Academy, and the
Military Equal Opportunity office to educate entrants on professional military subjects. Finally,
if the use of force is necessary, the amount of force used will be the least amount necessary to
bring the situation under control.
AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009                                                                        3



                                          Chapter 1

                        PROGRAM DEFINITION AND PURPOSE

1.1. Definition. This AFI implements Correctional Custody as a non-judicial punishment option
that commanders may impose for offenses under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice. It is not confinement, and time served in remotivation is not time lost under Title 10,
United States Code, Section 972. Security Forces Staff are not assigned to, nor part of, the
program. Detention cells co-located with law enforcement desks and Air Force Corrections
System (AFCS) facilities are not to be used for this program.
1.2. Purpose. This program is optional. It provides commanders a secure setting in which to
maintain discipline while reeducating and remotivating Airmen for return to the mainstream Air
Force. It educates, rehabilitates and deters program entrants from repeating offenses. Because
depriving Airmen of their liberty is a severe punishment, imposing this program requires careful
consideration.
4                                                                       AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009


                                             Chapter 2

                  ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND STAFF TRAINING

2.1. Determining Need. Installation commanders decide whether a program is needed by
balancing potential costs and benefits. This program should not be run by the SF personnel and
should be re-evaluated at least annually.
    2.1.1. Before setting up a program, consider these factors
       2.1.1.1. Deterrent to potential entrants.
       2.1.1.2. Cost of facility, staff, vehicles, and equipment.
       2.1.1.3. Burden on units providing staff.
       2.1.1.4. Savings from rehabilitating entrants instead of replacing them.
       2.1.1.5. Value of work entrants do for the installation.
       2.1.1.6. Potential number of entrants.
2.2. Remotivation Housing. Use dormitories or other suitable housing. If quarters for
unaccompanied personnel are used, clearly define the program area and make it off limits to
people not involved in the program. Use partitions to make rooms in open-bay dormitories. In
all cases, consider needs for fire, safety and emergency evacuation before program requirements.
2.3. Regional Facilities. If an installation facility is impractical, installations may participate in
a regional program. Air Force major commands (MAJCOMs) may determine the need for
regional facilities. If the installation belongs to a separate MAJCOM, develop support
agreements to define responsibilities.
AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009                                                                           5


                                           Chapter 3

                         OPERATING A REMOTIVATION AREA

3.1. Remotivation Plan. If the installation commander opts for a program, then they are
responsible for its establishment. If established, the installation commander designates an OPR
for the program. The OPR will develop a local plan governing its operation in coordination with
the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA). The installation commander will review and approve the
installation’s program plan.
   3.1.1. The plan should include the following:
       3.1.1.1. Purpose and policy.
       3.1.1.2. Rehabilitation programs and responsibilities of referral agencies.
       3.1.1.3. Standardized procedures for in-processing.
       3.1.1.4. Daily schedules.
       3.1.1.5. Responsibilities of unit commanders, program supervisors and staff.
       3.1.1.6. Training and work programs, including how much "extra" duty to permit.
       3.1.1.7. Guidelines for supervising and treating entrants.
       3.1.1.8. Establish local procedures for secure storage, issue, accountability, and
       destruction of entrant medications. The program staff strictly controls medical supplies
       and medication, documents all medication issues and dispositions, and files completed
       records in an entrant’s established folder.
   3.1.2. The training and work plan may include military, physical or technical training,
   productive work or other duties. Program entrants may be assigned details. Develop
   procedures for returning entrants to their normal duty sections for parts of the day as soon as
   possible after entry into the program.
       3.1.2.1. Installation commanders will incorporate a physical training routine at least three
       times a week into the entrant’s curriculum.
       3.1.2.2. Prior entering the program, the Airman’s unit must ensure the host medical
       facility conducts a health assessment. The purpose of the assessment should focus on the
       entrant’s fitness to complete program requirements.
3.2. Unit Commander’s Progress Review. Commanders maintain command authority for
assigned personnel in the program, regardless of location. If imposed, the commander or first
sergeant must review the progress of the entrant weekly. Commanders must get base referral
agencies to evaluate and contribute to the correction process by making referral appointments for
entrants. Commanders are responsible for providing escorts to required referral appointments.
Commanders may mitigate, remit, or suspend punishment for the following reasons:
   3.2.1. The entrant’s behavior is believed to have been corrected.
   3.2.2. Remotivational treatment is no longer appropriate.
   3.2.3. Administrative discharge actions have begun.
6                                                                    AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009


3.3. Staffing. The Installation Commander determines the size of the program staff and
carefully screens and selects NCOs to make sure they are responsible, dependable, mature and
meet all quality indicators. Security Forces will not be assigned as staff members. A panel
consisting of a Field Grade Officer, a Chief Master Sergeant, and a First Sergeant will be
appointed by the Installation Commander to screen and recommend NCOs for Remotivation staff
duties. All NCOs appointed to the program staff will retain their primary AFSC. Refer to AFI
36-2101 (3.34.4.1) to approve using Airmen (E-4) through SMSgt outside their CAFSC. The
NCOIC of the Program Staff reports directly to the Installation Commander or designated
representative. The Installation Commander may screen and detail additional staff from units
with members assigned to the when the staff temporarily needs them. Do not use corrections or
confinement staff personnel to manage or staff a program facility.
    3.3.1. Prior to assigning members to the program staff, the installation commander must
    require each individual have proper CPR and other first-aid related training as determined by
    MDG/CC.
    3.3.2. The installation commander must have provisions established for female candidates
    when assigned.
3.4. Training and Work Programs. Allow entrants to train and work in their own units as they
progress in the program. Each unit supervises entrants attached to it for training or work and
designs duties so entrants meet performance standards in their AFSC by the end of the program.
    3.4.1. Supervisors of regional program facilities will designate work and training units for
    candidates, thus returning candidates to their AFSC whenever possible.
    3.4.2. Each facility will use offices such as base legal, a local PME Academy, and the
    Military Equal Opportunity office to educate entrants on professional military subjects.
3.5. Supervising Candidates. Supervise entrants at all times in the program area, and know
where they are at other times. Program supervisors and staff will not carry weapons or use any
form of personal restraints, such as handcuffs. Staff members must abide by the following
standards when dealing with entrants:
    3.5.1. Act in accordance with the requirements of the UCMJ and observe the rights of
    individuals. The following aspects of program staff member behavior require special
    emphasis and the program supervisor must immediately review any violations:
       3.5.1.1. Personal dignity of all individuals shall be observed and any act or work
       assignment that demeans, degrades, humiliates or serves only to embarrass an individual
       is expressly prohibited.
       3.5.1.2. Physical abuse, hazing, use of unnecessary force and any form of corporal
       punishment by staff is prohibited. The use of profanity by staff is prohibited.
       3.5.1.3. Striking or laying hands upon candidates is prohibited except in self-defense, to
       prevent serious injury to others, to prevent serious damage to property, to effect an
       authorized search, or to quell a disturbance. In such cases, the amount of force used will
       be the least amount necessary to bring the situation under control.
       3.5.1.4. The staff shall not use their official position to establish or maintain social
       contacts or relationships with entrants or their families or friends.
AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009                                                                            7


       3.5.1.5. The staff shall set high personal standards of appearance and military bearing.
       3.5.1.6. Staff members are prohibited from fraternizing with entrants. These restrictions
       should not prohibit all contact, such as simple conversations between entrants and staff.
       3.5.1.7. Sexual harassment is prohibited. This behavior interferes with an individual’s
       performance and creates an intimidating, hostile and offensive environment. Whether the
       individual is an entrant or staff member, sexual harassment denies the individual respect
       and dignity, and is contrary to the mission of the facility.
3.6. Disciplining Candidates. The commander who imposes punishment also disciplines
entrants who commit violations while in the program. The installation commander may
empower the program supervisor to withdraw in-house privileges from entrants who commit
minor violations. The program supervisor must establish disciplinary guidelines.
3.7. Clothing for Candidates. Program entrants must wear the prescribed Air Force uniform in
the program area and in training or work programs. Do not use special or distinctive uniforms,
armbands, or other devices to identify entrants.
3.8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   3.8.1. Adopted Forms:
   AF IMT 847




                                             LOREN M. RENO, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
8                                                              AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004
AFPD 31-2, Air Provost Operations, 10 Apr 2009
AFI 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 7 Nov 2003
AFMAN 44-163_IP, First Aid, Manual, 23 Dec 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoDD 7730.47, Defense Incident-Based Reporting System (DIBRS), 15 Oct 1996
10 USC Sec 8030
10 USC 972
AFI31-208 30 JULY 2009                                                                         9


                                         Attachment 2
                            DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A2.1. The Air Force Director of Security Forces (HQ USAF/A7S) establishes policy and
guidance for administering the program.
A2.2. The Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center, Corrections Division (HQ
AFSFC/SFC) monitors and administers the program as directed by the HQ USAF/A7S.
A2.3. The MAJCOM/A7S acts as the MAJCOM’s office of primary responsibility for the
program and coordinates with HQ AFSFC on program issues.
A2.4. The installation commander approves local policies and procedures for operating the
program and uses referral agencies to counsel/evaluate candidates. The installation commander
also uses feedback from the unit commander, referral agencies, and program supervisor to
evaluate the program’s effectiveness.
A2.5. Unit commanders decide if remotivation will correct an entrant’s delinquent behavior. Do
not assign remotivation for members above staff sergeant or when the individual will be
discharged. Track and evaluate an entrant’s progress in the program using regular reports from
the program supervisor and referral agencies.
A2.6. The program supervisor will:
   A2.6.1. Administer the program under the designated OPR’s supervision.
   A2.6.2. Oversee buildings and equipment.
   A2.6.3. Make sure correction is fair and effective.
   A2.6.4. Report any misconduct that may warrant disciplinary action to the responsible
   commander.
   A2.6.5. Supervise entrants in the program area or assigned duties that are directly monitored.
