BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2249
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           1 OCTOBER 1999
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 6 October 2011

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                         EVALUATING USAF ACADEMY
                                                  (USAFA)CANDIDATES AND AIR FORCE
                                                   RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS
                                                     (AFROTC) COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIP
                                                                        APPLICANTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/RRS                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/RR
(Ms Gloria Otwell)                                                        (Col Hedy Pinkerton)
                                                                                     Pages: 19



This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training, and prescribes the use of the AF
Form ‗4060, USAFA Candidate Evaluation/AFROTC College Scholarship Evaluation.
Guides officers in interviewing, collecting behavioral data, and evaluating USAFA candidates
and AFROTC scholarship applicants. Covers evaluation techniques, followup actions, and
reporting of data to the respective selection boards by USAF admissions liaison officers (ALO)
and AFROTC unit officers. ―The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974 as amended in 1996 and AFI
37-160, Volume 8, The Air Force Publications and Forms Management – Developing and
Processing Forms, affects this publication.‖ HQ USAFA is the lead command for this
publication.

This instruction requires each organization to collect and maintain information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974. The Privacy Act statement required by AFI 37-132 is on AF Form 4060,
USAFA Candidate Evaluation/AFROTC College Scholarship Evaluation. The authorities to
collect and maintain these data are Title 10 U.S.C 9331, Establishment Superintendent; Faculty;
Title 10 U.S.C. 9346, Cadets, requirements for admission, and Executive Order 9397. System of
Records notice FO36 USAFA K, Admission Records. Records Disposition. Dispose of records
created by processes prescribed in this instruction as stated in AFMAN 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule, Table 36-46.
 2                                                             AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this Interim Change (IC) immediately implements
changes to AFI 36-2249, Evaluating USAF Academy (USAFA) Candidates and Air Force
Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) College Scholarship Applicants. This IC implements
policy on the repeal of Title 10, USC 654 and compliance is mandatory. To the extent its
directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information herein prevails, in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. A margin bar (|) indicates
revisions from the previous edition.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

               CONDUCTING INTERVIEWS FOR AFROTC AND USAFA

1.1. Interviews. Why and How:
   1.1.1. Because interviews provide realistic and useful data for selection boards, each
   qualified applicant for AFROTC scholarships or for USAFA appointments will receive a
   personal interview.
   1.1.2. Evaluating a person‘s past behavior often indicates the likelihood of future success. In
   this regard, several leadership studies identify a number of dimensions that are critical to an
   Air Force officer (see Chapter 3). Successful interviewers probe for behavioral examples in
   these different dimensions to determine the applicant‘s potential as an Air Force officer.
   1.1.3. Interviewers compare the behavioral examples they‘ve identified with the standards
   listed on the AF Form 4060, USAFA Candidate Evaluation/AFROTC College
   Scholarship Evaluation, and write a vivid description of each individual so the selection
   boards can properly assess the applicant or candidate.
1.2. Avoiding Problems in Interviewing:
   1.2.1. Interviewers often jump to conclusions too quickly. For an accurate assessment, it‘s
   critical to delay conclusions until all facts are gathered.
   1.2.2. Projecting the interviewer‘s attitudes, values, and feelings onto an applicant will result
   in an inaccurate understanding of the applicant.
   1.2.3. The interviewer‘s judgment may be affected by biases and stereotypes.
   1.2.4. One factor, favorable or unfavorable, often influences judgment of other factors.
   1.2.5. Interviewers may misinterpret applicant data; hence, avoid interpreting information
   from applicants.
   1.2.6. Interviewers sometimes fail to obtain behavior-based information about applicants,
   thereby missing the best predictor of future performance--past performance.
   1.2.7. The halo effect can make a weak candidate appear even weaker when preceded by an
   outstanding one, or vice versa.
   1.2.8. AFROTC and USAFA selection boards have identified the following additional
   problem areas:
      1.2.8.1. Failure to obtain new behavioral data on the applicant. Go beyond the ―number
      crunching‖ and ―laundry lists‖ of activities and titles to examine the applicant's actual
      behavior and associated results.
      1.2.8.2. Failure to substantiate evaluations with a ―word picture.‖ Unsubstantiated ratings
      or comments that fail to correlate with the ratings invalidate the interview as an
      assessment tool.
 4                                                                AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


1.3. Legal Considerations in Interviews:
     1.3.1. Interviewers may not ask direct or indirect questions regarding race, color, religion,
     gender, national origin, or sexual orientation.
     1.3.2. The interview evaluation form (AF Form 4060) is exempt from disclosure under the
     Privacy Act of 1974 and, therefore, is not releasable.
1.4. Additional Requirements for AFROTC Interviews:
     1.4.1. Ensure applicant accomplishes the AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse
     Certificate. Clearly advise the applicant that any drug use or experimentation after signing
     the AF Form2030 will make them ineligible for a scholarship or commission. If experimental
     use is determined, continue the interview and forward the completed AF Form 2030 along
     with the applicant‘s statement to HQ AFROTC/RRUC. If the applicant indicates more than
     experimental use of marijuana or was arrested for marijuana possession, terminate the
     interview and forward the AF Form 2030 with a memorandum of explanation to HQ
     AFROTC/RRUC. (ALOs see paragraph 6.5.4.1.1.1)
     1.4.2. If applicants have been enrolled in an officer training program or if they have full-time
     college credit from a junior college or university, except for joint high school and college,
     they are ineligible to apply for a scholarship in the College Scholarship Program (CSP).
        1.4.2.1. If applicants are not US citizens, advise them that they must obtain citizenship
        by the last day of the first term of the freshman year or the scholarship offer will be
        withdrawn.
        1.4.2.2. If applicants are Air Force enlisted members, advise them they are ineligible for
        the CSP, but they may apply for the various education commissioning programs
        according to AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Airman Commissioning
        Programs, through their base education office.
        1.4.2.3. If applicants are enlisted members or warrant officers of any other component of
        the US Armed Forces, advise them that they must be discharged before activating an
        AFROTC scholarship. Active duty status is not disqualifying unless applicants state that
        they will not be able to be discharged before entering AFROTC.
        1.4.2.4. Advise any applicants who are conscientious objectors that they are ineligible
        for membership in AFROTC. If applicants have further questions regarding policy on
        conscientious objection, refer them to the local AFROTC unit commander.
     1.4.3. Brief applicants on the AFROTC weight and physical fitness standards. Enter the
     applicant‘s current height, weight, and maximum allowable weight (MAW) on the bottom of
     the AF Form 4060. If underweight or overweight, make a brief comment pertaining to their
     physical appearance and ability to conform to the weight standards. Brief the applicant on the
     possible adverse effects of attending summer school before their freshmen year. If a 4-year
     scholarship designee attends the summer session prior to entering the freshman year and
     receives an ―F,‖ ―I,‖ ―N,‖ ―U,‖ ―UP,‖ ―WF,‖ or the equivalent, the scholarship will be
     withdrawn.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                         5


                                           Chapter 2

         USING LEADERSHIP DIMENSIONS IN THE INTERVIEW PROCESS

2.1. Dimensions of Leadership. Leadership studies, assessment programs, and interview
observations identify several dimensions of significance to effective performance as an Air Force
officer: self-confidence, human relations, planning and organizing, communication skills,
leadership, and motivation.
2.2. Understanding the Dimensions. The seven relevant dimensions (the seventh is an
additional dimension for use when evaluating USAFA candidates) explained below are the basis
of the AF Form 4060.
   2.2.1. Because self-confidence is a trait necessary to excel, it is easy to assess during the
   interview. Eye contact, tone and inflection of voice, mannerisms, and eagerness to tell about
   oneself all contribute to overall impressions of the applicant‘s self-confidence.
   2.2.2. The human relations dimension is closely related to both the leadership dimension and
   the self-confidence dimension. The interviewee must show concern for other‘s feelings, a
   willingness to help others, and a gregarious, engaging personality.
   2.2.3. Planning and organizing require establishing a course of action to accomplish a
   specific goal. Planning and organizing are required of everyone, but particularly of those in
   leadership roles.
   2.2.4. Communication skills involve the ability to express oneself effectively in individual or
   group situations and include gestures and other nonverbal communication. Focus evaluations
   on the clarity and delivery of communication, as well as the content. Observe oral
   communication throughout the interview.
   2.2.5. Leadership is the ability to influence others to accomplish established goals. Because
   many personal traits reflect an applicant‘s leadership potential, rather than trying to delineate
   all those characteristics, we have grouped them under one all-inclusive trait--leadership. Ask
   questions that may relate to leadership initiative, leadership influence, or decision making.
   Decide if the student demonstrates a willingness to lead by enthusiasm, assertiveness, and
   participation in activities.
   2.2.6. Motivation toward the Air Force is one of the most important dimensions in
   evaluations because it indicates whether or not applicants are likely to complete AFROTC or
   the Academy and fulfill their active duty service commitments. Persistence and consistency
   are two ingredients to look for when assessing motivation. Motivation is the inner drive that
   propels a leader. Interviewers may want to consider the following: What are the reasons for
   wanting to attend? Is it the individual‘s own idea or the parents‘? What degree of parental
   pressure, if any? Is it because of prestige, because the counselor or teacher suggested it, or
   because it‘s a free education? Is there a commitment to a career or just to ―test the water‖? Is
   there a desire to study areas not available at the Academy? Is there a real interest in being an
   officer?
6                                                             AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


    2.2.7. (HQ USAFA only) Basic cadet training preparation is a critical dimension for
    predicting initial success at USAFA. The more students know about the Academy before
    arriving, the greater the likelihood they will not be disillusioned or overwhelmed by the
    sudden transition to cadet life. Is the candidate‘s mental, emotional, and academic
    preparation adequate for entrance to the Academy? Are the rigors of Basic Cadet Training
    (BCT) understood? Is there any evidence of prior experience of a similar nature? Does the
    individual appear to be in good physical condition? What has the person done to prepare for
    the Academy‘s stressful environment?
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                      7


                                          Chapter 3

                      USING PAST BEHAVIOR AS A PREDICTOR

3.1. How to Use Past Behavior to Predict Future Behavior:
   3.1.1. The behavioral approach to interviewing uses specific types of questions to solicit
   information about past behavior in various behavioral dimensions. This information is then
   used to make predictions about future behavior.
   3.1.2. To predict future behavior, one must understand past behavior. A clear description of
   a behavior involves information on the situation or task at hand, the action, and the results.
   While the purpose of the interview is to evaluate a person‘s past behavior, an interviewer
   must also determine which behaviors are relevant to the evaluation.
   3.1.3. The information an applicant gives in response to the three components--situation or
   task, action, and result-- provides a behavioral example. Getting complete information allows
   the interviewer an excellent opportunity to judge whether an applicant‘s actions are effective
   or ineffective.
   3.1.4. The interviewer‘s task is to collect two or more complete behavioral examples for
   each target dimension. A convenient way to remember each component of a behavioral
   example is to use the word ―STAR‖ to describe a complete example:
      3.1.4.1. (S) = Situation
      3.1.4.2. (T) = Task
      3.1.4.3. (A) = Action
      3.1.4.4. (R) = Result
3.2. Using Components of Behavior:
   3.2.1. Situation or Task. School demands, job responsibilities, schedule difficulties, or
   interpersonal conflicts may create the situation or task from which an action can result.
   Knowing the situation or task associated with an applicant's particular behavior allows you to
   place the behavior in context, an essential prelude to understanding and evaluation.
   3.2.2. Action. Action is the step taken to complete the assignment, plan the activity, or
   interact with others. In addition to finding out exactly what an applicant said or did,
   interviewers must also determine any action not taken. An incomplete assignment, a test
   failure, or a meeting not scheduled are examples of activities that fall under the action
   component of the STAR.
   3.2.3. Result. A result is the outcome or consequence of a person's action. Knowing this
   third component of a behavioral example allows one to evaluate the quality of the entire
   behavior, leading to adequate information upon which to base a recommendation. A ―result‖
   is the explanation of what is different because of an action the applicant took. Although all
   parts of the STAR are necessary for a complete understanding of behavior, interviewers don't
   have to obtain the parts in a specific order. The order of the components makes no
   difference--just so they are all there.
 8                                                              AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


3.3. Avoiding False STARs. Interviewers sometimes mistakenly believe they are getting
important information about an applicant when they are really getting only feelings and opinions,
statements of what an applicant would like to do, or vague statements that cannot be interpreted.
     3.3.1. Feelings and opinions provide little insight into a person‘s behavior. There isn‘t
     enough information or background in such statements to judge an applicant‘s past behavior
     objectively.
     3.3.2. Vague statements provide a general summary or description of past action. If the
     applicant makes a generally good impression, you may interpret the vague statement in a
     positive way, or vice versa, and hereby misinterpret the applicant‘s true behavior.
3.4. Advantages in Using STAR. There are several advantages in using behavior-oriented,
STAR-evaluated questions in interviews. Questions or statements lead students into discussing
their experiences or accomplishments.
     3.4.1. Using STAR avoids hypothetical situations. Do not use theoretical phrases such as
     ―would do,‖ ―going to,‖ or ―could,‖ but use words such as ―did,‖ ―have done,‖ and ―currently
     doing.‖
     3.4.2. STAR-related questions do not lead the applicant to a ―desired‖ answer. Interviewers
     could easily lead the applicant to a desired answer to a question by wording questions
     inappropriately. Avoid doing so by using STAR-related questions. Tailor questions to job-
     related dimensions in order to tap the most appropriate situations in the applicant‘s past,
     relative to those dimensions. These questions usually concern specific past situations or
     experiences where behavior could likely have been demonstrated. Behavior-oriented
     questions provide the best approach to obtaining unbiased interview answers that provide
     information about specifics of the applicant‘s actions, experiences, and accomplishments.
     Effective interview questions produce a concrete behavioral answer, do not lead the applicant
     to the correct answer, and relate to characteristics desired in an Air Force officer.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                        9


                                            Chapter 4

         USING INTERVIEWING SKILLS AND TECHNIQUES EFFECTIVELY

4.1. Develop Effective Interview Skills. Effective interviewing depends on more than just
using the right questions. An interviewer must apply specific skills to glean the most accurate
data from the applicant. Some of these skills and techniques may apply immediately, while
others develop through experience in interviewing.
4.2. Qualities of a Good Interviewer. These qualities include displaying a sincere interest in
the interviewee, developing the ability to understand people, dedication to improving
interviewing skills, with- holding judgment, effective listening, and an awareness of the effect of
body language and other forms of nonverbal communication. The good interviewer is also not
misled by physical appearances, knows when to seek advice, recognizes and makes adjustments
for personal prejudices, avoids generalizations, recognizes and respects the attitudes and ideas of
others, and answers questions in a straightforward, frank manner. A good interviewer must also
strive to understand cultural differences, for example, not misinterpret a young Hispanic male‘s
lack of eye contact as shyness or a lack of assertiveness.
4.3. Phases of the Interview:
   4.3.1. Prepare Before the Interview:
       4.3.1.1. Schedule the interview at a mutually convenient time.
       4.3.1.2. Review whatever applicant data you may already have.
       4.3.1.3. Review the AF Form 4060.
       4.3.1.4. Understand the AFROTC briefing items (paragraph 1.4).
       4.3.1.5. Understand the Suggested Interview Plan (Attachment 2).
       4.3.1.6. Understand the USAFA Candidate Evaluation Checklist (Attachment 3).
   4.3.2. Determine the Environment:
       4.3.2.1. Proper physical and psychological conditions are very important.
       4.3.2.2. Ensure the setting is private, uninterrupted, and quiet.
       4.3.2.3. Make the setting friendly and comfortable.
       4.3.2.4. The ―atmosphere‖ of the office is as important as the furniture:
           4.3.2.4.1. A choice of seating should be available.
           4.3.2.4.2. Eliminate any obstructions that prevent eye contact with the applicant.
   4.3.3. Conduct the Interview:
       4.3.3.1. Establish rapport.
       4.3.3.2. Know and refer to the applicant by name.
       4.3.3.3. Stand and step forward to meet the applicant when the individual enters the
       office.
10                                                             AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


     4.3.3.4. Cultivate a natural-appearing expression of appreciation in meeting a new friend.
     4.3.3.5. Shake hands with a firm, short handclasp.
     4.3.3.6. Ask the applicant to be seated before taking a seat yourself.
     4.3.3.7. Make the applicant feel at ease.
     4.3.3.8. Give the applicant your direct and undivided attention.
     4.3.3.9. Begin in an interested, friendly way.
     4.3.3.10. Explain the necessity of note taking.
     4.3.3.11. Choose questions carefully.
     4.3.3.12. Avoid questions which can be answered by ―yes‖ or ―no‖
     4.3.3.13. Follow the Suggested Interview Plan (Attachment 2).
     4.3.3.14. Maintain the applicant‘s self-esteem.
     4.3.3.15. Listen effectively.
  4.3.4. Conclude the Interview:
     4.3.4.1. Review notes against the interview plan to ensure data is complete.
     4.3.4.2. Be sure the mandatory items were briefed (AFROTC only).
     4.3.4.3. Brief the applicant on the details of AFROTC Type I, Type II, and Targeted
     scholarships.
     4.3.4.4. Explain future actions.
     4.3.4.5. Briefly describe the selection process to the applicant.
     4.3.4.6. Provide a rough timetable of events for the scholarship selection or the
     appointment notification process.
     4.3.4.7. Wrap up and ensure the applicant leaves the interview feeling good about
     themselves and the Air Force.
     4.3.4.8. Take post-interview actions.
     4.3.4.9. Review interview notes.
     4.3.4.10. Evaluate data.
     4.3.4.11. Record the results promptly after the interview before they are diluted by other
     business.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                       11


                                             Chapter 5

                RECORDING OBSERVATIONS FROM THE INTERVIEW

5.1. Information Provided During the Interview. To be effective, an interviewer must
remember the examples provided during the interview. Without notes, interviewers can generally
recall only one-fourth of the facts immediately after the interview. Therefore, take brief notes on
the Suggested Interview Plan (Attachment 2) during and immediately after the interview.
5.2. Listen. Be an active listener. Self-imposed note taking is an effective way of promoting
active listening. Listen for subtle clues such as avoiding certain questioning areas, attempted
digression to other topic areas, reluctance to answer questions, and changes in rate of speech,
pitch, or volume.
5.3. Observe. The way an applicant feels about a subject or an experience may be indicated by
facial expressions, tone of voice, gestures, or nervous movements. Use the verbal and nonverbal
information collected from listening and observing an applicant during the interview as
indicators of follow-up areas. Observe and record these nonverbal clues: eye contact, use of
hands (gestures or nervousness), body movements and repositioning in the chair, perspiration,
ability to enjoy humor.
5.4. Take Notes. With practice and organization, interviewers can easily improve note-taking
skill. The following guidelines may simplify the job:
   5.4.1. Record Key Words. Remember ―STAR‖ components need not come in a set order,
   but ensure you have all the components.
       5.4.1.1. As the applicant responds, first record actions.
       5.4.1.2. Next, record situation or task specifics.
       5.4.1.3. Finally, deal with the results of the actions.
   5.4.2. Use Your Personal Shorthand. Any shortcuts you use to make note taking easier
   provide a payoff in mental concentration and energy that can be applied elsewhere.
   5.4.3. Take Notes Openly. During your introductory remarks, explain that you‘re going to
   take notes.
 12                                                             AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


                                           Chapter 6

                  EVALUATING THE DIMENSIONS OF LEADERSHIP

6.1. Compiling Information. The format of the interview plan makes it easy to collect
information. Information may also come from the AF Form 4060, the discussion of the
applicant‘s key background experiences, or in response to a request for additional information
during the closing parts of the interview. For instance, an applicant might give an excellent
example of ―Leadership‖ in an answer to a question designed to tap ―Planning and Organizing.‖
A single behavioral example may illustrate two or even three dimensions. Use the following
steps to help categorize the information collected:
   6.1.1. Step 1. Review the AF Form 4060.
   6.1.2. Step 2. Review the initial comments of the application.
   6.1.3. Step 3. Read the behavioral information recorded after planned questions under each
   dimension.
   6.1.4. Step 4. Review information obtained at the end of the interview.
6.2. Assign a Rating to Each Dimension. Having reviewed and correctly categorized the data,
evaluate the applicant against the standards for success in each dimension. Follow these steps
when rating behavior:
   6.2.1. Step 1. Read the behaviors classified under each dimension on the AF Form 4060.
   Review each dimension separately.
   6.2.2. Step 2. Weigh applicant data to determine overall dimension ratings. Determine a
   rating by comparing examples for each dimension with the behaviors listed on the AF Form
   4060. Give greater weight to behavior that is more significant, is more recent, shows a
   consistent trend. Significant behavior is an example of good leadership in a critical situation.
   Recent behavior is a better predictor of future behavior, and it should heavily influence the
   overall dimension rating. Another important factor is the degree to which the situation
   described by the applicant overlaps situations the applicant will face on the job. Several
   significant experiences in a single dimension may indicate a trend.
   6.2.3. Step 3. Assign ratings:
       6.2.3.1. A five-point numerical rating scale represents the different levels of applicant or
       candidate qualifications. These ratings become the common language of evaluation in the
       system. The rating system for each of the seven dimensions is:
          6.2.3.1.1. (5) = Outstanding (significantly above criteria required for successful
          performance).
          6.2.3.1.2. (4) = Excellent (generally exceeds criteria relative to quality and quantity
          of behavior required).
          6.2.3.1.3. (3) = Satisfactory (meets criteria relative to quality and quantity of
          behavior required).
          6.2.3.1.4. (2) = Marginal (generally does not meet criteria relative to quality and
          quantity of behavior required).
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                        13


           6.2.3.1.5. (1) = Unsatisfactory (significantly below criteria required).
       6.2.3.2. Section H of the AF Form 4060 (recommendation for selection) is usually a
       composite or average of the ratings awarded in the dimensional areas. This final rating
       may depart from the expected composite rating, however, if the departure is specifically
       justified in the ―Remarks by the Interviewer ― section on the back of the form.
6.3. Assign Rating to Each Dimension’s Guidelines. One of the most difficult parts of any
evaluation process is assigning ratings after collecting and sorting all relevant information. There
is no magic formula to accomplish this step. The procedures previously listed are helpful in
determining the most relevant and significant information. Even though the rating scale is
defined, the question still remains as to what standards are applied in this evaluation process. On
the AF Form 4060 you need only summarize briefly the positive or negative examples, entering
only the amount of detail necessary for you to rate each dimension.
6.4. Examples of AFROTC Bullet Format. HQ AFROTC prefers the bullet format for the
―Remarks by Interviewer‖ section of the AF Form 4060. USAFA prefers the narrative format;
however, ALOs need not re-accomplish AF Form 4060 prepared in bullet format for applicants
who apply to both programs. NOTE: The recommendation for selection should be consistent
with the ratings in the individual behavioral dimensions. As a general rule, the recommendation
should be no higher than the highest dimension rating or lower than the lowest arithmetic mean
of the dimension ratings. It is possible one behavioral dimension is so significant that it drives
the final recommendation, but it should be fully explained in the narrative.
6.5. Completing the AF Form 4060:
   6.5.1. Who Completes the Form? The AFROTC unit commander or a designated
   representative must complete the AF Form 4060 for AFROTC CSP applicants. An ALO or
   other USAFA representative completes the form for USAFA candidates. If the AF Form
   4060 was requested by the AFROTC unit, it needs to be returned to the unit. Send copies of
   the AF Form 4060 to HQ USAFA Selections (RRS) for USAFA candidates. For the USAFA
   candidates, HQ USAFA/RRS will normally provide a AF Form 4060 to the appropriate ALO
   with a suspense date (usually 45 days) printed on the form.
   6.5.2. Arrange Interviews for AFROTC Scholarship Applicants. The AFROTC College
   Scholarship Section (HQ AFROTC/RRUC) notifies the AFROTC unit assigned to conduct
   the applicant‘s interview. The AFROTC unit then notifies the applicant of the date and time
   of the interview. Normally, AFROTC officers conduct interviews at the AFROTC unit;
   however, ALOs, Regional Directors of Admission (RDA), or any Air Force officer may be
   tasked to assist the unit staff. Timeliness of the interview (the AF Form 4060 is returned to
   the unit within 30 days) is important to ensure the applicant meets the next scheduled
   scholarship selection board.
   6.5.3. Complete the Front Side. Fill in all required information using a No. 2 lead pencil to
   fill in bubbles. Be sure to fill in the appropriate bubbles for the student‘s social security
   number on the front of the form, if necessary. For the evaluation section, consider the
   applicant as a future US Air Force officer and use the interview plan (Attachment 2) as your
   guide. Completely fill in the bubble corresponding to the rationale that matches your
   description of the applicant‘s behavior in each dimension.
14                                                            AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


  6.5.4. Complete the Reverse Side:
     6.5.4.1. AFROTC Only Section:
        6.5.4.1.1. Drug Abuse and Civil Involvement Policies. You must discuss Air Force
        civil involvement and drug abuse policies with the interviewee:
            6.5.4.1.1.1. AF Form 2030. Drug abuse is defined in the ―CRITERIA‖ section of
            AF Form 2030. If the applicant admits to marijuana use only, have the applicant
            complete the AF Form 2030 and a personal statement concerning the usage
            (contact the AFROTC unit for specific requirements). Complete the interview and
            forward all documents to the local AFROTC unit commander, who will determine
            if program entry is appropriate. If applicant admits to any other drug use or abuse,
            terminate the interview advise them of their ineligibility and refer the applicant to
            the local AFROTC unit commander or HQ AFROTC who will determine further
            action. If an affidavit is required contact the AFROTC unit for instructions.
        6.5.4.1.2. Evaluation Data. The responsible AFROTC unit indicates its AF Form
        4060 submission data from the beginning of the current scholarship interview cycle.
        This data will be reported for the unit as a whole, current cycle only, and for the
        specific interviewer including previous years, if available as the number of interviews
        submitted in each ―recommendation for selection‖ category.
     6.5.4.2. Remarks by Interviewer. Your impressions of the applicant's leadership potential
     and likelihood of becoming a successful US Air Force officer are critical. Specific
     examples of applicant behavior in each dimensional area are required.
     6.5.4.3. Processing the Form:
        6.5.4.3.1. For AFROTC interviews, forward the completed AF Form 4060 along with
        the AF Form 2030 and any additional forms to the responsible AFROTC unit for
        review. The unit commander initials the unit/CC review block and forwards the forms
        to HQ AFROTC/RRUC, 551 E. Maxwell Blvd, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6106, via
        first-class mail (if a student is no longer interested or is a no show, send a
        memorandum informing the AFROTC unit.
        6.5.4.3.2. For Academy interviews, forward the completed AF Form 4060 to HQ
        USAFA/RRS, 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 215, USAF Academy CO 80840-5025. If the
        candidate is no longer interested in attending the Academy, mark the ―no motivation‖
        bubble in Block F and the ―not recommended‖ bubble in Block H, state in the
        Interviewer Remarks section, ―Candidate no longer desires appointment
        consideration,‖ sign and date the form, and return it to HQ USAFA. Also, tell the
        candidate to submit the Applicant Withdrawal Card or a signed withdrawal request to
        HQ USAFA/RRS.
     6.5.4.4. USAFA Only Section:
        6.5.4.4.1. Number of Times I Counseled the Candidate. This is a slightly ambiguous
        area, and you will need to make a judgment call. If you had a lengthy telephone
        conversation with the candidate and gained valuable input for completing the AF
        Form 4060, it is probably appropriate to consider that a ―time counseled.‖ However, a
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                 15


         3-minute phone call to set up a meeting place is not considered time counseled.
         Mention if you had to interview the person by phone on the AF Form 4060.
         6.5.4.4.2. For Change of ALO. When this section is completed, the candidate is
         ―locked in‖ to the LO ID number marked in the optically scanned ovals and will start
         printing on that ALO‘s Combined Status Report (CSR). On the other hand, when a
         AF Form 4060 arrives at USAFA with this section incomplete and the ALO who
         signed the form is not the same as the ALO printed on the front of the form, then
         USAFA will presume that you forgot to complete this section and it will be filled in
         for you. If this is not appropriate, add a note to your AF Form 4060 stating that a
         change of ALO is not desired, even though the ALO on the front of the form is not
         the one who completed the evaluation. As a final note, keep a copy of the evaluation
         in case of loss and for future reference.

6.6. Prescribed Form.

AF Form 4060, USAFA Candidate Evaluation/AFROTC College Scholarship Evaluation




                                         DONALD L. PETERSON, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel
 16                                                       AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2013, Officer Training School (OTS) and Airman Commissioning Programs
Title 10 U.S.C., Privacy Act of 1974

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AFT—Aerobics Fitness Test
ALO—Admissions Liaison Officer
ASCP—Airmen Scholarship Commissioning Program
BCT—Basic Cadet Training
CFT—Candidate Fitness Test
CSP—College Scholarship Program
CSR—Combined Status Report
LO ID—Liaison Officer Identification Number
MAW—Maximum Allowable Weight
OTS—Officer Training School
RDA—Regional Director of Admissions
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
ROTC Targeted Scholarships—Scholarships targeted toward lower cost schools with tuition
costs of 9,000 or less.
ROTC Type I Scholarships—Scholarships with uncapped tuition; 4-year awards only.
ROTC Type II Scholarships—Scholarships with 15,000 capped tuition; some 4-year/all 3-year
awards.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                   17


                                        Attachment 2
                            SUGGESTED INTERVIEW PLAN

A2.1. Applicant’s Name. List applicant‘s name and date of interview.
A2.2. Educational Background. List the SAT/ACT Scores, class GPA, intended major,
intended college (AFROTC only). NOTE: Do not repeat this information on the AF Form 4060
if it is available elsewhere in applicant‘s file.
A2.3. Self-confidence. (Keep this dimension in mind for rating as you complete the remainder
of the interview plan.) What are your major interests? Hobbies? (This question is simply an
opening icebreaker. Concentrate on putting the interviewee at ease.)
A2.4. Human Relations. Describe for me any work you've done with or for civic or charitable
groups. Tell me about a situation in which you helped someone handle a stressful or frustrating
situation. The answers are to be documented as follows: Situations/Task, Action, and Result.
NOTE: All questions in paragraphs A2.5 through A2.8 asked will be documented the same
way.
A2.5. Planning and Organizing.
   A2.5.1. Tell me about some area in which you worked the hardest and succeeded in doing
   well. To what do you attribute this success?
       A2.5.1.1. Give me an example of when you had too much to do. How did you resolve
       the conflicts in your schedule? How did you establish priorities for your efforts?
A2.6. Communicative Skills.
   A2.6.1. If you could start your education over again, what would you change or do
   differently?
   A2.6.2. Describe a frustrating experience you faced and how you handled it.
A2.7. Likes and Dislikes. What is there about your job you like the most? Least? How would
your supervisor and co-workers describe you?
   A2.7.1. Leadership. In what extracurricular activities did you participate in high school?
   What achievements did you obtain from these activities?
A2.8. Motivation. Why do you want to be an Air Force officer?
   A2.8.1. What is there about the Academy or AFROTC you think you may not like? (Check
   for Academy/AFROTC knowledge.)
   A2.8.2. Describe the best argument someone could use to try and talk you out of becoming
   an Air Force officer. How would you answer that?
A2.9. BCT/Cadet Life. (Simply ask sufficient questions about BCT and cadet life to rate the
candidate‘s knowledge of the subjects. See Chapter 2 of this instruction. Be sure to use the
USAFA Candidate Evaluation Checklist at Attachment 3 to fully brief the candidate of the
Academy's ―military environment. ―)
 18                                                            AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999


                                         Attachment 3
                    USAFA CANDIDATE EVALUATION CHECKLIST

This checklist will help each candidate learn important details about an appointment to the USAF
Academy. Don‘t assume the candidate understands what the "military" is all about. Being
specific on the points below should help a candidate make a better decision, thereby reducing
unnecessary attrition from the Academy.
A3.1. Talk to the candidates privately regarding pressure from parents, school teachers or
officials, community leaders, or others. Reinforce that it must be the candidate‘s decision to
attend the Academy. Many cite the main reason for coming to the Air Force Academy as "my
parents wanted me to come, and I agreed to stay through BCT just to see how it was." If you
detect any indication of outside pressure, report it on the AF Form 4060.
A3.2. Stress the importance of an accurate medical history. Advise the candidates to report any
medical condition diagnosed or treated by a physician. If the candidates have only a vague
recollection or are unsure of a previous condition, they should seek verification through medical
records, physicians, or family members before officially reporting it.
A3.3. Cover the fact that there are no special dietary arrangements available at the Academy.
One year a cadet arrived expecting to survive BCT eating only vegetables.
A3.4. IAW – AFJI 48 – 110, 2-6, Sec B, all cadets must accept appropriate medical treatment to
include immunization. Candidates must realize that certain religious practices are incompatible
with voluntary military service. They should discuss this with their religious leaders before
accepting an appointment. NOTE: Emphasize how weight conscious the Academy is. Being
overweight means special conditioning, lost privileges, and even possible disenrollment. If a
candidate has an obvious weight problem, comment on the AF Form 4060.
A3.5. AFROTC applicants, see the AFROTC Applicant Evaluation Checklist (Attachment 4).
A3.6. Stress the military aspects of the Academy. Use specifics that ensure that candidates
understand the strong emphasis placed on the military environment. Many candidates believe
that only the academic and athletic programs are important and are shocked when they arrive and
find that their personal freedom is limited. Discuss the Honor Code.
A3.7. Discuss the Oath of Allegiance.
A3.8. For USAFA discuss the Candidate Fitness Test (CFT). Also, discuss the Physical Fitness
Test (PFT) and the Aerobics Fitness Test (AFT) given twice during the year, which cadets must
successfully complete. For AFROTC each candidate must successfully complete a physical
fitness test and a timed 1.5 mile run after arrival at the AFROTC unit and before AFROTC
scholarship activation.
AFI36-2249 1 OCTOBER 1999                                                                      19


                                          Attachment 4
                   AFROTC APPLICANT EVALUATION CHECKLIST

A4.1.   Lists applicants name and unit.
 This is a recommended checklist. The objective of this checklist is to give the interviewer a
 concise list of required actions for an Air Force ROTC interview.
A4.2. Ensures applicant is briefed on the following items and that the appropriate listed action
was accomplished after the interview.
   A4.2.1. Ensures applicant was briefed on USAF polices regarding civil involvements, drug
   and alcohol abuse.
   A4.2.2. Ensures AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse Certificate, and any
   additional forms were submitted with the AF Form 4060.
   A4.2.3. Ensures applicant was advised that any use or experimentation with drugs in the
   future, regardless of scholarship status will make them ineligible to activate or retain
   scholarship of commission.
   A4.2.4. Ensures applicant was briefed that enrollment in the specific academic major in
   which the scholarship is offered is required, and that scholarships are offered on the needs of
   the Air Force.
   A4.2.5. Ensures applicant was briefed that the specific academic degree program must be
   approved by the Air Force at their chosen school.
   A4.2.6. Ensures applicant was informed of the weight and physical fitness standards
   required for activation.
   A4.2.7. Ensures applicant was briefed on the types and lengths (3 yr. or 4 yr.) of
   scholarships available (Type I, II, Targeted).
   A4.2.8. Ensures applicant was briefed on enlistment, field training, and active duty service
   commitment (ADSC) requirements.
   A4.2.9. Ensures applicant was briefed on marriage and dependent limitations.
   A4.2.10. Ensures the military service of parent or guardian and evaluation data on the
   backside of the AF Form 4060 is complete.
   A4.2.11. Ensure applicant was advised that they must be enrolled in AFROTC classes and
   leadership laboratory beginning their freshmen year regardless of the length of offer.
   A4.2.12. Ensures applicant‘s height, weight, and maximum allowable weight were recorded
   on the AF Form 4060.
