BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-111
AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                    AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                  Supplement

                                                                                     1 APRIL 2011

                                                                Communications and Information

                                                             VOICE SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AMC/A6XX                                                       Certified by: HQ AMC/A6X
                                                                            (Colonel Ward Walker)
                                                                                          Pages: 2


AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 24 March 2005 is supplemented as follows: This
instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources
Management . This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force
Reserve units and members. This supplement contains guidelines and procedures for managing
telephone systems under AMC jurisdiction. It is recommended that each base Command,
Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) Systems Officer (CSO) develop a supplement to
outline local procedures for managing telephone systems. Base supplements can add to but not
take away from the AFI and MAJCOM supplement. Send comments and suggested
improvement to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
through channels, to HQ AMC/A6XX, 203 West Losey Street, Scott AFB IL 62225. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

10.2.2. Ensures installation, removal, modification, and relocation of telephone services are
necessary to either sustain billing integrity, or to provide new service to offices/locations without
base telephone service already present, or to maintain telephone numbers with primary offices
that appear in the base telephone directory.
10.2.2.1. (Added) Assure telephone services remain attached to organizations/functions versus
individual personnel; do not submit requests to relocate telephone number(s) or telephone
instrument(s) when personnel are assigned to a new office unless the reassignment is associated
 2                                                       AFI33-111_AMCSUP 1 APRIL 2011


with an organizational restructure and the individual continues to perform the same
organizational function. Otherwise, personnel transitioning to a new office will inherit the
existing telephone number(s) and instrument(s) at the new location and update the Global
Address Listing with their new telephone number(s). If no base telephone service is available at
the new location, TCOs will submit a request to obtain service.
10.2.2.2. (Added) Exceptions to this policy include:
10.2.2.2.1. (Added) All circuits that are entered in the Voice Protection System (VPS); e.g. data
circuits, STU-IIIs, STEs, Point-of-Sale Circuits, etc.
10.2.2.2.2. (Added) Any number listed in the Restoral Priority Listing (RPL) maintained by the
host base communications squadron.
10.2.2.2.3. (Added) Any number associated with a Commander, Deputy Commander, Director,
Command Chief, Group Superintendent, or 1st Sgt.
10.2.2.2.4. (Added) Any number using a mnemonic installed for ease of dialing, e.g. 759-HELP,
759-HOME, 759-ATIS, etc.
10.2.2.2.5. (Added) Any other emergency responder numbers not listed in the RPL.
10.2.2.2.6. (Added) All other exceptions must be submitted and justified in writing by the TCO,
through the CSO, to the group commander overseeing the base CSO for approval.
11.1.1. Wings with contracted telephone service may supplement this instruction with local
policy to minimize contract costs.




                                     MITCHEL H BUTIKOFER, Col, USAF
                                     Director of Communications and Chief Information Officer
