                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2914
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             24 MARCH 1994

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                      UNIFORM CLOTHING ITEMS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFMC/XRMP                                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
       (Maj Michael R. Foster)                                                    (Col Henry L. Cyr, Jr).
Supersedes AFR 800-31, 29 August 1986.                                                          Pages: 3
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, by providing guidance and procedures for
acquiring Air Force uniforms. This instruction describes how uniform changes are recommended, cate-
gories of uniforms, and the responsibilities of the various agencies involved in the acquisition manage-
ment of mandatory, optional and organizational clothing items. To help understand the acquisition
process and terms used, users of this instruction should be familiar with the Department of Defense (DoD)
5000 series guidance and the appropriate Air Force supplements. This instruction applies to persons who
are responsible for managing, developing, and acquiring mandatory, optional, and other organizational
clothing items. It does not apply to US Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 36-29.



1. How To Request Uniform Changes:
   1.1. Individuals, major command (MAJCOM) uniform boards, HQ USAF, field operating agencies
   (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU) may recommend changes to the uniform.
       1.1.1. Individuals use AF Form 1000, United States Air Force Suggestion, to submit recom-
       mended changes to their MAJCOM Uniform Boards. If approved, the MAJCOM forwards the AF
       Form 1000 to the Air Force Uniform Board (AFUB) for review and approval by the Chief of Staff.
       1.1.2. Air Staff, FOAs, and DRUs submit AF Form 1000 directly to the AFUB for consideration.
   1.2. Individuals or activities use AF Form 1000 to submit recommended changes to the cadet and pre-
   paratory student uniform to the Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). For
   proposed changes to the standard Air Force uniform or wear criteria, USAFA follows 1.1.2. proce-
   dures.
   1.3. Individuals or activities use AF Form 1000 to submit recommended changes to the Reserve
   Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadet and Officer Training School (OTS) candidate uniforms to their
   appropriate commandant who will forward approved changes to the AFUB. For proposed changes to
   the standard Air Force uniform or wear criteria follow the 1.1.2. procedures.
   1.4. AFUB reviews each request and forwards its recommendation for approval or disapproval to the
   Chief of Staff. If approved by the Chief of Staff, the AFUB notifies SAF/AQ to issue a program man-
   agement directive to formally start the acquisition process.

2. General Responsibilities and Authorities:
   2.1. Each MAJCOM, the USAFA, and OTS and ROTC commandants will establish a uniform board
   to review uniform changes.
   2.2. SAF/AQ monitors the acquisition process and provides the assistance necessary to meet the
   requirements of DoD and Air Force acquisition directives.
   2.3. HQ USAF/DP administers the change process through the AFUB, serves as AFUB chairperson,
   establishes military dress and appearance policies, and establishes uniform clothing allowance.
      2.3.1. Notifies SAF/AQ and HQ USAF/LG of recommendations approved by the Chief of Staff
      that require follow-up actions.
      2.3.2. Coordinates with the Institute of Heraldry to design and develop badges and insignia.
   2.4. The AFUB reviews proposals for new or changed uniform clothing items and changes to uniform
   clothing wear policies for Chief of Staff approval.
   2.5. HQ USAF/LG monitors the supply and establishes up-front Defense Personnel Support Center
   (DPSC) procurement funding policies in conjunction with Air Staff and MAJCOM functional manag-
   ers.
   2.6. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) acquires new uniform items for the inventory, monitors
   the supply and provides a HQ AFMC focal point to manage the acquisition process.
   2.7. Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), through local Military Clothing Sales Stores,
   distribute uniform clothing apparel and accessories. AAFES and HQ USAF/LG will establish a mem-
   orandum of understanding to document uniform clothing procurement and sales policies.
   2.8. Defense Personnel Support Center (DPSC), as part of the Defense Logistics Agency, procures,
   stores, and supplies wholesale stocks of clothing and textile materials.




                                       BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                       DCS/Personnel




                                               2
                                              Attachment 1

                            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND TERMS

References
NOTE: The user of this instruction must verify the currency of the cited documents.
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual (formerly AFM 67-1, Volume I, Part Three, Chapter 2)
AFJI 23-212, Introduction of New Clothing and Textile Items Into the Department of Defense Supply Sys-
tem (formerly AFR 67-145)
AFJI 34-210, Army and Air Force Exchange Service Operating Policies (formerly AFR 147-14)
AFJI 34-211, Army and Air Force Exchange Service General Policies (formerly AFR 147-7)
AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowance for Air Force Personnel (formerly AFRs 35-52 and 39-23)

Terms
Development Item—An item being considered as a new or replacement for a mandatory, optional, or
organizational uniform clothing item, or as a change to an item already approved.
Uniform Clothing Item—Wearing apparel, accessories, insignia, medals, ribbons, and component
material of these items. These are further classified into mandatory, optional, and organizational clothing
items.
Mandatory Clothing Item—Standard uniform clothing item issued in the first uniform clothing
allowance or a like item available in any approved fabric. Each Air Force enlisted member must have
these uniforms and specified quantities at all times.
Optional Clothing Items—A uniform clothing item other than a mandatory clothing item approved for
wear by all Air Force personnel. This item may be purchased in military clothing sales stores or from
commercial sources.
Organizational Clothing Item—A uniform clothing item issued to an individual on loan and remains
the property of the organization. Two subclasses are distinctive and functional clothing items.
Program Management Directive—The official Air Force document used to direct acquisition or
modification responsibilities to appropriate Air Force MAJCOMs for the development, acquisition, or
modification of a specific weapon system, subsystem, or piece of equipment. It is used throughout the
acquisition cycle to terminate, initiate, or direct research; development; production; or Class III, IV, or V
modifications for which sufficient resources have been identified. States program unique requirements,
goals, and objectives, especially those to be met at each acquisition milestone or program review.
Acquisition Process—The process through which a new or changed clothing item is designed,
developed, tested, evaluated, produced, and introduced into the inventory.
The Air Force Uniform Board—This board, comprised of senior Air Force personnel, ensures the Air
Force uniform is plain, but distinctive, and develops consistent policy on all uniform matters. The board
reviews and selects items of uniform clothing, accessories, and insignia for approval by the Chief of Staff,
USAF.
Test Uniforms—Development items used to evaluate the fit and suitability for use of proposed designs.
                                                 3
