BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2903
354TH FIGHTER WING (PACAF)
                                                                          18 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                   DRESS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE
                                                           OF AIR FORCE PERSONNEL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 354 FW/CCC                                                       Certified by: 354 FW/CC
                                                                               (Brig Gen Kelly)
                                                                                       Pages: 4
Supersedes:   AFI36-2903_354 FWSUP1,
              13 September 2004


This publication supplements AFI 36-2903, 18 July 2011, concerning the proper dress and
personnel appearance required of personnel assigned to Eielson AFB, Alaska. This supplement
applies to all host, associate, and TDY organizations on Eielson AFB, including Air National
Guard and US Air Force Reserve members. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) at Air Force (AF) Portal: https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include
designation of the winter period, restrictions on wear of issued cold-weather gear during non-
duty related activities, and the authorization to wear the sage green fleece jacket indoors.

AFI 36-2903, 18 July 2011, is supplemented as follows:
 2                                              AFI36-2903_354 FWSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013


1.2.1.1 (Added) During winter months all approved black winter footwear (e.g, Danner, Max
Trax, or equivalent boots) may be worn with blues during outdoor activities to include when
traversing from a vehicle to a building.
2.8.4. (Added) Reflective Belt: Mandatory when in uniform while on or off base during
periods of darkness or reduced visibility (ref AFI 36-2903, para 7.1.8., for reflective belt
requirements with the Physical Training Uniform (PTU)). Exception: Reflective belts are not
required when attending official functions or ceremonies (e.g., ALS graduation) while wearing
the Class A, semi-formal, formal, or mess dress uniform only if no streets are crossed while
proceeding to the event (e.g., walking directly from the parking lot). On-duty Security Forces
and augmentees performing base defense activities will wear reflective belts or reflective vests at
the discretion of the Security Forces Commander. Reflective belts will be plain in color and/or
conservative in nature (e.g., two tone or checkered reflective belts are authorized if it was the
original design) and will be worn smartly around the waist without sagging. The only authorized
marking on the reflective belt is the AF emblem. Individuals whose duties require flightline
access must wear reflective belts IAW 354 FWI 21-135, para 4.3.2.4. Personnel are authorized
to write their names on the inside of the reflective belt only.
2.8.11. (Added) Personnel are exempt from wearing headgear while on the flight line and loop
area. Winter style headgear such as the watch cap may be worn during the winter wear period (1
October – 31 March). Additionally, the table below outlines no-hat and no-salute areas as
indicated:

Table 1. (Added) No-Hat and No-Salute Areas

 Bldg          Area Description                                   Comments
 Bldg 2939     Joint Mobility Center (cargo loading area)         No-hat and no-salute area
 CTS-Bldg      Walkway between T-dome and CTS-Bldg 1411           No-hat and no-salute area
 1141
               Par Course Picnic Area                             No-hat and no-salute area
               Engineer Hill (area 9 on restricted area badge)    No-salute
               Quarry Hill (area 10 on restricted area badge)     No-salute
               Missile/Flight line maintenance areas              No-salute
               Munitions Maintenance and Storage areas            No-salute
6.1.10. (Added) Sage Green Fleece: The sage green fleece jacket is authorized for wear
indoors.
6.2.7. (Added) Black Watch Cap: The black watch cap (knit or fleece) is authorized for wear
with any blue uniform combination in conjunction with outer garments as well as the Flight Duty
Uniform (FDU). Blue uniform combinations include the blue service uniform, service dress, and
PTU. Watch caps will be worn snuggly over the top of the head and present a tight fit
appearance. Adjust cap so it fits squarely on the head. No bunching or sagging is authorized.
6.2.8. (Added) Sage Green Watch Cap: The sage green watch cap (knit or fleece) is
authorized when wearing the PTU, FDU, or ABU authorized outer garments. Watch caps will be
worn snuggly over top of head and present a tight fit appearance. Adjust cap so it fits squarely
on the head. No bunching or sagging is authorized.
AFI36-2903_354 FWSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013                                                            3


7.1.13. (Added) Headphones: Headphones are authorized in the fitness center, at the par
course, on the quarter mile track, and on the half mile track near the dormitories. Headphones are
also authorized at Bear Lake when the course is in use for official testing. Headphones are not
authorized while engaged in organized group PT programs.
8.1.2.1. (Added) Functional Winter Clothing Items: The wear of issued specialized winter
flight clothing to include black undergarments with the FDU is authorized during the designated
354 FW winter wear period.
9.1.1. (Added) Winter Period: The winter wear period is designated as 1 October through 31
March. The following paragraphs through 9.1.1.8 outline wear provisions for arctic clothing.
9.1.1.1. (Added) Parka: The parka may be worn during winter wear periods when weather
conditions warrant with all uniform combinations. When the parka hood is worn over the head, a
hat is not required. The sage green and ABU parkas are authorized for use at Eielson AFB. The
ABU parka consists of the insulated or lined version of the Dakota Outerwear Field Parka or the
GEN III-Level 7 Extreme Cold Weather Parka. The slip on rank will be worn on the center tab
of the ABU parka. When deployed or TDY, Airmen must comply with local rules for wear/use.
9.1.1.2. (Added) Quilted Thermals: Quilted thermal jackets and trousers are functional
clothing items worn as an undergarment. While actively engaged in the work area quilted
thermal jackets are authorized for wear uncovered.
9.1.1.3. (Added) Ski/Face Mask: The black or sage ski/face mask is authorized for wear
during winter wear periods. The mask portion will be removed when entering any base facility
unless specifically authorized by the individual’s commander.
9.1.1.4. (Added) Arctic Wear: Arctic coveralls/jackets (e.g., Carhartts) and work gloves are
functional clothing items designed for protection from the extreme cold. The gloves can either be
sage green or black with a small conservative logo. They are authorized to be worn only during
the winter wear periods. Arctic coveralls will only be worn in the performance of duties that
require a significant level of protection. They will not be worn when traveling to and from work
or for extended periods when in the work center.
9.1.1.5. (Added) Polypropylene Socks: Polypropylene socks are authorized for wear during
winter wear periods. The colors of socks authorized for wear with the ABU are sand, sage or
green. Black socks are authorized for wear with the blue uniform.
9.1.1.6. (Added) Footwear: Winter style footwear (e.g., Mukluk, Danner, ski, Sorel, or vapor
barrier boots) are authorized for wear with the PTU when traversing from a vehicle or
dormitories to the gym. Appropriate footwear tread and/or traction devices should be used during
icy conditions. Traction devices will be removed upon entering any facility.
 4                                             AFI36-2903_354 FWSUP 18 OCTOBER 2013


9.1.1.8. (Added) Eielson Unit-Issued Safety and Cold Weather Gear: Individual issued gear is
not authorized for off-duty use except in emergencies. Issued gear is intended to facilitate the
ability to complete the Air Force and base mission. Wearing this gear for off duty purposes adds
unnecessary wear and tear and increases replacement costs to the unit. Transiting to and from
work or TDY is considered duty for the purposes of this restriction.




                                            MARK D. KELLY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
