BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3803
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        21 DECEMBER 2010
                                                        Incorporating Change 1, 30 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                    PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN
                                                      CONJUNCTION WITH NATURAL
                                              DISASTERS OR NATIONAL EMERGENCIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing
               website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1PR                                                              Certified by: AF/A1P
                                                       (Brigadier General Sharon K.G. Dunbar)
                                                                                      Pages: 20
Supersedes:   AFI 10-218, 31 Oct 2006


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-38,
Personnel Readiness. This instruction provides guidance for establishing and maintaining
personnel accountability in the event of natural disasters or national emergencies for Air Force
(AF) personnel in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3001.02,
Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with National Emergencies or Natural Disasters. This
AFI applies to both the continental United States (CONUS) and locations outside the continental
United States (OCONUS), but is not intended to supersede AFI 10-216, Evacuating and
Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US Noncombatants. This instruction applies
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and the Air National Guard (ANG).

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 10 United States Code 8013, DODI 3001.02 and Executive Order 9397
(SSN), as amended, Numbering System For Federal Accounts Relating To Individual Persons, as
amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal
Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008. Forms affected by the PA have
an appropriate PA statement. System of records notice F036 AFPC R Air Force Personnel
Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS) (May 7, 2009, 74 FR 20935) applies.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
 2                                                                               AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/afrims/. Send comments and suggestions for
improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels,
to AF/A1PR, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1040.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI 36-3803 by (1) providing updated email addresses and office
symbols; (2) adding verbiage to clarify annual training and inspections requirements; (3) requires
members to update information in AFPAAS annually; (4) added CSS responsibilities; (5) AFI,
AFPD and DoDI references updated to current title and latest publication date; (6) the acronym
list updated; (7) the required statement from Human Resource Management on collaboration;
and (8) identifies tier waiver authority levels for compliance items. A margin bar ( | ) indicates
newly revised material.


       1.      CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS. ............................................................................              3
       2.      RESPONSIBILITIES. ...........................................................................................    5
       3.      Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................     16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                 17
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     3




1. CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS.
  1.1. Background. Per DoD instruction, upon the occurrence of a disaster and when directed,
  all DoD Components shall report personnel accountability to the Personnel Accountability
  Reporting System (PARS), the DoD central repository for accountability information and
  reporting. DoD may direct accountability of DoD members when it is determined that a
  disaster event or national emergency has the potential to significantly impact DoD affiliated
  members. DoD in conjunction with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
  when applicable, establishes the geographical area of interest (GAOI), and notifies the
  Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) to create an accountability event in PARS. The
  baseline PARS data is uploaded into the Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment
  System (AFPAAS) as a disaster event or national emergency. The AF developed AFPAAS
  as the tool to quickly obtain personnel accountability and report it to PARS to comply with
  the DoD requirement. AFPAAS identifies members assigned or living in the GAOI and
  provides valuable information to the Air Force chain of command and enables commanders
  at all levels to make strategic decisions. Senior AF leaders may direct the use of AFPAAS in
  the absence of a DoD requirement to report in PARS if they determine an event could impact
  large numbers of AF personnel. MAJCOM and local commanders may request use of
  AFPAAS for exercises or inspections. AFPAAS reporting efforts will end when all impacted
  members are accounted for or when discontinued by AF leadership and/or chain of
  command.
  1.2. Introduction. This instruction outlines accountability requirements and procedures for
  Air Force units, agencies, commanders, directors and Joint assigned Air Force members. In
  order to ensure all personnel are accounted for, it is paramount all Air Force installations and
  units have recall and evacuation plans in place and personnel are aware of their
  responsibilities to ensure fast, accurate accountability. In collaboration with the Chief of Air
  Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the
  Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel
  policy for personnel accountability in conjunction with natural disasters or national
  emergencies policy.
  1.3. Scope. The roles and responsibilities of involved agencies are fully explained in this
  instruction. Understanding and accomplishing these roles and responsibilities are crucial for
  ensuring the accurate and timely actions necessary to establish Total Force Accountability.
  Central to accountability during a disaster event is the commander’s inherent responsibility to
  ensure awareness of the status of personnel under their command. Commanders must take
  prudent measures and apply the guidance outlined in this instruction to ensure they are able
  to account for all personnel. This instruction is intended to aid commanders and those
  involved in personnel accountability by providing guidance on accountability for
  victims/survivors of an event. It is not intended to govern accountability for forces deployed
  in support of rescue, recovery, or contingency operations.
  1.4. Total Force Accountability Concept.
     1.4.1. Total Force Accountability (TFA) is defined as the accurate accounting of Air
     Force personnel at all times, regardless of location. AFPAAS may be used to achieve
4                                                            AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


       TFA and report information to higher headquarters during a disaster event or national
       emergency.
       1.4.2. For the purpose of this instruction, the term “Total Force” includes Air Force
       active duty personnel, Selected Reserve personnel, DAF and NAF civilians, Defense
       Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) enrolled family members, family
       members of DAF/ NAF employees (when receiving evacuation entitlements) and
       contractors and their family member when assigned outside the continental USA. AF
       members with multiple DoD-affiliations (e.g. Civil Service employee and a traditional
       Reservist or family member) will have one record for accountability purposes and will
       only be counted and reported once to AF leadership and DMDC via AFPAAS and PARS.
       1.4.3. Specifically, this instruction applies to:
           1.4.3.1. Active Duty members and their DEERS-enrolled family members.
           1.4.3.2. Selected Reserve (SELRES):
               1.4.3.2.1. Air National Guard (ANG) Active Duty Title 10, Active Duty Title 32,
               State Active Duty, Drilling Guardsmen (Traditional and ANG Technicians), and
               DEERS-enrolled family members of these Guard categories (see 1.4.3.4. below).
               1.4.3.2.2. Reserve on Title 5 and 10 Active Duty, Drilling Reservist (Traditional
               and Air Reserve Technicians), Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs), and
               the DEERS enrolled family members of these Reserve categories (see 1.4.3.4.
               below).
               1.4.3.2.3. DELETED
           1.4.3.3. Air Force members assigned to Joint or Defense organizations.
           1.4.3.4. DAF and NAF civilian employees.
           1.4.3.5. Family members of Active Duty, Air National Guard, certain Air Force
           Reserve (described in paragraphs 1.4.3.2.1. and 1.4.3.2.2.) who are actively enrolled
           in DEERS and physically residing in the area of concern.
           1.4.3.6. Family members of DAF/NAF employees when those family members are
           receiving evacuation entitlements.
           1.4.3.7. Personnel TDY, on leave, or on a pass.
           1.4.3.8. When the impacted area is OCONUS (to include Alaska, Hawaii, and all US
           Territories), all DAF sponsored military and civilian personnel, including all family
           members and contractors and their family members, excluding foreign nationals.
    1.5. Wherever and whenever possible, personnel accountability procedures will follow the
    chain of command and mirror normal day to day reporting procedures. In the event regular
    reporting channels are not viable, individuals and units will use any means available to report
    accountability information to AF, DoD, Federal or State agencies.
    1.6. In the event of a disaster or national emergency and when directed by AF leadership,
    AFPAAS is the system used to attain and report TFA. AFPAAS utilizes data from the
    DMDC’s PARS database to identify members assigned or living in the affected area.
    AFPAAS provides valuable information to the Air Force chain of command, enabling
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   5


   commanders at all levels to make strategic decisions which facilitate a return to normal
   operations following a disaster or national emergency.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES. Personnel accountability is inherent to command and is a shared
responsibility between a commander/director, supervisor and their assigned personnel. Under
certain circumstances however, a commander’s ability to accurately track and account for the
required forces and certain family members may be greatly impeded. Utilizing robust systems
and ensuring individual members are aware of reporting requirements will ensure that
accountability can be achieved in the direst of situations.
   2.1. Air Force Crisis Action Team (AFCAT) Director.
       2.1.1. Initiates TFA actions via established command and control procedures.
       2.1.2. Publishes a message or e-mail to Major Command (MAJCOM) CAT Directors
       requiring all commanders/directors to identify personnel who reside in, are assigned to,
       are TDY, on a pass (if known), or on leave from their unit in the GAOI, and directing the
       100 percent accountability of their personnel as soon as possible, but not later than 48
       hours after TFA is directed.
   2.2. Headquarters USAF/Force Support Readiness Division (AF/A1XR).
       2.2.1. Represents the AF/A1 when the AFCAT is activated.
       2.2.2. Will activate the Air Force Personnel Center/Personnel Readiness Cell
       (AFPC/PRC).
       2.2.3. Provides guidance (through the AFCAT Director) to the MAJCOM CAT
       Directors.
       2.2.4. Will coordinate with the Combatant Command if crisis dictates early return of
       deployed personnel. The Air Force Personnel Center Air Expeditionary Forces and
       Personnel Operations Directorate (AFPC/DPW) and Personnel Readiness Cell
       (AFPC/PRC) will work with impacted MAJCOMs, Installation Personnel Readiness
       (IPR) offices and Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO) Teams,
       IAW AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, to have affected individuals
       identified, returned and replaced if requested by the Combatant Commander.
       2.2.5. Will notify AFPC/DPW to create and activate an AFPAAS event upon direction of
       OSD, Joint Staff or HAF leadership. Will monitor AFPAAS during disaster/emergency
       events to track the accountability progress and provide status reports to HAF leadership
       as requested until 100% accountability is attained or reporting is suspended.
   2.3. Headquarters USAF/Airman and Family Services Division (AF/A1SA).
       2.3.1. Will provide direction and assistance to the Air Force Personnel Center/Airman
       and Family Support Branch (AFPC/DPFFS), the AF lead agency for assisting personnel
       during evacuation and repatriation (IAW AFI 10-216), during an OCONUS crisis
       requiring Non-combatant Evacuation Operations (NEO), repatriation operations and/or
       safe haven entitlements.
   2.4. Air Force Personnel Center/Personnel Readiness Cell.
6                                                          AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


       2.4.1. Serves as the primary distribution and collection point for information regarding
       impacted/ threatened personnel.
       2.4.2. . Will contact AFPC Public Affairs (PA) Office to ensure appropriate link to
       AFPAAS is prominently highlighted on AF Portal and on AFPC main webpage for
       impacted personnel within 24 hours of the event.
          2.4.2.1. Coordinates with AFPC PA on news releases and media outreach as needed.
       2.4.3. Will update the message on AFPC/PRC’s toll free number with the latest status of
       the impacted military installation(s) based on input from the respective MAJCOM and/or
       Wing-level CAT/A1 (e.g., FSS/CC) representative’s instructions.
       2.4.4. Implements and rescinds STOP MOVEMENT at the request of the Installation
       Commander(s) of the impacted base(s)/Geographically Separated Units (GSU)/personnel
       and coordinates this action with AFPC/PA and AFPC Director of Assignments (DPA).
       2.4.5. Will provide, upon request from the AFCAT, pertinent information regarding
       deployed/ deploying personnel assigned to, or with family members (paragraph 1.4.3.4.)
       living in the impacted area (e.g.., dependent children living with a former spouse). The
       following categories will be queried and the affected MAJCOM(s) will be contacted to
       determine if deployed personnel impacted by the crisis should return and, if necessary,
       will implement notification procedures.
          2.4.5.1. Personnel due to return from deployment within 30 days of the event (flag
          and count personnel who are actually en route).
          2.4.5.2. Personnel preparing to deploy from the same area.
          2.4.5.3. Personnel deployed who may have to return early as a result of the event.
       2.4.6. Serves as the AFPAAS Program Manager and will develop procedures to execute
       TFA guidance. AFPC/PRC will assign Commanding Officer Representative (COR)
       access to MAJCOM readiness staffs and to AFCAT/A1 members as required.
       Additionally AFPC/PRC will ensure all assigned MAJCOM personnel readiness offices
       are trained on the use of AFPAAS.
       2.4.7. Will create and activate an AFPAAS event when notified by HAF and provide
       event management in support of AF-wide personnel accountability operations. Event
       management includes working with MAJCOM and unit command channels to obtain
       accountability of affected individuals. (T-1)
    2.5. Air Force Personnel Center/Airman and Family Support Branch (AFPC/DPFFS).
       2.5.1. Will ensure installation Airman & Family Readiness Centers (A&FRC) are trained
       and prepared to assist commanders with the activation of an Emergency Family
       Assistance Center (EFAC). The EFAC’s primary mission is to maintain the practical and
       emotional needs of families of DoD casualties and personnel affected by the disaster.
       The EFAC will serve as the focal point for family assistance services. The EFAC,
       prescribed by DODI 1342.22, Military Family Readiness and AFI 36-3009, Airman &
       Family Readiness Centers, serves as a staging area where families can obtain disaster
       relief, contingency information and other services. (T-1)
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    7


        2.5.1.1. AFPC/DPFFS uses AFPAAS to connect A&FRC Case Managers (CMs)
        with personnel affected by a disaster and complete a needs assessment within the
        system. Case management notes are updated in AFPAAS and are viewable by the
        chain of command. If AFPAAS is unavailable or when actions require follow up,
        AFPC/DPFFS will provide updates to the installation A&FRC with a courtesy copy
        to their respective MAJCOM Airman and Family Readiness Branch/installation
        support staff so AFPC/DPFFS can act as focal point for dissemination of timely
        information for affected families (excluding casualty notification).
        2.5.1.2. Alerts designated A&FRCs (with a courtesy copy to their respective
        MAJCOM Airman & Family Readiness Branch/MAJCOM installation support staff)
        to prepare for personnel and/or families who are evacuating from the GAOI and will
        arrive in their area of responsibility. Support from designated A&FRC includes, but
        is not limited to, guidance on relocation assistance, financial counseling, employment
        services, personal and work life issues, and eligibility of services if applicable. (T-1)
        2.5.1.3. Complies with the DoD Joint Plan for Noncombatant Evacuation Operation
        (NEO) and is the operational element for support to AF families during NEO and
        repatriation operations. Provides guidance/coordination to the installation A&FRC at
        each location being evacuated, the temporary safe haven or intermediate stop (if
        applicable), and the repatriation site that processes families back into the U.S. (T-1)
            2.5.1.3.1. Responsible for tracking, accounting, reporting and ensuring follow-up
            support is provided to family members during preparation, evacuation and safe
            haven. When DD Form 2585, Repatriation Processing Center Processing Sheet, is
            not collected at a repatriation site, AFPC/DPFFS contacts the closest installation
            A&FRC to ensure they complete the DD Form 2585 and input the data into the
            web-based Automated Repatriation Reporting System (ARRS). (T-1)
        2.5.1.4. Will ensure the A&FRCs have trained AFPAAS case managers ready to
        evaluate cases assigned them. They will provide support to members and families
        ensuring connection to appropriate helping agencies.
        2.5.1.5. Assigns cases to case managers as evacuees voluntarily complete needs
        assessments in AFPAAS and ensures the A&FRC makes contact with members. (T-1)
        2.5.1.6. Monitor AFPAAS during evacuation/emergency events to track personal
        needs assessments of personnel and families, ensure case managers are assigned to
        contact and provide assistance IAW AFI 36-3009, Airman & Family Readiness
        Centers, and provide status updates to HAF leadership as requested or until reporting
        is suspended.
  2.6. Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force District of
  Washington (AFDW).
     2.6.1. MAJCOMs, the ANG and AFDW will, using command and control channels,
     recommend to HAF the need for an AFPAAS event to report personnel accountability
     when one of their installations is impacted by a natural disaster or national emergency.
     Each MAJCOM, ANG and AFDW will account for their personnel (paragraph 1.4.)
     assigned to any base or living in an outlying area impacted by the natural disaster or
8                                                           AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


       national emergency and any personnel on Leave/TDY in the area of concern in AFPAAS.
       (T-1)
          2.6.1.1. ANG personnel (paragraph 1.4.) accountability will be reported through
          AFPAAS and the affected State Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ) to the National
          Guard Bureau (NGB) Joint Operations Center’s Manpower and Personnel directorate
          (JOC/J1) in accordance with the NGB/J1 guidance during a Joint Staff directed
          accountability event.
              2.6.1.1.1. ANG personnel (paragraph 1.4.) in Title 10 status will report
              accountability via AFPAAS through their supporting active-duty Military
              Personnel Element.
          2.6.1.2. Tasked with administration and support of HQ USAF (HAF) and assigned
          Air Force units and personnel within the National Capital Region, AFDW will
          function as the MAJCOM responsible for the HAF accountability.
          2.6.1.3. AFDW will function as the MAJCOM responsible for the accountability of
          AF members assigned to AF Elements (AFELMS) which are administrative devices
          designed solely to account for AF authorizations and personnel serving in non-AF
          activities, such as defense agencies, joint and unified commands, international
          activities and government agencies worldwide.
       2.6.2. Will ensure all personnel, to include GSUs and Tenant Units have shelter-in-place
       or evacuation plans.
       2.6.3. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and ANG will make provisions to include
       evacuation or shelter-in-place plans on ARC members who may not work in the affected
       area but who live in the affected area (traditional ARC members may live in different
       states than they drill).
       2.6.4. Will direct Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (A4/7) to ensure all
       Wing/Installation commanders and GSUs have evacuation plans and tracking procedures
       in place to account for all personnel in the event of a natural disaster or national
       emergency.
          2.6.4.1. ANG, through appropriate authority, will coordinate Logistics, Installations,
          and Mission Support to ensure all Wing/Installation commanders and GSUs have
          evacuation plans and tracking procedures in place to account for all personnel in the
          event of a natural disaster or national emergency.
       2.6.5. MAJCOMs will develop plans and procedures for delegation of personnel
       accountability responsibilities, should their organization be involved in the natural
       disaster or national emergency and be unable to perform their duties outlined in this AFI.
       These may be stand-alone plans or be incorporated in Emergency Management or
       Continuity of Operations (COOP) Plans.
    2.7. MAJCOM CAT Director.
       2.7.1. At the direction of AFCAT Director, notify their assigned installations, stand alone
       units and MAJCOM staff to initiate TFA actions.
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   9


     2.7.2. Will notify the AFCAT Director when one of their assigned installations is
     impacted by a natural disaster or national emergency requiring an AFPAAS event. (T-1)
  2.8. MAJCOM CAT/A1 Representatives / MAJCOM A1 Readiness Staff / ANG A1.
     2.8.1. Will ensure accountability responsibilities are accomplished when a servicing
     Force Support Squadron (FSS) is unable to perform those functions.
         2.8.1.1. ANG, through appropriate authority, will ensure accountability
         responsibilities are accomplished when a servicing FSS or equivalent is unable to
         perform those functions.
     2.8.2. Monitor AFPAAS to track the accountability progress of MAJCOM personnel to
     identify deviations and recommend course of action to appropriate leadership/agency.
         2.8.2.1. Monitor AFPAAS to track the progress of assigned IPRs in achieving
         accountability of their tenants/GSUs assigned members.
     2.8.3. Will consolidate any published evacuation orders received from the Wing
     CAT/A1 for DAF and NAF civilian dependents.
     2.8.4. Units not within the affected area will emphasize the need for awareness of
     possible evacuees arriving on base who may need to have individual evacuation orders
     published. If evacuation orders for DAF or NAF civilian family members are published
     by any unit outside the affected area, a listing of the names published in the order should
     be collected by the MAJCOM CAT/A1 representative or MAJCOM A1 Readiness staff if
     the CAT is not activated. Listing should be forwarded to the AFPC/PRC.
     2.8.5. Work with MAJCOM CAT Director or NGB JOC/J1 to contact installation
     commanders of bases/GSUs in impacted area to consider STOP MOVEMENT as
     situation warrants.
     2.8.6. Grant appropriate access to all assigned Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR)
     offices, GSUs and Tenant Units located on other MAJCOM’s installation(s).
     2.8.7. Ensure all assigned IPR personnel are trained on their TFA responsibilities,
     including the use of AFPAAS.
     2.8.8. Provide status reports to MAJCOM leadership or NGB JOC/J1 as requested until
     100% accountability is attained or reporting is suspended by higher headquarters.
     2.8.9. Will provide AFPAAS Event Management support to subordinate units for local
     or MAJCOM inspections/exercises and in support of OSD, Joint Staff or HAF directed
     accountability for emergencies and manmade or natural disasters. Event management
     includes working with unit command channels to obtain accountability of affected
     individuals. (T-1)
  2.9. Installation Commanders or equivalents will recommend to their HHQ using the current
  command and control process (i.e., Command Post) to initiate AF-wide use of AFPAAS to
  report accountability when an event warrants the use of AFPAAS. (T-1)
     2.9.1. Direct TFA for assigned, tenant and GSUs and monitor AFPAAS to track the
     accountability progress of those units until 100% accountability is achieved or reporting
10                                                          AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


     is suspended. Incorporate TFA guidance into emergency management plans, command
     and control processes, support agreements and all unit recall procedures.
        2.9.1.1. Ensure installation Command Post or equivalents distribute TFA messages
        (e.g. WARNORD, EXORD, ENDEX) to all assigned, tenant and GSUs in accordance
        with established local procedures or agreements.
     2.9.2. Will ensure unit commanders are aware of their responsibilities as outlined in this
     instruction and that shelter-in-place or evacuation plans for installations have fully
     addressed the need to account for the categories of personnel described in this instruction
     as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours after TFA is directed.
     2.9.3. Will ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with AFPAAS and their
     responsibility if displaced for personnel to contact their leadership, keep them informed
     of their location, and account for family members.
        2.9.3.1. Once a member has arrived at a safe evacuation location, their first act
        should be to report their status and location to their unit of assignment via AFPAAS
        or other established means.
        2.9.3.2. If a member is unable to report their status via AFPAAS or contact their
        UCC they should immediately contact the AFPC/PRC at 1-800-435-9941 to report
        their whereabouts. AFPC/ PRC is manned 24/7 to respond to any emergency.
     2.9.4. In the event a member is stranded in a crisis area with no communications
     available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red
     Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to
     the Air Force through any means available.
     2.9.5. Will brief all military members on the importance of having their family members
     report their status in the event they evacuate without the military member via AFPAAS or
     other means. Commanders are encouraged to emphasize the military’s concern for the
     safety of family members and the vital need for positive contact to allow for maximum
     assistance to the family members.
  2.10. Wing CAT Director.
     2.10.1. Will direct accountability for the installation as required.
  2.11. Wing CAT/A1 Representative.
     2.11.1. This position may be filled by the FSS/CC (or +equivalent) or any other member
     as determined by Wing leadership.
     2.11.2. Will act as the primary information conduit between the impacted units, the
     installation’s senior leadership and the MAJCOM CAT/A1 representative.
     2.11.3. Will inform MAJCOM and/or AFPC/PRC if STOP MOVEMENT is requested
     and the expected timeline for its rescission.
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 11



     2.11.4. Will send a copy of the Blanket Evacuation Order and radius of authorized
     evacuation to AFPC/PRC organization e-mail box (afpc.dpfr.prc@us.af.mil) to post on
     the AFPC website. Sends a courtesy copy of these messages to the AFCAT A1
     (afcat.a1@pentagon.af.mil),        MAJCOM       CAT/A1s,       and       AF/A1SA
     (afa2sa.division@pentagon.af.mil).     AFRC Wings will forward information to
     FGC/Battle Watch (fgc.battlewatch@us.af.mil and afrc.cat.unclas@us.af.mil). ANG
     Wings will forward information to the ANG/CAT (ngrcngb.a1pr@ang.af.mil
     2.11.5. Will consolidate any published evacuation orders received from the Unit Control
     Centers (UCC) or Commander’s Support Staffs (CSS) for DAF and NAF civilian
     dependents only and forward to MAJCOM CAT/A1. There is no requirement to forward
     copies of evacuation orders of military dependents.
  2.12. Unit Commanders/Directors, Headquarters Staff              Directors,   AF    Element
  Directors/Chiefs, and Personnel Accountability Managers.
     2.12.1. Unit commanders are the first and most critical link when it comes to establishing
     accountability of assigned members. The Air Force’s ability to track its members will
     succeed or fail based on their efforts.
     2.12.2. Will account for assigned military, DAF and NAF civilians, DEERS enrolled
     family members, family members of DAF/ NAF employees (when receiving evacuation
     entitlements) and OCONUS assigned contractors and their family members as soon as
     possible, but not later than 48 hours after TFA is directed. All reasonable efforts to
     include unit telephone recalls, review of automated tools (LeaveWeb, Defense Travel
     System, etc) should be made to obtain the status of assigned members and their family
     members following a disaster event.
        2.12.2.1. When unable to account for members after all reasonable efforts have been
        made to do so, will review AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services, Chapter 2, Section 2C for
        guidance and contact the local Casualty Assistance Representative for assistance.
     2.12.3. Will verify all members, military, DAF, and NAF civilians, assigned to their
     units have shelter-in-place or evacuation plans that are reasonable, actionable, and
     current. Ensure these plans are maintained in a centralized location or database so they
     may be accessed or transmitted from/to an alternate location with little or no warning.
     Ensure they are reviewed annually, at a minimum.
        2.12.3.1. Will ensure unit members verify addresses in Military Personnel Data
        System (MilPDS) or Civilian Personnel Data System (CPDS) annually. In addition,
        members will verify AFPAAS information and required corrections will be updated
        through the DEERS link available through AFPAAS. (T-1)
     2.12.4. Will brief all military members annually on the importance of having their family
     members use AFPAAS to report their status in the event they evacuate without the
     military member. Commanders are encouraged to emphasize the military’s concern for
     the safety of family members and the vital need for positive contact to allow for
     maximum assistance to the family members.
12                                                         AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


     2.12.5. Will brief all civilian personnel on the need for their assistance in reporting their
     status (and in some cases the status of their family members) in the event of a disaster or
     crisis.
        2.12.5.1. Will emphasize to employees that civilians on leave or on a pass when a
        disaster happens can assist greatly in achieving 100 percent accountability by using
        AFPAAS, calling back to their supervisor or commander/director to confirm they are
        safe.
     2.12.6. Will ensure all civilian personnel whose family members are receiving
     evacuation entitlements report the status of those family members via AFPAAS, or to
     their supervisor or commander/director and to continue reporting their status until
     entitlements cease.
     2.12.7. All unit commanders will identify at least two (2) Commanding Officer
     Representatives (CORs) to provide accountability. CORs will receive AFPAAS access
     and annual training from the Force Support Squadron/Installation Personnel Readiness
     (FSS/IPR). (T-1)
        2.12.7.1. When directed by higher authority, will ensure the status of all personnel
        described in paragraph 1.4.3. are updated in AFPAAS.
        2.12.7.2. Will continue efforts to achieve accountability of their personnel until
        100% accountability is achieved. Will continue to track and report evacuation
        information until all personnel and their families have returned to their normal place
        of duty or have been reassigned to a new place of duty.
        2.12.7.3. Will ensure all evacuation orders published by the CSS or UCC are
        forwarded to the IPR as soon as possible to identify both military and civilian
        dependents receiving evacuation entitlements.
     2.12.8. Will ensure an up-to-date unit-recall roster is maintained and forwarded to the
     appropriate coordinating agencies (installation Command Post, AFCAT, etc...). Will also
     ensure an actionable Communications-Out recall roster is maintained. Since in many
     cases, local communications will be inoperative or overloaded, Communications-Out
     recall rosters will be essential.
        2.12.8.1. Will ensure the AFPC/PRC toll-free number (1-800-435-9941) and the
        AFPAAS website (https://afpaas.af.mil) are printed on all recall rosters.
     2.12.9. Will ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with their accountability
     responsibilities to contact their leadership, keep them informed of their location and
     account for family members.
        2.12.9.1. Once a member (or family member if evacuating separately) has arrived at
        a safe evacuation location, their first act should be to report their status and location
        via AFPAAS or other means.
        2.12.9.2. If a member is unable to either update AFPAAS, or contact their UCC they
        should immediately contact the AFPC/PRC at 1-800-435-9941 to report their
        whereabouts. AFPC/ PRC is manned 24/7 to respond to any emergency.
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                 13


     2.12.10. In the event a member is stranded in a crisis area with no communications
     available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red
     Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to
     the Air Force through any means available.
     2.12.11. Will encourage all civilian employees to initiate or update address and
     emergency contact information in MYBIZ located in myPers and ensure their
     supervisor’s record of employee contains current contact information. (T-1)
     2.12.12. Commanders at non-impacted bases will identify all AF personnel on leave, on
     a pass (if known), or TDY in the GAOI and add them to the disaster event within
     AFPAAS.
        2.12.12.1. Commanders are responsible to ensure all Airmen who have family
        members living in the GAOI (e.g., dependent children living with a former spouse)
        account for those members.
     2.12.13. Designate, in writing, at least two (primary and alternate) unit members as
     trusted agents with COR access to AFPAAS. Larger units/directorates should add an
     alternate COR for every additional 250 assigned personnel in order to limit system access
     and safeguard personal information. Ensure access is removed when CORs are
     reassigned.
        2.12.13.1. Ensure designated CORs are trained on TFA procedures, including
        AFPAAS, within 1 month of designation.
     2.12.14. Ensure accountability of deployed Airmen families is maintained.
  2.13. Unit Control Center (UCC)
     2.13.1. Units not in the impacted area may view in AFPAAS data showing unit members
     who have family (as defined in paragraph 1.4.) in the GAOI. UCCs will contact sponsors
     to account for family member(s) in the GAOI via AFPAAS.
        2.13.1.1. The unit will assist the deployed member in any way possible to contact the
        family members to verify their safety. Units should ensure members are updating
        family member information as necessary prior to deployments.
     2.13.2. Will add members to the disaster event in AFPAAS who are on leave or TDY (to
     include deployed) into the GAOI.
     2.13.3. Account for members on leave or TDY (to include deployed) outside the GAOI
     by updating AFPAAS accordingly.
     2.13.4. Will consolidate any published evacuation orders for DAF and NAF civilian
     dependents only and forward to FSS/IPR, or as directed by the Wing CAT/A1. There is
     no requirement to forward copies of evacuation orders of military dependents.
     2.13.5. Will continue to report accountability until 100% of their personnel are
     accounted for. Will continue to track and report evacuation information until all
     personnel and their families have returned to their normal place of duty or have been
     reassigned to a new place of duty.
     2.13.6. DELETED
14                                                        AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


  2.14. Force Support Squadron Commanders or Directors (FSS/CCs or FSS/CL).
     2.14.1. In most cases, will serve as the Wing CAT/A1 representative and will perform all
     the duties prescribed in paragraph 2.11. of this instruction. In addition to meeting all of
     the requirements of a unit commanders, will serve as the primary advisor on all
     personnel-related matters and provide critical interface between their installation
     commander (or equivalent) and their MAJCOM of assignment.
     2.14.2. Ensure that the IPR, A&FRC, Civilian Personnel Section (CPS) and NAF Human
     Resources Section (HRS) follows the guidelines as stated in paragraphs 2.15., 2.16., 2.17.
     and 2.18. below.
     2.14.3. In the event the Wing-level CAT is not activated; the FSS/CC (or equivalent) will
     assume the responsibilities of the Wing-level CAT/A1 representative listed in paragraph
     2.11 of this AFI as required.
     2.14.4. Units not within the affected area will emphasize the need for awareness of
     possible evacuees arriving on base who may need to have individual evacuation orders
     published. If evacuation orders for DAF or NAF civilian family members are published
     by any unit outside the affected area, a listing of these names should be forwarded to the
     MAJCOM CAT/A1 or MAJCOM A1 Readiness staff if the CAT is not activated.
  2.15. Installation Personnel Readiness Office (IPR)/ Personnel Readiness Functions.
     2.15.1. During a national crisis or natural disaster in which TFA is initiated the IPR will
     be the focal point of accountability reporting actions on an installation.
     2.15.2. Will only grant AFPAAS access to CORs designated in writing by unit
     commanders or directors for all supported units to include Tenant Units, GSUs and AF
     Elements (AFELMs). Granting access to a PAS code will automatically provide access
     to subordinate PAS codes. (T-1)
     2.15.3. Will provide annual TFA and AFPAAS training to all designated CORs. (T-1)
     2.15.4. Conducts an annual review to track and monitor COR assignments and removes
     access when designated CORs are reassigned. (T-1)
     2.15.5. Monitor TFA efforts and provide status reports to leadership until 100%
     accountability is attained or reporting is suspended by higher headquarters.
     2.15.6. If unable to perform the above functions, this responsibility is transferred IAW
     MAJCOM/A1 Readiness Office guidance.
     2.15.7. Will consolidate any published evacuation orders for DAF and NAF civilian
     dependents only and forward to Wing CAT/A1. There is no requirement to forward
     copies of evacuation orders of military dependents.
  2.16. Civilian Personnel Section (CPS). (Appropriated Fund Civilian Employees -
  Department of the Air Force [DAF]).
     2.16.1. CPS will assist the unit commander to ensure civilian employees are aware of
     their responsibilities and completely familiar with the three-tiered approach for displaced
     personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their location.
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    15


     2.16.2. Will encourage civilian employees to initiate or update address and emergency
     contact information in MYBIZ and/or ensure their supervisor’s record of employee
     contains current contact information.
     2.16.3. Will ensure all personnel are aware that they should immediately contact their
     unit to report their status if they are either on leave, on scheduled off-duty time
     (regardless of location), or TDY during a crisis.
        2.16.3.1. Civilian personnel should provide a leave address otherwise commanders
        will not be able to determine who may have been in an affected area.
     2.16.4. Will ensure all civilian personnel whose family members are receiving
     evacuation entitlements to report the status of those family members to their supervisor or
     commander/director. Will ensure civilian employees continue reporting their family
     member status until entitlements cease.
  2.17. Nonappropriated Fund Human Resources Sections (NAF/HRS) (NAF Employees).
     2.17.1. NAF/HRS will assist the unit commander to ensure NAF employees are aware of
     their responsibilities and completely familiar with the three-tiered approach for displaced
     personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their location.
     2.17.2. Will encourage NAF employees to initiate or update address and emergency
     contact information in MYMONEY and/or ensure their supervisor’s record of employee
     contains current contact information.
     2.17.3. Will ensure all NAF employees are aware that they should immediately contact
     their unit to report their status if they are seasonal employees, on leave, on scheduled off-
     duty time (regardless of location), or TDY during a crisis.
        2.17.3.1. NAF employees should provide a leave address otherwise commanders will
        not be able to determine who may have been in an affected area.
     2.17.4. Will ensure all NAF employees whose family members are receiving evacuation
     entitlements to report the status of those family members to their supervisor or
     commander/director. Will ensure civilian employees continue reporting their family
     member status until entitlements cease.
  2.18. Individuals (Active Duty, SELRES, DAF and NAF Civilians).
     2.18.1. Will maintain realistic and actionable shelter-in place or evacuation plans in
     anticipation of national crises or natural disasters.
     2.18.2. Are responsible for accounting for family members (as defined in paragraph
     1.4.3.4.) living in the area of concern (e.g., dependent children living with a former
     spouse) even though the sponsor may live outside the impacted area. They will inform
     their commander who will forward their status to their UCC/servicing MPS who in turn
     will forward to the member’s parent MAJCOM.
     2.18.3. Will use all mechanisms available to report their evacuation plans and emergency
     contact information in the event they are required to relocate.
     2.18.4. Military members will update their Virtual Record of Emergency Data (vRED)
     along with their home and mailing address information under Record Review application
 16                                                         AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


       in vMPF. DAF civilians will update MYBIZ and/or ensure their supervisor’s record of
       employee contains current contact information (as applicable). NAF civilians will ensure
       their supervisor’s record of employee contains current emergency point of contact
       information.
       2.18.5. Will ensure they and their family members are familiar with the tiered approach
       for displaced personnel to contact their leadership and keep them informed of their
       location.
           2.18.5.1. Once a member/employee/family member has arrived at a safe evacuation
           location, their first act should be to report their status and location via AFPAAS or
           other means back to their UCC.
           2.18.5.2. If a member/employee/family member is unable to update AFPAAS or
           contact their UCC, they should immediately contact the AFPC/PRC at 1-800-435-
           9941 to report their whereabouts. AFPC/PRC is manned 24/7 to respond to any
           emergency.
       2.18.6. If a member is on leave, pass (military), scheduled off-duty time (civilians), or
       TDY into an affected area, the member will take immediate action to report their status
       via AFPAAS or to their home unit, their TDY unit, and/or AFPC/PRC.
       2.18.7. In the event a member is stranded in a crisis area with no communications
       available, members are encouraged to report their status to any responding agency (Red
       Cross, local police, FEMA, etc.) and ask that agency to report the status of the member to
       the Air Force through any means available.
       2.18.8. Individuals, except those that are deployed, will maintain contact with and know
       the whereabouts of DEERS enrolled dependents residing in the GAOI, and then provide
       accountability information on those dependents. If family members of civilian employees
       (DAF or NAF) are receiving evacuation entitlements, employees should provide a listing
       of those family members to their commander/director or UCC for tracking purposes.
       2.18.9. Members on or going on a remote assignment will notify the nearest Airman &
       Family Readiness Flight to where the family members will be residing so they can be
       contacted for follow up in case of an emergency or evacuation.
3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   3.1. Prescribed Forms.
No forms are prescribed in this publication.
   3.2. Adopted Forms.
No forms are adopted in this publication.




                                               DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                               DCS, Manpower , Personnel and Services
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                              17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1342.22, Military Family Readiness, 03 Jul 2012
DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural or Manmade Disasters, 3
May 2010
DoDI O-3020.43, Emergency Management and Incident Command on the Pentagon Facilities, 6
March 2007
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 06 Nov 2012
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 Sep 2007
AFPD 36-38, Personnel Readiness, Reporting and Accountability, 23 May 2011
AFI 10-216, Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US
Noncombatants, 1 Apr 2000
AFI 10-208, Air Force Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 Dec 2011
AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24 Jan 2007
AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, 23 Feb 2009
AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms Management, 23 Sep 2013
Delete
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 24 Jul 1994
AFI 36-3009, Airmen and Family Readiness Centers, 07 May 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Air Force Records Information Management System
Joint Publication 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 17 Mar 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman & Family Readiness Center
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ARRS—Automated Repatriation Reporting System
CAT—Crisis Action Team
 18                                                     AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


CMs— Case Managers
CORs— Commanding Officer Representatives
CPS—Civilian Personnel Section
CSS—Commander Support Staff
CONUS—Continental United States
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DD Form—Department of Defense Form
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
EFAC—Emergency Family Assistance Center
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
GAOI—Geographic Area of Interest
GCC—Group Control Center
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness Office
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPS—Military Personnel Section
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NTS—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations Tracking System
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PERSCO—Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
PRC—Personnel Readiness Cell
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
TFA—Total Force Accountability
UCC—Unit Control Center
v RED—Virtual Record of Emergency Data
AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010                                                                        19


Terms
Accounted For—Personnel are considered “accounted for” when any of the following occur: 1)
The individual is physically present, 2) The individual has been contacted or has made contact
(e.g. by telephone or other means) or 3) The individual is in an official status of unauthorized
absence (UA), desertion, deceased, or missing.
Concept of Operations (CONOPS)—(DoD) A verbal or graphic statement, in broad outline, of
a commander’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations. The
concept of operations frequently is embodied in campaign plans and operation plans, in the latter
case, particularly when the plans cover a series of connected operations to be carried out
simultaneously or in succession. The concept is design to give an overall picture of the operation.
It is included primarily for additional clarity of purpose; it is also called commander’s concept.
Drilling Unit Reservists—Unit members who participate in unit training activities on a part-
time basis.
DEERS—A computerized database of military sponsors, families and others worldwide who are
entitled under the law to TRICARE benefits; required for TRICARE eligibility.
Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC)—Collects and maintains an archive of automated
manpower, personnel, training, and financial databases; operates personnel programs and
conducts research and analysis.
Domestic Emergencies—Includes any or all of the emergency conditions defined below:
Civil Defense Emergency—A domestic emergency disaster situation resulting from devastation
created by an enemy attack and requiring emergency operations during and following that attack.
Appropriate authority in anticipation of an attack may proclaim a Civil Defense Emergency.
Major Disaster—Any catastrophe (including any tornado, storm, high water, wind-driven water,
tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other catastrophe) or regardless of cause,
any fire, flood, or explosion, in any part of the United States, which in the determination of the
President causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant major disaster
assistance under the Stafford Act (Chapter 68 of Title 42, United States Code) to supplement the
efforts and available resources of States, local governments, and disaster relief organizations in
alleviating the damage, loss, hardship, or suffering caused thereby.
National Emergency—A condition declared by the President or the Congress by virtue of
powers previously vested in them that authorize certain emergency actions to be undertaken in
the national interest. Action to be taken may include partial, full, or total mobilization of national
resources.
Natural Disaster—All domestic emergencies except those created as a result of enemy attack or
civil disturbance.
Family Member—Family members who are enrolled in DEERS in an active file status. For
DAF and NAF employees, family members should be accounted for if they are receiving
evacuation entitlements.
Noncombatant Evacuation Operation (NEO)—Operation directed by the Department of State,
the Department of Defense, or other appropriate authority whereby noncombatants are evacuated
from areas of danger overseas to safe havens or to the United States.
 20                                                            AFI36-3803 21 DECEMBER 2010


Overseas (OCONUS)—(DoD) All locations, including Alaska and Hawaii, outside the
continental United States.
Safe Haven—(DoD) Designated area(s) to which noncombatants of the United States
Government's responsibility and commercial vehicles and materiel may be evacuated during a
domestic or other valid emergency.
Selected Reserve (SELRES)—Those units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated
by their respective services and approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as so essential to initial
wartime missions that they have priority over all other Reserves. All Selected Reservists are in
active status. The Selected Reserve also includes persons performing initial active duty training.
STOP MOVEMENT—A program implemented under the authority of the Chief of Staff of the
Air Force (CSAF). State Department or Wing Commanders may request STOP MOVEMENT as
a result of a natural disaster such as a hurricane, typhoon, political unrest, terrorism etc. It is the
temporary suspension of a member’s Permanent Change of Station (PCS) travel or cancellation
of PCS. STOP MOVEMENT of the military member does not in itself stop travel of family
members. The requester must contact AFPC/PRC first, who in turn will coordinate with
AFPC/DPA to implement STOP MOVEMENT.
Tier Waiver Information (Extracted from AFI 33—360, Table 1.1):
T—0 – Tier Waiver Authority level 0 (Requirement external to AF; Request for waivers must be
processed through command channels to publication OPR for consideration)
T—1 – Tier Waiver Authority level 1 (MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than the MAJCOM
Director), with the concurrence of the publication’s Approving Official)
T—2 – Tier Waiver Authority level 2 (MAJCOM/CC (delegable no lower than MAJCOM
Director)
T—3 – Tier Waiver Authority level 3 (Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable no lower than Group/CC
or equivalent)
Total Force—For the purpose of this instruction, consists of AF Active Duty, Selected Reserve,
Department of the Air Force (DAF) and Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees, and certain
family members of AD and SELRES.
Total Force Accountability—The ability to accurately account for all Air Force personnel and
the related Air Force manpower requirements at all times regardless of their location.
Unaccounted For—An inclusive term (not a casualty status) applicable to personnel whose
person or remains are not recovered or otherwise accounted for.
