BY ORDER OF THE                                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-220
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            21 NOVEMBER 2007
                                                                        Certified Current 17 December 2009
                                                                         Communications and Information

                                                                     ON-HOOK TELEPHONE SECURITY




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IGX                                                     Certified by: SAF/XCP (Col Jack Jibilian)
Supersedes AFI 33-220, 1 March 1997 and                                                         Pages: 8
           AFMAN 33-274, 1 July 1997.

This Air Force instruction (AFI) discusses the vulnerabilities of telephone systems and outlines responsi-
bilities for on-hook telephone security. It implements AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance, and sets guide-
lines for on-hook telephone security for all Air Force organizations using administrative telephone
systems in both sensitive and classified discussion areas. This publication does not address portable elec-
tronic devices, cellular telephones, laptop computers, handheld computers, or personal digital assistants
used in sensitive or classified discussion areas. This instruction applies to all Air Force military, civilians,
and contractor personnel under contract by the Department of Defense (DoD) that develop, use, operate,
or manage Air Force communications and information systems. Unless otherwise specified, the term
major command (MAJCOM) includes field operating agencies (FOA) and direct reporting units (DRU).
This publication applies to the Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve Command. Additional
instructions and manuals are listed on the Air Force Publishing Website at uniform resources locator
(URL): http://www.e-publishing.af.mil, under Electronic Publications. Field activities must send imple-
menting publications to the higher headquarters functional OPR for review and coordination before pub-
lishing. Direct questions on the contents of this instruction to your servicing Air Force Office of Special
Investigations (AFOSI) detachment. Send recommended changes and conflicts between this and other
publications, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to The Air Force Inspec-
tor General, Directorate of Special Investigations (SAF/IGX), 1140 Air Force Pentagon, Room 4E1081,
Washington DC 20330-1140, with information copy to SAF/XCIN (A6N), Enterprise Networks Division,
1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363), and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.
2                                                                    AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include
the addition of information from AFM 33-274, On-Hook Telephone Security Guidelines, updates to tele-
phone security measures to include those associated with Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) and direc-
tion on Telephone Security Guidelines 1 – 8 published by the Committee on National Security Systems,
National Telecommunications Security Working Group.


1. Roles and Responsibilities.
    1.1. Commanders responsible for the security of an activity or location where personnel hold recur-
    ring sensitive presentations, such as scheduled conferences or briefings, or where personnel routinely
    discuss classified or sensitive information, as defined in AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Com-
    puter Security (soon to be AFI 33-200, Information Assurance Management), should:
       1.1.1. Ensure the number of telephones used is the minimum necessary to meet operational
       requirements.
       1.1.2. Apply appropriate telephone security measures in discussion areas and ensure adequate
       protection for classified or sensitive discussions IAW National Telephone Security Working
       Group (NTSWG) publications (reference para 10.).
       1.1.3. Use physical security safeguards to prevent unauthorized personnel from obtaining clan-
       destine physical access to the telephone system or components of the system.
    1.2. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI). AFOSI is the office of primary responsi-
    bility (OPR) for on-hook telephone technical security matters, to include providing guidance for
    installing and operating telephone systems within the Air Force, and Department of Defense facilities
    occupied by Air Force affiliated personnel. AFOSI will:
       1.2.1. Provide Air Force representation to the U.S. Government intelligence community’s
       NTSWG. The group is the primary technical and policy resource in the U.S. intelligence commu-
       nity for all aspect of the Technical Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM) program involving
       telephone systems in areas where sensitive government information is discussed.
       1.2.2. Examine the TSCM needs of the Air Force and tailor Air Force telephone security stan-
       dards to those established by the NTSWG.
       1.2.3. Provide guidance to Air Force organization on selecting local equipment for installing tele-
       phone systems in sensitive discussion areas in conjunction with the host base Communications
       and Information Systems Officer (CSO) (AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management).
       1.2.4. Determine the effectiveness and applicability of protective security devices and TSCM pro-
       cedures for qualified facilities; when warranted, provide technical threat information and briefings
       concerning telephone systems and the countermeasures intended to nullify existing threats. Fur-
       ther information on requesting TSCM services or threat briefing is contained in AFI 71-101, Vol-
       ume 3, The Air Force Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Program.

2. Risk Associated with the Administrative Telephone System. Telephone systems, which also
includes facsimile machines and computer MODEMs, are so common place the risks associated with their
AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007                                                                                 3


use are often overlooked. When installed in sensitive discussion areas, these systems can pose a signifi-
cant threat to classified and sensitive information. The objective of this manual is to provide guidance for
audio and data security relating to telephone systems when the telephone instruments are “on-hook’ or in
their idle state. This manual does not address the vulnerability to intercept or countermeasures related to
securing telephone conversations or the intentional transmission of data.
   2.1. It is generally accepted that all information carried over telephone circuits is vulnerable to inter-
   ception at any point along the path of the communication. It is also understood, there is not an effec-
   tive method to protect discussions carried by communications circuits outside of a facility short of
   strong encryption. Therefore, the best solution to protecting unencrypted communication systems lies
   in preventing compromise at the source (i.e., the equipment). However, before determining specific
   countermeasures, the sensitivity of the information to be protected and the specificity of the threat to
   that information should be considered.

3. Determining the Need for Protection. The sensitivity of the information and the degree of physical
and personnel access control will determine the need for protective security devices and TSCM. Classi-
fied information must always be protected. However, the bulk of the discussions in the Air Force involve
sensitive information. This information must also be protected, but at an appropriately lower level. Mini-
mum standards, as published in the NTSWG Standards (see paragraph 10.), were developed to protect
classified communications but the standard practices set forth in these documents may also be applied (as
warranted) to areas of lesser security processing sensitive information. The NTSWG Standards were
intended for classified discussion areas or other compartmented program areas where on-hook vulnerabil-
ities and the nature of the information generate significant risk regardless of the threat. Commanders
requiring assistance assessing the local threat or determining the appropriate level of on-hook telephone
security are encouraged to contact their servicing AFOSI detachment.

4. Principal Security Vulnerabilities. Telephone system components may be used to monitor nearby
conversations or activities when the system is on-hook. This is particularly dangerous because personnel
are not generally aware this type of monitoring can occur. Principal vulnerabilities include inherent vul-
nerabilities, signals exploitation, equipment modification, and device installation all of which take advan-
tage of the electrical path provided by the existing system to transmit information from an area.
   4.1. Inherent system vulnerabilities includes the manipulation of standard convenience features built
   in to the telephone system (i.e., speakerphone options, conference call capability, ability to have the
   same telephone number on multiple phones, auto-answer option, etc.).
   4.2. Signals exploitation involves intercepting signals generated by inherent system design character-
   istics which allow normal room conversation to be passed from an area.
   4.3. Equipment modification causes existing telephone system equipment to generate signals that
   allow normal room conversation to be passed from an area.
   4.4. Device installation involves placement of a technical surveillance device which collects and
   passes information from an area.

5. Technical Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM). The protective methods and equipment
employed to deny the use of telephone systems for other than intended communications constitutes
TSCM. These measures ensure on-hook audio signals are not available for interception or exploitation.
4                                                                      AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007


Excluding all telephone equipment and wiring from discussion areas is the most effective, if least practi-
cal countermeasure. In all cases, limit telephone instruments to the minimum number required.
    5.1. For sensitive compartmented information facilities (SCIF), follow directives in DCID 6/9 Man-
    ual, Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities, published
    NTSWG Standards and remove all extraneous telephone system wiring and components which are
    not contained or protected within the Physically Protected Space (PPS). This may require the re-rout-
    ing of telephone system wiring which does not service the facility. In areas where personnel routinely
    discuss classified information, add isolation or disconnect devices (as defined in NTSWG Standards)
    to the telephone lines, either at the station equipment or at the point where the lines leave the PPS.
    Proper installation of isolation or disconnect devices will prevent audio signals from being passed
    from the PPS over telephone lines when the system is not in normal use (i.e., on-hook).
    5.2. Isolate station equipment from all uncontrolled telephone lines. Installing isolation or disconnect
    devices is the first line of defense, however, occupants must ensure the protected equipment is not
    later modified or technical surveillance devices subsequently installed. This responsibility falls within
    the purview of physical security and access control.

6. Characterizing Telephone Systems. Telephone systems can be characterized according to their rela-
tionship to the PPS. The system’s relationship to the PPS can be categorized as: without external connec-
tion, with external connection, and systems in areas with limited security.
    6.1. Internal Telephone System Without External Connections. This is a telephone system com-
    pletely contained within a PPS and not connected to, or served by any component extending beyond
    that perimeter. No components, to include wiring, are accessible by unauthorized personnel or vulner-
    able to surreptitious access. It is essentially a private telephone system and requires no special TSCM
    or protective security devices.
    6.2. Internal Telephone System With External Connections. These systems are located within a
    secure perimeter, but are connected to, or served by system components (including wiring) extending
    beyond the PPS. If personnel discuss classified information within the area, the telephone equipment
    must be installed according to this manual. Routine discussion of sensitive information should be
    addressed on a case by case basis for each area, considering both the criticality of the information and
    frequency of discussion, to determine the applicability of this manual. For assistance, contact your
    servicing AFOSI detachment.
    6.3. Telephone System in Area of Limited Security. These systems are located within a perimeter
    where only minimal physical security is provided. The telephone equipment is connected to, or served
    by system components extending beyond the perimeter and some or all of the components within the
    area may be accessible by unauthorized persons. In this situation, security can best be provided by
    excluding all discussion of classified or sensitive information. Where it is not possible to exclude clas-
    sified discussion, the telephone system serving the area must be installed according to this manual.
    Routine discussion of sensitive information should be addressed on a case by case basis for each area;
    for assistance contact your servicing AFOSI detachment.

7. Types of Telephone Service. The type of service can be categorized as central office (CO) or private
branch exchange (PBX). Central office service is generally provided by a commercial, local exchange
carrier who provides the main hub for telephone communication within a geographic area. The CO serves
both residential and business telephone subscribers within the community. A PBX operates as a private
AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007                                                                                5


telephone sub-network and may be either manual or computerized. It ties an internal group of subscribers
into an independent network and provides external connections to the CO. A Computerized Telephone
System (CTS), analogous to the brains of a modern computerized PBX, uses stored programs to perform
the necessary message switching functions. A typical CTS incorporates a multitude of attractive features
which enhance and extend basic telephone service. In addition to processing telephone calls, a CTS may
also support data processing, energy consumption control, and communications traffic analysis.
   7.1. Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP). VoIP telephone systems are connected via a distributed
   network to the “telephone switch”. The instrument’s connection, therefore, is no longer restricted to
   the “telephone switch” alone, but can be addressed by other devices on the network. Additionally, the
   VoIP telephone instrument is remarkably different from the conventional telephone attached to a tra-
   ditional CTS. A VoIP instrument is essentially a computer with a microphone and network connectiv-
   ity and many have a built-in web server to permit easier administration of its features. It follows that
   the administration of the “telephone switch” is no longer limited to a dedicated hardwire connection,
   but to a distributed network. This substantially reduces the security of the “telephone switch” that pre-
   viously had sole control over the telephone configuration. Also, note that most traditional CTSes use
   proprietary protocols whereas most VoIP configurations use open-standard protocols. The use of an
   open-standard protocol increases the number of individuals knowledgeable about system commands,
   escalating the possibility that someone could compromise the system. Additional VoIP guidance is in
   AFI 33-202, Volume 1, and AFI 33-111.

8. Special Equipment Considerations. Installing specialized telephone equipment, such as cordless
telephones, speakerphones and telephone answering devices within discussion areas can create additional
security vulnerabilities. When protecting classified information, or sensitive information under the guid-
ance of this manual, the following additional considerations apply:
   8.1. Cordless telephones must not be installed within sensitive or classified discussion areas (see AFI
   33-111 policy on cordless telephones).
   8.2. Speakerphones in discussion areas must be installed so that all cabling, amplifiers and associated
   control units are contained within the boundaries of the PPS. Note: Speaker phones are not authorized
   in SCIFs without accrediting agency’s approval.
   8.3. Telephone answering devices must be installed outside the PPS and be selectively activated by
   means of a line transfer or call forwarding function. The answering device and associated telephone
   equipment for the called number must not activate at the same time within the PPS.
   8.4. Some telephone answering devices have the capability to remotely monitor room audio. These
   devices will not be used in classified discussion environments even when the feature is protected with
   an access or Personal Identification Number (PIN) code.
   8.5. Do not install intercommunications systems within discussion areas except when operationally
   justified and the system is installed in accordance with the attached guidance.
       8.5.1. If a dial intercommunications system capability is engineered into the administrative tele-
       phone system, no further action is required if the telephone system is installed according to this
       instruction.
       8.5.2. If a separate telephone intercommunications system is installed, no station equipment or
       system wiring will be located outside of the discussion area.
6                                                                     AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007


9. Applying Protective Countermeasures. Given the wide variety of security considerations impacting
the diversity of telephone systems in use throughout the USAF, the only effective approach for determin-
ing specific requirements is risk management. Classified information must always be protected and the
guidance in this manual applies. Sensitive information must be evaluated on a case by case basis for each
area, with consideration given to the criticality of the information, inherent system vulnerabilities and the
specificity of the threat. When considering the type of telephone service, all protective countermeasures
to deny on-hook audio now accepted for CO service and manual PBX systems are equally effective for a
CTS.
    9.1. Telephone systems incorporating accepted conventional isolation/disconnect protective counter-
    measures to deny on-hook audio are not subject to further installation or operational restrictions,
    unless it is to address concerns other than on-hook audio.
    9.2. The type of information and frequency of discussion within the area to be serviced must deter-
    mine the method of isolation. If classified information is routinely discussed, the entire area should be
    designated as a PPS. The telephone system should be located within the PPS and installed as outlined
    in the NTSWG Standards. If the majority of discussion involves sensitive, but unclassified informa-
    tion, a PPS should be established only for those areas where classified, or sensitive information requir-
    ing this level of protection, is routinely discussed. If the telephone system is located in an area of
    limited security and information requiring protection is routinely discussed, the telephone installation
    within each PPS should include proper individual isolation.

10. National Telephone Security Working Group Standards (NTSWG). To mitigate the risks associ-
ated with telephone systems and ensure proper precautions are taken to protect sensitive and classified
discussions, follow the guidance set forth in these standards. These standards were prepared by the
NTSWG. The NTSWG, formerly known as the Telecommunication Security Group (TSG), is a Joint
Working Group of the Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) which was established under
Executive Order 13231 to protect National Security Systems. The charter members of the NTSWG are:
Department of the Air Force, Department of the Army, Central Intelligence Agency, Defense Intelligence
Agency, Department of Energy, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of the Navy, National
Reconnaissance Office, National Security Agency, US Secret Service, and the Department of State. The
NTSWG is the primary technical and policy resource in the US Intelligence Community for all aspects of
the TSCM program involving telephone systems. The NTSWG standards contain guidance for providing
on-hook security for telephone systems located in areas where sensitive government information is dis-
cussed. Implementation of NTSWG standards does not preclude the application of more stringent require-
ments and may not satisfy the requirements of other security programs such as TEMPEST, COMSEC, or
OPSEC. The standards are available electronically for download at The Committee for National Security
System’s website (http://www.cnss.gov/).



                                                MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                                Chief Information Officer
AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007                                                                         7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DCID 6/9, Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
DoDI 5240.05, Technical Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM) Program
AFI 71-101 Volume 3, The Air Force Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Program
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management
AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Computer Security
NTSWG Standard 1, Introduction to Telephone Security
NTSWG Standard 2, TSG Guidelines for Computerized Telephone Systems
NTSWG Standard 2a, NTSWG Guidelines for Computerized Telephone Systems Supplemental
NTSWG Standard 2b, NTSWG Guidelines for Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) Computer Telephony
NTSWG Standard 3, Type-Acceptance Program for Telephones Used With the Conventional Central
Office Interface
NTSWG Standard 4, Type-Acceptance Program for Electronic Telephones Used In Computerized Tele-
phone Systems
NTSWG Standard 5, On-Hook Telephone Audio Security Performance Specifications
NTSWG Standard 6, Telephone Security Group Approved Equipment
NTSWG Standard 7, TSG Guidelines for Cellular Telephones
NTSWG Standard 8, Microphonic Response Criteria for Noncommunications Devices

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI — Air Force Instruction
AFOSI — Air Force Office of Special Investigations
CO — Central Office. The CO is the physical building used to house inside plant equipment including
telephone switches, which make phone calls "work" in the sense of making connections and relaying the
speech information.
CTS — Computerized Telephone Switch
MODEM — (from MODulate and DEModulate) a MODEM is a computer device that converts data into
sounds that can be transmitted over standard telephone lines.
NTSWG — National Telephone Security Working Group
ON-HOOK — The condition that exists when a telephone is in the idle state.
8                                                                    AFI33-220 21 NOVEMBER 2007


PBX — Private Branch Exchange. A Private Branch Exchange is a telephone exchange that serves a
particular business or office, as opposed to one a common carrier or telephone company operates for
many businesses or for the general public.
PPS — Physically Protected Space
SCIF — sensitive compartmentalized information facility
SENSITIVE INFORMATION — Information that the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or
modification of could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct of federal programs, or the
privacy to which individuals are entitled under Title 5 U.S.C. Section 552a (Privacy Act), but that has not
been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an act of Congress to be
kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy. (Note: Systems that are not national
security systems, but contain sensitive information are subject to be protected in accordance with the
requirements of the Computer Security Act of 1987 [P.L. 100-235].).
TSCM — Technical Surveillance Countermeasures
VoIP — Voice Over Internet Protocol. VoIP is the routing of voice conversations over the Internet or
through any other internet protocol-based network.
