BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3501
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                28 APRIL 2008
                                                                            Certified Current 3 May 2010
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                AIR FORCE ACADEMY OPERATIONS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1DO                                             Certified by: AF/A1D (Mr. Joseph M. McDade)
                                                                                            Pages: 25

This instruction implements AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, and provides guidance con-
cerning the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). This instruction also codifies and supersedes
guidance from the following Secretary of the Air Force subject memoranda: The United States Air Force
Academy (10 Oct 02); Agenda for Change (26 Mar 03); Oversight of Implementation of the Academy
Agenda for Change and Recommendations of the Working Group Concerning the Deterrence of and
Response to Incidents of Sexual Assault at the Air Force Academy (14 Aug 03); Headquarters Air Force
Policy on Tracking Air Force Academy Issues (19 Dec 03); and, SAF/MR Responsibility for Tracking Air
Force Academy Issues (15 Mar 04), and re-establishment of an Academy Oversight Office (14 Jan 03) .
Further, to the extent any preexisting HQ USAF or USAFA guidance is inconsistent with this instruction
it is superseded.
Any supplement to this instruction must be approved by AF/A1 (Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and
Personnel), 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040. IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management, table 2.3., all departmental publications related to USAFA will be coordinated with
SAF/MR. If approved, the requesting organization is responsible for ensuring the supplement is posted on
the Air Force publications web page noted above. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 affects this publication. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.
This Publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
(PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain the records is proscribed in the applicable Air Force
Privacy Act System of Records. Any forms used to collect personal information that are affected by the
PA have an appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System Notices are F036 USAFA A
though M, which can be accessed online at http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf.
2                                                                                                   AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


    1.   Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   3
    2.   Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................       3
    3.   Delegations of Authority and Waivers ......................................................................                       17

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            22
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                                  3


1. Purpose. This instruction establishes specific roles and responsibilities involving the oversight, com-
mand, operation and support of USAFA’s mission which is outlined in AFMD 12, US Air Force Academy.

2. Responsibilities. Support to the USAFA commander and USAFA oversight are the responsibility of
the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). The SECAF has
established Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) and Headquarters Air Force (HAF) oversight of USAFA in
this instruction to coordinate support for the USAFA/CC in accomplishing the USAFA mission and for
monitoring and assessing USAFA performance.
Section 2A – Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Responsibilities
   2.1. USAFA Board of Visitors (BoV). The United States Air Force Academy Board of Visitors
   (BoV) is prescribed by 10 U.S.C. § 9355. “It is an oversight board in the executive branch of the gov-
   ernment established to inquire into the morale, discipline, and social climate, the curriculum, instruc-
   tion, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating to the Academy
   that the Board decides to consider”. By law, the Board of Visitors is constituted annually and consists
   of: a) six persons designated by the President; b) the chairman of the Committee on Armed Services
   of the House of Representatives, or his designee; c) Four members designated by the Speaker of the
   House; d) the chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, or his designee; and e)
   three other members of the Senate designated by the Vice President or the President pro tempore of
   the Senate. The USAFA BoV meets no less than four times a year, with at least two of these meetings
   at USAFA. The BoV will be provided with information necessary to fulfill its mission. HAF will coor-
   dinate with USAFA to facilitate all requests for access of BoV members to the Academy Reservation
   and USAFA personnel.
   2.2. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF).
       2.2.1. Prescribes the organization of the Air Force Academy (10 U.S.C. § 9331 (a)).
       2.2.2. Responsible for the nomination and selection of USAFA leadership.
           2.2.2.1. The USAFA Superintendent (USAFA/CC) shall be detailed to that position by the
           President from among the officers of the Air Force and will serve as the Commander of
           USAFA. The USAFA/CC has inherent command authority to accomplish the USAFA mission
           (10 U.S.C. § 9334(a)).
           2.2.2.2. The Commandant of Cadets is detailed to that position by the President from the
           officers of the Air Force (10 U.S.C. § 9333(a)), and is the commander of United States Air
           Force Academy Cadets.
           2.2.2.3. The Dean of the Faculty may be either a military officer or a civilian. If the person
           appointed as the Dean is not an officer on active duty, the person shall be appointed as either a
           member of the Senior Executive Service (10 U.S.C. 9335 (a)) or as an Administratively Deter-
           mined (AD) excepted service employee.
               2.2.2.3.1. The Dean of the Faculty, if military, holds the rank of Brigadier General, if
               appointed to that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
               An officer so appointed is counted for purposes of the limitation in 10 U.S.C. § 526(a) on
               general officers of the Air Force on active duty. Unless retired or separated at an earlier
               date, the Dean will be retired on the first day of the month following the month in which he
               or she becomes 64 years of age (10 U.S.C. § 1251(a)).
4                                                                          AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


              2.2.2.3.2. A civilian serving as the Dean of the Faculty shall occupy an SES career
              reserved or AD excepted service employee position and will be assigned a priority code of
              DV-6 for protocol purposes.
              2.2.2.3.3. The following mandatory qualification requirements are essential for successful
              performance as Dean of the Faculty:
                  2.2.2.3.3.1. Military Officer: An earned doctorate or professional degree equivalent,
                  e.g. Juris Doctor from an accredited institution; an outstanding military career with
                  senior leadership experience; and a minimum of three years of teaching and/or admin-
                  istration experience in higher education.
                  2.2.2.3.3.2. Civilian: An earned doctorate or professional equivalent degree from an
                  accredited institution; a distinguished record of higher education teaching and scholar-
                  ship to warrant appointment as a professor in one of the Academy’s academic depart-
                  ments; and a successful record of administration and leadership in higher education as
                  shown by a minimum of five years of senior academic management experience at a
                  level equal to or above Department Chair.
           2.2.2.4. The Director of Admissions will be appointed by the President of the United States,
           with the advice and consent of the Senate (10 U.S.C. § 9333(c)).
           2.2.2.5. Civilian Faculty. The SECAF:
              2.2.2.5.1. Employs as many civilians as professors, instructors, and lecturers as he/she
              deems necessary (10 U.S.C. § 9338(a)).
              2.2.2.5.2. Prescribes the rate of compensation (10 U.S.C. § 9338(b)).
              2.2.2.5.3. Prescribes the work schedule (10 U.S.C. § 9338(c)(1); see also subchapter V of
              chapter 55 of Title 5 [5 U.S.C.S. § 5541 et seq.] or § 6101 of such Title).
              2.2.2.5.4. Prescribes premium pay or compensatory time off for hours of work or tours of
              duty in excess of the regularly scheduled hours or tours of duty (10 U.S.C. § 9338(c)(2)).
       2.2.3. Establishes policy for USAFA.
       2.2.4. Prescribes regulations to implement an exchange program with foreign military academies
       (10 U.S.C. § 9345(a)).
       2.2.5. Prescribes regulations to cover agreements with respect to a cadet's length of service in the
       armed forces, standards for such agreements, and procedures for determining whether a breach of
       such agreement has occurred (10 U.S.C. § 9348(c)).
       2.2.6. Determines final action and disposition on any disenrollment or resignation of a USAFA
       cadet in any case in which the decision authority has not been delegated.
       2.2.7. Makes annual nominations for attendance at USAFA to fill vacancies in various categories
       (10 U.S.C. § 9432).
       2.2.8. Establishes admissions policies to be applied in determining annual admissions standards.
       2.2.9. Authorizes religious bodies to erect a building for religious worship at the Air Force Acad-
       emy IAW 10 U.S.C. § 9354.
    2.3. Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF).
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                              5


     2.3.1. Exercises direct supervision and control of USAFA as a Direct Reporting Unit (DRU),
     informing the SECAF of significant matters as appropriate.
     2.3.2. Designates the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) as the primary
     focal point within the HAF for all USAFA issues.
     2.3.3. Fosters ownership of USAFA by the operational Air Force and ensures the operational Air
     Force understands, embraces, and assumes a sense of responsibility for successful accomplish-
     ment of USAFA’s mission.
  2.4. USAFA Executive Steering Group (ESG). The USAFA ESG will:
     2.4.1. Provide executive level advice and cross-functional support.
     2.4.2. Be chaired by the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CV).
     2.4.3. Be comprised of AF/CV, the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and
     Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR), the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC), the Deputy Chief of Staff
     for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1), the Air Force Judge Advocate General (AF/JA), and the
     USAFA/CC. The Inspector General will be invited to attend meetings as a guest as the agenda dic-
     tates. The ESG will normally be assisted by various additional offices: the Director of Airman
     Development and Sustainment (AF/A1D) as the primary HAF focal point for USAFA operational
     activities; the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Force Management Integration (SAF/MRM) as the
     USAFA Board of Visitors’ Designated Federal Officer; and others as directed by the ESG Chair.
     The ESG should meet four times per year. In the absence of the AF/CV, the next senior member of
     the ESG present will serve as chair of the meeting.
     2.4.4. Review, as a minimum, appropriate USAFA performance measures; any issues the A1D, in
     fulfilling his/her role as the primary focal point for HAF activities, deems appropriate for ESG
     attention; USAFA cadet climate and permanent party surveys; and any matters of concern pro-
     posed by individual members.
     2.4.5. Notify the SECAF and CSAF of matters warranting their attention.
     2.4.6. Ensure HAF cross-functional coordination of Academy issues.
     2.4.7. Ensure the ESG Chair visits USAFA at least annually. All other ESG members are encour-
     aged to visit USAFA at least annually.
  2.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR). SAF/
  MR will:
     2.5.1. Serve as an agent of the Secretary and provide guidance, direction, and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and bud-
     gets addressing the USAFA.
     2.5.2. Oversee effective implementation of SECAF Policy, to include Air Force Policy Directive
     (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, and USAFA mission accomplishment.
     2.5.3. Provide oversight and guidance for implementation of a performance based management
     system that keeps AF leadership aware of USAFA mission accomplishment.
  2.6. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/
  FM). SAF/FM will:
6                                                                         AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


       2.6.1. Provide oversight guidance and policy for Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) financial analysis,
       financial management, and compliance with financial policy.
       2.6.2. Review and approve waivers to AF financial policy.
       2.6.3. Review and approve supplements to AF financial instruction where DoD/AF policies are
       being changed.
       2.6.4. Coordinate and provide guidance on use of Uniform Financial Management procedures
       pursuant to the execution of 10 U.S.C. § 9359 allowing Appropriated Funds (APFs) to be used as
       NAFs for mixed-funded athletic and recreational extracurricular programs. Additionally, coordi-
       nate on each specific request for execution of Uniform Financial Management procedures to
       ensure the intent is not to extend availability of APFs and that the specific requirements, dollar
       amounts and obligation schedules have been identified.
       2.6.5. Provide fiscal policy, guidance and funds allocated to USAFA through the appropriated
       funds budget process.
    2.7. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). AF/A1 will:
       2.7.1. Serve as the CSAF’s HAF designee for all USAFA related duties which includes, but is not
       limited to, acting as an advocate for USAFA within the Air Force Corporate Structure; implement-
       ing SECAF policy, CSAF vision, and SAF/MR guidance; serving as the primary focal point
       within the HAF for all USAFA issues; measuring USAFA performance IAW AFI 36-3502, Per-
       formance Measurement Program for United States Air Force Academy; and assisting SAF/MR
       with oversight of USAFA activities.
       2.7.2. Support the USAFA/CC in his/her commander responsibilities and support USAFA as an
       institution.
       2.7.3. Develop and monitor policy and legislative change proposals, and issue approved proposals
       as guidance.
       2.7.4. Coordinate issues that have strategic policy implications with SAF/MR.
       2.7.5. Develop and maintain policy directives, mission directives and AFIs supporting USAFA
       operations.
       2.7.6. Ensure USAFA graduates are appropriately classified and assigned with emphasis on
       becoming fully immersed in the warfighting mission IAW Air Force needs and requirements.
       Additionally, graduates should initially serve at the wing level (SPO and labs are considered wing
       level for 61/62/63 officers) or below.
          2.7.6.1. AFPC will be the final decision authority for all cadet classification and assignments.
          2.7.6.2. USAFA may request newly commissioned lieutenants for assignment to USAFA pri-
          marily for diversity recruiting/retention. These assignments will be determined annually by
          AF/A1 according to needs and requirements. Flight screening (if required) and other training
          requirements (such as the Air and Space Basic Course) should be completed during the
          USAFA assignment, but initial skills training may be delayed until they depart USAFA. AFPC
          will have the final scheduling and assignment authority pertaining to these personnel.
          2.7.6.3. USAFA/CC may designate a number of graduates for Advanced Academic Degrees
          (AAD) after commissioning through Air Force funded scholarships (Graduate School Pro-
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                             7


        gram, medical schools, including dental and nursing schools, and JFK Presidential) or nation-
        ally competitive and endowed scholarships. Air Force funded post-graduate scholarships fall
        with the standard Air Force Education Review Board quota allocation process. USAFA will
        notify AFPC of pending AAD program designees to allow AFPC to provide a development
        vector and to better forecast short-term and long-term Air Force requirements.
     2.7.7. Ensure all career field functional managers actively promote USAFA assignment opportu-
     nities and ensure Air Officer Commanding (AOC) and faculty duty is beneficial for career pro-
     gression.
     2.7.8. Maintain a selective assignment process and development program for AOCs to ensure
     they are prepared for their roles at USAFA. AOCs will:
        2.7.8.1. Be majors or major selects.
        2.7.8.2. Be selected through a central command board process established by the Air Force
        Personnel Center (AFPC), in coordination with the Developmental Education Designation
        Board, which will include voting board members representing the Commandant, USAFA Pre-
        paratory School Commander, AFPC, and the USAFA Director of Manpower and Personnel.
            2.7.8.2.1. The Commandant of Cadets makes the final selection of AOCs for the cadet
            wing.
            2.7.8.2.2. The USAFA Preparatory School Commander makes the final selection of AOCs
            for the USAFA Preparatory School.
        2.7.8.3. Attend a specialized 1-year graduate degree program resulting in a master's degree in
        counseling or a similar area, prior to beginning their 2-year command assignment. AOC
        selects will train with a current AOC throughout their graduate degree program. IDE credit
        will be awarded upon completion of prerequisites and successful AOC tour.
        2.7.8.4. Be designated as commanders, on G-series orders, in accordance with, AFI 51- 602,
        Appointment to and Assumption of Command.
     2.7.9. Maintain assignment policies that limit the standard officer and enlisted tour length to no
     more than five consecutive years to ensure those assigned have recent operational experience.
        2.7.9.1. Maintain policies that will ensure the tour length of the USAFA/CC is four years and
        the tour length of the Commandant is three years. The Commandant tour length is waiverable
        by the SECAF to two years. In addition, allow exceptions in order to prevent simultaneous
        turnover rotation of the Commandant and USAFA/CC in the same period, without violating
        Title 10 § 9333(b).
        2.7.9.2. Establish procedures for specific USAFA assignments to be coded as Cadet Training
        and Education Positions (CTEPs) for time-on-station (TOS) purposes. Maintain standards for
        TOS among faculty and staff members in CTEPs that comply with both the recent experience
        requirement and Air Force Corporate Structure fiscal and manpower constraints. Limit person-
        nel in CTEP positions to 4-year tours. A CTEP within the CW is one that designs, develops,
        manages, advises, plans, executes military education and/or training for the cadet wing to
        include Cadet Professional Military Education, Major Training Events, Summer Military
        Training Programs such as Basic Cadet Training and Global Engagement, Operation Air Force
        and Combat Survival and or Skills Training, Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape
8                                                                        AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


          (SERE), etc. These positions may include Cadet Professional Military Education (CPME)
          course directors; Major Training Events Manager; Chief of Training; Superintendent, Cadet
          Military Education and Training; Cadet Wing Training Manager; and Cadet Military Educa-
          tion and Training Instructional Systems Analyst, Operations Branch Chief, Scheduling Branch
          Chief, Air Officers Commanding (AOCs) and Academy Military Trainers.
              2.7.9.2.1. The USAFA/CC, in coordination with AF/A1 (AFPC for O-5s and below and
              the Air Force Chiefs' Group for E-9s), has the authority to extend Airmen in CTEPs
              through 5 years TOS. Assignment issues for CTEP, non permanent professor colonels will
              be worked through the normal Air Force colonel gameplan and Command Screening
              Board (CSB) processes. AF/A1 is the approval authority for all extensions beyond 5 years.
              2.7.9.2.2. Individuals assigned to non-training Base Operating Support (BOS)-type posi-
              tions will follow normal Air Force assignment procedures. Individuals who transfer from
              BOS to CTEPs are limited by their original date arrived station and must be extended by
              the appropriate approval authority to exceed TOS limits for CTEPs in 2.7.9.2.1.
              2.7.9.2.3. For all TOS limits, personnel who have a Report No Later Than Date in the
              same cycle that their TOS limit expires are in compliance with this restriction.
          2.7.9.3. Establish procedures for limited and specific USAFA assignments to be coded as
          Senior Military Faculty (SMF) positions for time on station (TOS) purposes in addition to the
          Permanent Professor (PP) positions designated in 10 U.S.C. § 9331 (b)(4). The combination of
          PP and SMF positions will be maintained at approximately 15% of the authorized USAFA fac-
          ulty strength. To be designated an SMF, an officer must have served a minimum of 3 years
          (normally 4) with a terminal degree as a faculty member of USAFA or Air University in the
          appropriate discipline. Maintain standards for SMFs that allow for periodic deployment or
          other short operational refreshing, but with return to USAFA to sustain military governance of
          the faculty in coordination with the officer’s functional community.
       2.7.10. At a minimum ensure a biennial cadet climate survey, a biennial permanent party climate
       survey, and an annual graduate assessment survey are administered.
       2.7.11. Maintain an office for commissioning programs.
    2.8. Deputy Assistant Secretary for Force Management Integration (SAF/MRM). S A F / M R M
    will:
       2.8.1. Be responsible to SAF/MR for accomplishing strategic oversight of the USAFA mission,
       and to ensure effective HAF oversight of USAFA.
       2.8.2. Serve as the Designated Federal Officer (DFO) for the USAFA Board of Visitors (BoV), as
       required by §10(e), Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), and fulfill the duties and responsi-
       bilities imposed by §10(e) and (f). (5 U.S.C., Appendix 2)
       2.8.3. Serve as interface with OSD on cross-service academy issues and issues related to foreign
       nations.
       2.8.4. Visit USAFA as necessary to accomplish effective SECAF oversight of USAFA.
    2.9. Directorate of Airman Development and Sustainment (AF/A1D). AF/A1D will:
       2.9.1. Act as the primary focal point within the HAF for all operational USAFA activities.
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                                 9


     2.9.2. Support the USAFA/CC in command responsibilities and support USAFA as an institution
     by providing operational assistance including day-to-day interface and staffing of HAF-level
     issues with Air Force functional communities.
     2.9.3. Ensure timely and effective compliance with Congressional Directives.
     2.9.4. Monitor USAFA practices and programs to ensure they accomplish the USAFA mission
     and align with the active duty Air Force to the maximum extent possible.
     2.9.5. Manage USAFA-related actions within the HAF, to include staffing of outstanding action
     items, drafting of HAF direct reply letters, responding to CORONA taskings, staffing USAFA
     assessment reports, and accomplishing other activities as tasked by AF/A1.
     2.9.6. Ensure USAFA-related HAF actions are coordinated with the USAFA/CC, the USAFA/CV,
     the USAFA/DS and/or the appropriate functional office.
     2.9.7. Monitor accomplishment of the USAFA mission through use of performance metrics, as
     directed in AFI 36-3502, reporting deviations to the ESG, and providing a report to the SECAF
     and CSAF at least annually.
     2.9.8. Convene forums of HAF oversight experts, as necessary, to assist USAFA/CC in accom-
     plishing the USAFA mission.
     2.9.9. Provide an Executive Secretary for the BoV. The Executive Secretary will:
        2.9.9.1. Assist the Designated Federal Officer (DFO) in ensuring compliance with the Federal
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. § Appendix 2) and the Freedom of Information Act (5
        U.S.C. § 552) to include semi-annual reports.
        2.9.9.2. Prepare and distribute detailed minutes of each meeting.
        2.9.9.3. Provide information and coordinate administrative and logistical support with
        USAFA and HAF agencies.
        2.9.9.4. Maintain BoV bylaws and charter.
        2.9.9.5. In coordination with the DFO, task appropriate functional offices for research, brief-
        ings, etc., on behalf of the BoV, and recommend quarterly BoV meeting schedule.
     2.9.10. Serve as a HAF liaison between USAFA and the Program Element Monitor (PEM) for
     USAFA training and education.
        2.9.10.1. Provide SAF/MRM an informational copy of all USAFA related Program Budget
        Decision (PBDs) reclamas and/or heartburn appeals.
  2.10. Air Force Inspector General (SAF/IG). SAF/IG will:
     2.10.1. Conduct a Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) IAW AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activ-
     ities. The UCI will assess all applicable By-Law Requirements, Executive Orders, DoD Direc-
     tives, mission areas, and Special Interest Items. Inspections will be conducted at intervals not to
     exceed those stated with the ideal time interval set at 36 months. Will coordinate with the USAFA
     to select an inspection time frame that is least disruptive to cadet training and/or significant Acad-
     emy events. The date of the UCI will be agreed upon NLT 12 months prior to the inspection.
     2.10.2. In conjunction with the appropriate agencies, provide functional guidance/checklists, as
     required, for compliance items subject to inspection.
10                                                                         AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


     2.11. Assistant Secretaries/Deputy Chiefs of Staff/MAJCOM Commanders. Assistant Secretar-
     ies, Deputy Chiefs of Staff, and MAJCOM Commanders and equivalents will:
        2.11.1. Support USAFA programs, working matters in their functional areas directly with USAFA
        through the USAFA/CC and USAFA/CV.
        2.11.2. Notify AF/A1D when matters arise in their functional areas that might impact USAFA
        mission performance.
        2.11.3. Coordinate memoranda of agreement with USAFA, as required.
     2.12. All HAF Agencies. HAF agencies will:
        2.12.1. Coordinate with functional offices at USAFA. However, only the SECAF and CSAF, and
        those designated to act with their authority, will provide direction to the USAFA/CC.
        2.12.2. Support USAFA as needed.
        2.12.3. Provide USAFA 60-days advance notification of visits, when possible. When organiza-
        tions conducting an audit, investigation and other oversight reviews require immediate access
        coordination will be made with USAFA/CC.
Section 2B – Academy Responsibilities
     2.13. Superintendent, USAFA. The USAFA/CC will:
        2.13.1. Organize to provide command, control, and administrative support to USAFA in order to
        accomplish the Academy mission. Ensure developing and mentoring cadets into officers of char-
        acter is part of the duties of every member of the faculty and staff, whether officer, enlisted, or
        civilian.
        2.13.2. In addition to annual performance appraisals, the Superintendent will complete a perfor-
        mance review with a continuation recommendation on the Dean of the Faculty at the 4-year point.
        The performance review will be forwarded to the SECAF and CSAF. The USAFA/CC will also
        review the performance of the Athletic Director and Director of Admissions every 4 years. If a
        USAFA/CC has not accomplished a review within the last two years, and is scheduled to depart
        his/her position early, he/she will accomplish all such reviews before departing.
        2.13.3. Coordinate memoranda of agreement with major commands, as required and inform HAF
        when appropriate.
        2.13.4. Assist the USD (P&R), BoV, ESG, SAF/IG, SAF/MR, SAF/FM, AF/A1, SAF/MRM, AF/
        A1D, and other HAF oversight entities in execution of their responsibilities as outlined in this
        instruction.
        2.13.5. Maintain command attention aimed at eliminating sexual assault, sexual harassment and
        negative attitudes regarding minority groups or perceived group differences at USAFA. Be ulti-
        mately responsible for all aspects of the USAFA sexual assault prevention and response program,
        and conduct the program in accordance with Air Force guidelines.
           2.13.5.1. Immediately notify the SECAF and CSAF anytime a significant event occurs that
           could reflect poorly on USAFA, and ensure SAF/MR and AF/A1 are also aware.
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                               11


        2.13.5.2. Publish a supplement to Air Force Instructions outlining the duties and responsibili-
        ties associated with the Academy Response Team as they relate to the duties of the Sexual
        Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) and OSD-directed SARC program guidance.
     2.13.6. Maintain a current, actionable strategic plan that defines goals, objectives, tasks, metrics,
     and serves as the strategic level guidance for the development of supporting mission element
     plans.
        2.13.6.1. Ensure all USAFA operating instructions and procedures support the strategic plan
        and further achievement of the USAFA mission.
     2.13.7. Ensure all USAFA organizational processes, procedures, and instructions align with Air
     Force policy guidance to the maximum extent possible. Where USAFA policies or practices
     change or alter DoD/AF policies, USAFA will request a waiver from the appropriate Air Staff
     office/agency prior to any implementation of the policy change. USAFA will maintain supple-
     ments to AFIs reflecting these approved waivers.
     2.13.8. Direct specific duties and composition of the Academy Board.
     2.13.9. Establish other boards or planning groups as necessary to ensure joint planning, execution,
     and assessment of the USAFA mission.
     2.13.10. Maintain and implement a 4-year Course Of Instruction (COI) (10 U.S.C. § 9349(b)) at
     USAFA. The COI will directly support accomplishment of the mission of USAFA. Cadets will not
     be required to pursue their studies on Sunday (10 U.S.C. § 9349(c)), though religious accommo-
     dation may result in other than Sunday-off arrangements. Cadets shall be trained in the duties of
     members of the Air Force (10 U.S.C. § 9349(d)). The USAFA/CC will:
        2.13.10.1. Ensure the COI is developed as a single, integrated whole
        2.13.10.2. Be designated as the supported commander for character development. Supporting
        commanders will ensure character development is supported by and integrated throughout the
        COI for academic, leadership, and physical development.
            2.13.10.2.1. Place appropriate emphasis on the Honor Code, Honor Oath, and the value of
            character as fundamental to success in officer development. The Cadet Honor Code is a
            statement of intent: "We will not lie, steal, or cheat, nor tolerate among us anyone who
            does." The intent of cadets should not only be to hold themselves and their peers to this
            explicit standard but to also resolve to do their duty and live honorably.
            2.13.10.2.2. The USAFA/CC will ensure an honor system is in place that educates cadets
            on the meaning of honor, ethics, and integrity, holds cadets accountable for their actions,
            and achieves timely case processing for reported Cadet Honor Code violations.
        2.13.10.3. Establish mechanisms by which Academy and Air Force leadership can assess the
        success of the COI.
     2.13.11. Ensure the Commandant of Cadets, Dean of Faculty, and Director of Athletics prepares
     cadets, as future officers, to lead a widely diverse military force engaged in global operations.
        2.13.11.1. Be the approval authority for graduation and commissioning of every cadet.
        2.13.11.2. Consider initiating disenrollment procedures for any cadet found to be below
        USAFA standards, to include violations of the Honor Code.
12                                                                       AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


        2.13.11.3. Cadet disenrollment, including breach of agreement cases, will be handled IAW
        AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets.
     2.13.12. Identify and attract a broadly diverse group of qualified candidates who could, through
     daily interaction and a robust exchange of academic and leadership perspectives, provide an envi-
     ronment that exposes all cadets to a broad range of ideas and experiences, and challenges each to
     examine their personal assumptions and philosophies.
        2.13.12.1. Ensure that USAFA remains accredited by the North Central Association of Col-
        leges and Schools (NCA) or its equivalent and other appropriate division or discipline specific
        accreditations (engineering, chemistry, Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Busi-
        ness (AACSB), etc.).
     2.13.13. Develop a specific sustainment plan for selection and development of CTEP, SMF and
     civilian faculty for all mission areas. Coordinate plan with AFPC (including functional managers),
     AF/DPO and AF/A1 IAW USAF requirements for the AFERB and TOS limitations in 2.7.9. Plan
     should be updated annually to allow timely adjustments to civilian pay funding, future year AAD
     quotas and associated assignment actions.
     2.13.14. Ensure USAFA remains certified by and complies with National Collegiate Athletic
     Association (NCAA) and athletic conference principles and bylaws in the intercollegiate program,
     subject to DoD and AF directives.
        2.13.14.1. Serve as a member of the Board of Directors of Athletic conferences where
        USAFA is a member. The Superintendent is authorized to participate in the management and
        direction of the conference(s) consistent with 10 U.S.C. § 1033, and the Federal Register, 65
        Fed. Reg. 52.
     2.13.15. Be responsible for the USAFA Preparatory School (USAFA/PL).
     2.13.16. Oversee all matters related to Permanent Professors.
        2.13.16.1. There will be a maximum number of Permanent Professors at the Air Force Acad-
        emy as specified in 10 U.S.C. § 9331(b)(4) of the grade specified in 10 U.S.C. § 9336(a). The
        USAFA/CC will forward his/her recommendation, along with other fully qualified nominees
        to the SECAF and CSAF. With SECAF and CSAF support, the nominee will be forwarded to
        the President of the United States for appointment, with the advice and consent of the Senate.
        2.13.16.2. Military permanent professors enjoy a special statutory status that is separate and
        distinct from their former status as line officers. They continue to be members of the Regular
        Air Force, but hold the office of Permanent Professor, which is distinguished from the office
        they held as line officers (10 U.S.C. § 8075 (b)), and they do not serve on the active duty list
        (10 U.S.C. § 641(2)). Permanent professors exercise command only in their respective aca-
        demic department of the Academy (10 U.S.C. § 9334(b)). The exercise of this authority does
        not confer the authority granted under an appointment or assumption of command of an Air
        Force organization within the meaning of AFI 51-602. A Permanent Professor does not exer-
        cise command authority of an Air Force unit or organization and, therefore, is not a com-
        mander.
        2.13.16.3. Permanent Professors will periodically (normally every 5 years) serve on sabbati-
        cals in fields related to their Permanent Professor responsibilities to ensure they remain current
        in their discipline or serve in the operational Air Force for the purposes of refreshing their
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                              13


         operational experience in their primary career field or AFSC. USAFA/A1 will coordinate with
         the Air Force Colonels Group on behalf of USAFA/CC, to place these officers in positions
         based upon their experience and specialty, as well as the needs of the Air Force and USAFA.
         USAFA/CC has final approval on TDYs but PCS assignments will be worked through the nor-
         mal Air Force colonel gameplan process. The service can be extended TDYs, deployments, or
         PCS assignments. To preclude the loss of Permanent Professor, USAFA status, he/she will
         remain on the manning documents.
         2.13.16.4. The President has the authority to remove Permanent Professors from their posi-
         tions. The Secretary may recommend a Permanent Professor’s removal after providing him/
         her with notice of the reason for the removal and an opportunity to respond. Additionally, per-
         manent professors removed from their position remain subject to other appropriate administra-
         tive or judicial actions.
         2.13.16.5. Retirement. Permanent Professors will retire at 30 years of service unless addi-
         tional service is approved by the SECAF. Unless retired or separated at an earlier date, a pro-
         fessor shall be retired no later than the first day of the month following the month in which he
         or she becomes 64 years of age (10 U.S.C. § 1251(a)). Upon retirement, and at the discretion
         of the President, a Permanent Professor whose grade is below brigadier general, and whose
         service as a professor has been long and distinguished, may be retired in the "Honorary" grade
         of brigadier general. This honor will be bestowed without the pay of that grade (10 U.S.C. §
         8962). For this retirement promotion the individual must have 30 or more years of total active
         federal commissioned service and 10 or more years of continuous service as a Permanent Pro-
         fessor or as an Academic Department Head.
     2.13.17. Regardless of extra curricular activities such as varsity athletics, club participation, or
     religious affiliation, ensure all cadets conform to the same rules and standards unless exceptions
     are approved by the USAFA/CC. Ensure the basis for the exceptions are widely disseminated
     throughout USAFA.
  2.14. Vice Superintendent (USAFA/CV). The USAFA/CV will:
     2.14.1. Assist the USAFA/CC as necessary.
     2.14.2. Hold membership on boards and committees as directed by the USAFA/CC.
     2.14.3. Direct execution of the USAFA strategic plan.
     2.14.4. Be directly responsible for the execution of the USAFA COI.
     2.14.5. Accomplish other duties as prescribed by the USAFA/CC.
  2.15. Academy Board. All members must be in the grade of colonel or above. If the position is des-
  ignated by the USAFA/CC to be permanently filled by a civilian of equivalent rank, that incumbent
  will serve as a member of the Board. The Board meets at the call of the USAFA/CC to address any
  issue deemed appropriate. This board of senior USAFA officers must be consulted by the USAFA/CC
  when considering cadets for return or reappointment to USAFA following disenrollment (10 U.S.C. §
  9351) and recommends candidates to the SECAF to bring the cadet wing to full strength (10 U.S.C. §
  9343). The Board recommends graduation standards, and performs other functions specified by the
  USAFA/CC IAW USAFAI 36-2003, The US Air Force Academy Board.
  2.16. Commandant of Cadets. The Commandant of Cadets will:
14                                                                        AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


        2.16.1. Organize to provide command, control, and administrative support to USAFA cadets and
        the Commandant’s faculty and staff.
        2.16.2. Be designated as the supported commander for cadet leadership development programs
        and processes.
            2.16.2.1. Maintain a Cadet Wing organizational structure with prescribed roles for each class
            that focus on developing the leadership competencies of the Institutional Competency List,
            and that offers opportunities for meaningful leadership experiences at the tactical level for
            every cadet before graduation.
            2.16.2.2. Develop and maintain a Cadet Military Education and Training strategic plan
            focused on the mission of the Air Force and integrated with other elements of the USAFA
            COI.
        2.16.3. Be designated as a supporting commander for character, academic, and physical develop-
        ment programs and processes.
        2.16.4. Maintain good order and discipline among cadets.
            2.16.4.1. Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). With the exception of foreign cadets,
            the cadets at USAFA are members of the Air Force and subject to military law and the UCMJ
            including non-judicial punishment. A cadet who commits an offense under the UCMJ, may be
            tried and punished by court-martial or punished under Article 15, UCMJ, notwithstanding any
            other provision of this Instruction.
            2.16.4.2. Cadet Disciplinary System (CDS). Oversee administration of the CDS. The CDS
            enhances the options already existing in the UCMJ and allows for appropriate counseling,
            leadership, and discretion required by cadet and permanent party leadership to correct behav-
            ior and enforce standards.
            2.16.4.3. Ensure the rationale for all significant decisions are documented and retained with
            the corresponding action.
        2.16.5. Maintain the system that administers the Honor Code.
        2.16.6. Hold membership on boards and committees, as directed by the USAFA/CC.
        2.16.7. Perform other duties, as prescribed by the USAFA/CC.
     2.17. Dean of the Faculty. The Dean of the Faculty is responsible to the USAFA/CC for developing
     and sustaining the accredited undergraduate curriculum and overseeing the academic faculty of
     USAFA. The Dean will:
        2.17.1. Organize to provide command, control, and administrative support to the USAFA faculty.
            2.17.1.1. Permanent Professors. The Dean will nominate candidates for Permanent Professors
            through USAFA/DP to the USAFA/CC to be forwarded to CSAF and SECAF through AF/A1.
            2.17.1.2. The Dean will certify Permanent Professor suitability for continuation if warranted
            through an annual performance report. The Dean can recommend to the USAFA/CC the
            removal of any Permanent Professor if he/she deems it is in the best interest of USAFA. Prior
            to the 30 years of service milestone, and every 5 years after that time, if the USAFA/CC
            wishes to retain a permanent professor, he must forward a performance review to the SECAF
            for approval along with a recommendation for retention.
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                                15


         2.17.1.3. Civilian Faculty. 10 U.S.C. § 9338(a) provides that the SECAF may employ as many
         civilians as professors, instructors, and lecturers at the Academy as the Secretary considers
         necessary. To accomplish that USAFA will strive to hire individuals with civilian academic
         experience into civilian positions to ensure an appropriate mix within the faculty.
     2.17.2. Be designated as the supported commander for cadet academic development programs
     and processes.
         2.17.2.1. Direct and manage the development and execution of an undergraduate curriculum
         as part of the USAFA COI.
         2.17.2.2. Orient, structure, and maintain the core academic curriculum, as well as require-
         ments associated with academic majors, to provide the variety of skills required of an officer
         of character.
     2.17.3. Be designated as a supporting commander for character, leadership, and physical develop-
     ment programs and processes.
         2.17.3.1. Include deliberate and structured processes emphasizing character development and
         maximizing leadership opportunities in all cadet situations.
     2.17.4. Ensure institutional accreditation from the NCA or equivalent and when available specific
     disciplinary academic accreditation from appropriate professional accrediting bodies.
     2.17.5. Hold membership on boards and committees, as directed by the USAFA/CC.
     2.17.6. Perform other duties, as prescribed by the USAFA/CC.
  2.18. Director of Admissions. The Director of Admissions will:
     2.18.1. Identify and attract a broadly diverse group of qualified candidates who could, by the
     impact of their collective diversity, significantly enhance the quality of education and training for
     the entire cadet population.
     2.18.2. Ensure admissions practices are consistent with law and that admissions policies estab-
     lished for USAFA and USAFA/PL by the SECAF are implemented.
         2.18.2.1. Determination of Candidate Qualification. SECAF will establish admissions policy.
         The USAFA/CC will establish annual qualifications for admissions consistent with SECAF
         policy and which will be the same for all candidates, except for foreign candidates, with allow-
         ances for minimally essential physiological differences between men and women (Public Law
         94-106, The Department of Defense Appropriation Authorization Act of 1976 and 10 U.S.C. §
         803).
            2.18.2.1.1. Ensure each candidate’s admissions qualifications include academic potential,
            demonstrated good character, demonstrated leadership potential, physical aptitude, and
            medical fitness.
            2.18.2.1.2. Ensure admissions practices give individualized consideration of constitution-
            ally permissible diversity factors and ensure the collection of diversity factor data neces-
            sary for analyzing the effectiveness of the diversity recruiting efforts. All applications will
            be considered lawfully, individually, and fairly. Admission decisions will be made without
            regard to religion, race, ethnicity, or gender.
16                                                                         AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


            2.18.2.2. Annual class size and composition of the Preparatory School will be at the discretion
            of the SECAF.
            2.18.2.3. The SECAF has determined that developing recruited athletes is an authorized part
            of the Preparatory School mission. Accordingly, for purpose of enrollment in the Preparatory
            School, recruited athletes may be given consideration as long as they meet all other enrollment
            criteria.
     2.19. Director of Athletics. The Athletic Director reports directly to the USAFA/CC. The Athletic
     Director will:
        2.19.1. Organize to provide command, control, and administrative support to USAFA Athletic
        Department (USAFA/AD) personnel.
            2.19.1.1. Department of Physical Education. The Department of Physical Education is desig-
            nated an Academy department of instruction under the Director of Athletics and will have an
            assigned Permanent Professor, who will serve as Deputy Athletic Director for Operations.
               2.19.1.1.1. The Athletic Director will nominate a candidate for the Permanent Professor to
               the USAFA/CC to be forwarded to CSAF and SECAF through AF/A1.
               2.19.1.1.2. Within USAFA/AD, the Athletic Director will certify Permanent Professor
               suitability for continuation if warranted through an annual performance report. The Ath-
               letic Director can recommend to the USAFA/CC the removal of the department’s Perma-
               nent Professor if he/she deems it is in the best interest of USAFA. Prior to the 30 years of
               service milestone, and every 5 years after that time, if the USAFA/CC wishes to retain a
               permanent professor, he must forward a performance review to the SECAF for approval
               along with a recommendation for retention.
            2.19.1.2. Deputy Athletic Director for Operations. As the Permanent Professor for the Ath-
            letic Director and Head of the Physical Education Department, the Deputy Athletic Director
            for Operations will:
               2.19.1.2.1. Maintain a comprehensive Physical Education Program to include fitness
               training, testing, and evaluation in compliance with Athletic Department requirements.
               2.19.1.2.2. Maintain an intramural sports program.
               2.19.1.2.3. Serve as athletic department’s liaison with the Commandant of Cadets on all
               cadet athlete disciplinary actions.
            2.19.1.3. Coaches. USAFA Department of Athletics is authorized to retain coaches of cadet
            intercollegiate athletic teams from three different sources. Coaches are:
               2.19.1.3.1. Active Duty. Active duty officers in the grade of lieutenant through lieutenant
               colonel must be qualified physical education instructors by virtue of education, athletic
               experience, or both to be assigned as coaches.
               2.19.1.3.2. Members of the Civilian Faculty. These Administratively Determined (AD)
               employees are retained as instructor-coaches; their duties include physical education
               instruction or coaching intercollegiate teams.
               2.19.1.3.3. Contract Coaches. Contract coaches are retained via individual services con-
               tracts by Air Force Academy Athletic Association (AFAAA). Contract coaches may be
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                               17


             retained for positions where the use of active duty military or civilian faculty members is
             impracticable or inadvisable due to specializations, compensation, qualifications or other
             factors. Their contracts must not result in an employer/employee relationship.
      2.19.2. Be designated as the supported commander for cadet physical development programs and
      processes.
          2.19.2.1. As part of the USAFA Course of Instruction, provide a broad program in physical
          development to include physical education, fitness training, testing and evaluation, intramural
          and intercollegiate athletic competition.
      2.19.3. Be designated as a supporting commander for character, academic, and leadership devel-
      opment programs and processes.
      2.19.4. Act as supervisor and fund custodian of the Air Force Academy Athletic Association
      (AFAAA).
      2.19.5. Accomplish duties related to National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) in accor-
      dance with paragraph 2.13.13.
          2.19.5.1. Maintain Division I-A membership.
          2.19.5.2. Comply with NCAA and governing athletic conference rules so long as consistent
          with Department of Defense or Air Force directives. In the event of a conflict between these
          directives and NCAA rules, the Athletic Department and the AFAAA must follow the DoD
          and AF directives or obtain a waiver from the appropriate Air Staff office or agency.
      2.19.6. Focus on utilizing the athletic program to present the Air Force and USAFA story to the
      American public in furtherance of the USAFA mission.
      2.19.7. Hold membership on boards and committees, as directed by the USAFA/CC.
      2.19.8. Perform other duties, as prescribed by the USAFA/CC.
Section 2C – Other Academy Organizations
   2.20. 10th Air Base Wing. Provide base-level services, support functions, and personnel in support
   of the operation and maintenance of the USAFA.
   2.21. USAFA Preparatory School. Policy for admission to the USAFA/PL will be established by
   the SECAF. The commander of the USAFA/PL will:
      2.21.1. Be selected by the USAFA/CC in coordination with the colonels group using the com-
      mand screening board process to command the Preparatory School in accordance with AFI
      36-2021, USAF Academy Preparatory School.
      2.21.2. Provide focused academic, military, and physical instruction in an environment designed
      to develop character and promote military values. Athletic instruction includes intercollegiate pro-
      grams at the junior college or equivalent level.
      2.21.3. Ensure the educational, discipline and administrative practices of USAFA/PL are consis-
      tent with those of USAFA except as otherwise approved by the USAFA/CC.

3. Delegations of Authority and Waivers
18                                                                          AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


     3.1. Waivers. Standards and requirements in AFIs are to be applied at USAFA to the maximum
     extent practicable. While permanent party members at USAFA are always held to AFI standards, the
     USAFA/CC may find it necessary to develop local instructions that prescribe unique performance
     requirements for members of the cadet wing and their permanent party supervisors and instructors. To
     accomplish this until separate waivers or AFI changes and supplements are approved for cadet activi-
     ties and compliance, USAFA/CC is authorized to:
        3.1.1. Deviate from standard Air Force Unit Climate Assessments in AFI 36-2706, Military Equal
        Opportunity Program, to employ a climate survey more appropriate for the cadet culture, cadet
        development, and that best facilitates accomplishment of the USAFA mission.
        3.1.2. Deviate from AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, or standard Air Force rules of conduct to
        develop and employ special rules of conduct for cadets that are appropriate for cadet development
        and facilitate accomplishment of the USAFA mission.
        3.1.3. Deviate from the standard Air Force rank structure found in Table 5.1 of AFI 36-2903,
        Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, and maintain and employ a unique rank
        structure for cadets that is appropriate for cadet development and facilitates accomplishment of
        the USAFA mission. Cadets do not hold rank outside of the cadet wing, and thus do not outrank
        any other Air Force member, including enlisted members.
        3.1.4. Develop and field uniforms for cadets that deviate from AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
        Appearance of Air Force Personnel, as appropriate for the USAFA mission.
        3.1.5. Deviate from AFI 36-2406, Air Force Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, in docu-
        menting performance of cadets.
        3.1.6. Deviate from AFI 10-248, Fitness Program, as related to cadet fitness standards and activ-
        ities while ensuring all graduates meet AF commissioning fitness requirements prior to gradua-
        tion.
        3.1.7. Deviate from AFI 36-2907, Unfavorable Information File (UIF) Program, the Superinten-
        dent may establish a program unique for cadets appropriate for officially documenting substanti-
        ated adverse information about a cadet and establishing final disposition of the UIF.
        3.1.8. Other deviations from Air Force standards must be approved by the appropriate Air Force
        OPR and be consistent with law.
     3.2. Waivers Relating to the Athletic Department. The athletic program is operated under DOD
     and AF directives as a unique revenue-generating Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality. The NAFI
     assists USAFA in the development, funding, operating and management of its Intercollegiate athletic
     program that is in direct support of the Academy’s mission to build future Air Force leaders of charac-
     ter by providing a realistic leadership experience in a mentally and physically challenging environ-
     ment. Specific guidance and direction and a number of exceptions and waivers to policy are contained
     in Headquarters Air Force-approved supplements to AF Instructions. Specific written USAFA Sup-
     plements or exceptions have been approved to the following directives:
        3.2.1. AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs)
        3.2.2. AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures for Protecting NAF Assets
        3.2.3. AFI 34-407, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                                19


     3.2.4. AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures
     3.2.5. AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and Nonap-
     propriated Fund Instrumentalities
  3.3. Authorizations Relating to Other Organizations.
     3.3.1. Visitor Center and Museum. USAFA is authorized to operate a visitor center and a
     museum on the Academy Reservation.
     3.3.2. Youth Programs. USAFA is authorized to operate Summer Youth Programs (summer
     seminar, sports camp, etc) on the USAFA Reservation, and to utilize cadets, permanent party, and
     TDY personnel in the operation of those programs to the extent the USAFA/CC deems appropri-
     ate.
     3.3.3. Special Summer Programs. USAFA is authorized to operate special summer programs
     (Cadet Summer Research, Global Engagement, the Study Abroad Program, Airborne, Air Assault,
     RECONDO, Lackland Leadership, mini-BUDS, etc.) both on the Academy reservation and
     through USAFA-funded TDYs as the USAFA/CC deems necessary, and to utilize cadets, perma-
     nent party, and TDY personnel in the operation of those programs to the extent the USAFA/CC
     deems appropriate.
        3.3.3.1. Operation Air Force. USAFA will operate a program called Operation Air Force
        (Ops AF) to expose cadets to the operational Air Force during temporary duty assignments at
        operational locations. USAFA will develop and communicate to host bases clear objectives for
        this program, and require documented feedback on cadet performance while participating.
     3.3.4. Post-Graduate Scholarships (Rhodes, etc). The USAFA/CC is authorized to select those
     cadets who will compete for and complete graduate school programs after graduation, but before
     their first assignments or operational training. This selection should fulfill Air Force short-term or
     long-term AAD requirements when practical and notifications made IAW para 2.7.6.3. If the total
     number of Air Force funded scholarships exceeds USAFA's advanced academic degree man-year
     allocation, USAFA will request a waiver or exception through AF/A1D. AF/A1 or his designee is
     the approval authority.
     3.3.5. Airmanship Programs. USAFA is authorized to utilize unique airmanship programs in
     support of the USAFA cadet development mission. Headquarters Air Education and Training
     Command (HQ AETC) supports USAFA mission accomplishment by operating the USAFA air-
     field and associated airmanship programs. USAFA/CC will provide a Program Requirements
     Document (PRD) for USAFA airmanship programs to AF/A1D. AF/A1D will coordinate with HQ
     AETC to support requested airmanship programs. USAFA/CC will coordinate an airfield Memo-
     randum of Agreement (MOA), Host Tenant Service Agreement (HTSA), and any other adminis-
     trative processes deemed necessary with HQ AETC/CC to ensure optimal airfield operations. HQ
     AETC will support airmanship programs listed below as an integral part of the USAFA COI.
     Cadet instructors will be used to the maximum extent possible in accordance with applicable Air
     Force guidance and as flight safety allows.
        3.3.5.1. Basic and Advanced Free-fall Parachuting.
        3.3.5.2. Wings of Blue Parachute Competition team.
        3.3.5.3. Wings of Blue Parachute Demonstration team.
20                                                                            AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


            3.3.5.4. Cadet Competition Flying Team.
            3.3.5.5. Basic Soaring.
            3.3.5.6. Glider Aerobatic Team.
            3.3.5.7. Cross-country Soaring Team.
            3.3.5.8. Flight Test, Aeronautics and Military Science.
            3.3.5.9. Powered Flight Orientation.
        3.3.6. Center for Character Development. USAFA is authorized to maintain a Center for Char-
        acter Development (CWC) to focus on the development of cadet character. All CWC lesson plans
        will be fully integrated as part of the overall USAFA Course of Instruction. Character programs
        developed by the Center and approved by the Academy Board will be published in the USAFA
        Curriculum Handbook.
        3.3.7. Private Organizations (POs) or Other Organizations. Private or other organizations are
        self-sustaining non-federal entities set up by people acting outside the federal government. They
        are not part of the Department of the Air Force, a NAFI, or otherwise federal entities. The
        USAFA/CC or his designee has the discretion to permit these organizations to operate on the
        Academy Reservation, but only with his/her written consent. Air Force personnel may not use
        their titles, offices, or positions to officially endorse an organization or its activities beyond what
        is permitted by DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulations (JER), para 3-210, and AFI 34-223, Pri-
        vate Organization (PO) Program. These organizations are monitored by 10 MSG/SVF IAW AFI
        34-223.
            3.3.7.1. Association of Graduates (AOG). The Association of Graduates of the United
            States Air Force Academy, Inc., is the alumni association for USAFA. It is a nonprofit,
            self-supporting corporation located in its headquarters building, Doolittle Hall, on USAFA
            grounds. Specific authority for use of the buildings and grounds require all the costs to be paid
            by the AOG. Membership in the AOG is not required for cadets and recruiting materials and
            briefings provided during cadet in-processing will stress there is no requirement for AOG
            membership.
            3.3.7.2. Athletic Booster Clubs. Athletic booster clubs provide support (financial and other-
            wise) for their affiliated competitive team sports. The clubs are organized with varying
            degrees of structure and formality. Some are incorporated and tax exempt as either charitable
            or social organizations, while others are less structured collections of fans, parents, and alumni
            providing mainly non-monetary support. The NCAA permits these groups to operate in sup-
            port of member institutions so long as they abide by applicable NCAA bylaws. In addition,
            these groups must operate consistent with applicable Air Force regulations.
            3.3.7.3. Falcon Foundation. The Falcon Foundation is a non-profit, private organization that
            provides partial scholarships for use at one of five civilian prep schools to applicants that are
            not competitive for direct entry to the Air Force Academy.
     3.4. Gifts to USAFA. Receipt, acceptance, and processing of any gifts offered to USAFA or person-
     nel assigned to USAFA will be handled IAW AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force,
     and USAFA Sup 1 or AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs) and USAFA Sup 1 for gifts
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                21


  to the AFAAA, and JER (DoD Regulation 5500.7-R and AFI 51-901, Gifts from Foreign Govern-
  ments).



                                       RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                       DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
22                                                                      AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Doctrine Document 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 February 2006
Air Force Instruction 10-248, Fitness Program, 25 September 2006
Air Force Instruction 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs), 17 June 2002
Air Force Manual 34-212, Control Procedures for Protecting NAF Assets, 1 September 1995
Air Force Instruction 34-407, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program,19 July 2005
Air Force Instruction 36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy, 29
April 1994
Air Force Instruction 36-2014, Commissioning Education, 22 April 2008
Air Force Instruction 36-2019, Appointment to the United States Air Force Academy, 16 May 1994
Air Force Instruction 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets, 22 April 1999
Air Force Instruction 36-2021, Air Force Academy Preparatory School, 12 September 2006
Air Force Instruction 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
Air Force Instruction 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity Program, 29 July 2004
Air Force Instruction 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June
2004
Air Force Instruction 36-3502, Performance Measurement Program for United States Air Force Academy,
10 March 2005
Air Force Instruction 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004
Air Force Instruction 48-123, Volume 1, Medical Examinations and Standards Volume 1 – General Provi-
sions, 5 June 2006
Air Force Instruction 51-201, Administration of Military Justice, 21 December 2007
Air Force Instruction 51-202, Nonjudicial Punishment, 7 November 2003
Air Force Instruction 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and Non-
appropriated Fund Instrumentalities, 11 April 2006
Air Force Manual 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, 3 November 2000
Air Force Mission Directive 12, United States Air Force Academy, 17 December 2007
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 1 August 1994
Air Force Policy Directive 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 1 February 2007
DODD 1322.22, Service Academies, 24 August 1994
DODI 1025.4, Service Academy Resources Report, 18 October 1994
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                               23


DOD Regulation 5500.7–R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 1 August 1994
DODD 5500.7, Standards of Conduct, 29 November 2007
Manual for Courts–Martial United States (2008 Edition)
Public Law 94–106, The Department of Defense Appropriation Authorization Act of 1976, Title 5,
Appendix, Federal Advisory Committee Act
Title 10 United States Code Section 702, Cadets and midshipmen
Title 10 United States Code Section 802, Art. 2, Persons subject to this chapter
Title 10 United States Code Section 822, Art. 22, Who may convene general courts-martial
Title 10 United States Code Section 871, Art. 71, Execution of sentence; suspension of sentence
Title 10 United States Code Section 978, Drug and alcohol abuse and dependency: testing of new
entrants
Title 10 United States Code Section 9331, Establishment; Superintendent; faculty
Title 10 United States Code Section 9333, Superintendent; faculty: appointment and detail
Title 10 United States Code Section 9334, Command and supervision
Title 10 United States Code Section 9335, Dean of Academic Board
Title 10 United States Code Section 9336, Permanent professors; director of admissions
Title 10 United States Code Section 9342, Cadets: appointment; numbers, territorial distribution
Title 10 United States Code Section 9343, Cadets: appointment; to bring Corps to full strength
Title 10 United States Code Section 9349, Cadets: organization of Corps; service; instruction
Title 10 United States Code Section 9351, Cadets: deficiencies in conduct or studies; effect of failure on
successor
Title 10 United States Code Section 9352, Cadets: hazing
Title 10 United States Code Section 9353, Cadets: degree and commission on graduation
Title 10 United States Code Section 9355, Board of Visitors
Title 37 United States Code Section 204, Entitlement
Title 37 United States Code Section 422, Cadets and midshipmen

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Athletic Department or Administratively Determined
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFAAA—Air Force Academy Athletic Association
AACSB—Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
ALO—Admissions Liaison Officer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
24                                                                             AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008


BoV—Board of Visitors
CWC—Center for Character Development
COI—Course of Instruction
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CSB—Commanders Screening Board
CTEP—Cadet Training and Education Position
CW—Cadet Wing, or Commandant of Cadets
DF—Dean of the Faculty
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ESG—Executive Steering Group
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SERE—Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape
SES—Senior Executive Service
SMF—Senior Military Faculty
TDY—Temporary Duty
TOS—Time on Station
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.C.—United States Code
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Cadet Training and Education Position (CTEP)—A n a u t h o r i z e d p e r s o nn e l b i l l e t w h e r e t h e
individual's duties require providing policy direction, regular instruction or frequent interaction
associated with cadets and/or cadet development (includes academic, athletic, leadership and/or character
development activities). Defining activities are not restricted to direct cadet access. Positions that provide
frequent service-related interface such as medical personnel, law enforcement, or base operating support
are not considered CTEPs.
Conduct—A cadet’s adherence to or departure from civilian laws, the Uniform Code of Military Justice,
and/or Air Force and Academy directives, and standards.
Discharge—A complete severance from military status, active or otherwise.
AFI36-3501 28 APRIL 2008                                                                               25


Disenrollment—Termination of cadet status. Disenrollment is a consequence of the USAFA/CC’s
determination that a cadet is not qualified for commissioning. A cadet is disenrolled when the Secretary
of the Air Force approves his or her resignation or dismissal adjudged by court martial; or when the cadet
accepts the recommendation of the USAFA/CC for involuntary disenrollment. Removal from the cadet
wing pending disenrollment normally entails loss of entitlement to participate in academic, athletic,
morale, and military programs, but does not in itself end cadet status or other military obligations, and
some or all of its normal effects as described above may be suspended by the USAFA/CC. Disenrollment
does not, in itself, separate an individual from the Air Force. The SECAF will make final disposition of
cadet military service obligations following disenrollment.
Diverse—Consisting of individuals exhibiting varying degrees and dimensions of the characteristics of
diversity.
Diversity—For USAFA purposes, consistent with the Air Force approach to diversity, Diversity is
defined as a composite of individual characteristics that includes personal life experiences (including
having overcome adversity by personal efforts), geographic background (e.g., region, rural, suburban,
urban), socioeconomic background, cultural knowledge, educational background (including academic
excellence, and whether an individual would be a first generation college student), work background
(including prior enlisted service), language abilities (with particular emphasis on languages of strategic
importance to the Air Force), physical abilities (including athletic prowess), philosophical/spiritual
perspectives, age (cadet applicants must be within statutory parameters for academy attendance), race,
ethnicity and gender. [Note: As stated in paragraph 2.18.2.1.1., all applications for admissions will be
considered lawfully, individually, and fairly; and admissions decisions will be made without regard to
religion, race ethnicity, or gender.]
Graduate—One who satisfactorily completes academic, aptitude, conduct, athletic, and military training
requirements and receives a degree.
Oversight—The responsibility for monitoring the implementation of policies and procedures that comply
with national leadership guidance, and the evaluation of their impact on the successful accomplishment of
a mission. For this instruction, oversight includes the mission of USAFA as well as the Headquarters Air
Force support mission, and will utilize a performance based management approach to the extent possible.
Resignation—A request by a cadet for disenrollment from USAFA and/or discharge from the Air Force.
If a resignation is approved, the cadet is disenrolled and discharged or separated according to AFI
36-2020, or assigned other duties in the Air Force.
Supported Commander—In the context of a support command relationship, the commander who
receives assistance from another commander’s force or capabilities, and who is responsible for ensuring
that the supporting commander understands the assistance required.
Supporting Commander—In the context of a support command relationship, the commander who aids,
protects, complements, or sustains another commander’s force, and who is responsible for providing the
assistance required by the supported commander.
