BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-126(I)
SECRETARIES OF THE AIR FORCE                                             ARMY REGULATION 215-6
THE ARMY, THE NAVY,                                              OPNAVINST INSTRUCTION 1710.4B
AND THE MARINE CORPS                                               MARINE CORPS ORDER 1710.23C
                                                                                     28 FEBRUARY 2005

                                                                                                   Services

                                                                                 ARMED FORCES
                                                                        ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILVE (Colonel Janice G. Long)                Certified by: HQ USAF/ILV (Arthur J. Myers)

Supersedes AFIJI 34-126                                                                          Pages: 34
           Army Regulation 215-6                                                            Distribution: F
           OPNAVINST 1710.4B
           Marine Corps Order, 1710.23B,
           6 Jan 95

This instruction implements Department of Defense (DOD) Instruction 1330.13, Armed Forces Enter-
tainment Program, 23 March 2004 and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Services Combat Sup-
port Programs. This publication applies to all DOD agencies and organizations. Unified Combatant
commands may supplement this instruction. All supplements must be sent to the Headquarters United
States Air Force, Directorate of Services, Armed Forces Entertainment (HQ USAF/ILVE), 1775 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1775, for approval. If approved, Unified Combatant commands
are responsible for sending information copies of their supplement to HQ USAF/ILVE. Supplements must
also be posted on the Air Force Publications Web page. The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974, as
amended in 1996, affects this publication. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained and
disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule. This publication directs collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013. System of
records notice F036 AF PC N, Unit Assigned Personnel Information applies.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This revision adds and refines responsibilities for the Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE) office,
Regional Coordinators, Country Coordinators, Site Coordinators, Production/Tour Managers, Tour
Escorts, and entertainment groups. It outlines Coordinating, Supporting and other Commander involve-
ment with and support of the AFE program and explains the United Service Organizations (USO)/AFE
relationship. It also describes the processes involved in planning, organizing, and evaluating celebrity and
2                                                                                          AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


non-celebrity tours along with outlining specific transportation and tour requirements. Finally, it sets forth
authorized and unauthorized tour expenses and report requirements.
      1.      ARMED FORCES ENTERTAINMENT ..................................................................                                  3
Figure 1.     AFE Circuits. ............................................................................................................     6
Figure 2.     Applicable Publications for Providing Immunizations and Medical Care
              to Entertainers. ..........................................................................................................   11
      2.      MANAGING THE ARMED FORCES ENTERTAINMENT (AFE) PROGRAM ..                                                                      11
Table 1.      Fiscal Year Entertainment Tour Request Process .....................................................                          13
Table 2.      The USO Celebrity Tour Offer Process ....................................................................                     14
Table 3.      The Non-Celebrity Entertainment Audition Process ................................................                             15
Table 4.      Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process ....................................................................                    17
Table 5.      Site Evaluation Submission Process. ........................................................................                  18
      3.      TRANSPORTATION AND TOUR REQUIREMENTS. .........................................                                               18
Table 6.      The No-Fee Passport Application Process ................................................................                      20
      4.      FUNDING AND REIMBURSEMENT .....................................................................                               22
Figure 3.     Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Pays Directly ........................................................                           22
Figure 4.     Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Reimburses Via Contract(Receipts are
              required for all reimbursable expenses) ....................................................................                  23
Figure 5.     Tour Expenses That Are Not Reimbursed .................................................................                       25
Figure 6.     Final Pay Package Items. ..........................................................................................           26
      5.      RECOGNITION PROGRAM ...................................................................................                       26
Table 7.      AFE Eagle Award Nomination Process ....................................................................                       27

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             29

Attachment 2— SAMPLE HOSTING SITE TOUR EVALUATION                                                                                           32

Attachment 3— SAMPLE ENTERTAINMENT GROUP EVALUATION                                                                                         33

Attachment 4— SAMPLE AFTER ACTION FUNDING SUPPORT TO USO TOURS
             SPREADSHEET                                                                                                                    34
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                           3


1. ARMED FORCES ENTERTAINMENT
  1.1. Overview. The purpose of the Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE) program is to provide free,
  quality, live, professional entertainment to US Armed Forces personnel and their family members sta-
  tioned overseas. Priority is given to remote and isolated locations, ships at sea and contingency oper-
  ations. The goal of the program is to lift the spirits and morale of troops and maintain their readiness
  and effectiveness while serving in defense of our country. While raising the morale of troops stationed
  overseas, the AFE program provides entertainers with an appreciation of the hardships troops endure
  and helps them serve as a vital link between those at home and those protecting our national security.
     1.1.1. Authority. The Secretary of the Air Force, as the Executive Agent for coordinating overseas
     entertainment within the Department of Defense, administers the AFE program within the Direc-
     torate of Services (HQ USAF/ILV) under the Deputy Chief of Staff for Installations and Logistics
     as the AFE office. IAW DODI 1330.13, Armed Forces Entertainment Program, March 23, 2004,
     AFE is authorized direct communication with the United Service Organizations (USO) concern-
     ing the entertainment of US Armed Forces overseas.
     1.1.2. Program Policy.
         1.1.2.1. Priority for AFE goes to personnel in contingency operations, serving on ships at sea
         and stationed in remote or isolated locations overseas.
         1.1.2.2. Commercial sponsorship of AFE tours is authorized IAW DODI 1015.10, Programs
         for Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR), and DODI 1330.13, Armed Forces
         Entertainment Program. Commercial sponsorship for AFE will be solicited, accepted, and
         executed in accordance with AFI 34-407, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program, and
         AFMAN 34-416, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship and Sale of NAFI Advertising Proce-
         dures. HQ AFSVA/SVPCM (DSN 487-4945) is the OPR for all AFE commercial sponsorship
         issues, actions, and negotiations. All offers of AFE sponsorship and agreements will be coor-
         dinated with AFE. All agreements will be reviewed by AFSVA/SVL and AFSVA/CC will
         approve all commercial sponsorships below $100,000. All other commercial sponsorship will
         be approved in accordance with AFI 34-407.
             1.1.2.2.1. Retail Sales of Commercial Items. Commercially sponsored DOD celebrity
             tours, local military exchanges or other resale activities may not sell souvenir merchandise
             such as T-shirts, hats, records, etc., which bear the likeness, name or any copyrighted logo
             of the entertainers unless all royalties and fees have been paid or unless express permission
             has been granted by the entertainers.
             1.1.2.2.2. Unauthorized Commercial Sponsorship. Sponsorship will not be accepted for
             any AFE entertainment from manufacturers or distributors of tobacco or alcoholic bever-
             age products if the products are to be identified in connection with their sponsorship.
         1.1.2.3. AFE offers all entertainers 18 years and older equal opportunity for tour selection. All
         applications are reviewed and judged based on originality, demonstrated ability, and AFE
         requirements.
         1.1.2.4. To ensure a maximum amount of entertainment groups are afforded the opportunity to
         tour for AFE, each group or agent will be limited to a maximum of 45 tour days within a fiscal
         year. The Chief, AFE may approve exceptions when a command makes a by-name request or
4                                                                 AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


           an alternative entertainment group is not available to satisfy the type of entertainment
           requested.
           1.1.2.5. Tours may be cancelled or curtailed at any time if there is anything that will compro-
           mise the interest of the US or local government as determined by the Chief, AFE.
           1.1.2.6. Shows will be presented free of charge and will be open to all military personnel
           regardless of grade or service unless an audience exception is granted by AFE. When AFE
           authorizes a performance before a restricted audience, the following conditions will be met:
               1.1.2.6.1. An open performance has already been given for all authorized personnel.
               1.1.2.6.2. Such performance does not interfere with other scheduled performances.
           1.1.2.7. AFE hosts an annual conference in the March/April timeframe attended by Regional
           Entertainment Coordinators, invited Country and Site Coordinators and representatives of key
           agencies and commands involved with the AFE program. A primary purpose of this confer-
           ence is to develop the upcoming Fiscal Year (FY) Entertainment Plan based on input from the
           Combatant Commands and military Services.
           1.1.2.8. A training workshop for overseas coordinators is conducted at least once every two
           years.
       1.1.3. Mission Focus. Taking quality entertainment to our troops overseas.
    1.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
       1.2.1. HQ USAF/ILV Responsibilities.
           1.2.1.1. Establishes Services doctrine and policy.
           1.2.1.2. Oversees the Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE) program.
           1.2.1.3. Approves requests for upgrade of commercial air accommodations in accordance
           with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR).
       1.2.2. Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE) Office (HQ USAF/ILVE) Responsibilities.
           1.2.2.1. Chief, AFE Responsibilities.
               1.2.2.1.1. Manages overall operation of the AFE program and office.
               1.2.2.1.2. Reviews and validates all entertainment requests/offers IAW command priori-
               ties and funding constraints.
               1.2.2.1.3. Creates the FY Entertainment Plan IAW Table 1. of this instruction.
               1.2.2.1.4. Primary Liaison to United Service Organizations (USO) for entertainment to the
               U.S. Armed Forces overseas.
                  1.2.2.1.4.1. Reviews USO celebrity tour entertainment offers based on the FY Enter-
                  tainment Plan and unprogrammed USO celebrity offers as they become available.
                  Either accepts, indicates further interest or declines offers based on command interest,
                  budgetary concerns and the FY Entertainment Plan.
                  1.2.2.1.4.2. Approves all substantial tour changes to include adding or changing coun-
                  tries, locations, tour members, or tour length.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                           5


               1.2.2.1.4.3. Meets monthly with USO representatives to review on-going tours and
               planning efforts, and to discuss any other pertinent issues related to providing celebrity
               entertainment overseas.
           1.2.2.1.5. Approves all lodging or other unique expenses that may impose a hardship on
           entertainment groups as outlined in Figure 3. of this instruction.
           1.2.2.1.6. Approves agent fees for non-celebrity tours IAW Figure 3.
           1.2.2.1.7. Approves all exceptions to 45-day maximum tour days per FY requirement.
           1.2.2.1.8. Approves all contract modifications.
           1.2.2.1.9. Approves request for any use of dedicated military airlift for transoceanic travel.
           1.2.2.1.10. Signs requests for commercial travel upgrades IAW the JTR and submits to
           HQ USAF/ILV for approval. Ensures requests submitted for approval are complete and
           include all rationale for travel upgrades.
           1.2.2.1.11. Approves any requests for itinerary changes that exceed $5,000.00.
           1.2.2.1.12. Signs all invitational travel orders (ITOs) for entertainment groups.
           1.2.2.1.13. Approves all tour cancellation/curtailment requests.
           1.2.2.1.14. Approves all requests to remove an individual from tour.
           1.2.2.1.15. Randomly audits final pay packages to ensure expenses and reimbursements
           are in compliance with established guidance. Ensures random audits are documented.
           1.2.2.1.16. Signs all letters of acceptance/non-acceptance for non-celebrity entertainment
           groups making application to participate in the AFE program. Entertainment groups are
           selected IAW the process outlined in Table 3.
           1.2.2.1.17. Approves, along with Deputy and/or circuit managers, any direct contact with
           the contract travel office (CTO) to book or change travel arrangements.
        1.2.2.2. Deputy Chief AFE Responsibilities.
           1.2.2.2.1. As the primary financial manager for AFE:
               1.2.2.2.1.1. Submits budget requirements.
               1.2.2.2.1.2. Processes purchase requests and entertainment contracting actions with
               appropriate agencies.
               1.2.2.2.1.3. Monitors and executes all aspects of the AFE budget.
               1.2.2.2.1.4. Reviews and validates accounting citations on ITOs.
               1.2.2.2.1.5. Validates contingency operation fund cites and Emergency and Special
               Program (ESP) codes on ITOs.
               1.2.2.2.1.6. Conducts final review and approves all final pay packages.
               1.2.2.2.1.7. Reviews /verifies final payments by Defense Finance and Accounting Ser-
               vice (DFAS).
6                                                                AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


              1.2.2.2.2. Randomly audits final pay packages to ensure expenses and reimbursements are
              in compliance with established guidance. Ensures random audits are documented.
              1.2.2.2.3. Assumes responsibilities as Acting Chief during the Chief’s absence.
          1.2.2.3. Circuit Manager Responsibilities. There are six circuits defined by geographic area
          each managed by a Circuit Manager (see Figure 1.). Some Circuit Managers oversee more
          than one circuit. Circuit Managers are responsible for the overall operations within their cir-
          cuits including:

Figure 1. AFE Circuits.


Circuit                     Countries
Circuit 2, Europe           Greenland, Iceland, United Kingdom, Norway, Germany, Belgium,
                            and the Netherlands
Circuit 3, Caribbean     Ecuador, Honduras, Cuba, Bahamas and Puerto Rico
Circuit 4, Mediterranean Italy, Malta, Greece, Spain, Turkey, France, Portugal/Azores, Egypt/
                         Sinai, Jordan and Israel
Circuit 5, Pacific       Alaska, Korea, Japan, Okinawa, Guam, Hawaii, Kwajalein,
                         Singapore and Diego Garcia
Circuit 6, Southwest and Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait,
Central Asia             Iraq, Qatar, Pakistan, Oman, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Djibouti
Circuit 7, Balkans       Bosnia/Herzegovina and Kosovo within Serbia-Montenegro

              1.2.2.3.1. Reviews the FY Entertainment Plan and requests and organizes entertainment
              tours based on approved plan.
              1.2.2.3.2. Administers entertainment tours according to ILVOI 34-126, 18 Aug 2004.
              1.2.2.3.3. Provides weekly entertainment tour updates to the Chief, AFE.
              1.2.2.3.4. Ensures Regional, Country, and Site Coordinators are trained, informed, and
              able to fulfill their responsibilities.
              1.2.2.3.5. Reviews all final pay packages, in conjunction with the Entertainment Support
              Technician, submitted by entertainment groups touring in their assigned circuits to ensure
              claimed reimbursements comply with provisions and allowances in the contract and actual
              contract performance.
              1.2.2.3.6. For USO tours, ensures procedures outlined in Table 2., The Celebrity Tour
              Offer Process, are followed.
              1.2.2.3.7. May recruit Celebrity Entertainers through unsolicited contacts, referrals or
              AFE-initiated invitation.
              1.2.2.3.8. Ensures all travel documents (paragraph 3.6.) are complete and any special tour
              requirements (i.e., immunizations, carnets, posters, and tour photos) are accomplished
              IAW para 3.7.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          7


           1.2.2.3.9. Ensures Tour Evaluations are completed IAW para 2.7 and Table 5., Site Evalu-
           ations Submission Process.
        1.2.2.4. Information Management Superintendent Responsibilities.
           1.2.2.4.1. Coordinates all information management requests including e-mail and secure
           accounts.
           1.2.2.4.2. Processes passports, visas, and carnet requests.
           1.2.2.4.3. Distributes country clearance requests.
           1.2.2.4.4. Manages the office shared O: drive.
           1.2.2.4.5. Orders/maintains supplies and reconciles smart card account bills.
           1.2.2.4.6. Tracks AFE automated data processing equipment (ADPE) requirements and
           assets.
           1.2.2.4.7. Performs other administrative functions as needed.
        1.2.2.5. Entertainment Support Technician Responsibilities.
           1.2.2.5.1. Distributes information packets to interested entertainers.
           1.2.2.5.2. Logs promotional package applications and prepares letters notifying applicants
           of their selection/non-selection.
           1.2.2.5.3. Processes all invitational travel orders (ITOs) and government Geneva Conven-
           tion ID cards for entertainment groups.
           1.2.2.5.4. In conjunction with the contract travel office (CTO), prints and distributes air-
           line tickets and excess baggage coupons known as Miscellaneous Charge Orders (MCOs).
           Maintains accountability for unused and voided ticket stock.
           1.2.2.5.5. Prepares Tour Packages; establishes and maintains office files; creates a Tour
           Folder for each entertainment tour.
           1.2.2.5.6. Reviews final pay packages in conjunction with Circuit Managers; reconciles
           centrally billed accounts and identifies contingency-related costs for appropriate ESP cod-
           ing.
           1.2.2.5.7. Performs other administrative functions as needed.
        1.2.2.6. Resource Advisor Responsibilities.
           1.2.2.6.1. Assists the Deputy Chief, AFE, with contracting and financial obligations
           including final pay package reconciliation for entertainment tours; generating and tracking
           the DD Form 250 Receiving Report, and de-obligating unused contracted funds.
           1.2.2.6.2. Acts as a Circuit Manager as needed.
        1.2.2.7. Regional Entertainment Coordinator Responsibilities. Regional Entertainment Coor-
        dinators are AFE staff stationed at Air Force sites within their geographic areas of responsibil-
        ity. They are the link between AFE and the supported commands. As the primary conduit for
        requesting, planning, and managing entertainment tours in their region, Regional Entertain-
8                                                                AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


       ment Coordinators must facilitate information flow between the Country/Site Coordinators
       and the Circuit Manager. They must also:
           1.2.2.7.1. Review FY entertainment requirements to ensure priority is being given to
           remote and isolated locations and all Services are treated equitably.
           1.2.2.7.2. Consolidate entertainment requirements, listing entertainment shows at all or
           several geographically grouped locations, by month and type of entertainment, and submit
           to AFE for inclusion in the FY Entertainment Plan.
           1.2.2.7.3. When an entertainment tour has been selected for the region, the Regional Coor-
           dinator works with Country and Site Coordinators to:
               1.2.2.7.3.1. Consolidate draft and final tour itineraries provided by Country Coordina-
               tors to develop complete tour itinerary.
               1.2.2.7.3.2. Disseminate tour information to applicable locations.
               1.2.2.7.3.3. Track and coordinate logistics support arrangements made by Country and
               Site Coordinators.
               1.2.2.7.3.4. Coordinate military airlift, if necessary.
               1.2.2.7.3.5. Request country clearance authorizations, as required.
               1.2.2.7.3.6. Secure entrance/exit visas, unless delegated to the Country Coordinator to
               accomplish.
               1.2.2.7.3.7. Ensure marketing/advertising efforts of Country Coordinators’ are suffi-
               cient.
           1.2.2.7.4. Following completed entertainment tours, the Regional Coordinator:
               1.2.2.7.4.1. Collects, reviews and submits Site Coordinator Tour Evaluations and pho-
               tos to the Circuit Managers no later than 15 days following tour completion date.
               1.2.2.7.4.2. Advises Circuit Manager of any specific tour concerns/issues.
               1.2.2.7.4.3. For USO tours, collects the After Action Funding Support spreadsheet
               (sample is at Attachment 4) from each participating site and forwards to AFE.
               1.2.2.7.4.4. Forwards photos submitted by Country Coordinators to the Circuit Man-
               ager.
    1.2.3. Commander Responsibilities. Since entertainers participating in the AFE program perform
    without compensation, commanders at all levels are encouraged to provide maximum support
    allowed by law and extend every courtesy in return for the substantial contribution, which the
    entertainers make to the morale and welfare of Armed Forces personnel and their families over-
    seas. This instruction does not preclude overseas commanders from accepting or planning other
    entertainment for their commands. Such entertainment will be coordinated with the applicable
    AFE Regional Entertainment Coordinator to avoid duplication and scheduling conflicts. Com-
    manders submit requests to AFE for specific entertainment to meet the needs of their forces during
    the annual call for fiscal year entertainment requirements.
       1.2.3.1. Combatant Commander Responsibilities. Combatant Commanders consolidate and
       forward entertainment requirements submitted by Component and Subordinate Commanders
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          9


        within their areas of responsibility as outlined in Table 1., The Fiscal Year Entertainment Tour
        Request Process. Additionally, Combatant Commanders ensure resources are provided to
        ensure success of the AFE program and appoint Country Coordinators who are responsible to:
           1.2.3.1.1. Request, plan, and manage entertainment tours in their country and facilitate
           information flow between Site Coordinators and the Regional Coordinator.
           1.2.3.1.2. Collect and consolidate site itineraries to develop in-country draft and final tour
           itineraries.
           1.2.3.1.3. Disseminate tour information to applicable locations.
           1.2.3.1.4. Track and coordinate logistics support between performance sites.
           1.2.3.1.5. Coordinate local military airlift, if necessary.
           1.2.3.1.6. Request country clearance authorizations, as requested by the Regional Coordi-
           nator.
           1.2.3.1.7. Secure entrance/exit visas, as requested by the Regional Coordinator.
           1.2.3.1.8. Ensure Site Coordinators’ marketing/advertising efforts are sufficient.
           1.2.3.1.9. Collect, review and submit Site Coordinator Tour Evaluations and photos to the
           Regional Coordinator no later than 10 days following tour completion date.
           1.2.3.1.10. Advise Regional Coordinator of any specific tour concerns/issues.
        1.2.3.2. Component and Subordinate Commander Responsibilities. Component and Subordi-
        nate Commanders collect, consolidate and forward entertainment requirements submitted by
        their installation/site commanders as outlined in Table 1., The Fiscal Year Entertainment Tour
        Request Process.
        1.2.3.3. Installation/Site Commander Responsibilities. Installation/Site Commanders submit
        annual entertainment requirements through their parent commands IAW Table 1., The Fiscal
        Year Entertainment Tour Request Process. They are responsible for providing local transporta-
        tion at and between performance sites for entertainment groups. They also appoint Site Coor-
        dinators and ensure they have all the personnel and resources required to ensure tour success
        (see Table 4., Site Coordinator Entertainment Tour Procedures). For USO tours only, ensures
        the Site Coordinator completes and submits within 30 days, the installation support
        after-action spreadsheet to record the amount of appropriated and nonappropriated funds
        expended and the value of all in-kind support provided to support the entertainment tour (sam-
        ple in Attachment 4). Site Coordinators are responsible to:
           1.2.3.3.1. Coordinate information flow between Country Coordinators and entertainers.
           1.2.3.3.2. Prepare site itineraries for entertainment tours and submit to Country Coordina-
           tor.
           1.2.3.3.3. Coordinate local logistics support.
           1.2.3.3.4. Ensure proper marketing and advertising at the site.
           1.2.3.3.5. Arrange for and submit quality photos/media articles to the Country Coordina-
           tor with the tour evaluation no later than 5 days after tour completion.
10                                                                 AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


            1.2.3.3.6. Complete and submit tour evaluations to Country Coordinators no later than 5
            days after tour completion.
            1.2.3.3.7. For USO tours only, complete the installation After-Action Funding Support
            spreadsheet to record the amount of appropriated and nonappropriated funds expended and
            the value of all in-kind support provided to support the entertainment tour (sample in
            Attachment 4). Submit to Regional Coordinator within 30 days of tour completion.
            1.2.3.3.8. Host entertainment groups and provide support as outlined in Table 4.
     1.2.4. The United Service Organizations (USO) World Headquarters. The USO is generally the
     source for celebrity entertainers for AFE tours. The USO Entertainment Division recruits enter-
     tainers and manages and produces tours. The USO Budget and Finance Division administers con-
     tracts and invoicing. The USO representative is expected to:
        1.2.4.1. Coordinate with the Chief/Deputy Chief AFE any overseas celebrity entertainment
        being provided to the military Services IAW the Celebrity Tour Offer Process outlined in
        Table 2.
        1.2.4.2. Meet with AFE monthly to review on-going tours and planning efforts and to discuss
        pertinent issues related to celebrity entertainment overseas.
        1.2.4.3. Offer AFE additional entertainment proposals (not outlined in the FY Entertainment
        Plan) no later than 45 days prior to tour start date.
        1.2.4.4. Provide AFE a copy of all direct correspondence between the USO and the military
        when the AFE Chief, Deputy Chief, or Circuit Manager has approved direct communication
        with the military regarding entertainment tours.
        1.2.4.5. Submit final pay package (invoice) to AFE within 45 days of tour completion IAW
        para 4.4.
     1.2.5. Tour Escort Responsibilities. AFE requires military or civilian escorts for tours going to
     locations considered “forward” or “down-range” and are primarily supported by military airlift.
     Tour escorts may be AFE or USO staff members, or individuals provided by the host command.
     Tour escorts are also used with USO/AFE tours and are responsible, with the USO Tour and Pro-
     duction Manager, to ensure logistical requirements for the tour are identified and executed as
     planned, and to help resolve issues that arise during the tour. Any changes or new requirements for
     logistics, during the tour, must be coordinated with the AFE Circuit Manager or designated repre-
     sentative.
     1.2.6. Entertainment Group Responsibilities. As a condition of touring and performing, entertain-
     ers and entertainment groups must abide by the requirements laid out in this paragraph and its sub-
     paragraphs. Entertainers are responsible for conducting themselves as “ambassadors” while on
     tour, abiding by all local (country) customs/courtesies as briefed by the Country and Site Coordi-
     nators and following guidelines established by AFE in the Rules of Engagement (ROE) letter pro-
     vided to each group member upon acceptance of the tour. Entertainment groups will ensure
     material is not offensive to anyone with regard to race, religion, national origin, sex, military rank,
     military Service, or disability. Entertainers may not sell any type of merchandise or souvenir items
     while on tour.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          11


          1.2.6.1. Entertainers may receive required immunizations for travel at the nearest Military
          Treatment Facility (MTF). If no MTF is within 50 miles, immunizations may be obtained from
          a private physician/clinic or the local County Health Department. AFE will reimburse the cost
          of immunizations, but not the “office visit” cost.
          1.2.6.2. Illegal drug use or possession is strictly prohibited. Entertainers will not joke about
          drug use, possession or purchase. Entertainers will not consume alcohol on stage or during
          performance.
          1.2.6.3. Entertainers may not carry or possess weapons or ammunition of any kind while on
          tour.
          1.2.6.4. Entertainers must complete a tour evaluation for each country/installation visited and
          submit it with their final pay package no later than 30 days after tour completion IAW para
          2.6.1. The requirement for an entertainer tour evaluation does not apply to USO/AFE partner-
          ship tours.
          1.2.6.5. The entertainment group will submit a final pay package to AFE within 30 days of
          tour completion IAW para 4.4. For USO/AFE partnership tours, the USO will submit an
          invoice and receipts to AFE within 45 days of tour completion IAW para 4.4.
      1.2.7. Contract Travel Office (CTO). The CTO issues commercial airline tickets and MCOs for
      entertainment groups traveling under the AFE program. The CTO coordinates only with AFE to
      book or change travel arrangements. Under certain limited circumstances, the Circuit Manager or
      Deputy Chief or Chief, AFE may approve, in advance, direct contact with the CTO by entertain-
      ment group managers or USO staff.
      1.2.8. DOD Component Medical Services Responsibilities. The DOD Component Medical Ser-
      vices provide immunizations and emergency medical and dental care to entertainers IAW applica-
      ble Service publications as outlined in Figure 2.

Figure 2. Applicable Publications for Providing Immunizations and Medical Care to Entertainers.


Military      Applicable Publications
Service
US Army      AR 40-400, Patient Administration, 12 Mar 01
             AR 40-562, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04
US Navy      NAVMEDCOMINST 6320.3B, Medical and Dental Care for Eligible Persons
             at Navy Medical Department Facilities, 14 May 87
             BUMEDINST 6230.15, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04
US Air Force AFI 41-114, Military Health Services System Matrix, 1 Mar 97
             AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04

2. MANAGING THE ARMED FORCES ENTERTAINMENT (AFE) PROGRAM
   2.1. Overview. Management of the AFE program requires constant ongoing coordination between
   AFE, the USO, Regional Coordinators, Country and Site Coordinators, and entertainers. This chapter
   outlines the processes required to manage the AFE program including the Fiscal Year Tour Request
12                                                               AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


     Process (Table 1.), the Celebrity Tour Offer Process (Table 2.), The Non-Celebrity Entertainment
     Audition Process (Table 3.), Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process (Table 4.) and Site Evaluation
     Submission Process (Table 5.). Procedures AFE staff follows for organizing and processing USO and
     AFE tours are contained in ILVOI 34-126.
     2.2. The Entertainment Tour Request Process. To maximize the return on investment of AFE budget
     and meet the needs of commanders within the six circuits, the AFE office prepares a FY Entertain-
     ment Plan as outlined in Table 1.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            13


Table 1. Fiscal Year Entertainment Tour Request Process
Step OPR                  WHEN           ACTION
1       AFE               January        Solicits fiscal year entertainment tour requirements from
                                         Combatant Commands via message.
2       Combatant         February       Task Component and Subordinate commands to submit
        Commands                         entertainment requirements.
3       Component and February           Task Installation/Site Commanders to submit entertainment
        Subordinate                      requirements.
        Commands
4       Installation and February        Identify requirements for celebrity and non-celebrity
        Site                             entertainment including “special event” requirements for
        Commanders                       submission to parent command.
5       Component and February           Consolidate submissions from Installation/Site Commanders for
        Subordinate                      submission to Country Coordinator.
        Commands
6       Country           N LT       1 5 Consolidate submissions and forward to Regional Entertainment
        Coordinators      March          Coordinator.
7       Regional      March/             Review and consolidate requests to ensure entertainment tours
        Entertainment April              are equitable for all services with a priority to remote and
        Coordinators                     isolated locations.
8       Regional      March/             Submit to AFE a list of entertainment tours (e.g., shows at all or
        Entertainment April              several geographically grouped locations within the region) by
        Coordinators                     month and type of entertainment only. Retains specific
                                         installation/site location information for future scheduling
                                         (accomplished at annual AFE conference).
9       AFE               March/         Reviews and validates all requests against command priorities
                          April          and funding constraints.
10      AFE               April/         Finalizes annual entertainment plan.
                          May
11      AFE               N LT       3 0 Provides finalized FY Entertainment Plan to Combatant and
                          May            Component commands and Regional Entertainment
                                         Coordinators for information and planning.
12      AFE               June           Begins process of selecting entertainers and coordinating with
                                         USO for celebrity tours for the coming FY.

     2.3. Celebrity Entertainers. Circuit Managers may recruit Celebrity Entertainers through unsolicited
     contacts, referrals or AFE-initiated invitation. When celebrities are matched to a requirement in the
     FY Entertainment Plan, the Circuit Manager organizes and processes the tour IAW ILVOI 34-126.
     Celebrity tours, for which USO recruits the entertainer, are coordinated between AFE and the USO
     Entertainment Director according to the following process.
14                                                                   AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


Table 2. The USO Celebrity Tour Offer Process
Step OPR                  WHEN           ACTION
1       USO           Bi-Weekly          Sends Chief and Deputy Chief, AFE a recruiting report listing
        Entertainment                    current celebrity tour offers with as much detail as is available
        Director                         including (1) Name (2) Dates available, (3) Locations available
                                         to visit, (4) Size of group, etc.
2       Chief or Deputy U p o n          Logs each offer into the Tour Offer Tracking Sheet and queries
        Chief, AFE      Receipt          the Circuit Managers for interest.
3       Circuit           Wi t h i n 3 Responds to Chief or Deputy Chief, AFE with interest or
        Manager           Duty Days non-interest IAW the FY Entertainment Plan, current budget
                                       limitations and feedback from the field.
4       Chief or Deputy Wi t h i n 5 Responds via e-mail to USO Entertainment Director either
        Chief, AFE      Duty Days accepting, indicating interest for further recruiting, or declining
                                     offer. If accepting, identifies specific locations, inclusive dates,
                                     and tour group size.
5       Circuit           Only After Begins discussion of details with USO Tour/Production
        Manager           Offer      Managers.
                          Accepted   NOTE: If there are substantial changes to the tour such as add-
                                     ing or changing countries/locations or adding additional touring
                                     members or extending days of tour, Chief or Deputy Chief AFE
                                     approval is required prior to continuing with planning.
6       USO               N LT          3 0 Submits offer letter and proposal in hard copy (generally via fax)
                          B u s i n e s s to the Chief or Deputy Chief, AFE.
                          Days prior to
                          To u r
                          Departure
7       Chief or Deputy U p o n          Logs receipt of offer letter and proposal into the Tour Offer
        Chief, AFE      Receipt          Tracking Sheet, affixes an offer routing slip, reviews proposed
                                         tour participants/costs, annotates on the routing slip any
                                         discrepancies the Circuit Manager needs to resolve and provides
                                         final approval before passing to the Circuit Manager.
                                         NOTE: Only the Chief or Deputy Chief, AFE, are authorized to
                                         accept or decline USO offers.
8       Circuit           Upon           Coordinates with USO Tour/Production Managers to finalize tour
        Manager           Receipt        contract according to procedures in ILVOI 34-126.

     2.4. Non-Celebrity Entertainers. The AFE office provides non-celebrity entertainers a unique oppor-
     tunity to support our troops overseas. To ensure a fair and equitable audition process, non-celebrity
     entertainers are selected according to the procedures in Table 3. When a Circuit Manager matches a
     non-celebrity entertainment group accepted into the AFE program to a requirement in the FY Enter-
     tainment Plan, the tour is processed IAW ILVOI 34-126.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                       15


Table 3. The Non-Celebrity Entertainment Audition Process
Step   OPR            ACTION
1      Entertainment Visits AFE website at www.armedforcesentertainment.com for application
       Group         information or call 1-800-458-0868 to have an application packet mailed to
                     them
2      Entertainment Completes a Promotional Package as required on the website/in application
       Group         packet

                      Promotional Package should include:

                      -   Name of group/individual         - Song list
                      -   Manager/Agent if applicable      - Sound Requirements
                      -   Group size                       - News clippings/Reviews of past
                      -   Type of entertainment offered      performances
                      -   Entertainer/Group Biography      - Tape or CD with a sample
                                                             performance
3      Entertainment Logs promotional packages into Entertainment Log Book as received
       Support Tech
4      AFE Staff      Convenes approximately every 2 weeks to review packets for acceptance or
                      non-acceptance. Considers FY Entertainment Plan and the quality of the
                      entertainment presented.

                      In general, whatever type of entertainment is offered, it should contain to some
                      degree, the following elements: amusement, diversion, engaging the attention
                      pleasurably, some degree of refinement and elegance.

                      Performances will not be offensive to anyone with regard to race, religion,
                      national origin, sex, military rank, military service or disability. Jokes or
                      anecdotes about drug use, possession, or purchase are not appropriate.

                      Additional considerations are:

                      - Bands. 75-80% of music performed must be cover songs. If a video, CD or
                      DVD is part of the audition; it must be of good quality, clear, and sharp. Lyrics
                      will not be offensive to anyone with regard to race, religion, national origin,
                      sex, military rank, military service or disability.

                      - Other entertainment. (comedy, magic, sports, etc.). Must appeal to the
                      particular audience targeted.
5      AFE Staff      Records results in the Entertainment Log Book
16                                                                 AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


Step     OPR              ACTION
6        Entertainment Prepares letter of acceptance or non-acceptance for signature by Chief, AFE
         Support Tech  within a week after review of package.

                          Reasons for non-acceptance may include but are not limited to:

                          - Incomplete information           - Vulgar or offensive material
                          - Incomplete material (i.e. no CD) - Outdated or inappropriate for
                          - Poor quality recording             target population
7        Entertainment If non-acceptance letter received, may reapply not earlier than 60 days from
         Group         date of letter.

                          If acceptance letter received:
                          - Await contact by AFE as needs arise
                          - May update packets at any time
8        Entertainment Files accepted Promotional Packages.
         Support Tech
9        Circuit          As planning begins for a tour requirement, reviews accepted Promotional
         Manager          Packages talent pool to prepare Tour Packages.
10       Entertainment Annually reviews Promotional Packages and purges those not used by AFE or
         Support Tech  updated by the entertainment group in over a year.
     2.5. Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process. Once a celebrity or non-celebrity tour has been organized
     and scheduled by the Circuit Manager in conjunction with the Regional and Country Coordinator, the
     Site Coordinator uses Table 4. to ensure local requirements for hosting entertainment tours are com-
     plete.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          17


Table 4. Site Coordinator Tour Hosting Process
WHEN            ACTION
Prior to Group 1. Arrival site personnel (Services / MWR or Protocol / Joint Visitors Bureau) are
Arrival        assigned to:
                      - Meet the entertainment group at the international airport
                      - Transport them and their personal bags to lodging
                      - Transport their excess equipment to a secure area

                2. Make lodging arrangements for the entertainment group.

                3. Prepare a detailed itinerary for the entertainment group that includes a courtesy visit
                with installation/site leadership, visits to various duty sections during the day and the
                actual performance(s).

                4. Publicize and advertise the upcoming performance by the entertainment group.
                NOTE: Site Coordinator doesn’t need to spend every moment with the group, but
                should be available to assist where needed and to answer group members’ questions.
Upon Arrival 1. Greet entertainment group and provide them with a security briefing and site
a n d D u r i n g orientation.
Performance       2. Assist with excess baggage/customs clearance
                  3. Assist with lodging check-in/out
                  4. Address any problems (lost baggage, damaged equipment, etc).
                  5. Assist in load/unload equipment, setup/tear-down the entertainment area
                  6. Advise the tour group leader of the location of their equipment
                  7. Provide site and tour itinerary brief
                  8. Coordinate off day activities
                  9. Arrange for photographs of the entertainment group during interaction with the
                  troops and the show.
                NOTE: Throughout the tour, the Site Coordinator should serve as another set of eyes
                to ensure the group’s specific needs are taken care of.
U p o n S h o w 1. Assist with group departure
Completion      2. Make sure site personnel are available to properly pack (palletize) equipment.
                3. Ensure equipment is stored in a secure location prior to ongoing travel.
                4. Ensure group is advised of ongoing travel arrangements for their tour bags, and
                equipment.
                5. Have the tour group ready and in designated area for ongoing travel.
                6. Prepare tour evaluation and reports as required.

   2.6. Tour Evaluations. To continually improve the AFE program, tour evaluations are required from
   each hosting site coordinator and the entertainment group after the completion of each tour.
      2.6.1. Site Evaluation. Site Coordinators prepare an evaluation that, at a minimum, addresses the
      information in the sample at Attachment 2. Entertainment groups receiving less than favorable
18                                                                    AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


        comments will be prohibited from future tours. The following table outlines the site evaluation
        submission process:

Table 5. Site Evaluation Submission Process.
OPR                 When                 Action
Site Coordinator NLT 5 days after Prepares an evaluation (see sample at Attachment 2) and submits
                 tour             to the Country Coordinator.
Country             NLT 10 days after Collects evaluations from all site coordinators, reviews and
Coordinator         country tour      forwards to Regional Entertainment Coordinator.
Regional      NLT 15 days after Collects evaluations from all Country Coordinators, reviews and
Entertainment region tour       forwards to the Circuit Manager.
Coordinator
Circuit Manager W h e n r e c e i v e d Reviews, takes action as appropriate and files the evaluations in
                f r o m R e g i o n a l the group’s tour folder.
                Entertainment
                Coordinator

        2.6.2. Entertainment Group Evaluation. The entertainment group leader completes an Entertain-
        ment Group Evaluation for each country/installation visited (see sample at Attachment 3). The
        evaluation seeks feedback from the entertainer’s perspective. The evaluations are submitted with
        the final pay package sent to AFE after tour completion.

3. TRANSPORTATION AND TOUR REQUIREMENTS.
     3.1. General. AFE will fund all inter- and intra-country travel to and within the overseas area. Enter-
     tainers may travel by military airlift or commercial air. Local travel within the country between per-
     formance sites is the responsibility of the hosting installation commanders.
     3.2. Military Air Travel. The use of military airlift to transport entertainers is governed by DOD
     4500.9-R. Travel by military airlift outside CONUS is directed when available and will be performed
     under Priority 2c IAW DOD 4500.9-R, Appendix E. The individual Circuit Managers, directly with
     US TRANSCOM, Air Mobility Command (AMC) and/or through JMC airlift requests, will make
     military airlift arrangements. AMC billings are sent electronically each month to AFE. The AMC bill
     includes the name and cost for each leg of military airlift provided to entertainers. Bills will be recon-
     ciled to ensure no unauthorized charges are billed to AFE. AMC will bill against two distinct cost cen-
     ters to distinguish between AFE/USO partnership tours and AFE tours. Use of dedicated military
     airlift for transoceanic travel requires pre-approval by the Chief or Deputy Chief, AFE.
     3.3. Commercial Air Travel. All passenger travel will be coach class unless approved for upgrade in
     accordance with the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR).
        3.3.1. Premium Class Travel Other Than First Class. Premium class travel is authorized for enter-
        tainers under certain circumstances according to the JTR. All requests for upgrade are processed
        according to current guidelines outlined in the JTR and ILVOI 34-126.
        3.3.2. Contract Travel Office (CTO). The Circuit Managers will make all entertainer commercial
        travel arrangements for tickets and excess baggage through the CTO. Entertainment groups, man-
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            19


     agers, and USO staff are not authorized to book or change travel arrangements (e.g., rescheduling,
     reissue of tickets and/or excess baggage coupons (MCOs)) directly with the CTO unless specifi-
     cally approved in advance by the applicable Circuit Manager or Deputy Chief or Chief, AFE. Cir-
     cuit Managers will verify personal information for entertainers and associated support staff with
     passports or copies of passports prior to making airline reservations. CTO will not issue tickets
     until approved travel orders have been received.
  3.4. Invitational Travel Orders (ITOs). ITOs are issued to entertainers and members traveling in direct
  support of the entertainment tour. ITOs provide for the travel and logistical support of an individual
  from the business place or home to the place the individual’s services are required and return to point
  of origin. The ITO identifies the “Grade Equivalent” of each individual on the orders; as established
  in DODI 1000.1, Identity Cards required by the Geneva Conventions, 30 Jan 74. Authorization of
  transportation modes, routing and accommodations will be consistent with chapter 2 of the JTR. If
  applicable, individuals approved for upgrade of air accommodations to business class IAW the JTR
  will be specified in the ITOs.
     3.4.1. Medical and dental support. Medical and dental support is provided IAW AFH 41-114, Mil-
     itary Health Services System Matrix, 1 Mar 97, AR 40-400, Patient Administration, 12 Mar 01,
     and NAVMEDCOMINST 6320.3B (para G-11b (4)(b-c)), Medical and Dental Care for Eligible
     Persons on Navy Medical Department Facilities, 14 May 87. Although many installations will
     provide free medical outpatient emergency treatment, some do not. Individuals traveling under
     ITOs will be billed for inpatient costs including room charges, meals, etc. No-cost treatment is not
     available for existing medical conditions or injuries from negligent actions.
     3.4.2. Delays en route. Delays en route may be granted for the convenience of DOD, the Depart-
     ment of State, or the convenience of touring members. Delays en route require approval as dis-
     cussed below. The use of contract fares is limited to official travel only; contract fares cannot be
     used for the portion of the trip that is personal. The traveler is responsible for any additional costs
     when, for personal convenience, a circuitous route is used or the traveler interrupts a direct travel
     route. Costs are limited to the transportation costs by a usually traveled route on an uninterrupted
     basis. Approved delays en route will be included in the ITOs provided the following conditions
     have been met:
         3.4.2.1. The delay is requested and approved by AFE before the entertainer departs on tour.
         3.4.2.2. The delay does not interfere with the main purpose of the tour, disrupt or delay sched-
         uled transportation and is authorized in the overseas area requested.
         3.4.2.3. Delays for the convenience of touring members will be at no cost to the Government.
         3.4.2.4. Entertainment groups or individual entertainers desiring to remain in overseas areas
         longer than authorized must end their relationship with DOD and return to CONUS at their
         own expense.
  3.5. Miscellaneous Charge Orders (MCO). MCOs are used to pay for excess baggage (equipment) on
  commercial airlines. AFE will cover the cost for 20 pieces of excess baggage. Excess baggage does
  not include personal luggage and/or carry on luggage. MCOs are actual tickets to be presented to the
  airline when checking equipment/excess baggage. Costs for the MCO is calculated IAW ILVOI
  34-126 and specified on the ITO. If it is determined the amount of the original MCO is insufficient,
  AFE will notify the CTO immediately to increase or supplement the current MCO. If the group expe-
  riences any out-of-pocket expense due to the increase, a modification to the contract may be autho-
20                                                                  AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


     rized for reimbursement. Any and all changes to tickets or MCOs must be coordinated with both the
     Circuit Manager and CTO. No unauthorized costs for MCOs or travel will be reimbursed without
     prior coordination and approval.
     3.6. Travel Documents. Each AFE Circuit has countries with unique document requirements for
     travel. These may include Passports, Visas, Theater/Country Clearance, and Geneva Convention Iden-
     tity Cards (DD Form 489). Following award of a Contract, the Circuit Manager ensures these items
     are complete and included in the Tour Package.
        3.6.1. Passports. Most entertainers have their own tourist passport that may be used for AFE
        tours. Occasionally, entertainers will require a no-fee passport. The Circuit Manager coordinates
        the application for a no-fee passport IAW Table 6. Entertainers will return no-fee passports to
        AFE upon completion of the tour. AFE maintains no-fee passports on file until their expiration
        date (issued for 5 years) so they may be re-used should the entertainer be selected for a subsequent
        tour.

Table 6. The No-Fee Passport Application Process
Step     OPR
1        Circuit Manager       Sends entertainment group passport application form to entertainment
                               group.
2        Entertainer           - Completes Passport Application Form
                               - Obtains Birth Certificate with seal
                               - Obtains 2 2”x2” passport photos
3        Entertainer           Hand-carries these items with proof of identification to a local post office
                               with passport processing capability to have it “executed,” meaning the
                               birth certificate, passport application form and proof of identification are
                               verified.
                               NOTE: If a fee is associated with “execution” it is reimbursable by AFE.
4        Postal Clerk          Signs and seals the envelope and sends directly to the AFE Information
                               Management Superintendent
5        AFE Information Delivers, either hand carry or by courier, to Washington Passport Agency,
         Management      for processing.
         Superintendent  NOTE: Normal processing time is 5-7 business days.
6        Wa s h i n g t o n    Completes processing and notifies AFE.
         Passport Agency
7        AFE Information Picks up passport from Washington Passport Agency
         Management      - Updates passport database (NCO Admin folder on the O: drive)
         Superintendent  - Passes passport to applicable Circuit Manager
8        Circuit Manager       Places passport in Tour Package provided to entertainment group

        3.6.2. Visas. Some countries require visas prior to entering. The embassies for these countries
        require 5 to 7 days to process each visa. When visas are required, the Circuit Manager ensures
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          21


     entertainment groups complete the necessary forms, passports and photos with sufficient time to
     process through the applicable embassy.
     3.6.3. Country Clearance. Theater/Country Clearance is requested via message at least 30 days
     prior to departure. All information required to complete the clearance message must be received
     by AFE in sufficient time to meet the 30-day window. The Circuit Manager obtains the appropri-
     ate information from the entertainment group and provides it to the Information Management
     Superintendent for processing.
     3.6.4. Geneva Convention Identity Card (DD Form 489). Under the AFE program, civilian non-
     combatant personnel who have been authorized to accompany US military forces in areas of con-
     flict, combat, and contingency operations and who are liable to capture and detention by the
     enemy as prisoners of war are issued a Geneva Convention identity Card. The Entertainment Sup-
     port Technician prepares and issues these cards IAW AFI 36-3026(I). A 1” x 1” color photo is
     required. In lieu of a Geneva Convention Identity Card, the verbiage contained on the DD Form
     489, may be included on the ITO. Entertainers must return the DD Form 489 to AFE upon com-
     pletion of their tour since the identity cards are government property. AFE maintains DD Form
     489s on file should the entertainer participate in a subsequent tour.
  3.7. Other Miscellaneous Tour Requirements.
     3.7.1. Immunizations. Under the AFE program, immunizations are provided free of charge at
     CONUS Military Treatment Facilities IAW AFJI 48-110/AR 40-562/BUMEDINST 6230.15/CG
     COMDTINST M6230.4E, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04 and AFH 41-114,
     Military Health Services System (MHSS) Matrix, 1 Mar 97. Entertainers are considered sponsored
     personnel, therefore, SECTION C; paragraph 24 of AFJI 48-110 applies. When a military installa-
     tion is outside of a 50-mile radius, AFE will reimburse the direct cost of an immunization pro-
     vided by a civilian physician. AFE does not reimburse the cost of an “office visit” when using a
     private physician. AFE also does not reimburse mileage costs to obtain immunizations at a mili-
     tary installation or from a private physician. The nearest military installation may be located using
     the TRICARE website at www.tricare.osd.mil. Circuit Managers provide entertainment groups a
     letter, signed by the Chief or Deputy Chief, AFE, authorizing immunizations recommended for
     entry into foreign countries. All entertainers must sign and return the immunizations letter.
     3.7.2. Carnets. Entertainers use carnets to carry professional equipment into various countries
     without having to pay duties and taxes before entering and additional penalties after departing.
     The carnet serves as proof of exportation and re-importation back in the United States and those
     countries visited. Carnets are processed through Admission Temporary Admission Carnets
     (USCIB) on-line at http://www.uscib.org. A deposit is required in addition to the price of the car-
     net, which is paid by AFE. The deposit is refunded after the carnet has been returned to USCIB
     and verification has been obtained that there are no claims being filed against the United States.
     Final payment to the entertainment groups can be delayed if carnets are not returned to AFE.
     3.7.3. Posters. AFE contracted entertainers must develop a poster for marketing/advertising pur-
     poses. Posters are developed by entertainment groups as requested by the Circuit Manager. The
     Circuit Manager reviews the posters and after approval, sends them electronically to the Regional/
     Country Coordinators for distribution to Site Coordinators who reproduce and distribute copies as
     needed. When an entertainment tour has commercial sponsorship, the promotional posters, ban-
22                                                                   AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


        ners, or other items will be submitted to HQ AFSVA/SVPCM for review and approval. Posters for
        USO/AFE partnership tours are created by the USO and coordinated with the Circuit Manager.
        3.7.4. Tour Photos. Photos from current entertainment tours are required for briefings, articles,
        brochures, the AFE website and other marketing needs. Therefore, Site Coordinators will provide
        a minimum of three quality photos of AFE and AFE/USO tours at their locations. The goal is qual-
        ity photos, not quantity. To assure quality, the Site Coordinator should ask on-site visual informa-
        tion or public affairs personnel to take professional-quality digital photos. The types of shots
        needed are: a photo that captures the entertainer performing, the entertainer performing with
        enough of the audience visible to reflect it is a military crowd, the entertainer signing autographs,
        the entertainer interacting with troops. Each photo file will be named by using the entertainer's
        name, date of the shot and location. Site Coordinators forward the photos though their Regional
        Entertainment Coordinators via e-mail to their Circuit Manager.

4. FUNDING AND REIMBURSEMENT
     4.1. Overview. The FY Entertainment Plan is the baseline for tour planning. AFE staff continually
     monitors the plan and circuits to maximize entertainment at the least cost. This chapter outlines what
     Entertainment Tour Expenses are paid directly or reimbursed, what expenses are not reimbursed and
     how payment is made through processing of a Final Pay Package.
     4.2. Authorized Tour Expenses.

Figure 3. Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Pays Directly


TYPE OF EXPENSE         NOTES
Commercial Airfare      Coach class airfare and MCOs, charged to the AFE centrally billed
                        account (CBA). If any airline tickets or MCOs are lost and traveler has
                        to purchase/replace, this cost is not reimbursable until AFE is
                        refunded/credited by the airlines.
                        The traveler must file a lost/stolen ticket claim at the airport.
                        It is the travelers’ responsibility to safeguard these documents.
Military Airlift        Always
Visas                   Always
Carnets                 IAW paragraph 3.7.2. of this instruction.
Lodging, bus or charter AFE may use appropriate CBA for payment arrangement when groups
transportation costs    encounter changes (extensions or delays) or cancellations in their
                        itinerary and/or travel arrangements that impose a hardship or when
                        they are unprepared to cover the unexpected costs. Only the Chief or
                        Deputy Chief can approve.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                              23


Figure 4. Authorized Tour Expenses AFE Reimburses Via Contract
(Receipts are required for all reimbursable expenses)


TYPE OF EXPENSE                    NOTES
Honoraria for Celebrity            Always
Entertainer
Honoraria                    for   Always
Non-Celebrity
Entertainers
Honorarium.for                   Production/Tour Managers that travel with the group because they are
P r o d u c t i o n / To u r     dual-hatted as entertainers receive the daily honorarium specified by
Managers                         contract for the number of days the group tours plus one day before and
                                 one day after the tour.
                                 Production/Tour Managers contracted by the USO (excludes full-time
                                 USO employees) for celebrity tours receive either Type 1 or Type 2
                                 honorarium as specified in the contract.
Agent        Fee           f o r Approved by Chief or Deputy Chief AFE under restricted conditions
Non-Celebrity                    when:
Entertainers
                                   - A Production/Tour Manager is not used

                              - Using an Agent is the only way to obtain specialty entertainment.
Production Costs              May include instrument/equipment rental, sound and/or lighting
                              systems, and labor to set up equipment. May also include minor repairs
                              to instruments/equipment when the cost of such repairs is more
                              economical than renting and necessary to continue shows without
                              interruption.
Promotional Materials         Includes preparation of posters, film, or development costs to produce
                              poster of promotional materials.
Travel Costs                  For other than originally issued tickets and MCOs; and bus, truck or car
                              rental to/from departure airport or between overseas venue IAW JTR.
L o d g i n g C o s t s f o r Reimbursement will not exceed maximum rate in JTR.
Celebrity Tours
24                                                               AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


TYPE OF EXPENSE               NOTES
L o d g i n g C o s t s f o r The honorarium is intended to cover lodging costs, which are the
Non-Celebrity Tours           responsibility of non-celebrity entertainers. However, reimbursement,
                              not to exceed maximum rate in the JTR, is authorized in the following
                              situations where the cost is greater than $100 per night per person:

                          - Commercial lodging is required at location of departure from
                          CONUS
                          - Commercial lodging is required between overseas venues
                          - Commercial lodging is in a high-cost area
Miscellaneous Costs       Miscellaneous costs include the following:

                          - Shipping                          - Local travel costs
                          - Visa/custom/departure fees        - Toll fees
                          - Passport photo and execution fees - Baggage Tips (within reason)

                          - Official telephone calls directly related to producing the tour. For
                          telephone call reimbursement provide itemization detailing:

                          1. Date and time of call             4. Length of call
                          2. Purpose of call                   5. Cost of call
                          3. Who was called
     4.3. Tour Expenses That Are Not Reimbursed. The following table outlines entertainment tour
     expenses that are not reimbursed:
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                         25


Figure 5. Tour Expenses That Are Not Reimbursed


TYPE OF EXPENSE        NOTES
Meals                  Never. This is a personal expense of the entertainer covered by the
                       honorarium.
Alcohol                Never
First.Class Commercial Never
Airfare
Business.Class         Except as allowed under very limited circumstances by the JTR. Must
Commercial Airfare     be approved according to JTR and ILVOI 34-126.
Phone Cards            Never.
Mobile phone rental    Never.
Immunization Costs     AFE reimburses actual cost of immunizations:
                       Does not reimburse:
                       - Cost of office visits when using a private physician to obtain
                       immunizations
                       - Mileage to obtain immunizations from a military installation or from
                         a private physician


Lost, stolen, or damaged Entertainer must file equipment claims resulting from neglect of
equipment costs          commercial airlines with the airline at the first available opportunity
                         (within 24 hours).

                          Loss or damage caused by a negligent or wrongful act of a service
                          member or government civilian employee while acting within the
                          scope of his or her assigned duties may be submitted to the installation
                          claims office where the damage/loss occurred using SF Form 95,
                          Claim for Damage, Injury or Death and DD Form 1884, List of
                          Property and Claims Analysis.

   4.4. The Final Pay Package. After tour completion, the entertainment group within 30 days or the
   USO within 45 days, submits a Final Pay Package to AFE that includes the items listed in Figure 6.
   Submission of a complete Package i.e., all paid receipts and required documentation) will assure
   timely processing within AFE. Packages returned due to incomplete information will delay final pay-
   ment. If modifications to the primary contract are required, the primary contract can be processed for
   payment prior to receipt of the modification from Contracting. However, any monetary amount asso-
   ciated with the modification will not be issued until the contract modification has been completed.
   Final Pay Packages are processed by AFE according to the procedures outlined in ILVOI 34-126.
26                                                                   AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


Figure 6. Final Pay Package Items.


Documents                                           Explanation
Entertainment Group Evaluation                      See sample at Attachment 3
DOD No-Fee passports                                If applicable
Geneva Convention ID Card                           If applicable
Unused Commercial AirlineTickets                    If applicable
Unused or adjusted MCO                              Any MCOs for excess baggage must be
                                                    returned
Invoice and all receipts                            Only expenses for which reimbursement is
                                                    authorized.
Carnet                                              If applicable

5. RECOGNITION PROGRAM
     5.1. General. Entertainers participating in the AFE program generously donate their time and talent
     and country and site coordinators generally serve as an additional duty or volunteers. Therefore, it is
     important to recognize these individuals for their efforts and dedication to assuring the success of the
     AFE program.
     5.2. Recognition of Entertainers and Sponsors. To recognize and thank entertainers and their sponsors
     for their generous support of the AFE program, Circuit Managers will prepare letters of appreciation
     for each participating member upon completion of a successful entertainment tour. The Chief, AFE
     will sign the letters. In exceptional circumstances to recognize a significant effort or multiple tours,
     the letters of appreciation will be prepared for signature by the Air Force Director of Services.
     5.3. Armed Forces Entertainment Eagle Award. The Armed Forces Entertainment (AFE) Eagle award
     is presented to an individual(s) who demonstrates selfless dedication and commitment to the AFE
     mission. More than one AFE Eagle Award may be awarded each year. Nominations should arrive at
     AFE not later than 1 Feb.
         5.3.1. Presentation of Award. The Chief, AFE, presents the AFE Eagle award at the AFE annual
         conference held in the March timeframe. If the recipient is unable to attend the conference, AFE
         will forward the award through appropriate command channels for presentation.
         5.3.2. Who is eligible?
            5.3.2.1. Country and Site Coordinators.
            5.3.2.2. Military, civilian or contract personnel at any level that have been instrumental in
            planning, coordinating, scheduling, supporting and/or hosting AFE entertainment tours.
            5.3.2.3. Previous recipients of the AFE Eagle Award may be nominated again; however, the
            accomplishments used to earn a previous award may not be used for subsequent nominations.
            5.3.2.4. AFE staff, including Regional Coordinators, are not eligible for this award.
         5.3.3. Award Criteria. Criteria are designed to assist organizations in their assessments and selec-
         tion of candidates for nomination for the AFE Eagle Award. These guidelines will serve as a tool
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          27


       to help focus on those areas that add to the success of the AFE program. Topics listed below are
       suggested areas for focus when preparing nominations.
          5.3.3.1. Leadership.
          5.3.3.2. Efforts at creating value and satisfaction (build trust, confidence and loyalty).
          5.3.3.3. Strategic planning; response to rapid, changing and emerging circumstances.
          5.3.3.4. Ability to demonstrate creative, adaptive and flexible approaches in meeting require-
          ments.
       5.3.4. Nomination Procedures. Nominations may be submitted from any level of command by a
       supervisor or leader in a position to know of the nominee’s accomplishments according to the pro-
       cess outlined in Table 7. Timely submission will assure all nominees receive consideration and
       permit ample planning for presentation at the annual AFE conference held in the March/April
       timeframe.

Table 7. AFE Eagle Award Nomination Process
Step   OPR               WHEN           ACTION
1      Person            As             Prepare in narrative format, not to exceed 250 words, on plain
       submitting        warranted      bond paper. Include the nominee’s full name, grade, unit of
       nomination        b u t N LT     assignment, specific accomplishments focusing on the award
                         January        criteria and the time period in which the accomplishments cited
                                        occurred. While this award is presented annually, the
                                        accomplishments can be for a period of time greater than one
                                        year to recognize sustained superior performance and
                                        dedication. Send nominations directly to the appropriate
                                        Regional Coordinator.
2      Regional      N LT     1 Endorse the nomination with concur or nonconcur; a
       Entertainment February   nonconcur requires explanation. Forward the nomination to
       Coordinator              respective Circuit Manager.
3      Circuit Manager February         Endorse the nomination with concur or non-concur (a
                                        non-concur requires explanation) and forward to the Deputy
                                        Chief, AFE.
4      Deputy Chief February            Review and evaluate all nominations against award criteria and
       and Chief, AFE                   select recipients. Arrange for presentation to recipients at
                                        annual AFE conference.

       5.3.5. Award element. Recipients receive the AFE Eagle Award certificate signed by the Chief,
       AFE and the Air Force Director of Services and recognition at the annual AFE conference.
28                                                            AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


     5.4. Forms Adopted. DD Form 25, Receiving Report; DD Form 489, Geneva Convention Iden-
     tity Card; SS Form 95, Claim for Damage, Injury or Death; DD Form 1884, List of Property and
     Claims Analysis.



                                            DONALD J. WETEKAM, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS/Installations & Logistics
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                    29


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Instruction 1330.13, Armed Forces Entertainment Program, 23 Mar 04
DOD Directive 1330.12, United Service Organizations, Inc. (USO), 1 Nov 00
DOD Instruction 1000.1, Identity Cards Required by the Geneva Conventions, 30 Jan 74
DOD Instruction 1015.10, Programs for Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR), 3 Nov 95
DOD 4500.9R, Defense Transportation Regulation (Part I Passenger Movement), Sep 01
Joint Travel Regulation
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 1 Nov 97
AFI 34-407, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program, 17 Feb 99
AFMAN 34-416, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship and Sale of NAFI Advertising Procedures,
1 May 01
AFI 36-3026(I), Identification Cards for Members of the Uniformed Services, Their Eligible Family
Members, and Other Eligible Personnel, 20 Dec 02
AFH 41-114, Military Health Services System (MHSS) Matrix, 1 Mar 97
AR 40-400, Patient Administration, 12 Mar 01
AR 40-562, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04
AFJI 48-110, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04
NAVMEDCOMINST 6320.3B, Medical and Dental Care for Eligible Persons at Navy Medical Depart-
ment Facilities, 14 May 87
BUMEDINST 6230.15, Immunizations and Chemoprophylaxis, 12 May 04
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities, 1 Oct 02
Air Force Services Operating Instruction (ILVOI) 34-126, Armed Forces Entertainment, 17 Aug 04

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—automated data processing equipment
AFE—Armed Forces Entertainment
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CBA—centrally billed account
CONUS—continental United States
30                                                                    AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


CTO—contract travel office
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESP—emergency and special program
FY—fiscal year
HQ USAF/ILV—Headquarters United States Air Force Directorate of Services
HQ USAF/ILVE—Headquarters United States Air Force Directorate of Services, Armed Forces
Entertainment Division
IAW—in accordance with
ITO—invitational travel orders
ILVOI—Air Force Directorate of Services Operating Instruction
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
MCO—miscellaneous charge order
MTF—military treatment facility
POC—point of contact
ROE—rules of engagement
USO—United Service Organizations

Terms
Application Packet—A packet submitted by a non-celebrity entertainment group in order to be
considered for acceptance into the AFE program.
Carnet— Entertainers use carnets to carry professional equipment into various countries without having
to pay duties and taxes before entering and additional penalties after departing. The carnet serves as proof
of exportation and re-importation back in the United States and those countries visited.
Celebrity Entertainer—Famous person or group to include but not limited to recognition via top 100
billboard, gold record, platinum record, nationally recognized label; actor in movie, TV show, sitcom;
Paris runway model; or articles in popular magazines.
Commercial Sponsorship— The act of providing assistance, funding, goods, equipment (including fixed
assets), or services to an MWR program(s)or event(s) by an individual, agency, association, company or
corporation, or other entity (sponsor) for a specific (limited) period of time in return for public recognition
or advertising promotions.
Continental United States (CONUS)—The 48 contiguous United States and the District of Columbia.
Entertainer(s)—Any single entertainer to include, but not limited to singer, musician, comedian, dance
group member, actor, sports figure, famous person, author, motivational speaker or magician.
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                          31


Entertainment Group—A group of entertainers that comprise an act or members needed to conduct a
performance.
Non-celebrity Entertainer—An entertainer that does not meet the criteria to be considered a celebrity.
For bands, these are generally up and coming bands receiving national play. Non-celebrity entertainers are
usually professionally managed by an agent.
Tour Folder—Record maintained in the AFE office containing all documents associated with an
entertainment tour.
Tour Package—A package assembled by the AFE staff and containing items the entertainment group
needs for travel.
32                                                                  AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


                                                Attachment 2

                          SAMPLE HOSTING SITE TOUR EVALUATION
(NOTE: Address the items listed here as a minimum)


1. Submitted by: (Name of installation or site/address/phone number)


2. Entertainment Group Name:


3. Total in Attendance:


4. Entertainment group is rated: (select a rating from the list below and explain)


Outstanding (Top professional act of the highest quality)
Good (Very enjoyable performance with good production value)
Average (Competent performance, neither remarkable nor bad)
Fair (Not one of the better groups, but okay)
Unsatisfactory (Poor performance group)


5. Remarks (explain anything not addressed above, words of praise, any problems or issues that arose,
other recommendations or comments)




Signature
Signature block of submitter
AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                   33


                                              Attachment 3

                        SAMPLE ENTERTAINMENT GROUP EVALUATION
(NOTE: Address the items listed here as a minimum and evaluate each country visited separately)
1. Entertainment Group Name:


2. Tour Dates (Mo/Yr):


3. Country:


Use the following scale to rate items listed below:


1=Exceptional           2=Above Average      3=Met Expectations           4=Needs Improvement
5=Unacceptable
4.

Name of Base/Site
(fill in across)
Greeting         upon
arrival
Transportation
In-brief
(Explanation of
threat conditions,
cultural rules)
Venue set-up
Publicity         and
advertising
Communication
(Informed          of
itinerary changes,
etc.)
Crowd size
Overall

5. Using scale above, overall rating of coordination with Armed Forces Entertainment office:


6. Additional comments:
34                                                               AFI34-126(I) 28 FEBRUARY 2005


                                            Attachment 4

     SAMPLE AFTER ACTION FUNDING SUPPORT TO USO TOURS SPREADSHEET
      (NOTE: To estimate the value of volunteer labor, use the GS-9 hourly pay rate)


Support Provided USO Celebrity shows by the hosting site/installation
Site:
Name of entertainment tour:
Date of performance:
                                     APF NAF Estimated dollar value of in-kind support
Lodging
Transportation
Food
Production (equipment, stage, etc)
Miscellaneous


Totals:                                    $0.00 $0.00 $0.00




Grand Total of All Support                               $0.00
