BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2648
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             29 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                       COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR
                                                                      FORCE (CCAF)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                      www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A1DL                                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A1D
                                                                         (Barbara J. Barger, SES)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2304, 1 September                                                  Pages: 9
               1999


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It also implements Title 10
United States Code 9315 and 9317, Community College of the Air Force, (CCAF), Department
of Defense (DoD), and Air Force directives for the administration of the 1954 federal policy on
accreditation of federally chartered degree-granting institutions. It states the mission and
responsibilities of the college. It identifies CCAF-related responsibilities of the Commander, Air
University (AU), The Barnes Center Commander, and CCAF Commandant; responsibilities of
Program Managers for degrees and certifications; responsibilities of the education services
system; responsibilities incurred by affiliation with the college; and program eligibility. This
instruction requires collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013, and Public Law 94-361. System of
Records F036 AETC L, Community College of the Air Force Student Transcript, Administration,
and Records System, applies. Refer recommended changes and corrections to this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 through major command (MAJCOM) to the OPR.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records          Disposition      Schedule        (RDS)           located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.            This instruction applies to all
components of the worldwide CCAF system and associated Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
instructor assignment processes. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
 2                                                            AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013


commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the responsibilities of the AU Board of Visitors (paragraph 3), the Barnes
Center Commander and CCAF Commandant (paragraphs 2 and 5 through 6.9), CCAF degree
and certification program managers (paragraphs 7 through 7.7), Student Academic Advisors
(paragraphs 8 through 8.6) and CCAF Affiliated Schools (paragraphs 9 through 9.4); Instructor
selection from AFPC (paragraph 10), and adds a new Section C, Professional Certifications and
Programmatic Accreditation (paragraph 11 through 12). This revision also provides new sources
of CCAF transcript availability (paragraph 8.4).

Section A—Mission

1. CCAF Mission. Offer and award job-related associate in applied science degrees and other
academic credentials that enhance mission readiness, contribute to recruiting, assist in retention
and support the career transitions of Air Force enlisted members.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Commander, Air University is the CCAF governing authority. In this capacity the
AU Commander:
     2.1. Confers degrees upon graduates of the college.
     2.2. Assigns the Barnes Center Commander responsibility for governing the college.
     2.3. Provides required resources.
     2.4. Establishes policies to include academic programs, accreditation, operations,
     philosophy, institutional mission, vision, and effectiveness.
3. The AU Board of Visitors (AU BOV). The board represents the public interests and advises
the AU Commander, The Barnes Center Commander, and the CCAF Commandant on matters
pertaining to the management and operation of the college.
4. The CCAF Policy Council. The Policy Council is composed of representatives from all
elements of the CCAF system. Chaired by the Dean of Academic Affairs, the Policy Council
meets annually and submits recommendations concerning academic policies, degree programs,
award of credit, academic standards, affiliation of schools, and other policy matters to the CCAF
Commandant and the AU BOV for guidance and concurrence.
5. The Barnes Center Commander:
     5.1. Assigns the CCAF Commandant responsibility for administering the college.
     5.2. Approves and provides adequate resources.
AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                   3


6. The CCAF Commandant:
   6.1. Develops and publishes procedures and guidelines for affiliated schools, student
   academic advisors, and students.
   6.2. Develops and implements procedures for award of academic credit.
   6.3. Establishes professional certification and degree programs.
   6.4. Establishes and administers advisory panels for affiliated schools and the education
   services system.
   6.5. Maintains student academic records.
   6.6. Issues transcripts, professional certifications, and diplomas.
   6.7. Ensures CCAF shares in regional accreditation through AU by the Southern Association
   of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) and ensures full compliance
   of the CCAF system.
   6.8. Investigates cases of suspected fraudulent activity, refers confirmed cases of fraud to
   appropriate legal and administrative authorities, and takes action as prescribed in CCAF
   academic policies.
   6.9. Ensures CCAF representation in the civilian higher education community and
   professional organizations.
7. CCAF Program Managers. Program Managers satisfy the SACSCOC requirement that:
“For each major in a degree program, the institution assigns responsibility for program
coordination, as well as for curriculum development and review, to persons academically
qualified in the field.” It is desirable that Program Managers possess an associate degree or
higher, preferably in the discipline, and professional certification(s) commensurate with their
duty position. Program Managers are considered functional experts and are selected to their
positions for career-field expertise in their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC). CCAF Program
Managers perform the following functions:
   7.1. Develop and maintain degree programs for assigned AFSCs.
   7.2. Monitor career field changes and the need for new degree programs or revision of
   existing degrees on a continuing basis.
   7.3. Maintain communications with career field functional managers, civilian colleges and
   universities, and business and industry to ensure state-of-the-art degree programs.
   7.4. Evaluate and translate curriculum content of Air Force technical courses for conversion
   to civilian collegiate credit.
   7.5. Develop course descriptions commensurate with civilian academic institutions.
   7.6. Advise student academic advisors worldwide on matters concerning CCAF academic
   programs and policies.
   7.7. Attend and provide briefings at Specialty Training Requirement Teams (STRT).
8. CCAF’s Student Academic Advisors. Education and Training Section Chiefs and Leaders,
Education Advisors, Guidance Counselors, Education Specialists, Education and Training
 4                                                             AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013


Technicians, Air National Guard Base Education and Training Managers/Training Technicians
and Air Force Reserve Education and Training Technicians.
     8.1. Student academic advisors advise enlisted members on CCAF degree completion using
     guidelines in the CCAF Advisor Handbook and CCAF General Catalog.
     8.2. Community College of the Air Force Action Requests are submitted via the web page
     968 Community College of the Air Force Action Request, or electronically through a feature
     of the Air Force Automated Education Management System (AFAEMS) to update records,
     change degree programs, change catalogs, register in a subsequent degree program, and
     nominate students for degree candidacy.
     8.3. Installations must conduct at least one graduation ceremony (either independently, or as
     part of a consolidated event) to ensure that graduates are recognized and diplomas are
     presented at an appropriate ceremony. The Education and Training Section (FSS/FSDE) will
     serve as the liaison between the CCAF and the designated professional organization
     orchestrating the event. Education Centers will ensure a graduate listing and diplomas are
     requested and provided. Recommend the use of professional organizations such as Chiefs'
     Group, First Sergeants' Council, Top Three, Company Grade Officers Association, etc to
     conduct the event.
     8.4. CCAF transcripts are free and may be requested by Air Force members (active or
     retired), civilians, students, and other services’ members via the Air Force Virtual Education
     Center (AFVEC), or the web. (See CCAF Advisor Handbook or CCAF General Catalog for
     details, and the CCAF non-public website).
        8.4.1. Civilians, other service personnel, and retirees without computer access may send
        a written request to CCAF that includes full name, or former name as appropriate, social
        security account number, date of birth, and the address of the location where the
        transcript is to be sent. The student’s signature is the legal authorization for CCAF to
        release a transcript. Send transcript requests to:
            CCAF/DESS
            100SouthTurnerBlvd
            Maxwell-Gunter AFB AL 36114-3011
     8.5. Student academic advisor training includes resident and regional workshops, distance
     learning advisor updates, and training assistance visits.
     8.6. Resources for advisors are located on the CCAF non-public website.
9. CCAF Affiliated Schools. Schools must meet standards established by Air University’s
regional accrediting body (SACSCOC) and CCAF. Details regarding the affiliation of
prospective schools and the documentation described in this publication are found in the CCAF
Campus Affiliations Policies, Procedures and Guidelines (PPG). The PPG is directive in nature
and compliance is mandatory. To become an affiliated school and maintain affiliation, a school
must agree to accept certain responsibilities, comply with the requirements in these guidelines,
and provide required information.
     9.1. Air Force organizations must meet the following minimum eligibility requirements to be
     considered for candidacy as a CCAF affiliate school:
AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                           5


      9.1.1. The prospective school must have a 100% degreed faculty level. All faculty
      members must have an associate or higher level degree (preferably in the discipline),
      documented expertise in the teaching discipline, and be technically qualified.
      9.1.2. The school must submit written authorization by the major command (or
      equivalent) to seek affiliation with CCAF.
      9.1.3. The school must be in operation with Air Force enlisted personnel enrolled at the
      time of application.
      9.1.4. The school must conduct courses worth at least 7 semester hours (SH) cumulative
      (not including instructor qualification courses) as evaluated by CCAF. CCAF’s
      evaluation will also determine course applicability to degree programs.
  9.2. Each candidate and affiliate school must adhere to the following minimum conditions of
  affiliation, which require each candidate/affiliate school to:
      9.2.1. Maintain full compliance with all CCAF PPG requirements.
  9.3. Fund a candidacy visit, initial and final affiliation visits as required, staff assistance visit
  (when requested by the school), and similar visits by SACSCOC.
      9.3.1. Support a Compliance Requirements Visit (CRV) when scheduled. CCAF
      normally visits each affiliate school once every three years. The proposed schedule is
      coordinated through the MAJCOM gatekeepers.
      9.3.2. Complete a self-study (during candidacy period) and submit an annual report by15
      December each year.
      9.3.3. Submit new or revised course documents at least 10 calendar days before the class
      start date and review and/or update course documents annually.
      9.3.4. Report course graduates within 5 duty days after graduation using a method
      acceptable to CCAF Campus Affiliations (e.g., Oracle Training Application (OTA),
      CCAF Graduate Reporting Software, etc.).
      9.3.5. Select and maintain an academically and technically qualified teaching faculty
      (ensuring faculty qualifications remain 100 percent compliant). This applies to all CCAF
      faculty to include, military, civilian, and civilian contractors.
      9.3.6. Maintain faculty credential data, including degreed faculty status, using the CCAF
      Faculty Database (STARS-FD).
      9.3.7. Conduct a CCAF approved instructor qualification program as prescribed in the
      PPG.
      9.3.8. Conduct a comprehensive evaluation of students, faculty, instruction, instructional
      media, curricula, supporting facilities, and services that contributes to the educational
      effort.
  9.4. The CCAF Campus Affiliations Division will review affiliated school compliance with
  CCAF requirements and policies of affiliation in conjunction with the Board of Visitors
  scheduled meetings. A school not in compliance with the conditions of affiliation is subject
  to sanctions imposed by the AU BOV. If the deficiencies are not readily correctable and
 6                                                              AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013


     sanctions must be imposed, the CCAF Commandant will notify the school’s chain of
     command in writing of any action taken.
10. The Air Force Personnel Center (AETC/AFPC). AETC in conjunction with AFPC will
assign military individuals to instructor duty in accordance with AFI 36-2110, Assignments, and
the Air Force Special Category Assignment Guide. Civilian and contractor hires are at the
discretion of the school; however, these faculty members must meet the same degree and
qualification requirements as military faculty. AFPC must use the categories in Table 9.1 to
assign individuals to instructor duty.

Table 10.1. Assignment Categories
CATEGORY                DEFINITION
Category 1              Volunteer with a degree (preferably in the discipline)
Category 2              Non-volunteer with a degree (preferably in the discipline)
Category 3              Volunteer within 12 SHs of completing an associate degree
                        (preferably in the discipline)
Category 4              Non-volunteer within 12 SHs of completing an associate degree
                        (preferably in the discipline)

     10.1. Volunteers/Non-volunteers: AETC will ensure eligible members have met the
     education requirements in paragraph 10.2 and with AFPC approval, fill instructor duty
     vacancies as required.
     10.2. Individuals assigned to instructor duty, teaching CCAF credit awarding courses, will
     hold at least a 2-year degree, (preferably in the discipline), from an accredited institution.
     Individuals requiring more than 12 SH to complete an associate degree will not be selected
     for instructor duty. NOTE: If the member requires more than 12 SHs to complete an
     associate degree, a CCAF waiver may be requested but only in the most extreme
     circumstances. If approved, the member must still be able to complete a degree within 12
     months of being assigned to instructor duty. All assignment requests must include the
     statement that the position is a degree-mandatory position (i.e., “position is Category 1 for a
     degree-mandatory position”).

Section C—Professional Certifications and Programmatic Accreditation

11. Professional Certifications. CCAF is the focal point for developing, managing, and
administering professional certification programs supporting the enhancement of mission
readiness, professional development, and career transitions of Air Force enlisted members.
Certification Program Managers perform the following functions:
     11.1. Develop, manage, and administer professional certification programs that directly
     broaden an Airman’s occupational professional development.
     11.2. Develop and maintain specialized courses that support certification programs for
     Airmen pursuing professional certification.
     11.3. Monitor the need for new certification programs or revision of existing programs on a
     continuing basis.
AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       7


   11.4. Evaluate curriculum content of Air Force and civilian technical courses for
   applicability toward certification program requirements.
   11.5. Advise students and academic counselors worldwide on matters concerning
   professional certification opportunities, requirements, and policies.
   11.6. Maintain communications with certification agencies and industry to ensure program
   compliance with certification agency rules, policies, and requirements.
   11.7. Research national professional certifications related to Air Force occupational
   specialties and develop needed programs that guide personnel towards professional
   certification.
   11.8. If possible, and in the best interest of the Air Force, align degree programs with
   industry standards that result in, or lead to, eligibility or award of certification upon
   completion of the applicable CCAF degree.
   11.9. Evaluate national professional certifications for award of CCAF collegiate credit.
   CCAF may award collegiate credit for national professional certifications applicable to
   specific degree programs and satisfy specific Technical Education and Program Elective
   requirements. Update certificate completions in MilPDS.
12. Programmatic Accreditation of Degree Programs and Courses. Selected CCAF degree
programs and courses have programmatic accreditation status with civilian accrediting and
certification agencies. Programmatic accreditation enhances the college and its programs and
services by recognizing particular aspects of quality which are measured against standards
established by accrediting agencies, professions, and industries.

Section D—Eligibility for Participation in CCAF Degree Programs

13. Eligibility. In support of the spirit and intent of Title 10, United States Code, Section 9315,
Community College of the Air Force: Associate Degrees, and the stated purposes of the college
as outlined in paragraph 1 of this instruction, eligibility to participate in CCAF degree programs
is restricted to active duty enlisted Air Force, Air National Guard, Selected Reserve and other
service member CCAF instructors teaching degree applicable courses. An eligible member of
the Selected Reserve of the Air Force Reserve is defined as an individual in training pay category
A, B, or D, who is a member of a unit and regularly participates in paid inactive duty training
and annual training. Individuals must be in pay status. Active duty Air National Guard
individuals must be in training or retention category A and receiving pay.




                                             DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and
                                             Services
 8                                                           AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Section 9315, Community College of the Air Force: Associate
Degrees, 3 January 2012
Title 10, United States Code, Section 9317, Air University: Conferral of Degrees, 3 January
2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFI 36-2110, Assignment, and the Air Force Special Category Assignment Guide, 22 September
2009
SACSCOC Comprehensive Standard, February 2013
CCAF Campus Affiliations Policies, Procedures and Guidelines, 1 June 2013
CCAF Advisor Handbook, 1 January 2011
CCAF General Catalog, 1 January 2011
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Prescribed Form
Web page 968 Community College of the Air Force Action Request through AFAEMS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFAEMS—Air Force Automated Education Management System
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AU—Air University
AU BOV—Air University Board of Visitors
AFVEC—Air Force Virtual Education Center
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CRV—Compliance Requirements Visit
DOD—Department of Defense
OTA—Oracle Training Application
AFI36-2648 29 OCTOBER 2013                                                     9


PPG—CCAF Campus Affiliations Policies, Procedures and Guidelines
SACSCOC—Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Colleges
SH—Semester Hour
STARS—Student Transcript Administration and Record System
