BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2921
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               30 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                 COMBATING TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
                                                                            (CTIP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A1SRQ                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:    DoDI2200.01_AFI36-2921,                                                 Pages: 9
               23 February 2009


This publication implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, and Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 2200.01, Combating Trafficking in Persons. It provides guidance and
procedures on the implementation, execution and management of the Combating Trafficking in
Persons (CTIP) program. This Instruction describes Air Force responsibilities under the DoDI
and establishes the Air Force requirement to support the program. This publication applies to
Air Force (AF) military (Regular, Reserve, Air National Guard) and civilian employees except
where noted otherwise. This publication may be supplemented, but all direct Supplements must
be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the      Air     Force      Records       Disposition     Schedule       (RDS)       located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been changed from an Air Force Supplement to the DoDI to an Air Force
Instruction. Definitions of CTIP have been updated and expanded to include activities such as
pandering, prostitution, and patronizing a prostitute even though such activities may be legal
within a host nation country, but which are in violation of Title 10 United States Code, Chapter
47.
 2                                                                 AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011


1. Purpose:
     1.1. Issues instruction in accordance with DoDI 2201.01
     1.2. Establishes Air Force policy on CTIP and assigns responsibilities.
2. It is Air Force Policy to:
     2.1. Deter activities of Air Force Service members, civilian employees, indirect hires,
     contract personnel, and command-sponsored dependents that would facilitate or support TIP,
     domestically and overseas. This includes activities such as pandering, prostitution and
     patronizing a prostitute even though such activities may be legal within a host nation country,
     but which are in violation of Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 47 (The Uniform Code of
     Military Justice). TIP also includes forced prostitution, forced labor, and debt bondage. TIP
     is a grave violation of human rights and a worldwide criminal threat to security, civil rights,
     and stability as well as a direct threat to our national foreign policy goals.
     2.2. Oppose prostitution, forced labor, and any related activities that may contribute to the
     inherently illegal activity of TIP as harmful and dehumanizing. TIP is a violation of United
     States law and internationally recognized human rights and is incompatible with Air Force
     core values.
     2.3. Educate all Service members and Air Force civilians annually on the worldwide
     trafficking menace, national TIP policy, overseas theater TIP policy, and attendant personal
     responsibilities consistent with Air Force core values and ethical standards.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
     budgets addressing combating trafficking in persons.
     3.2. The Air Force Inspector General (IG) will conduct periodic evaluations of the CTIP
     program and investigates allegations related to TIP. Inspection teams will use the CTIP
     Inspection Checklist in Attachment 2 and supplement as necessary.
     3.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will collect data and
     report to AF/A1S and AFPC as necessary on contractor adherence to DoD CTIP policy as
     outlined in the FAR.
     3.4. The Air Force Legal Office (JA) will provide advice and assistance to the Air Force
     Directorate of Services (AF/A1S) on all TIP legal matters, including reviewing and
     coordinating on all proposed TIP policies, regulations, directives, and instructions, and on all
     proposed exceptions to DoD CTIP policy.
     3.5. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1)
     will oversee the responsibilities of the Air Force CTIP program.
        3.5.1. The AF/A1S is the Air Force CTIP office of primary responsibility. This office
        shall oversee all aspects of the Air Force CTIP program. AF/A1S will:
            3.5.1.1. Be designated as the AF representative to the OSD TIP Coordinating
            Council.
AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                      3


         3.5.1.2. Assist the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
         (USD(P&R)) to establish a metric to track TIP awareness training and understanding
         of TIP-related policy and programs. This metric shall track the total number of Air
         Force personnel assigned and the total number trained, broken out by Service
         members, DoD civilians, and DoD contractors. Use this data to monitor compliance
         with the annual CTIP awareness training requirement.
         3.5.1.3. Provide CTIP program data annually to USD (P&R) using the report at
         Attachment 3.
         3.5.1.4. Report TIP cases to the USD (P&R) DoD Program Manager
         3.5.1.5. Ensure that CTIP training curriculum is provided to both officer and enlisted
         institutional leadership training venues. The Air Force Directorate of Force
         Development, Learning Division (AF/A1DL) and the Air Force Commissioning and
         Force Development Division (AF/A1DO) will assist AF/A1S in identifying and
         coordinating with the appropriate Officer and Enlisted institutional leadership training
         venues through the Air Force Learning Committee Process.
  3.6. The Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), a Field Operating Agency (FOA) reporting
  directly to AF/A1, implements all departmental AF CTIP policies and guidance on properly
  administrating and executing the AF CTIP program in accordance with this supplement.
  3.7. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Commanders will designate an individual as the
  MAJCOM/FOA/DRU CTIP program coordinator that serves as the organization’s point of
  contact for the CTIP program to track, execute, respond, and coordinate CTIP guidance
  between AFPC and subordinate units. Coordinate and disseminate MAJCOM/FOA/DRU-
  specific CTIP guidance via the designated CTIP program coordinator.
  3.8. The Military Justice Division of the Air Force Legal Services Agency will collect data
  and report to AF/A1S and AFPC as necessary the disposition of criminal cases on AF
  personnel convicted of TIP and TIP-related offenses.
  3.9. The Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will provide AF/A1S or AFPC,
  upon request, annual CTIP training completion statistics for AF military and civilian
  personnel.
  3.10. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) will include applicable theater
  and country specific CTIP training materials as part of its theater deployment briefings.
  These materials will be provided by the applicable AF component command.
  3.11. The Wing/Installation Commanders, will, through open communication, education and
  training, enforcement and assessment, provide for an environment where all Airmen and their
  dependents, DoD civilians and contractors comply with CTIP policy and will not be
  complicit in any way in the trafficking of persons. Commanders will:
     3.11.1. With the assistance of Security Forces, AFOSI and local law enforcement as
     applicable, within their authorities, pursue indicators of TIP in commercial
     establishments patronized by DoD personnel, place offending establishments off-limits,
     and provide support to host country authorities involved in the battle against TIP.
     3.11.2. May request AFOSI and/or Security Forces to investigate TIP related allegations
     against person(s) subject to Uniform Code of Military Justice.
4                                                               AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011


       3.11.3. Increase CTIP awareness through a variety of public access methods that may
       include: base newspaper, commander’s channel, commanders’ calls, handouts, and
       newcomer’s briefings/orientation programs tailored to local conditions.
       3.11.4. Ensure AF CTIP Awareness/Hotline posters are prominently displayed
       throughout the wing in high-traffic areas that are generally visible to a majority of the
       Wing/Installation population. Posters are not required to be displayed in every unit.
       3.11.5. Designate a local CTIP POC for the wing/installation (to include subordinate
       geographically separated units and/or detachments) to administer the CTIP program.
       3.11.6. Ensure unit compliance with Installation CTIP Inspection Checklist in
       Attachment 2.
       3.11.7. Ensure all subordinate contracting units insert clause 55.222-50 and Alternate I in
       all contracts in compliance with FAR 22.17 and 25.003.
       3.11.8. Ensures all Airmen and DoD civilians meet CTIP annual and pre-deployment
       training requirements as outlined in this Instruction.
       3.11.9. Sign local CTIP policy (example found in Attachment 4).
    3.12. Unit Commanders will ensure all deploying members are current on their CTIP
    awareness training prior to deployment.
    3.13. All Air Force military and DoD Civilians must complete annual CTIP awareness
    training. Annual CTIP awareness training will be documented in the Advanced Distributed
    Learning System (ADLS).
    3.14. Personnel who are projected for travel (PCS relocation, TDY including deployment,
    leave/permissive TDY) from CONUS and between locations outside CONUS, involving
    more than 14 calendar days, who have not had CTIP awareness training within the last 365
    calendar days must complete refresher training prior to departure.
    3.15. Air Force Security Forces will ensure all overseas bases establish and keep current
    Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) with local law enforcement and NGOs that work
    with victims of TIP and prostitution at or near overseas military installations to provide
    support to the CTIP program.




                                            DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                            DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 2200.01, Combating Trafficking in Persons,
15 September 2010
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
CTIP—Combating Trafficking in Persons
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NGO—Non-governmental Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
TDY—Temporary Duty
TIP—Trafficking in Persons
USD—Under Secretary of Defense

Terms
Combating Trafficking in Persons— To deter activities of Air Force Service members, civilian
employees, indirect hires, contract personnel, and command-sponsored dependents that would
facilitate or support TIP, domestically and overseas.
Trafficking In Persons— The recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring or receipt of
persons by means of threat, use of force, coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse or
exploitation.
      6                                                     AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 2
                               INSPECTION CHECKLIST

  Table A2.1. (AF) Sample Local CTIP Endorsement Memorandum.

 ITEM                     ITEM                    REFERENCE(S)       COMMENTS           YES/
NUMBER                                                                                  NO
1.0        ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1        Does the Installation CC/equivalent,   AFI 36-2921
           through open communication,
           education and training, enforcement
           and assessment, provide for an
           environment where all Airmen and
           their dependents, DoD civilians and
           contractors comply with CTIP
           policy and not be complicit in any
           way in the trafficking of persons?
1.1.1      Has the Installation CC/equivalent     AFI 36-2921
           designated a local CTIP POC for the
           wing/installation (to include
           subordinate geographically
           separated units and/or detachments)
           to administer the CTIP program?
1.1.2      Has the Installation CC/equivalent     AFI 36-2921
           issued and disseminated a locally
           developed CTIP endorsement
           memorandum tailored to local
           conditions that communicates the
           importance of CTIP and its impact
           on readiness and professional
           climate?
1.1.3      Has the Installation CC/equivalent     AFI 36-2921
           ensured that all Airmen and DoD
           civilians meet CTIP annual training
           and predeployment Verification
           requirements as outlined in AF Supp
           to DoDI 2200.01?
  AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011                                                  7



 ITEM                     ITEM                     REFERENCE(S)   COMMENTS       YES/
NUMBER                                                                           NO
1.1.4      Has the Installation CC/equivalent      AFI 36-2921
           ensured that all subordinate
           contracting units inserted clause
           52.222-50 and Alternate I –
           Combating Trafficking in Persons in
           accordance with FAR 22.17 and
           25.003.?
1.1.5      Has the Installation CC/equivalent      AFI 36-2921
           with the assistance of Security
           Forces, AFOSI and local law
           enforcement as applicable, within
           their authorities, pursued indicators
           of TIP in commercial establishments
           patronized by DoD personnel,
           placed offending establishments off-
           limits, and provided support to host
           country authorities involved in the
           battle against TIP?
1.1.6      Has the Installation CC/equivalent    AFI 36-2921
           increased CTIP awareness through a
           variety of public access methods that
           may include: base newspaper,
           commander’s channel, commanders’
           calls, handouts, and newcomer’s
           briefings/orientation programs?


1.1.6.1    Has the Installation CC/equivalent      AFI 36-2921
           ensured that CTIP
           Awareness/Hotline posters are
           prominently displayed throughout
           the wing?
       8                                                                 AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011


                                                 Attachment 3
                              ANNUAL TIP TRAINING REPORT FORMAT

      Table A3.1. Annual TIP Training Report Format.

DoD Combating Trafficking in Person’s Training Report
  Organization          Total         Military       Civilian         Total       Contractors       TIP POC
                       Strength       Members        Members         Trained          **
                      MM+CM             (MM)           (CM)         MM+CM           assigned/        Name/
                                                                                     trained         E-Mail




** Contractors are not required to train their personnel on CTIP; however, FAR subpart 22.17 (Reference
(j)) states that the presence of a TIP awareness program is a factor for the contracting officer to consider as
a mitigating factor when determining remedies.
AFI36-2921 30 AUGUST 2011                                                                          9


                                           Attachment 4
               SAMPLE LOCAL CTIP ENDORSEMENT MEMORANDUM

XX XXX XX
MEMORANDUM FOR (Wing/Installation)
FROM: XX XXX/CC

SUBJECT: Wing Endorsement Memorandum on Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP)
(DoDI 2200.01; AFI 36-2921)

1. Trafficking in Persons (TIP) is the second largest criminal activity in the world. It is defined
as the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring or receipt of persons by means of threat,
use of force, coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse or exploitation. TIP is a grave
violation of human rights and a worldwide criminal threat to security, civil rights, and stability as
well as a direct threat to our national foreign policy goals. Due to the seriousness of the crime,
the egregious results in terms of human tragedy, and the disabling impact on our military
readiness, the AF has established a zero tolerance for trafficking in persons.
2. I fully endorse the AF’s zero tolerance for TIP and I expect all members of the Wing to be
aware of the negative impacts TIP could have on our Wing’s readiness and professional climate.
All Airmen should know which commercial establishments are considered Off -Limits (Ref. Off
– Limit Establishments list) and identify and report suspicious behavior that may indicate TIP
activities to your chain of command, Security Forces, AFOSI, or Inspector General.
3. The Wing’s point of contact for TIP-related issues is the XXXXXX office at extension XXX-
XXXX.


                                             FIRST NAME/LAST NAME, Rank, USAF
                                             (Commander/Agency Director/Equivalent)

cc:
(Sample)
