BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3106
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    30 JUNE 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                            RETIREE ACTIVITIES PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PA                                                                  Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                          (Mr. Robert E. Corsi, Jr)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-3106, 30 Jul 2004                                                  Pages: 11


Thispublication implements AirForcePolicyDirective36-31, Personal Affairs, April 2, 2012. It
sets procedures for the Retiree Activities Program and provides guidance for Retiree Activities
Offices operating on and off active duty, joint, reserve or guard installations. This publication is
a Total Force Instruction. It applies to all retirees and their family members, and surviving
spouses from active duty Air Force (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National
Guard (ANG), as well as to paid and volunteer personnel who support retiree activities. The
Retiree Activities Program is applicable to ANG and is optional based on state funding
availability. In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of
the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and
Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for the Retiree Activities Program. This Air Force
Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level; all supplements must be routed through
AFPC/DPFFF for coordination and approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic
Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive wing/unit level
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
 2                                                                    AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014


This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected
bythePrivacyActof1974authorizedbyTitle10,          United           States           Code
8013andExecutiveOrder(E.O.)9397. The applicable Privacy Act System of Records Notice F036
AF      PC     C,    Military     Personnel  Records     System,     is    available    at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional office in the chain of command
to AFPC/DPFFF, Airman and Family Sustainment Branch, 550 C Street West, Suite 37,
Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4713.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include updates to reorganize the information contained to enhance readability; reflect
changes in response to Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and Joint Basing initiatives;
delete MAJCOMs’ role in the Retiree Activities Program; delete responsibilities of Directorate
of Personnel Program Management, Retiree and Transition Division (AFPC/DPPT) division
chief, as a result of AFPC reorganization; and other administrative changes.

Section A—Introduction

1. Purpose. Headquarters US Air Force established the Retiree Activities Program to serve
military retirees, spouses, widows and widowers, and to support, advance and unify the retired
and active military families. AF/A1 oversees the Retiree Activities Program.

Section B—Air Force Retiree Council (Council)

2. Membership. The Council consists of two Co-Chairmen, 15 Air Force Area Representatives
and appointed Members at Large. The Council serves as the Air Force Chief of Staff’s (CSAF)
personal liaison with the Air Force retiree community.
     2.1. Co-Chairmen. Two retired Air Force members serve as Co-Chairmen. The CSAF
     appoints the Co-Chairmen of the Council. Normal term is four years from date of
     appointment, but it may be changed at the CSAF’s discretion. No individual will serve in the
     position of Co-Chairman for longer than eight years. The Co-Chairmen’s official mailing
     address is HQ AFPC/CCU, 550 C Street West, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4713. Note: The
     positions are normally filled by a retired Air Force general officer and a retired former Chief
     Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF). Although this rank structuring (i.e. a general
     officer and former CMSAF) is not a requirement, it has proven very          effective     since
     implementation.
     2.2. Area Representative. There are 15 Area Representatives on the Council. The Co-
     Chairmen appoint the Area Representatives.
        2.2.1. The normal term of an Area Representative is four years from the date of
        appointment, but the Co-Chairmen may approve a term extension or a second term of an
AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014                                                                       3


      Area Representative. No individual will serve in the position of Area Representative for
      longer than eight years.
      2.2.2. One retired Air Force member (officer or enlisted) representative for each of the
      designated 15 geographical areas worldwide.
      2.2.3. Geographical Council Areas are: Area I -- Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and
      Washington; Area II -- California; Area III -- Arizona and New Mexico; Area IV--
      Colorado, Nevada, Utah, and Wyoming; Area V -- Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North
      Dakota, South Dakota, and Wisconsin; Area VI -- Texas; Area VII -- Arkansas, Kansas,
      Missouri, and Oklahoma; Area VIII -- Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and
      West Virginia; Area IX -- Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee; Area X --
      Florida (includes Puerto Rico and Panama); Area XI -- Georgia, North Carolina, South
      Carolina, and Virginia; Area XII -- Delaware, District of Columbia, and Maryland; Area
      XIII -- Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
      Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont; Area XIV -- Pacific Region (includes Alaska
      and Hawaii); Area XV -- Atlantic Region (includes Europe and Lajes Field, Azores).
   2.3. Member at Large. The Co-Chairmen may appoint Members At Large with skills or
   background in certain areas of endeavor (e.g., medical, legal) as determined necessary by the
   Co-Chairmen. The normal term of a Member at Large is four years from the date of
   appointment, but the Co-Chairmen may approve a term extension or a second term of a
   Member at Large. No individual will serve in the position of Member at Large for longer
   than eight years.
3. Volunteering for Air Force Retiree Council
   3.1. Co-Chairman. An Air Force retiree who wishes to volunteer to serve as a Co-
   Chairman will submit a request to the commander of the nearest Air Force installation. The
   request must be accompanied by a resume, which contains the person’s name and retired
   grade as well as highlights of the person’s service career, employment and activities since
   retirement, reasons for wanting to serve as a Co-Chairman, and a description of what the
   person would like to accomplish as a Co-Chairman. If the commander endorses the request,
   the commander forwards it to AFPC/DPFFF (Retiree Services). Retiree Services will contact
   the person if additional information is needed. Retiree Services will maintain a file of the
   requests. When a vacancy occurs or is expected to occur, Retiree Services will forward the
   requests to the Co-Chairmen, who will in turn forward them to the CSAF for consideration.
   Out-going Co-Chairmen consult with the CSAF on naming their replacements.
   3.2. Area Representative. An Air Force retiree who wishes to volunteer to serve as an Area
   Representative will submit a request and resume to the commander at the nearest Air Force
   installation in that area. The resume must contain the person’s name, retired grade, and
   Council Area for which applying as well as highlights of the member’s service career,
   activities since retirement, including civic activities, employment since retirement, reasons
   why they are interested in being an Area Representative, and what the applicant would like to
   accomplish as an Area Representative. Commanders will maintain a file of the requests.
   When a vacancy occurs or is expected to occur in one of the geographical areas, each
   installation commander in the affected area is notified by Retiree Services. The commander
   reviews all submissions, endorses one candidate and forwards that nomination to Retiree
   Services by the suspense date. The commander is requested to submit a negative reply if
 4                                                                   AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014


     appropriate. Nominees will be contacted by Retiree Services at a later point if additional
     information is needed. Retiree Services will forward the nominations to the Co-Chairmen for
     consideration.
     3.3. Member at Large. An Air Force retiree who wishes to volunteer to serve as a Member
     at Large will submit a request to the commander of the nearest Air Force installation. The
     request must be accompanied by a resume, which contains the person’s name and retired
     grade as well as highlights of the person’s service career, employment and activities since
     retirement, reasons for wanting to serve as a Member at Large, and a description of what the
     person would like to accomplish as a Member at Large. If the commander endorses the
     request, the commander forwards it to Retiree Services. Retiree Services will contact the
     person if additional information is needed. Retiree Services will forward the request to the
     Co-Chairmen for consideration.
4. Roles and Responsibilities.
     4.1. Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force (CSAF). Utilize the Council to liaise
     with the Air Force retiree community. Appoint the Council Co-Chairmen. Discuss with the
     Co-Chairmen the results of the annual meeting of the Council.
     4.2. Co-Chairmen.
        4.2.1. Conduct the Air Force Retiree Council, which convenes annually.
        4.2.2. Report directly to the CSAF and recommend actions on retiree matters. Following
        the annual Council meeting, the Co-chairs will meet with the CSAF to discuss the annual
        meeting and present him a comprehensive report of the meetings’ results to include a
        breakdown of the issues and concerns showing to what Air Staff office or DoD agency
        each was forwarded for consideration and resolution.
        4.2.3. Forward in writing retiree issues and concerns developed at the annual meeting to
        Air Staff and other DoD agencies for consideration and resolution.
        4.2.4. Maintain liaison with the Commander, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC/CC)
        and the Chief, Retiree Services (AFPC/DPFFF).
        4.2.5. Participate in Retiree Appreciation Day (RAD) activities, visit Retiree Activities
        Offices (RAOs) and Satellite Retiree Activities Offices (SRAOs) on active, joint, reserve,
        and guard installations, and meet with installation commanders to the maximum extent
        possible.
        4.2.6. Selects and appoints Area Representatives from nominees endorsed by installation
        commanders and forwarded by Retiree Services.
            4.2.6.1. Announce the selection via a letter to the selectee and a courtesy copy to the
            nominating commander.
            4.2.6.2. Decide whether to approve a request by an Area Representative for an
            extension or second tour.
            4.2.6.3. Remove any area representative from the Air Force Retiree Council who, in
            the opinion of the Co-Chairmen, fails to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of the
            position.
AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014                                                                       5


        4.2.6.4. If an Area Representative does not complete the term of appointment, initiate
        the nomination process and appoint a replacement. The Co-Chairmen may appoint a
        replacement to complete the remainder of the term, or to start a new four-year term.
     4.2.7. Select and appoint Members at Large from nominees endorsed by installation
     commanders and forwarded by Retiree Services. Announce appointments via letter to the
     selectee with a courtesy copy to the nominating commander. Decide whether to approve
     a request by a Member at Large for an extension or second tour.
     4.2.8. Recognize individuals who have made significant contributions to the Retiree
     Activities Program.
  4.3. Area Representatives and Members at Large, or Retiree Council
  Members. Generally, references to Council Members include both Area Representatives
  and Members at Large. Exceptions are noted below.
     4.3.1. Attend the annual Council meeting as funded by AFPC.
     4.3.2. Assist the Air Force improve the Retiree Activities Program by keeping abreast of
     programs and policies that affect the retiree community, and submitting articles
     addressing these concerns in RAO newsletters or web sites. Participate in RAD activities
     to the maximum extent possible. Note: Only the Co-Chairmen will be considered for Air
     Force-funded travel to attend RAD activities.
     4.3.3. Area Representatives must maintain contact with RAOs and SRAOs in their
     geographical area through official mail, e-mail, or FAX.
     4.3.4. Area Representatives must visit each RAO and SRAO annually, or as necessary to
     ascertain whether command support is adequate. Before visiting, contact the RAO
     director to arrange meeting with installation commander, active duty coordinator, and
     appropriate staff members to discuss local retiree programs, including retiree support of
     base activities; RAO funding and facilities; need for establishment of an SRAO and
     subsequent support; planning assistance for relocations necessitated by BRAC and or
     Joint Basing initiatives; and identification of assets and locations to support the
     continuing Air Force Retiree Activities mission. After each visit, prepare a written report
     for the installation commander, with a courtesy copy to the active duty coordinator, the
     RAO/SRAO director, Retiree Services and the Co-Chairmen. Note: Members at Large
     will not be considered for funded travel to visit RAOs and SRAOs.
     4.3.5. Area Representatives must participate in their respective support bases’ annual
     budget process and submit a budget line item to meet projected administrative and travel
     funding requirements, which can be done through the appropriate RAO/SRAO.
     Coordinate with the appropriate RAO/SRAO to obtain necessary TDY orders and
     supplies. Note: Depending on the availability of funds, the installation commander of the
     support base is expected to fund the travel of the Area Representative for RAO/SRAO
     visits described in paragraph 4.3.4.
     4.3.6. Area Representatives must determine independently and solicit issues from
     RAOs/SRAOs in their respective area suitable for Retiree Council consideration. Submit
     those topics to AFPC/DPFFF for consideration at the annual Retiree Council meetings no
6                                                                   AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014


       later than the suspense date announced by Retiree Services in the Quarterly Program
       Letter.
    4.4. Commander, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC/CC).
       4.4.1. Approves Retiree Activities Program requirements. Provides logistical support for
       annual Council meeting. Funds travel for Co-Chairmen to attend official Air Force
       functions designated by the CSAF as necessary and appropriate for the Co-Chairmen to
       attend. Also provides financial support to publish and mail the Afterburner, News for
       USAF Retired Personnel two times a year.
    4.5. Chief, Retiree Services (AFPC/DPFFF).
       4.5.1. Serves as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and oversees the day-to-day
       management for the Air Force Retiree Activities Program
       4.5.2. Provides executive and administrative support to the Retiree Council Co-
       Chairmen. Provides advice and consultation to Co-Chairmen, Council members,
       RAO/SRAO directors and installation active duty coordinators as needed.
       4.5.3. Conducts annual Council meeting. Coordinates with Co-Chairmen concerning
       agenda, guests and speakers and final list of issues to be considered by the Council.
       4.5.4. Issues travel orders for and funds travel of Co-Chairmen and Council members to
       attend the annual Council meeting and for Co-Chairmen to conduct additional travel as
       necessary, including meeting with the CSAF after the annual meeting.
       4.5.5. Submits projected budget to support Council, including        need for funds for Co-
       Chairmen travels to out-brief CSAF following annual meeting and in support of RADs
       and other necessary and appropriate retiree activities, funds permitting. Use of O&M
       funds is authorized for appropriate travel and transportation allowances.
       4.5.6. Acts as liaison between the Council and Air Staff and other DoD agencies in
       regard to the issues and concerns submitted for consideration or action as a result of the
       annual Council meeting. Provides an interface between Air Force Reserve, Air National
       Guard and Uniformed Services regarding establishment of RAOs/SRAOs on their
       respective installations.
       4.5.7. Disseminates information on matters affecting retirees to the Air Force   Retiree
       Council Co-Chairmen, Council members and RAOs/SRAOs via printed and/or electronic
       correspondence; the Afterburner, News for USAF Retired Personnel, Air Force Retiree
       News Service (AFRNS), and the Quarterly Program Letter. Maintains the Air Force
       Retiree Services website which is another means of disseminating information to retirees.
       4.5.8. Maintains and distributes the RAO Directory listing the names, official mailing
       addresses and office telephone numbers of RAOs and SRAOs, and similar information on
       active duty coordinators.
       4.5.9. Provides mailing labels or data files to RAO/SRAO directors who request them
       for newsletters and other official mailings to retirees. Coordinates with Defense
              Manpower Data Center (DMDC) and the RAOs/SRAOs to ensure the correct
       procedures are made available to establish a Retired Address Finder (RAF) account for
AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014                                                                         7


       downloading retiree addresses for all Uniformed Services’ retirees in their respective
       area.
       4.5.10. Publicizes Co-Chairmen vacancies via letter or email to all installation
       commanders and Area Representative vacancies via letters or email to all relevant
       installation commanders. Prepares a letter to the selectee, signed by the Co-Chairmen,
       announcing the selection with a courtesy copy sent to the nominating commander.
       Letters will also be sent to non-selectees, with a courtesy copy to the nominating
       commander.
       4.5.11. Ensure coordination with PACAF/A1 and USAFE/A1, as appropriate, when
       soliciting nominations for replacements in Areas XIV and XV.
       4.5.12. In the event of national emergency, implements guidance in Air Force
              Emergency Action Book (EAB) to suspend RAO/SRAO functions.
5. Base Level. The RAO/SRAO is the focal point of the Retiree Activities Program and its
success depends on the support of the Installation Commander, Public Affairs office, Staff Judge
Advocate, and RAO Director. AFR and ANG installation commanders may establish a
RAO/SRAO based on local retiree requirements.
   5.1. Installation Commander.
       5.1.1. Appoints the RAO/SRAO Director in writing. Forwards copy of appointment
       letter to Retiree Services. The RAO/SRAO Director is a member of the installation
       command staff and it is appropriate for the RAO/SRAO Director to attend unclassified
       staff meetings. (T-3, AFPC).
       5.1.2. Appoints an Active Duty Coordinator for the RAO/SRAO which is normally the
       installation vice commander. This individual maintains regular contact with the RAO
       director and provides liaison between the active duty staff and the RAO director.
       5.1.3. Furnishes necessary support for the RAO/SRAO activities to include funding;
       administrative assistance; office space appropriate to allow discussion of sensitive issues
       with retirees/survivors; and computer equipment with access to the “.mil” system.
       Supports issuance of volunteer logical access credential (VoLAC) or Air Force Alternate
       Token card, to RAO volunteers.
       5.1.4. Appoints retirees as members of base-level advisory councils (commissary, clubs,
       etc.) on the recommendation of the RAO director.
       5.1.5. Ensures RAO director submits one nomination annually for Volunteer of Year
       (VOY) recognition. The installation commander endorses the VOY nomination and
       forwards it to AFPC/DPFFF, 550 C Street West, Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4713, to
       arrive by the date established by Retiree Services.
       5.1.6. Ensures the Area Representative, if the commander supports one, receives
       adequate financial and administrative support to accomplish the Council member’s
       mission if applicable. Funds the Area Representative’s travel to visit RAOs/SRAOs per
       paragraphs 4.3.4 and 4.3.5.
       5.1.7. Hosts an annual RAD or retiree seminar. The installation commander may appoint
       an active duty person as RAD Project Officer to lead a working group to plan and execute
8                                                                     AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014


       these events. Members of the working group will include representatives from the RAO;
       Public Affairs; Protocol; Financial Management; Medical Treatment Facility/Clinics;
       Force Support Squadron (Military Personnel, Airman and Family Readiness Center as
       appropriate) and any others having significant roles in such events.
       5.1.8. Ensures retirees receive the same respect and courtesy shown to active duty
       members by informing DoD personnel that retirees will be addressed by their retired
       grade (except for those retirees who are currently employed by Civil Service). This
       applies to all official records and official correspondence. Installation commanders will
       periodically forward guidance to units and organizations about continuing to show
       military respect to retirees.
       5.1.9. In the event of national emergency, may request waiver of Air Force Emergency
       Action Book (EAB) which suspends RAO/SRAO function in order to utilize volunteer
       assistance from RAO/SRAO staff during the emergency.
       5.1.10. Adds installation RAO support as a separate line item on local self-inspection
       checklist.
    5.2. Installation Public Affairs (PA). Advises and assists on all retiree-related public
    affairs matters. Reviews RAO newsletters and base web page items before publication and
    posting to ensure requirements regarding Air Force governing published material are met.
    Publicizes retiree activities.
    5.3. RAO Director.
       5.3.1. Directs and manages the RAO; attends staff meetings as necessary; assists the
       commander in supporting the local retirees, family members and surviving spouses of
       retirees.
       5.3.2. Participates in base budget submission process to ensure necessary funding for
       RAO activities to include day-to-day operation; publishing needs and annual RAD.
       5.3.3. Publishes a local retiree newsletter or base web page if funding/technical support
       is available. Shares local information and information furnished by Retiree Services
       and/or other official sources that affect or would be of general interest to the local retiree
       community. Coordinate with, at a minimum, the installation PA to ensure the
       newsletter/base web page posting meets Air Force requirements governing published
       material.
       5.3.4. Maintains a file or library of pertinent information including, but not limited to
       this directive, copies of past issues of the Afterburner, News for USAF Retired Personnel,
       and the Quarterly Program Letter disseminated by Retiree Services.
       5.3.5. Solicits volunteers to work in the RAO and to participate in other base level
       programs supported by the Retiree Activities Program, e.g. clinics, pharmacies, libraries,
       base terminal.
       5.3.6. Submits one RAO/SRAO VOY nomination annually to the installation
       commander.
       5.3.7. Maintains and reports required RAO/SRAO statistics to Retiree Services each year
       in the RAO annual report.
AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014                                                                              9


Section C—- Other

6. Afterburner, News for USAF Retired Personnel. The Afterburner (hard copy) is normally
produced and mailed two times a year by Retiree Services, to inform the Air Force retiree
community, including retirees, annuitants and un-remarried surviving spouses, about privileges,
benefits and changes in laws and policies that affect them. Additionally, the e-Afterburner is
posted on the Retiree Services web site: http://www.retirees.af.mil.
7. Retiree Activities Office Handbook. This handbook was developed jointly by RAO
Directors and Retiree Services to be used for establishment and day-to-day operation of an RAO.
It may be adapted to meet local needs.
8. Roster of Retired Air Force General Officers. Retiree Services maintains the Roster of
Retired Air Force General Officers. The roster is for official use only. It includes mailing/email
addresses, and the Honor Roll, listing the dates of death for recently deceased individuals.




                                             GORDON O. TANNER
                                             Principal Deputy assistant secretary of the air force
                                             (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
 10                                                                AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Chapter 803, Section 8013, Secretary of the Air
Force, August 10, 1956.
Executive Order 9397, Number System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
November 22, 1943.
Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use
of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008.
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities, December 22, 2006.
AFPD 36-31, Personal Affairs, April 2, 2012.
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, June 1, 2001.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1—- Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A1PA—- Division Chief, Air Force Compensation & Travel
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
AFPC—- Air Force Personnel Center
AFPC/DPFFF—- Airman and Family Sustainment Branch
CSAF—- Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DMDC—- Defense Manpower Data Center
DSN—- Defense Switched Network
EAB—- Emergency Action Book
FAX—- Facsimile
HQ—- Headquarters
JA—- Judge Advocate
O&M—- Operation and Maintenance
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—- Public Affairs
RAD—- Retiree Appreciation Day
AFI36-3106 30 JUNE 2014                       11


RAF—- Retired Address Finder
RAO—- Retiree Activities Office
SRAO—- Satellite Retiree Activities Office
TDY—- Temporary Duty
VEA—- Volunteer Excellence Award
VoLAC—- Volunteer Logical Access Credential
VOY—- Volunteer of the Year
