                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                 HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                        WASHINGTON DC 20330
 


                                                                             AFI36-2855_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                14 MARCH 2014


MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
               MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

FROM: HQ USAF/A1
      1040 Air Force Pentagon
      Washington, DC 20330

SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 36-2855, Judge Advocate General Awards

        By Order of the Secretary of the Air Force, this is an Air Force Guidance Memorandum
immediately changing AFI 36-2855, Judge Advocate General Awards. Compliance with this
Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force
publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.
        Current guidance in AFI 36-2855 remains in effect with the following changes:

Change to para 1.1.4. Outstanding Paralegal Noncommissioned Officer of the Year Award (Steve
Swigonski Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Steve Swigonski, USAF, Retired, the first
Special Assistant for Legal Airman Affairs to TJAG. The annual winner is an AD noncommissioned
officer (NCO) selected as the most outstanding paralegal NCO of the year based upon demonstrated
superior initiative, technical skill, leadership, attorney/paralegal teaming, and devotion to duty. Eligible
candidates are AD Air Force paralegals who have obtained, at a minimum, their five skill level and are in
the grade of technical sergeant or staff sergeant as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the
award is given.

Add para 1.1.9. Outstanding Paralegal Airman of the Year Award (Thomas Castleman Award).
This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Thomas Castleman, USAF, Retired, the third Senior Paralegal
Manager to TJAG and the only Senior Paralegal Manager to serve in the position for more than five
years. The annual winner is an AD airman selected as the most outstanding paralegal airman of the year
based upon demonstrated superior initiative, technical skill, leadership, attorney/paralegal teaming, and
devotion to duty. Eligible candidates are AD Air Force paralegals who have obtained their five skill level
and are in the grade of senior airman or below as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the
award is given.

This guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after 1 year has elapsed from the date of this
Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to, or rewrite of AFI 36-2855, Judge Advocate
General Awards, whichever is earlier.

                                                         SAMUEL D. COX
                                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                         DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2855
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              6 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                  JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL AWARDS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AF/JAXP                                                           Certified by: AF/JAX
                                                                 (Colonel Peter R. Marksteiner)
Supersedes:   AFI36-2855, 15 April 2009                                                 Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and describes
The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) awards presented to individuals in recognition of their
outstanding service or contributions to The Judge Advocate General’s Corps (TJAGC). It
describes the annual and extraordinary achievement awards and establishes nomination
procedures. This instruction applies to all military members and civilian employees of TJAGC,
including Active Duty (AD), Air Reserve Component (ARC), and Air National Guard (ANG).

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Title 5 United States Code Section 3301, 10 USC § 806, and DoD Instruction
1348.33, Military Awards Program, authorize collection and maintenance of the information;
Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice, F051 AFJA C, Judge Advocate Personnel Records,
applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
route AF Forms 847 through appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: revision of the eligibility criteria and implementation of electronic filing of nomination
packages.
1. Overview. This instruction establishes guidance and nomination procedures for TJAGC
Awards Program. TJAGC units at all levels, including ANG and ARC units, comply with this
publication to nominate individuals in recognition of their outstanding service or contributions to
TJAGC and the Air Force.
     1.1. Description of the Annual Awards:
        1.1.1. Outstanding Young Judge Advocate of the Year Award (Albert M. Kuhfeld
        Award). Brigadier General and Mrs. Richard C. Hagan, USAFR, Retired, established
        this award in honor of the late Major General Albert M. Kuhfeld, USAF, Retired, who
        formerly held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is an AD officer selected as the
        most outstanding young judge advocate of the year based on demonstrated excellence,
        initiative, leadership, attorney/paralegal teaming, and devotion to duty. Eligible
        candidates are AD Air Force judge advocates serving in the grade of captain or major as
        of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given.
        1.1.2. Outstanding Air Reserve Component Judge Advocate of the Year Award
        (Reginald C. Harmon Award). This award honors Major General Reginald C.
        Harmon, USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is
        an officer selected as the most outstanding ARC judge advocate based on training
        accomplishments or contributions to mission support; exhibition of leadership in
        contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian
        community; attorney/paralegal teaming; and enrollment in off-duty programs of
        professional self-improvement. Eligible candidates are ARC judge advocates in the
        grade of lieutenant colonel or below as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the
        award is given. On the AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, the first heading should
        be ―Total Number of Points Earned‖ for the period of the award, followed by a break-
        down of the nominee’s points earned from AD, Inactive Duty Training, and the Air Force
        Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning. The substantive portion of the nomination
        should reflect the nominee’s total contributions during the period of the award and not
        merely concentrate on one significant event.
        1.1.3. Outstanding Civilian Attorney of the Year Award (James O. Wrightson, Jr.,
        Award). Mr. John A. Everhard established this award in memory of Mr. James O.
        Wrightson, Jr., who formerly held the position of Chief, Military Affairs Division, Office
        of The Judge Advocate General, USAF. The annual winner is a civilian employee
        selected as the most outstanding civilian attorney of the year based upon demonstrated
        excellence, initiative, attorney/paralegal teaming, and devotion to duty. Eligible
        candidates are civilian attorneys employed by or serving with TJAGC.
        1.1.4. Outstanding Young Paralegal of the Year Award (Steve Swigonski
        Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Steve Swigonski, USAF, Retired, the
        first Special Assistant for Legal Airman Affairs to TJAG. The annual winner is an AD
        paralegal selected as the most outstanding young paralegal of the year based upon
AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                        3


     demonstrated superior initiative, technical skill, leadership, attorney/paralegal teaming,
     and devotion to duty. Eligible candidates are AD Air Force paralegals in the grade of
     technical sergeant or below as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award
     is given.
     1.1.5. Outstanding Paralegal Senior Noncommissioned Officer of the Year Award
     (Karen Yates-Popwell Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Karen E.
     Yates-Popwell, USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of Senior Paralegal
     Manager to TJAG. The annual winner is an AD senior noncommissioned officer (NCO)
     selected as the most outstanding paralegal senior NCO of the year based upon
     demonstrated excellence, superior initiative, leadership, attorney/paralegal teaming, and
     management skills. Eligible candidates are AD Air Force paralegals serving in the grade
     of senior master sergeant or master sergeant as of 31 December of the calendar year for
     which the award is given.
     1.1.6. Outstanding Air Reserve Component Paralegal of the Year Award (David
     Westbrook Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant David Westbrook,
     USAFR, Retired, a former senior Individual Mobilization Augmentee paralegal to the
     General Law Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General, USAF. The annual
     winner is an ARC member selected as the most outstanding paralegal of the year based
     upon demonstrated superior initiative; technical skill; training accomplishments or
     contribution to mission support; exhibition of leadership qualities in contributing to civic,
     cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian community;
     attorney/paralegal teaming; and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-
     improvement. Eligible candidates are ARC paralegals not otherwise serving on an
     Active Guard Reserve (AGR) tour during the calendar year for which the award is given.
     On the AF Form 1206, the first heading should be ―Total Number of Points Earned‖ for
     the period of the award, followed by a break-down of the nominee’s points earned from
     AD, Inactive Duty Training, and the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed
     Learning. The substantive portion of the nomination should reflect the nominee’s total
     contributions during the period of the award and not merely concentrate on one
     significant event.
     1.1.7. Outstanding Legal Service Civilian of the Year Award (Harold R. Vague
     Award). This award honors Major General Harold R. Vague, USAF, Retired, who
     formerly held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is a civilian employee selected as
     the most outstanding employee based upon demonstrated excellence, initiative, teaming,
     and devotion to duty. Eligible candidates are civilians, excluding attorneys, employed by
     or serving with TJAGC and providing legal and/or administrative support to TJAGC’s
     legal offices. Give special consideration to individuals who develop or improve systems,
     programs, or procedures that enhance management efficiency or cost-effectiveness for
     Air Force legal programs.
     1.1.8. Outstanding Senior Attorney Award (Stuart R. Reichart Award). This award
     honors Mr. Stuart R. Reichart, who formerly held the position of General Counsel of the
     Air Force. It is presented annually by the Air Force Association (AFA) and recognizes
     the outstanding legal achievements of a senior Air Force attorney. The award honors
     demonstrated excellence and initiative, leadership and management skills, and
     professionalism in the practice of law. Eligible candidates are attorneys with at least 14
 4                                                                AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012


        years of service with the Department of Defense, with the most recent 7 years as a judge
        advocate (AD or ARC) or civilian attorney, or both, for the Air Force. The last day for
        meeting the eligibility requirements is 31 December of the calendar year for which the
        award is given. Although nominations should cite specific personal achievements, the
        award is for continuous contributions throughout a career of federal service, not a single
        accomplishment.
2. Preparing Nominations for Annual Awards:
     2.1. MAJCOMs and the Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA). MAJCOMS
     and AFLOA will establish their own procedures to select command/organizational nominees.
     Each MAJCOM and AFLOA may submit one nomination per award category, except for the
     Reichart Award. There is no limit on the number of Reichart Award nominations that may
     be submitted – all Reichart Award nominations satisfying the award criteria shall be
     forwarded to the Professional Development Directorate, Office of TJAG (AF/JAX) to be
     considered at the TJAG annual awards boards.
        2.1.1. All other organizations. All other field operating agencies, other direct reporting
        units, and all other organizations not specified above shall submit their nominations to
        AF/JAX to compete at the Headquarters Centralized Board. This centralized board is
        designed to provide a more level playing field among all nominees; it will meet prior to
        the TJAG annual awards boards and will forward one nomination per award category,
        except for the Reichert Award, for which all nominations satisfying the award criteria
        will be considered at the TJAG annual award boards.
        2.1.2. TJAGC Annual Awards Boards. The nominations submitted by each
        MAJCOM and AFLOA will compete at the TJAG annual awards boards. The selected
        nominations from the Headquarters Centralized Board will compete at the TJAG annual
        awards boards against the nominations submitted by each MAJCOM and AFLOA.
        AF/JAX is the OPR for the Headquarters Centralized Board.
     2.2. Limitations on Timeframe of Achievements. Limit nominations for all annual
     awards, except the Reichart Award, to activities occurring during the calendar year for which
     the award is given. You may highlight previous significant achievements that establish a
     consistent record of exemplary performance; however, the primary focus of the nomination
     must remain on the year for which the award is given.
     2.3. Attorney/Paralegal Teaming Criterion. For all annual awards, emphasize the
     nominee’s accomplishments and how those accomplishments impacted the mission, to
     include (except in the case of the Reichart Award) how attorney/paralegal teaming through
     collaboration and effective utilization of individual skills was used during the award period
     to provide legal services. Exceptions to the attorney/paralegal teaming criteria are
     appropriate only when sufficient justification substantiates the impossibility of
     Attorney/Paralegal teaming.
3. Processing Nomination for Annual Awards:
     3.1. Suspense Date. The suspense for all nominations is 1 April annually; if 1 April falls on
     a weekend, the first duty day thereafter. Each MAJCOM, AFLOA, and each organization
     covered by the Headquarters Centralized Board process may submit one nomination for each
AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                     5


  annual award category; however, any level of command may submit multiple nominations
  for the Reichart Award. Submit nominations to AF/JAX through judge advocate channels.
  3.2. Reichart Award: A Reichart Award nomination package is submitted in physical
  form. Mail six (6) copies of each nomination package to: HQ USAF/JAX, 1500 West
  Perimeter Road, Suite 3330, Joint Base Andrews Naval Air Facility, MD 20762.
     3.2.1. Attach the nomination package in a standard brown file folder with two-hole
     punch fasteners. Do not use staples, binders, plastic page covers, paper clips, or any
     other fastening. Place a white label on the front of each folder with the following
     information in all capital letters: nominee’s full name and rank on the first line, the
     annual award category on the second line, and the nominating MAJCOM (or appropriate
     organization) on the third line.
     3.2.2. On the left side of the open folder, from top to bottom, assemble the following
     without tabs or dividers:
         3.2.2.1. Nomination Form. Submit one AF Form 1206 using Forms Viewer™ (or
         successor) software, in bullet format, not more than one page in length (front side
         only). Nominations for the Reichart Award only may utilize the front and reverse
         sides of the AF Form 1206. If the reverse side of the Form is used, it must be printed
         head-to-foot for the nomination package. List the nominee’s accomplishments using
         the award criteria set out in the description of each annual award, above. Highlight
         the headings by typing them in all capital letters, i.e., DEMONSTRATED
         EXCELLENCE AND INITIATIVE, LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
         SKILLS, and PROFESSIONALISM IN THE PRACTICE OF LAW. Ensure that no
         text is concealed by fasteners. The name block on the Form must also include the
         nominee’s ―go by‖ name in parentheses.
         3.2.2.2. Indorsements. Type the name and rank of the initiating commander in the
         block on the AF FORM 1206 entitled ―Rank/Name of Unit Commander‖. The
         commander should not sign the nomination. Ensure the AF Form 1206 contains the
         commander’s telephone number. No indorsement memoranda should be included
         and it will not be considered.
         3.2.2.3. Biographical Sketch. Include a one-page biographical sketch in narrative
         format. Do not submit official Air Force biographies.
         3.2.2.4. Performance Reports. On the right flap of the open folder, from top to
         bottom, in reverse chronological order, printed head-to-foot, include copies of all
         officer performance reports or civilian performance appraisals. Do not use tabs or
         dividers.
  3.3. All Other Annual Awards: All other Annual Award nomination packages are
  submitted electronically via email to afjax.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Submit a separate
  email for each nomination package. In the Subject line of the email, state the nominee’s full
  name and rank, the annual award category, and the nominating MAJCOM (or appropriate
  organization).
     3.3.1. Attach the following to the email:
 6                                                                AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012


            3.3.1.1. Nomination Form. Submit one AF Form 1206 prepared using Forms
            Viewer™ (or successor) software, in bullet format, not more than one page in length
            (front side only). List the nominee’s accomplishments using the award criteria set out
            in the description of each annual award, above. Highlight the headings by typing
            them in all capital letters. For example, headings for a Kuhfeld Award nomination
            should be: DEMONSTRATED EXCELLENCE, INITIATIVE, LEADERSHIP,
            ATTORNEY/PARALEGAL TEAMING, and DEVOTION TO DUTY. The name
            block on the IMT must also include the nominee’s ―go by‖ name in parentheses.
            3.3.1.2. Indorsements. Type the name and rank of the initiating commander in the
            block on the AF FORM 1206 entitled ―Rank/Name of Unit Commander‖. The
            commander should not sign the nomination. Ensure the AF Form 1206 contains the
            commander’s telephone number. No indorsement memoranda should be included;
            such memoranda will not be considered.
            3.3.1.3. Biographical Sketch. Include a one-page biographical sketch in narrative
            format prepared using Microsoft Word™ file format. Do not submit an official Air
            Force biography. For the Harmon and Westbrook awards, ensure that the
            biographical sketch details what, if any, civilian employment the nominee performs,
            any significant community involvement, or any enrollment in off-duty programs of
            professional self-improvement.
4. Additional Achievement Awards:
     4.1. Special Service Award. This award recognizes outstanding individual contributions to
     TJAGC. It may be presented to a member of the Corps, a military member outside the
     Corps, or a member of the civilian community. TJAG is the approval authority for the
     award. Candidates should be nominated within 90 days of their outstanding contribution to
     the Corps. Nominations may be submitted from any source at any time throughout the year;
     no particular format is required. Nominations originating within TJAGC should be
     forwarded through respective MAJCOM staff judge advocates (or equivalent), for
     coordination, to AF/JAX. All other nominations may be submitted directly to AF/JAX.
     4.2. Unsung Hero Award (Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., Award). This award honors Brigadier
     General Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of Staff Judge
     Advocate, Air Force Materiel Command. It recognizes individuals who demonstrate selfless
     devotion to duty, support to others, and dedication to TJAGC. Nominations may be
     submitted from any source at any time throughout the year; no particular format is required.
     Submit nominations directly to AF/JAX at afjax.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. TJAG will
     personally select any recipient or recipients. The selected individual or individuals will be
     announced at the annual TJAG awards banquet along with the annual award winners.
5. Recognition:
     5.1. Except for the Special Service Award, individuals are ineligible to receive the same
     TJAG award covered in this instruction more than once.
     5.2. Except for the Special Service Award, TJAG will present award certificates and plaques
     to each winner at the annual TJAG awards banquet. The Reichart Award winner will also be
     recognized at the AFA’s annual Air & Space Conference and Technology Exposition.
AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012                                                               7


  Plaques recognizing the winners in each category are displayed at the Air Force Judge
  Advocate General’s School.
  5.3. Military recipients of the annual awards covered in Paragraph 1.1 may wear the Air
  Force Recognition Ribbon; civilian recipients may wear the lapel pin.




                                        DARRELL D. JONES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 8                                                          AFI36-2855 6 AUGUST 2012


                                   ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 1 July 2004 (incorporating Change 1, 23 November
2010)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 June 2001
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 July 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AFA—Air Force Association
AF/JA—Office of The Judge Advocate General
AF/JAX—Office of The Judge Advocate General, Professional Development Directorate
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
ARC—Air Reserve Component
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
TJAG—The Judge Advocate General
TJAGC—The Judge Advocate General’s Corps
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve
