BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1066
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            8 OCTOBER 2007
                                                                    Certified Current 20 December 2010
                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                             BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing on the website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEO                                                               Certified by: AF/A7C
                                                                     (Major General Delwyn R. Eulberg)
Supersedes AFI 32-1066, 4 May 1994                                                           Pages: 16

This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities, by
providing guidance for personnel maintaining and operating plumbing systems on Air Force installations.
It adopts the Uniform Plumbing Code™ (UPC) and UPC Illustrated Training Manual for operations and
maintenance purposes. The use of the name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commod-
ity, or service in the UPC, the UPC Illustrated Training Manual, or this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force. Refer also to Air Force instruction (AFI) 32-1067, Water Systems, and AFI
32-7041, Water Quality Compliance. This AFI applies to all permanent Air Force locations. This AFI
does not apply to deployed locations. This publication applies to the Air National Guard (ANG). Users
should send comments and suggested improvements on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM) and the Operation and Program Support
Directorate of the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (HQ AFCESA/CEO), 139 Barnes Dr, Suite
1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319, to Headquarters, United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for
Installations and Logistics, Environmental Quality Branch (AF/A7CAQ), 1260 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1260. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The title of this docu-
ment has been changed to Backflow Prevention Program. This revision defers general plumbing require-
ments to Unified Facility Criteria (UFC) 3-420-01, Plumbing Systems, focuses this publication on
backflow prevention, and aligns the backflow requirements of this instruction with the UPC 2006 edition.
It also provides clarification of the Air Force's backflow prevention and cross-connection control program
requirements for installations and facilities; revises AF Form 843, Backflow Prevention Device Inspection
2                                                                       AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


Data, AF Form 845, Cross-Connection and Device Information, and AF Form 848, Survey of Cross-Con-
nection Control and Backflow Prevention Devices; and rescinds AF Form 844, Backflow Prevention
Inspection Data.

Section A—Uniform Plumbing Code Criteria

1. Publication Objective. People working and living on our bases need safe and secure water and
plumbing systems. To fulfill this need, the base civil engineer's (BCE) team must have an effective back-
flow prevention program. This instruction, the UPC, and the UPC Illustrated Training Manual provide
guidance to help achieve these objectives.

2. Using this Instruction, the UPC, and the UPC Illustrated Training Manual. These publications
contain plumbing information related to backflow prevention and cross-connection control, backflow
device inspection frequency, unique maintenance tasks, and certification procedures. Consult the UPC
and the UPC Illustrated Training Manual for specific planning and working knowledge of plumbing fix-
tures, devices, systems, and codes.

3. UPC Compliance Procedures.
    3.1. UPC Compliance Date. Through release of this AFI, the Air Force adopts the backflow require-
    ments of the UPC (2006 edition) and the UPC Illustrated Training Manual, published by the Interna-
    tional Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO), 5001 E. Philadelphia Street,
    Ontario CA 91761 (909-472-4100/4208). IAPMO updates and republishes these publications every 3
    years. When an updated version of the UPC or UPC Illustrated Training Manual is published by
    IAPMO, the backflow requirements in these updated publications become a part of this instruction.
    3.2. UPC Compliance Guidelines.
       3.2.1. Bases under United States (US) jurisdiction must use the UPC (Section 603, Cross-Connec-
       tion Control) and UPC Illustrated Training Manual to inspect, test, install, repair, and replace
       backflow prevention devices. (Fire protection systems are exempted from this requirement. See
       Section 6.6. for fire protection systems requirements.) In the 1996 revisions to the Safe Drinking
       Water Act (SDWA), Public Law (PL) 93-523, December 16, 1974, Congress enacted a waiver of
       sovereign immunity that applies to Federal, state, intrastate, and local requirements with respect to
       "public water systems." This waiver can impose state and local backflow protection requirements
       on bases under US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) jurisdiction (i.e., US states and terri-
       tories). See Attachment 2 for information on when state and local backflow protection require-
       ments may apply.
       3.2.2. For bases located outside the US and its territories, paragraph 3.2.1. applies, except when in
       conflict with the Final Governing Standards (FGS), Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance
       Document (OEBGD), or host country regulations that are enforceable under treaties or sta-
       tus-of-forces agreements (SOFA). In these situations, comply with the most stringent requirement.
       Request guidance from the MAJCOM backflow program manager (BPM) for unresolved con-
       flicts.
       3.2.3. In accordance with UFC 3-420-01, all bases must comply with the International Code
       Council's (ICC) International Plumbing Code® (IPC) for plumbing system design. See Section
       3.5. for how to deal with publication conflicts.
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                              3


   3.3. UPC Administrative Authority. Chapter 1 of the UPC does not apply to Air Force personnel.
   The BCE is the administrative authority for the installation, operation, maintenance, and replacement
   of backflow prevention devices.
   3.4. Purchasing the UPC and UPC Illustrated Training Manual. Because HQ AFCESA/CEO is a
   Class A member of IAPMO, Air Force organizations and members can buy IAPMO publications at
   membership prices. Order copies for official use from IAPMO through the base library or contracting
   office. The toll-free publication ordering number is 800-854-2766. To receive Air Force membership
   prices, mark the order "For Use by US Air Force."
      3.4.1. Air Force personnel can purchase personal copies of these publications directly from the
      publisher. To receive Air Force membership prices, mark the order according to paragraph 3.4.
      The publisher also has publications pertaining to other civil engineering career fields. The UPC
      contains a list of these publications.
      3.4.2. Each MAJCOM, BCE organization, and education or training school should review the
      IAPMO Product Listing Directory at http://pld.iapmo.org/ for a list of IAPMO-approved prod-
      ucts grouped by manufacturer. These plumbing products have passed the IAPMO laboratory test
      for their intended purpose. The list contains many manufacturers offering a wide variety of plumb-
      ing products, and it is a useful reference for locating acceptable plumbing material, fixtures, and
      backflow devices.
   3.5. Publication Conflicts.
      3.5.1. This AFI contains several deviations from the UPC that take precedence over the require-
      ments of the UPC and IPC. Certain Department of Defense (DoD) publications (including military
      handbooks and UFC) require compliance with the IPC in certain circumstances. When the back-
      flow requirements of this AFI, the UPC, and the IPC conflict, comply first with this AFI, second
      with the UPC, and third with the IPC. Notify the MAJCOM BPM and the HQ AFCESA Engineer-
      ing Support Directorate Civil Engineering Division (HQ AFCESA/CEOA) of any unresolved con-
      flicts.
      3.5.2. In some situations, state and local laws for backflow prevention take precedence over this
      AFI and other Air Force and DoD guidance. See Attachment 2 for information on when state and
      local backflow protection requirements may apply.

Section B—Responsibilities

4. Air Force Organizations.
   4.1. HQ AFCESA/CEO:
      4.1.1. Formulates Air Force policy and instructions for development of the backflow prevention
      and cross-connection control program and for tasks required to adequately maintain potable water
      plumbing systems.
      4.1.2. Provides technical expertise, consultation, and guidance, and clarifies technical require-
      ments regarding water systems, plumbing systems, backflow and cross-connection program
      requirements, and other potable water-related issues.
      4.1.3. Provides contract support for engineering, technical, and professional services to support
      MAJCOMs, BCEs, and base BPMs—including surveys for cross-connections and backflow pre-
4                                                                      AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


       vention devices, program development, infrastructure condition assessments and surveys, design,
       training, and engineering studies.
    4.2. MAJCOM Civil Engineer (MAJCOM/A7C):
       4.2.1. Provides management and technical direction and assistance to all subject MAJCOM bases.
       4.2.2. Establishes cross-connection control program policies according to this instruction.
       4.2.3. Appoints a command BPM to coordinate the command’s backflow prevention program.
       4.2.4. Tracks the number of certified backflow technicians for each of its bases.
    4.3. Base Civil Engineer (BCE):
       4.3.1. Ensures compliance with this instruction and ensures that an effective backflow prevention
       and cross-connection control program is in place.
       4.3.2. Appoints an appropriate engineer or supervisor as the base BPM. The BCE may appoint an
       alternate BPM or co-BPMs if necessary. The BCE will ensure that the base BPM (or BPMs)
       receive adequate training.
       4.3.3. Notifies the MAJCOM/A7C and base bioenvironmental engineer (BEE) if the potable
       water supply becomes contaminated or polluted.
    4.4. Air Force Institute for Operational Health (AFIOH):
       4.4.1. Provides environmental, safety, and occupational health (ESOH) risk analysis, health sur-
       veillance, on-site environmental technical support, and contract management services to the Air
       Staff, Field Operating Agencies (FOA), MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and installa-
       tions as requested on a fee-for-service basis.
       4.4.2. Maintains technical expertise to provide consultation support to the BCE, base BPM, and
       BEE for the performance of backflow prevention device and cross-connection surveys as
       requested.
    4.5. Base Backflow Program Manager (BPM):
       4.5.1. Manages a proactive backflow prevention program to prevent contamination of the potable
       water system. Identifies, investigates, and documents all cross-connections. Manages cross-con-
       nections by eliminating them when possible. When elimination is not possible, uses appropriate
       backflow devices to mitigate the hazard. BPMs are responsible for following up corrective actions
       identified in the backflow prevention device and cross-connection survey and assisting techni-
       cians in addressing corrective actions.
       4.5.2. Authorizes and assigns trained and certified BCE personnel or contractors to properly
       inspect, install, test, maintain, and repair backflow prevention devices, and to document actions on
       those devices. Identifies training needs and ensures that training is provided to assigned BCE per-
       sonnel.
       4.5.3. Has responsibility for the backflow survey that includes potable water systems, backflow
       devices, and associated water system components in accordance with paragraph 7. Manages the
       survey program with assistance from the BEE. Assistance from the BEE involves determining the
       hazard level of each cross-connection.
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                 5


       4.5.4. When appointed, BPMs shall obtain the most recent edition of the UPC, UPC Training
       Manual, and American Water Works Association's (AWWA) Recommended Practice for Back-
       flow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control (AWWA M14), and develop a practical working
       knowledge of their contents. In addition, appointees are strongly advised to obtain other useful
       resources such as a current edition of the IPC and the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control
       and Hydraulic Research's (FCCCHR) Manual of Cross-Connection Control.
       4.5.5. Reviews all plans and drawings of new and modified water systems and facilities to iden-
       tify potential cross-connections, and verifies that appropriate devices are specified and located.
       Requests BCE assistance as needed to address cross-connection and backflow issues.
   4.6. Base Bioenvironmental Engineer (BEE):
       4.6.1. Ensures that technical assistance is provided by Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) per-
       sonnel to support the backflow prevention and cross-connection control program in accordance
       with AFI 48-144, Safe Drinking Water Surveillance Program.
       4.6.2. Assigns, or ensures that qualified BE personnel are responsibly assigning, the correct haz-
       ard classification to each cross-connection using the UPC criteria and this AFI. Assists the BPM
       by recommending appropriate protection for each cross-connection to ensure that potable water
       quality is maintained.
       4.6.3. Reviews plans of new and modified water and plumbing systems to identify and guard
       against cross-connections and other potential sources of contamination or pollution (AFI 48-101,
       Aerospace Medicine Operations). Provides BPM documentation of plan review findings, com-
       ments, and recommendations as needed.

Section C—Backflow Prevention

5. Cross-Connection Control Terms. Refer to the UPC and UPC Illustrated Training Manual, Chapter
2, for common cross-connection and backflow term definitions. Abbreviations and acronyms in this AFI
are listed in Attachment 1; specific terms in this AFI are defined in paragraphs 5.1. through 5.9.
   5.1. Approved Device. An approved device is a device that has been tested and approved by the
   IAPMO laboratory. IAPMO-approved devices carry an attached or imprinted IAPMO seal of
   approval. Alternately, acceptable devices are those approved by the FCCCHR or the American Soci-
   ety of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE). The BCE, with BEE and command BPM coordination, may
   authorize the use of new devices not yet approved by IAPMO, FCCCHR, or ASSE; however, the BCE
   must be confident that the use of these devices and their installation location and orientation will pro-
   vide adequate protection.
   5.2. Backflow Preventer (Device or Assembly). A backflow preventer is a device or assembly to
   prevent backflow into the potable water system. The terms "backflow preventer," "backflow device,"
   and "backflow assembly" are used interchangeably in the industry and in this document.
   5.3. Backflow Prevention/Cross-Connection Survey (Survey). The survey and related tasks are
   described in paragraphs 7. through 7.4. The survey of backflow prevention assemblies and cross-con-
   nections will be conducted at least every five years by qualified personnel in accordance with para-
   graph 9.4.
6                                                                         AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


    5.4. Backflow Prevention Test and Inspection (Test). This term refers to an annual inspection and
    testing of backflow prevention assemblies by certified technicians. Paragraphs 8. and 9. of this AFI
    detail testing and technician certification requirements, respectively.
    5.5. Readily Accessible. A device that is readily accessible is one that is located to within 1 to 5 feet
    above the floor or grade to provide access with adequate clearance for testing, maintenance, and
    repair. In addition, devices should be installed at least 1 foot from the back wall, have at least 1 foot
    above for maintenance, and have a minimum of 2 feet clearance on the side of the valve on which the
    test cocks are located. If a new or existing device is located higher than 5 feet above the grade or floor,
    a permanent platform or structure shall be provided for safely inspecting, testing, and maintaining the
    device.
    5.6. High Hazard. A high hazard is also defined as "contamination" and is an impairment of the
    quality of the potable water that creates an actual hazard to public health through poisoning or through
    the spread of disease by sewage, industrial fluids, chemicals, or wastewaters.
    5.7. Low Hazard. A low hazard is also defined as "pollution" and is an impairment of the quality of
    the potable water to a degree that does not create a significant hazard to the public health, but that does
    adversely and unreasonably affect the aesthetic quality of potable water for potable use.
    5.8. Cross-Connection. Any connection between a potable water supply system and any system, fix-
    ture, or other device through which it may be possible for non-potable, polluted or contaminated
    water, or other substances to enter the potable water system under any condition.
    5.9. Critical Water System. A critical water system is a facility or piece of equipment where a tem-
    porary loss of water service would directly and significantly impact military operations and where no
    alternative "work-arounds" or mitigation measures are feasible.

6. Use and Installation of Backflow Prevention Equipment.
    6.1. Design of Equipment. BCE personnel must first consider designing a solution to eliminate the
    potential for a cross-connection. If this is not feasible, install an approved backflow prevention device
    to prevent contamination of potable water supplies susceptible to backpressure or back-siphonage
    from any contamination source. If the water use served by a backflow preventer is deemed critical by
    the BCE, install approved backflow preventers in parallel to allow maintenance or repair of the back-
    flow preventer without system shutdown.
    6.2. Device Accessibility. New and existing backflow devices will be planned for and installed to be
    readily accessible as defined in paragraph 5.5. The BPM may exempt a device from being located in a
    readily accessible position if no safe, reasonable, or feasible location can be provided. Exemption
    should be documented on AF Form 845.
    6.3. Device Location Safety. Locate devices outside of areas containing toxic, poisonous, or corro-
    sive fumes unless the installation is approved by the command BPM. In addition, reduced-pressure
    and other venting devices shall not be installed immediately above electrical panels and chemical stor-
    age areas unless approved by the BPM. Relief ports, collector assemblies, and drainage piping con-
    nected to venting devices shall not be located in or drained to locations that potentially create flooding
    hazards. Drainage piping shall be twice the pipe diameter of the piping to the backflow device.
    6.4. Device Protection. Enclosures should be installed to secure exterior backflow preventers serv-
    ing critical or high-risk facilities such as those identified in the installation's Water Vulnerability
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                               7


  Assessment and other force protection documents. Enclosures should be designed to prevent tamper-
  ing and prevent adversaries from using the backflow preventer to introduce contaminants to the build-
  ing's drinking water system. Backflow preventers serving only non-potable uses (i.e., fire protection
  systems) are excluded.
  6.5. Hose Bibb Devices. Specify atmospheric vacuum breaker-type devices that meet ASSE Stan-
  dard 1011-2004, Performance Requirements for Hose Connection Vacuum Breakers, at a minimum.
  In commercial, industrial, and recreational areas, install nonremovable hose bibb-type backflow
  devices on potable water outlets when there is the potential for contaminants or pollutants to enter
  through hoses. Protection must be provided where attached hoses can be submerged or are normally
  unattended when used. In freezing climates, self-draining, frost-proof hose bibbs with integral back-
  flow preventers or vacuum breakers are highly recommended. Hose bibbs in housing areas are not
  required to have backflow devices unless documented hazards exist.
  6.6. Fire Suppression Systems. Backflow protection on Air Force fire suppression systems shall be
  in accordance with Chapter 6 of AWWA Manual M14 in lieu of the UPC. UFC 3-600-01, Fire Pro-
  tection Engineering for Facilities, requires that fire suppression systems be in accordance with
  National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems.
  NFPA 13 requires backflow preventers to be approved and listed for fire protection use by acceptable
  testing agencies such as Underwriters Laboratories Inc.® or Factory Mutual Research Corporation.
  Because pressure loss through a backflow preventer can degrade the effectiveness of a fire suppres-
  sion system, design and submittal acceptance must ensure that the rated working flow rate of the back-
  flow prevention device selected or installed meets the flow requirements of the system. If a backflow
  device must be mounted in a vertical position, ensure that the device is rated and approved for vertical
  installation. Fire protection systems that use non-potable water are exempt from backflow require-
  ments.
     6.6.1. New Fire Suppression Systems. All new fire suppression systems using potable water
     shall have backflow prevention installed. Install a double check valve backflow preventer on new
     dry/wet fire suppression systems that use only water as a fire suppressant (with or without fire
     department (Siamese) connections). Use a reduced pressure-type backflow device only where
     antifreeze, foam, or other hazardous chemicals are added, or where local or state requirements
     require such devices and the waiver of sovereign immunity applies. (See Attachment 2 for more
     information on waivers of sovereign immunity.)
     6.6.2. Existing Fire Suppression Systems. Existing fire suppression systems using only water
     as a fire suppressant are exempted from the backflow requirements for new systems if they met the
     existing backflow requirements at the time they were installed. (In most cases, prior to 1994 there
     were no Air Force or SDWA backflow prevention requirements for Air Force fire suppression sys-
     tems.) Systems that use antifreeze, foam, or other hazardous chemicals shall be retrofitted with a
     reduced pressure backflow device. When replacing or upgrading backflow protection on existing
     systems, or making significant modifications to the fire suppression system, install a double check
     valve backflow preventer on dry/wet fire suppression systems that use only water as a fire sup-
     pressant. Install a reduced pressure-type backflow device only where antifreeze, foam, or other
     hazardous chemicals are added, or where the local, state, or water provider codes specifically
     require existing water-only fire protection systems to be retrofitted with such a device. When there
     is a valid requirement to upgrade, install, or change a backflow device on a fire protection system,
     increased pressure losses and resulting lower flow rates must be considered. A registered Profes-
8                                                                      AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


       sional Engineer (PE) (preferably a fire protection engineer) must approve the design and all sub-
       mittals for any additions or changes to the backflow protection devices installed on fire protection
       systems.
       6.6.3. Hydraulic Losses. Pressure losses through a backflow prevention device will degrade the
       effectiveness of a fire protection system. Design and submittal acceptance by a registered PE must
       be completed to ensure that the rated working flow rate of the selected valve will meet the flow
       requirements of the system. In some cases, significant modifications to the fire protection system
       are required to offset the pressure loss caused by the backflow device.

7. Water System Backflow Prevention/Cross-Connection Survey.
    7.1. Conducting Surveys. Every five years, under the supervision of the base BPM, BCE personnel,
    with the assistance of the BEE or qualified BE personnel and/or qualified contractors, shall survey all
    facilities and water-using equipment and systems. Alternately, an annual survey of 20 percent of the
    facilities and devices may be performed. An annual survey program must ensure that no facility, sys-
    tem, or device goes longer than five years without being surveyed. A survey shall be conducted of
    new buildings upon facility completion and prior to acceptance. Surveys shall include, as a minimum,
    a detailed inventory of assemblies, identification of cross-connections, a description of water usage,
    classification of hazard, and selection of proper protection, and shall be performed by a surveyor
    meeting the qualification requirements in paragraph 9.4. (In accordance with the HQ USAF/ILEV
    policy letter dated 9 August 2002, backflow surveys are not eligible for environmental funding.)
    7.2. Documenting Surveys. The result of the team's survey of existing devices shall be documented
    on AF Form 848, a computerized maintenance management system (CMMS), or state submittal
    forms. Note: State forms or CMMS records must record information that is equivalent to the informa-
    tion on the Air Force form. With adequate information, these documents are a suitable substitute to
    using the prescribed Air Force form. The BPM uses this information to maintain other records for
    installed devices and to set testing schedules. The survey team documents the requirements for new or
    additional backflow prevention devices. The BPM will centrally maintain inspection records and the
    status of installation and upgrade actions. Note: Immediate actions shall be taken to eliminate high
    (i.e., contamination) cross-connection hazards.
    7.3. Survey Exclusions. Housing areas are excluded, except houses with underground lawn sprinkler
    systems fed with potable water. (The BCE may include housing areas if hazards are suspected.) Stan-
    dard interior plumbing fixtures are also excluded, except laboratory and mop sinks with threads for
    hoses. Areas not under Air Force control are also excluded (i.e., privatized housing areas).
    7.4. Existing Devices. During the survey of cross-connections, identify all testable existing backflow
    protective devices by a control number. List unapproved or non-testable devices for replacement.

8. Testing and Inspecting Backflow Preventers.
    8.1. Inspection Schedule. The BPM ensures that a schedule is developed and used by certified tech-
    nicians to inspect and test backflow assemblies.
    8.2. Annual Inspection Tasks. A certified backflow technician shall inspect identified cross-con-
    nection locations to ensure that:
       8.2.1. Proper air gaps are maintained.
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                9


       8.2.2. Backflow prevention devices are in good condition and readily accessible.
       8.2.3. Newly installed devices were installed correctly and are free of debris that could interfere
       with their testing or functioning.
       8.2.4. Devices have been properly insulated and protected against freezing weather conditions
       and that test ports are accessible.
   8.3. Testing Devices. Test all devices in accordance with FCCCHR's Manual of Cross-Connection
   Control, Section 9, or the manufacturer's instructions for the particular device, or using procedures
   recognized by the tester's certifying agency. At a minimum, testable devices shall be tested after
   installation, cleaning, repair or relocation, and at least annually.
   8.4. Documentation of Inspections and Testing.
       8.4.1. Technicians record test data on AF Form 843 and AF Form 845, state mandated forms, the
       Automated Civil Engineer System Program Management module (ACES-PM), or another CMMS
       system approved by the base BPM.
       8.4.2. The base BPM shall maintain backflow prevention and cross-connection control program
       documents at a central location. Maintain and update inventory records of all device locations (AF
       Form 848) and copies of individual records (AF Form 845) for each assembly. Upon implementa-
       tion of ACES-PM, backflow assembly information should be entered and subsequently managed
       via this module. Although ACES-PM will be available to installations, the base BPM may
       approve use of a different CMMS for data management. It is the responsibility of the base BPM to
       ensure that technicians' records are complete and current.

Section D—Backflow Certification Program

9. General Certification Information. To protect potable water, only certified military or civilian per-
sonnel or contractors are authorized to test and maintain backflow prevention devices. Additionally, only
qualified personnel are authorized to conduct cross-connection surveys. Certification is essential in meet-
ing the standards of the SDWA, as amended, Title 42 United States Code (USC) Section 300f et seq. The
Air Force program allows the flexibility of moving Air Force technicians from state to state without hav-
ing to retrain and recertify them; however, where Federal agencies and personnel are not exempt from
state laws mandating backflow certification, state certification requirements apply due to the waiver of
sovereign immunity. (See Attachment 2 for more information on waivers of sovereign immunity.)
   9.1. Technician Certification Procedures. Backflow technicians shall have either a current back-
   flow/cross-connection certification from the state, or they shall have a certification issued by the
   MAJCOM. MAJCOMs certify and recertify backflow prevention technicians assigned to their com-
   mand using database systems such as the ACES-PM module, a CMMS, or AF Form 483. All MAJ-
   COM certifications expire after three years. Transfer of personnel between MAJCOMs does not
   require recertification until the certificate expires. Similar certificates obtained by technicians from
   states or other governmental agencies or organizations are valid until they expire.
   9.2. MAJCOM Technician Certification Requirements.
       9.2.1. Initial Technician Certification. Backflow technician certifications shall be issued by the
       MAJCOM BPM based on the recommendation of the BCE. Individuals recommended by the BCE
       for MAJCOM certification should be:
10                                                                       AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


            9.2.1.1. A technician with at least a 5-level or equivalent experience. (After evaluating the cir-
            cumstances and based on a unique situation, specific location, or other factors, the BCE may
            decide to certify a lower skill level.)
            9.2.1.2. A technician who has received on-the-job training and is experienced in inspecting
            and testing the types of devices installed at the installation.
            9.2.1.3. A technician who has satisfactorily completed an approved training program such as:
                9.2.1.3.1. Sheppard Technical Training Center's "Backflow Prevention Devices" course.
                9.2.1.3.2. A backflow prevention course recognized by the host state. The technician must
                have passed the state's backflow device tester's examination.
                9.2.1.3.3. A backflow prevention course sponsored by a nationally or internationally rec-
                ognized professional organization with written and performance examinations.
        9.2.2. Technician Recertification. Backflow technicians shall obtain a MAJCOM recertification
        using data furnished by the BCE. For MAJCOM certification, the BCE shall request recertifica-
        tion and provide this information at least 60 days prior to the three-year anniversary date listed on
        AF Form 483:
            9.2.2.1. Date the technician completed an approved retraining course unless the technician has
            inspected and tested a number (usually 50) of representative backflow device types since he or
            she was last certified.
            9.2.2.2. Date and description of supplemental backflow prevention courses and training com-
            pleted.
            9.2.2.3. Device types and frequency of tests, inspections, and maintenance tasks.
            9.2.2.4. A statement attesting to the technician's proficiency maintaining said devices.
     9.3. Personnel Gains and Losses. The BCE shall provide the MAJCOM a list of assigned certified
     technicians and update the list annually. The MAJCOM shall track the number of certified technicians
     for each of its bases.
     9.4. Surveyor Qualification Requirements.
        9.4.1. Cross-connection/backflow surveyors shall either meet Air Force surveyor requirements or
        shall be certified by the state as a backflow/cross-connection surveyor.
        9.4.2. Air Force surveyors must have satisfactorily completed a training program such as:
            9.4.2.1. A survey course addressing Federal and state regulations, cross-connection identifica-
            tion, and types and uses of backflow prevention devices recognized by the host state.
            9.4.2.2. A survey course addressing Federal and state regulations, cross-connection identifica-
            tion, and types and uses of backflow prevention devices sponsored by a nationally or interna-
            tionally recognized professional organization with written and performance examinations.
            9.4.2.3. Graduation from an appropriate Bachelor-level engineering program approved by the
            Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, along with backflow training.
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                     11


10. Prescribed Forms:
   10.1. AF Form 843, Backflow Prevention Device Inspection Data (revised 20070416).
   10.2. AF Form 845, Cross-Connection and Device Information (revised 20070416).
   10.3. AF Form 848, Survey of Cross-Connection Control and Backflow Prevention Devices (revised
   20070416).
   10.4. AF Form 844, Backflow Prevention Inspection Data, is rescinded.



                                            KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt. General, USAF
                                            DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
12                                                                  AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Health Service Act (Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, 42 USC. § 300f et seq.)
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995
AFI 32-1067, Water Systems, 25 March 1994
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, 10 December 2003
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Operations, 19 August 2005
AFI 48-144, Safe Drinking Water Surveillance Program, 19 March 2003
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
UFC 3-420-01, Plumbing Systems, 25 October 2004
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 September 2006
ASSE Standard 1011-2004, Performance Requirements for Hose Connection Vacuum Breakers, March
2004
AWWA Manual M14, Recommended Practice for Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control,
1 March 2004
FCCCHR, Manual of Cross-Connection Control, 1 December 1993
ICC, International Plumbing Code®, February 2006
NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 15 October 2006
IAPMO, Uniform Plumbing Code™, April 2006
IAPMO, UPC Illustrated Training Manual, 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES-PM—Automated Civil Engineer System Program Management Module
AF—Air Force (as used on forms)
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
ASSE—American Society of Sanitary Engineering
AWWA—American Water Works Association
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                   13


BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BPM—Backflow Program Manager
CE—Civil Engineer
CMMS—Computerized Maintenance Management System
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EPA—US Environmental Protection Agency
ESOH—environmental, safety, and occupational health
FCCCHR—Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
FGS—Final Governing Standards
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ AFCESA/CEO—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operation and Program
Support Directorate
HQ AFCESA/CEOA—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operation and Program
Support Directorate, Engineer Support Division
HQ USAF/A7CAQ—Headquarters United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Installations and
Logistics, Environmental Quality Branch
ICC—International Code Council
IAPMO—International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials
IPC—International Plumbing Code
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/A7C—MAJCOM Civil Engineer
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
PE—Professional Engineer
PL—Public Law
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDWA—Safe Drinking Water Act
SOFA—Status-of-Forces Agreement
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UPC—Uniform Plumbing Code
US—United States
14                       AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


USC—United States Code
AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                15


                                              Attachment 2

     INFORMATION ON WHEN STATE AND LOCAL BACKFLOW REQUIREMENTS
                  MAY APPLY TO AIR FORCE LOCATIONS
                            (Applicable to 50 US states and territories only)

A2.1. Waiver of Sovereign Immunity.
   A2.1.1. In the SDWA § 1447 (Title 42 United States Code (USC) Section 300j-6), Congress enacted
   a partial waiver of sovereign immunity that applies to Federal, state, interstate, and local requirements
   with respect to "public water systems." This waiver can impact backflow protection requirements on
   bases under US EPA jurisdiction (i.e., US states and territories).
   A2.1.2. Some states have enacted backflow requirements that are stricter than the requirements in this
   AFI. (There is no provision in the SDWA that prohibits states from being more stringent than Federal
   standards when using state SDWA authority. The provision that gives states authority to take over
   Federal programs says only that the program has to be at least as stringent as Federal requirements.)
   Stricter backflow protection requirements fall under several areas. The main areas are:
      A2.1.2.1. Frequency or level of maintenance of backflow preventers.
      A2.1.2.2. Certification requirements for backflow technicians.
      A2.1.2.3. Level of backflow prevention required (mainly affects fire protection systems).
   A2.1.3. States have typically codified these stricter requirements in two ways. One is under state
   drinking water regulations; the other is under building or plumbing code regulations. Because the
   waiver of sovereign immunity extends only to "public water systems" as defined in SDWA § 1401(4),
   42 USC § 300f(4), typically only requirements that were enacted under drinking water laws would
   apply to Air Force locations, whereas those requirements contained in plumbing or building codes
   generally would not apply. This is because application of those codes would generally not hinge on
   SDWA "public water system" status. In other words, if the state requirement specifically applies to
   "public water systems," it should be within the scope of the waiver of sovereign immunity, but the
   requirement would generally not apply if application of the requirement does not depend on "public
   water system" status.

A2.2. Hierarchy of Requirements.
   A2.2.1. When state or local requirements are not binding on the Air Force, comply with the backflow
   program requirements in this AFI.
   A2.2.2. When state or local requirements are binding on the Air Force, comply with the strictest
   requirements of the local requirements and this AFI. This may require using state mandated forms in
   place of Air Force forms, meeting state certification requirements for backflow technicians, and
   upgrading backflow protection requirements to meet state mandates.

A2.3. Determination of Requirements.
   A2.3.1. The scope of a sovereign immunity waiver is necessarily fact-specific and very complex. The
   purpose of this appendix is to provide a general overview of how state and local backflow require-
   ments might apply.
16                                                                    AFI32-1066 8 OCTOBER 2007


     A2.3.2. For a determination as to whether specific state or local requirements apply, Civil Engineer
     (CE) and BE personnel should refer questions to their base Legal Office or Judge Advocate.
