BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-802
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          1 SEPTEMBER 1998

                                                                   AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                    Supplement 1
                                                                                        15 February 2000
                                                                   Certified Current on 30 November 2012
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                                                           PAY SETTING


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCE (Ms Grace K. Hurlock)               Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Ms Sandra G. Grese)
Supersedes AFI 36-802, 1 September 1997 and                                               Pages: 40
           AFI 36-802/AFRES Sup 1, 10 April                                          Distribution: F
           1998

This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements, by prescribing the Air
Force policy for setting pay rates for appropriated fund civilian employees paid under the General Sched-
ule (GS) or under the Federal Wage System (FWS). This instruction also applies to Air National Guard
Title 5, United States Code, employees. The instruction also prescribes rules for handling overtime; and
procedures for approving recruitment and relocation bonuses, retention allowances, and supervisory dif-
ferentials. It applies to all commanders, civilian personnel officers, staff officers, and supervisors of US
civilian employees who are covered by the GS and FWS. See Attachment 1 for explanation of terms
used in this instruction.

(AFRC) The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFRC/DPCE (Carolyn R. Burnam). This supplement
implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-802, 1 September 1998. It also
implements AFI 36-108, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Program. It provides guidance on the ART
Officer Career Management Program and rules to follow for handling overtime. Although the same con-
cepts, rules, regulations, and policies apply to ART employees as to regular civil service positions, this
supplement addresses additional requirements that result from the nature of the ART. The AFI is pub-
lished word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve Command supplementary material is
indicated by “(AFRC)” in boldface type. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve Command proce-
dures to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this integrated supplement dis-
card the Air Force basic.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This interim change (IC) 98-1 provides for certain responsibilities on the part of commanders in managing
civilian overtime and compensatory time. It also prescribes AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday
Premium Pay and Compensatory time.
2                                                                                    AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

(AFRC) This revision identifies documentation requirements for all bonuses and allowances and the
approval level of bonuses and allowances for Category II employees. It also identifies procedures for
returning an employee on temporary promotion to their permanent position prior to being placed on
leave-without-pay (LWOP) or separation.

Chapter 1—SETTING PAY RATES                                                                                                                           4
       1.1.   Authority and Guidelines for Pay Setting. .................................................................                             4
       1.2.   Setting Pay Rates. ......................................................................................................               4
       1.3.   Grade and Pay Retention: ..........................................................................................                    12
       1.4.   Apprentice and Shop Trainee. ...................................................................................                       16
       1.5.   Changing Pay Rates. ..................................................................................................                 16

Chapter 2—DUAL PAY AND DUAL EMPLOYMENT                                                                                                               17
       2.1.   Dual Pay and Dual Employment Responsibilities. ....................................................                                    17
       2.2.   Dual Compensation Restriction Waivers. ..................................................................                              17

Chapter 3—OVERTIME WORK                                                                                                                              19
       3.1.   Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................            19
       3.2.   Recording TDY Travel Requirement.                              .....................................................................   19
       3.3.   Administratively Uncontrollable Overtime.                               ............................................................   20
       3.4. (AFRC-Added) Overtime for Nonexempt Employees Under FLSA..                                                        ....................   20

Chapter 4—RECRUITMENT AND RELOCATION BONUSES; RETENTION ALLOWANCES;
          SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS                              21
       4.1.   Introduction.          .............................................................................................................   21
       4.2.   Recruitment, Relocation, and Retention Payment Offer and Approval. ...................                                                 21
       4.3.   Request Procedures. ...................................................................................................                22
       4.4.   Case-by-Case Determinations. ...................................................................................                       23
       4.5.   Paying, Reducing, and Discontinuing Recruiting and Relocation Bonuses .............                                                    23
       4.6.   Recording Recruitment and Relocation Bonuses and Retention Allowances. ..........                                                      24
       4.7.   Supervisory Differentials. ..........................................................................................                  25
       4.8.   Documenting and Recording Supervisory Differentials. ...........................................                                       25

Chapter 5—SUPERIOR QUALIFICATION APPOINTMENTS                                                                                                        26
       5.1.   Introduction. ...............................................................................................................          26
       5.2.   Superior Qualification Appointments. .......................................................................                           26
       5.3.   Documenting and Recording Superior Qualification Appointments. ........................                                                26
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                                                      3

     5.4.   Form Prescribed.   ......................................................................................................   26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF TERMS                                                                                                          27

Attachment 2—SETTING RATES OF PAY                                                                                                       30

Attachment 3—AIR FORCE PAY FLEXIBILITIES                                                                                                36

Attachment 4—CHAIN OF AIR FORCE APPROVAL AUTHORITIES                                                                                    39

Attachment 5—IC 98-1 TO AFI 36-802, PAY SETTING                                                                                         40
4                                                             AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                                                Chapter 1

                                         SETTING PAY RATES

1.1. Authority and Guidelines for Pay Setting. Authority to set pay rates rests with the appointing
authority. The Director, Civilian Personnel Operations, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) or civilian
personnel officer, acts for the appointing authority. Pay is set in accordance with the following guidelines.
    • Spend employment funds economically.
    • Don't pay more than needed to attract qualified individuals.
    • Pay employees fairly and equitably.
    • Consider:
    • Local conditions that affect recruiting and retaining qualified employees.
    • How one employee's pay might affect other employees.
    • The qualifications, skills, and service history of the employee compared to the requirements of the
        job.

1.2. Setting Pay Rates. (NOTE: Use the following policies in conjunction with 5 CFR, Part 531, Sub-
part B and 5 CFR, Part 532, Subpart D.)
    1.2.1. Selecting Rates. The Director, Civilian Personnel Operations, AFPC, or civilian personnel
    officers (until servicing is assumed by the AFPC) or members of their staff are authorized to select the
    proper rates of pay for employees in accordance with the personnel action taken. The selecting offi-
    cial does not have the authority to promise an employee any specific pay rate.
    1.2.2. Exceptions. The pay setting policies in 1.2. should be sufficient to cover most situations.
    Exceptions may be approved by the appointing authority or designee. Exceptions must be in writing
    and approved prior to the effective date of the personnel action which establishes the rate of pay.
    (NOTE: Exceptions include issues such as the use of highest previous rate (HPR) or GS maximum
    payable rate. MAJCOMs are authorized to approve command-wide exceptions to the pay setting pol-
    icy for conversion or transfer to lower grade in 1.2.5.3. and voluntary changes to lower grade in
    1.2.8.1.)
    1.2.3. New Appointments. Pay for a new appointment may be set in one of the following ways:
       1.2.3.1. Minimum Step (Step 1). Pay is usually set at step 1 for a new appointment. Step 1 is the
       minimum rate for General Schedule (GS), Federal Wage System (FWS), special rate, or other
       types of pay systems (e.g., AFI 36-1101).
       1.2.3.2. Higher than Step 1. In rare cases, an employee’s pay may be set beyond step 1 for a new
       appointment. The approval must be documented on the SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
           • Chapter 5 authorizes the setting of pay beyond step 1 for a GS position based on superior
               qualifications.
           • Pay may be set beyond step 1 for FWS positions based on special qualifications (5 CFR
               532.403(b)).
           • Pay is set beyond step 1 for FWS positions when the lead agency for a wage area has des-
               ignated a step above step 1 as the minimum step-rate for hard-to-fill positions.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                       5

     1.2.3.3. Other Options. Chapter 4 provides information on recruitment bonuses which must be
     considered before setting pay beyond step 1 for non-FWS candidates (5 CFR 531.203(b)(3)).
  1.2.4. Reemployment. Employees are reemployed after one of two types of separation, voluntary or
  involuntary. The type of separation impacts pay setting. The following pay setting provisions apply
  to reemployment following a break in service.
     1.2.4.1. Voluntary Separations. A voluntary separation occurs when an employee chooses to
     leave federal civilian service on his or her own, and not at the initiation of the agency. Typical vol-
     untary separations include resignation and retirement (includes DoD family members who resign
     after expiration of leave without pay). Unless applying superior qualification provisions, the fol-
     lowing pay setting rules apply to reemployment following voluntary separations:
         • Permanent appointments. Pay for former federal civilian employees reemployed on a con-
             tinuing appointment after a voluntary separation will be set at step 1 when the break in ser-
             vice is more than two years. If two years or less, GS maximum payable rate or highest
             previous rate (HPR) will be used to set pay, whichever is the most beneficial to the
             employee, provided that the GS maximum payable rate or HPR was earned in the last two
             years.
         • Term appointments. Pay upon reemployment to a term appointment will be set at step 1 if
             there was a break in service of more than two years. If the break is two years or less, GS
             maximum payable rate or highest previous rate (HPR) will be used to set pay, whichever is
             the most beneficial to the employee, provided that the GS maximum payable rate or HPR
             was earned in the last two years.
         • Temporary appointments. Pay upon reemployment to a temporary appointment will be set
             at step 1 if there was a break in service of more than two years. If the break is two years or
             less, GS maximum payable rate or highest previous rate (HPR) will be used to set pay,
             whichever is the most beneficial to the employee, provided that the GS maximum payable
             rate or HPR was earned in the last two years.
     1.2.4.2. Involuntary Separations. An involuntary separation is one that occurred through no
     fault of the employee and not at the employee’s request.
         • Priority Placement Program (PPP), except for P rogram S (military spouse), and Inter-
             agency Career Transition Program (ICTAP):
         • Air Force minimum requirement for placement through the PPP and ICTAP. Pay for an
             employee who, after a break in service of more than three calendar days, is reemployed
             through the PPP is set at a step rate at least equal to the current rate for the grade and step
             the employee held at the time of separation, unless the rate is greater than the maximum
             rate of the grade. If t he pay is greater than the top step, pay is set at the top step of the
             grade. Com pare this rate to that earned by a pplying the GS maximum payable rate or
             HPR rules, setting the employee’s pay at the rate providing the greatest benefit. (NOTE:
             In the same manner, the current rate is preserved for FWS employees appointed to lower
             or higher paying wage areas under the PPP.)
         • Reemployment Priority List (RPL):
         • Air Force minimum requirement for placement from the RPL. Pay for an employee who,
             after a break in service of more than three calendar days, is reemployed from the RPL is
             set at a step rate at least equal to the current rate for the grade and step the employee held
6                                                           AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

              at the time of separation, unless the rate is greater than the maximum rate of the grade. If
              the pay is greater than the top step, pay is set at the top step of the grade. Compare this
              rate to that earned by applying the GS maximum payable rate or HPR rules, setting the
              employee’s pay at the rate providing the greatest benefit. Grade and pay retention are not
              authorized upon reemployment from the RPL.
          •   Mandatory Restoration. The pay of an employee who is reemployed as a result of manda-
              tory restoration rights is set at a rate at least equal to the rate the employee would be
              receiving if he or she never left federal civil service.
          •   Workers Compensation. Every effort should be made to restore an employee, or former
              employee, who has partially recovered from a compensable injury and can return to lim-
              ited duty. When possible, the employee should be offered a position at the current or last
              grade held before separated from the agency rolls. If this is not possible, following Office
              of Workers Compensation Program (OWCP) procedures, the employee is reemployed at
              the last grade held and immediately changed to lower grade for the position identified to
              return him or her to the workforce. On the lower grade offer, the employee is given pay
              retention. Set the pay at the rate the employee would have received had they been contin-
              uously employed, including any within-grade increases (WGIs).
          •   Upon reemployment of a prior Schedule C employee whose appointment was terminated
              or who voluntarily resigned in anticipation of termination because of a change in agency
              leadership, pay is set so it does not exceed the employee's highest previous rate or the top
              step of the grade, whichever is lower.
    1.2.5. Conversions or Transfers:
       1.2.5.1. Conversion or Transfer at the Same Grade .
           • Air Force minimum requirement for continuous service.
          •   The pay of an employee who is converted or transferred at the same grade during continu-
              ous employment is set at the step which is at least equal to the current step. This applies to
              conversions to both permanent and temporary appointments and transfers.
          •   In a conversion or transfer action of a FWS employee, pay will be set based on the wage
              rate of the gaining installation.
          •   In a conversion or transfer of a GS employee, unless entitled to a special salary rate, total
              compensation includes base pay plus applicable locality pay of the gaining installation.
          •   The pay of a GM employee moved to a GS position will be set on the pay scale at a rate at
              least equal to the existing rate of pay. If the existing rate of pay falls between two steps,
              pay is set at the higher step.
          •   In conversion or transfer of a GS or FWS employee, if the employee meets the eligibility
              requirements for a WGI, set pay to include a WGI if the waiting period was met.
       1.2.5.2. Conversion or Transfer to a Higher Grade. Pay for conversions or transfers to posi-
       tions at a higher grade is set by one of the following, whichever is the most beneficial to the
       employee: Governmentwide GS mandatory promotion rule, FWS promotion rule, Air Force
       repromotion requirement, HPR rule, or GS maximum payable rate rule. Pay is set at the step at
       least equal to the current grade and step.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                         7

     1.2.5.3. Conversion or Transfer to a Lower Grade. Unless entitled to grade or pay retention,
     pay for conversions or transfers to positions at a lower grade will be set at a step of the lower grade
     which upon repromotion will not place the employee in a rate exceeding that previously held in
     the higher grade.
  1.2.6. Reassignments:
     1.2.6.1. No Change in Pay. Under normal circumstances, pay setting for a reassignment action
     results in no change in pay. Exceptions to the normal circumstance follow.
         • Changes between regular and special pay schedules.
         • Pay will increase when an employee is reassigned from a regular to a special pay schedule.
              An employee’s pay is set at the same step in the special pay schedule as received in the
              regular pay schedule.
         • Pay is usually decreased when an employee is reassigned from a special to a regular pay
              schedule. This occurs because the employee’s pay is normally set at the same step in the
              regular pay schedule as received in the special pay schedule. There are some rare cases of
              exception. The most common is the case of an employee who is involuntarily reassigned
              (i.e., reduction-in-force (RIF), transfer of function, etc.) from a special pay schedule to a
              regular pay schedule and is therefore entitled to pay retention providing the employee’s
              existing rate of pay cannot be accommodated within the rate range. When the existing rate
              of pay falls between two steps, the employee is given the higher step.
         • Changes between wage areas. When a FWS employee is voluntarily reassigned between
              wage areas, pay is set using the wage schedule for the area where the employee is moving.
              When the reassignment is to a position in a lower wage area, the employee is entitled to a
              rate at least equal to his or her existing rate wherever possible. If that rate falls in between
              two steps in the new wage schedule, the employee is given the higher step. If hi s or her
              existing rate exceeds the top step, the employee is given the top step of the grade to which
              assigned. Pay retention will not be given to a FWS employee who voluntarily requests
              and accepts a position in a lower wage schedule area.
         • Changes between locality areas. When a GS employee is reassigned (voluntarily or invol-
              untarily) between locality areas, pay is set on the appropriate rate from the basic GS pay
              schedule. Total compensation includes base pay plus the locality pay for the new duty
              location, unless the individual is entitled to a special salary rate that is more beneficial.
     1.2.6.2. Change in Pay. When an employee moves from GM to GS, pay is set at the rate for the
     same grade on the GS pay schedule that is equal to or exceeds the employee’s current rate of pay;
     i.e., if the rate falls between two steps, pay is set at the higher step.
  1.2.7. Promotions. Pay for promotions is set by one of the following, whichever is the most benefi-
  cial to the employee: Governmentwide GS mandatory promotion rule, FWS promotion rule, Air
  Force repromotion requirement, HPR rule, or GS maximum payable rate rule. If pay falls between
  two steps, the higher step will be used.
     1.2.7.1. Governmentwide Mandatory Promotion Rule.
         • GS. Generally, the pay of a GS employee promoted to a GS position is set in the step that
             exceeds the existing rate of pay by at least two step increases unless that rate exceeds the
8                                                           AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

            top step of the grade. If the rate exceeds the top step of the new grade, pay is set at the top
            step.
        •   FWS. The pay of a FWS employee promoted to a FWS position is set in the step that
            exceeds the existing pay by four percent of the representative rate of the grade from which
            the employee is promoted. If the rate exceeds the top step, pay is set at the top step.
    1.2.7.2. FWS Promotions. For FWS employees who receive a promotion and move to a differ-
    ent wage area, compute the employee’s pay as if there were two pay actions, a promotion and a
    reassignment, processing them in the order which gives the employee the maximum benefit (5
    CFR 532.407(c)).
    1.2.7.3. Promotions Between Pay Systems: When an employee moves from the FWS pay sys-
    tem to the GS pay system or vice versa, pay is set using the appropriate pay setting directives for
    the pay system the employee is moving to. Determine current annual salary of a FWS employee
    by multiplying the hourly rate by 2087 (work hours in a year).
        • FWS to GS: “One Cent Rule”. The GS mandatory promotion rule (“two steps”) does not
            apply to FWS employees promoted to GS positions. To constitute a promotion, the FWS
            employee’s existing rate of pay must have increased by at least one cent upon being placed
            in a GS position. To set pay, accomplish the following: Compare the FWS annual rate of
            pay with the rate range for the GS position the employee is being placed in; the GS step
            that exceeds the FWS rate by at least one cent is the rate at which pay is set.
        • GS/GM to FWS. Identify the action by using representative rates. Pay is set in the lowest
            FWS step that exceeds the employee’s existing rate of pay by four percent of the GS repre-
            sentative rate of the grade from which promoted.
        • GM to GS. Pay is set using the GS mandatory promotion rule IAW 5 U.S.C. 5334(b).
    1.2.7.4. Regular and Special Pay Schedules:
        •   From regular to special pay schedule. On the regular pay schedule, determine the step of
            the new grade using the GS two-step rule. The employee’s pay is set at that step on the
            special pay schedule.
        •   From special to regular pay schedule. On the special pay schedule, determine the step of
            the new grade using the GS two-step rule. On the regular pay schedule find that rate for
            the grade the employee is being promoted to. If the rate falls between two steps, pay is set
            at the higher step. This rate on the regular pay schedule becomes the employee’s pay. If
            the rate is less than step 1 of the new grade, pay is set at step 1. If the top step of the grade
            is exceeded, pay is then set at the top step.
    1.2.7.5. Air Force Repromotion Requirement:
        • Following involuntary change to lower grade (CLG) (employee not at fault). The pay of
            an employee promoted from a grade to which they were changed involuntarily through no
            fault of their own must be set at a rate at least equal to the current rate of the grade and step
            from which demoted. If the employee is on retained pay and that rate is higher than the
            maximum step of the new grade, the employee is kept on pay retention.
        • Following voluntary CLG and involuntary CLG (employee at fault). T he GS two-step
            rule, or FWS four percent rule, will be used to set the pay of employees who were volun-
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                       9

            tarily changed to lower grade or involuntarily changed to lower grade when the employee
            was at fault.
  1.2.8. Change to Lower Grade:
     1.2.8.1. Voluntary Changes to Lower Grade (CLG). A voluntary CLG is usually requested by
     the employee for his or her convenience or benefit. Pay will be set in the following ways:
         • Policy for voluntary CLGs. Unless entitled to grade or pay retention, pay will be set at the
             step of t he lower grade which, upon repromotion, will not place the employee in a rate
             exceeding that previously held in the higher grade.
         • Pay retention. In the following situations, pay retention will be granted if the employee’s
             existing rate of pa y cannot be accommodated within the rate range of t he lower grade.
             When the existing rate of pay falls between two steps of the lower grade, the employee is
             given the higher step. If the selected employee is otherwise eligible and the salary cannot
             be accommodated within the range, pay retention is authorized.
        •   Formal training program. Employees who accept lower grades to enter a formal training
            program or Developmental Opportunity Program (DOP). The position must have an
            approved training plan and must be advertised as a training or DOP position.
        •   Health issues. Employees who accept a lower-grade position for nondisciplinary reasons
            related to ill health or physical/mental inability to perform the duties of his or her current
            position (under criteria similar to those used in meeting the responsibilities for selective
            placement instead of disability retirement).
        •   “Hard-to-fill” positions. Employees who accept lower-grade positions designated as
            “hard-to-fill” under criteria similar to those used for extending special rates under 5 CFR
            530.303(a) and (b).
        •   RIF actions. Employees who voluntarily accept lower-grade positions to lessen the
            impact of RIF action will be given grade and pay retention (see paragraph 1.3.1.2.).
        •   After temporary promotion. When an employee is returned to his or her permanent grade
            after a temporary promotion, pay is set as if the temporary promotion had not occurred. If
            the employee became eligible for a WGI or comparability increase during the temporary
            promotion, pay is set to include that increase.
     1.2.8.2. Involuntary CLGs:
         • Employee at fault. If the CLG is caused by the employee’s failure to perform acceptably
             or for disciplinary reasons, pay is set at a rate from step 1 up to the step of the lower grade
             which, if repromoted, will not place the employee in a rate exceeding that previously held
             in the higher grade.
         • Employee not at fault:
         • Employees are usually not at fault in most involuntary CLGs. They are typically caused
             by RIF and reclassification. Pay for these employees is set using grade and pay retention
             regulations.
         • Pay for employees who are changed to lower grade because of failure to successfully com-
             plete a supervisory or m anagerial probationary period is set under the governmentwide
             minimum requirement. Under this requirement, the employee is entitled to be placed in a
             job with no lower grade and pay than the job left to accept the supervisory or managerial
10                                                              AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                position. The employee is also entitled to any WGIs he or she would have received at that
                grade if the assignment to the supervisory or managerial job never occurred.
            •   Acceptance of a lower grade by a federal employee in order to accompany a military
                member or D oD federal civilian employee sponsor on a permanent change of s tation
                (PCS) is not considered to be a change to lower grade at the employee’s request. If the
                existing rate of pay for such federal employee falls between two steps of the lower grade,
                pay will be set at the higher step. Pay will be set at an even higher step in the lower grade,
                in accordance with the highest previous rate rule, if the employee has earned entitlement
                to a higher rate by service in another position.
     1.2.9. Dual Appointments for FWS Employees. When an FWS employee serves under a dual
     appointment (which includes either a temporary and a permanent appointment or two permanent sea-
     sonal appointments), set pay as follows.
         • When the temporary appointment is at a lower grade, set the waiting period for a WGI from
            the date of t he last equivalent increase in the regular permanent position. S et the waiting
            period for the temporary position from the date of the temporary CLG.
         • When the temporary appointment is at a higher grade, credit the time the employee spends in
            the temporary appointment toward the waiting period for a WGI in the permanent position.
         • When an employee serves under two permanent appointments, credit the time the employee
            spends in the lower graded position toward the waiting period for a WGI in the higher graded
            position.
     1.2.10. Career Program Positions. Personnel actions taken within the career programs are consid-
     ered "management initiated" rather than "at the employee's request." Employees selected from career
     program certificates or assigned as a result of a policy council chair approval of a noncompetitive
     placement at a lower grade will continue to be paid at their existing rate of pay, if it can be accommo-
     dated within the rate range of the lower grade. When the existing rate of pay falls between two steps
     of the lower grade, the employee is given the higher step. If the selected employee is otherwise eligi-
     ble and the salary cannot be accommodated within the range, then he or she is entitled to pay reten-
     tion.
        1.2.10.1. Career Program External Applicant System (CPEAS). Employees selected from a
        CPEAS certificate will be granted pay retention if the position meets the hard-to-fill criteria.
        Hard-to-fill positions are experienced when application of a career program promotion evaluation
        pattern (PEP) generates five or fewer highly qualified candidates for promotion.
     1.2.11. Overseas Return Rights. When an employee exercises overseas return rights, pay is set
     upon return to the former grade in the United States at a rate at least equal to the step rate to which the
     employee would have progressed had the employee not gone overseas. Employees who exercise
     return rights to a lower grade are authorized pay retention. However, if the salary may be set at the
     lower grade without the need for pay retention, the higher step rate will be used when the salary falls
     between two steps.
     1.2.12. Nonforeign Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA). When nonforeign COLA is in volved,
     determine the nature of action (NOA) and set pay as follows.
        1.2.12.1. NOA Determination:
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                  11

         •   GS to FWS. Do not add nonforeign COLA to GS pay for determination of the representa-
             tive rate. Identify the action by using representative rates.
         •   FWS to GS. Do not add nonforeign COLA to GS pay. Identify the type of action after
             pay is set using GS pay rules.
     1.2.12.2. Set pay:
         • GS to FWS. Add nonforeign COLA to GS pay to establish rate of basic pay in FWS posi-
             tion.
         • FWS to GS. Do not add nonforeign COLA to establish rate of basic pay in GS position.
  1.2.13. Appointments Between Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) and Appropriated Fund (APF)
  Employment Systems. The DoD Employee Benefit Portability Program applies to DoD permanent
  civilian employees who move between Air Force and civil service employment systems within DoD
  without a break in service of more than three calendar days. This program applies regardless of
  whether the move is involuntary or voluntary. However, many provisions are applied differently
  depending on whether the move is involuntary or voluntary.
     1.2.13.1. Movement From a NAF Position to a GS Position:
         1.2.13.1.1. Involuntary Movement. Pay will be set at a rate within the grade to which moved
         that is not less than the employee’s rate of basic pay under the NAF system immediately prior
         to the move. In determining the last rate of basic pay, a saved pay rate to which the employee
         was entitled under the NAF system will apply, as well as pay received in a NAF special rate
         position. Additions to pay such as night shift, environmental differential, and other premium
         payments are excluded from consideration as basic pay. Basic pay may not be set above the
         maximum of the grade to which moved, except as provided by grade and pay retention provi-
         sions.
             • Grade and pay retention benefits apply where the involuntary move results in a reduc-
                  tion in grade or pay.
             • A reduction in grade occurs when the representative rate of the position to which the
                  employee is converted is lower than the representative rate of the position from which
                  the employee moved. For pay banded employees, the employee’s current existing rate
                  of basic pay is the representative rate.
             • Prior to moving an employee from NAF Pay Band V to a GS position, the NAF activ-
                  ity determines if an adjustment in NAF pay is necessary. Adjustments in NAF pay are
                  effected, where necessary, to ensure that the maximum rate of pay retained in the move
                  will not exceed the rate of pay for a GS-15, Step 10 for the position and geographical
                  area to which moved.
         1.2.13.1.2. Voluntary Movement. Pay will be set at the rate of the new grade which does not
         exceed the employee’s highest previous rate of NAF basic pay. The highest previous rate of
         pay is computed according to 5 CFR 531.206. The employee’s pay cannot be less than the
         minimum rate of the grade of the position.
     1.2.13.2. Movement From NAF Crafts and Trades Position to an APF Wage Sched u l e
     Position.
12                                                            AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

            1.2.13.2.1. Involuntary Movement. Pay will be set at the employee’s existing scheduled rate
            of pay; or, a rate which does not exceed his or her highest previous rate of NAF basic pay,
            whichever is the most beneficial to the employee. However, if the highest previous rate falls
            between two rates of the new grade, the higher rate will be paid. The highest previous rate is
            computed according to OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System NAF, S8-3e. The
            employee’s pay cannot be less than the minimum rate of the grade of the position.
                • Grade and pay retention benefits apply where the involuntary move resulted in a
                   reduction in grade or pa y. G rade and pay retention benefits will be administered
                   according to OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System NAF, Subchapter S9.
                • A reduction in grade occurs when the representative rate of the position to which the
                   employee is converted is lower than the representative rate of the position from which
                   the employee moved.
            1.2.13.2.2. Voluntary Movement. Pay will be set at the rate of the new grade which does not
            exceed the employee’s highest previous rate of NAF basic pay. The highest previous rate of
            pay is computed according to OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System NAF, S8-3e.
            The employee’s pay cannot be less than the minimum rate of the grade of the position.
        1.2.13.3. Movement From a UA, AS, PS, or Pay Band NAF Position to an APF Wage
        Schedule Position.
            1.2.13.3.1. Involuntary Movement. Pay is set according to paragraph 1.2.3.
                • Grade and pay retention benefits apply where the involuntary move resulted in a
                   reduction in grade or pay. Grade and pay retention benefits are administered accord-
                   ing to OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System NAF, Subchapter S9.
                • A reduction in grade occurs when the representative rate of the position to which the
                   employee is converted is lower than the representative rate of the position from which
                   the employee moved. For pay banded employees, the employee’s current existing rate
                    of basic pay is the representative rate.
            1.2.13.3.2. Voluntary Movement. Pay is set according to paragraph 1.2.3.

1.3. Grade and Pay Retention:
     1.3.1. Grade Retention. Grade retention applies when:
         • An eligible employee moves to a lower-grade position through RIF or a situation that the Dep-
            uty Assistant Secretary of Defense (Civilian Personnel Policy) (DASD(CPP)) decides is com-
            parable to a RIF. Grade retention is applicable if the employee has served for 52 consecutive
            weeks or more in a position or positions under a covered pay schedule at a grade or grades
            higher than the position in which the employee is being placed (see 5 CFR 536.103(c)(1) and
            (3) for additional guidance).
         • An employee's position has been reduced in grade as a result of reclassification. Grade reten-
            tion is applicable if the employee's current position has been classified for a continuous period
            of at least one year immediately before the position is classified at a lower grade.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                    13

     •   An eligible employee is placed through the Priority Placement Program, without a break in
         service of three days or less, including those resulting from early registration, even though the
         employee does not have a specific RIF notice.
     •   DoD authorizes grade retention for other reasons, for example, drawdown of an installation.
     1.3.1.1. Title 5 CFR 536.103(b) allows the head of an agency to offer grade retention under cer-
     tain circumstances to employees who meet general eligibility requirements but do not have a spe-
     cific entitlement by law or regulation.
     1.3.1.2. Within DoD, grade retention applies when:
         • An employee receives a RIF notice proposing a change to lower grade or separation and
             accepts a lower-grade position at the same or a nother DoD activity. If t he position
             accepted is not a grade lower than one which has been offered by his or her activity, grade
             retention will be granted. If the position accepted is at a grade lower than one which has
             been offered, grade retention may be granted, provided the employee meets all other eligi-
             bility requirements and management determines that placement in the position is in the
             government's interest. (NOTE: In the Air Force, if they do not meet the other eligibility
             requirements for grade retention under this provision, but would otherwise be granted
             grade retention, pay retention will be authorized providing the employee’s existing rate of
             pay cannot be accommodated within the rate range of the lower grade. When the existing
             rate of pay falls between two steps of the lower grade, the employee is given the higher
             rate.)
         • An employee in an organization undergoing realignment or reduction, who is not person-
             ally impacted by those actions, requests a CLG. He or she may be granted grade retention
             only if management determines that the employee's CLG will result in placement of the
             employee in a more suitable position and will lessen or avoid the impact of the RIF on
             other employees.
         • Under other circumstances, for e xample, restructuring when RIF is not involved, when
             approved by DoD on an individual case basis. Requests must be fully documented and
             forwarded through the respective MAJCOM to HQ USAF/DPCE, 1040 Air Force Penta-
             gon, Washington DC 20330-1040 for processing to DoD.
     1.3.1.3. Eligible employees are entitled to a 2-year grade retention period unless terminated in
     accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR 536.208; for example, declining a reasonable offer.
     1.3.1.4. In other circumstances not covered by this chapter, as determined by HQ USAF/DPC,
     resulting from personnel actions initiated by management to further the agency’s mission, to the
     extent that the intent of applicable law and regulation is met. Requests for grade retention must be
     fully documented and forwarded through the respective MAJCOM to HQ USAF/DPCE, 1040 Air
     Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040.
  1.3.2. Grade Retention for FWS Employees Who Move From a High to a Low Wage Area. In
  most cases, FWS employees under grade retention will continue to receive the same rate of basic pay.
  Under some circumstances, for example, movement from one wage area to another wage area, the
  employee' s rate of pay is determined by the schedule in the new wage area. In determining the
  employee's pay, the employee is entitled to the greater of:
      • The basic pay held before moving;
14                                                            AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

        •   Rate from new schedule for same step held before moving; or
        •   Lowest rate from the new wage schedule which equals or exceeds pay before moving.
        1.3.2.1. Frequently the movement of a FWS employee from a high wage area to an area with a
        lower wage schedule will result in the employee's existing rate of pay exceeding step 5 of his or
        her retained grade on the new geographic (lower) wage schedule. In such cases, the employee
        continues to retain his or her basic pay before the movement.
        1.3.2.2. FWS Within-Grade Increases Under Grade Retention. During the 2-year grade retention
        period, a FWS employee is entitled to WGIs in the retained grade unless the rate of basic pay, as
        determined under grade retention provisions, is above step 5 on the pay schedule in the new wage
        area. The WGI is based on the pay schedule in the new wage area. For example, if an employee’s
        retained grade and rate of basic pay equals WG-5, step 2, and the employee becomes eligible for
        step 3, and step 3 is 30 cents more than step 2 on the "new schedule," then this amount would be
        added to the employee's retained rate of pay.
        1.3.2.3. FWS Annual Adjustments Under Grade Retention. Annual adjustments are based on the
        "new" schedule, that is, the schedule in the different geographic area. If t he employee is in any
        step but step 0, he or she will be paid the rate for his or her step on the new schedule. Employees
        receive 100 percent of the annual adjustment during the 2-year grade retention period. Employees
        in step 0 receive the difference between step 5 on the previous schedule and step 5 on the new
        adjusted schedule. These "adjustments" are added to the employee's existing retained rate of pay.
        1.3.2.4. Decrease in Wage Schedule Under Grade Retention. When pay is adjusted up, the
        employee is entitled to the new rate of pay for the retained grade and step. While 5 CFR does not
        directly address pay schedule decreases, it does state that the retained grade is to be treated as the
        grade of the employee's position for most purposes; therefore, the employee should be paid at the
        new rate, whether it results from an increase or decrease in the pay schedule. Employees on grade
        retention can waive their grade retention entitlement (5 U.S.C. 5362(d) (4)), however, such waiver
        does not result in eligibility for pay retention. An employee entitled to grade retention will receive
        pay retention only as a result of the expiration of the 2-year period of grade retention.
     1.3.3. Pay Retention. Pay retention is provided when:
         • The grade retention period ends.
         • Under other circumstances when an employee's pay would otherwise be reduced.
        1.3.3.1. Within DoD, pay retention will be granted when:
            • An employee accepts a lower-grade position designated in advance as hard-to-fill under
                criteria similar to those used for extending special rates under 5 CFR 530.303(a) and (b).
            • An employee is reduced in grade upon return from an overseas assignment according to
                the terms of a preestablished agreement. This includes employees who are released from
                the period of service specified in their current transportation agreement due to a manage-
                ment initiated action, and employees who have completed more than one year under their
                current agreement and who are released from the specified period of service because of
                compelling personal reasons of a humanitarian or c ompassionate nature, such as may
                involve physical or mental health or circumstances over which the employee has no con-
                trol. Also included are nondisplaced overseas employees with no obligation to return who
                are covered by DoD 1400.20-1-M, DoD Program for Stability of Civilian Employment,
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                     15

            Policies, Procedures, and Programs Manual, September 1990, with Changes 1 through 3
            (chapter 6, paragraph C).
        •   An Army or Air Force reserve technician has or is scheduled to lose eligibility through no
            fault of his or her own (that is, "status quo" employees), and he or she accepts placement
            in a lower grade nonreserve position. ( NOTE: In the Air Force, pay retention is not
            authorized when an air reserve technician (ART) accepts a voluntary CLG in lieu of sepa-
            ration under the high year of tenure (HYT) program.) (AFRC) Pay retention also does
            not apply when an ART accepts a voluntary CLG in lieu of separation under the manda-
            tory separation date (MSD) program.
        •   Former employees, who have been receiving injury compensation, accept a job offer to a
            position with a lower grade than the last position held in order to return to active employ-
            ment.
        •   An employee accepts a lower-grade position for nondisciplinary reasons of ill health under
            criteria similar to those used in meeting the responsibilities for selective placement instead
            of disability retirement.
     1.3.3.2. Pay retention may be extended to employees when:
         • Authorized by HQ USAF/DPC, as a result of personnel actions initiated by management
             to further the Air Force's mission, to the extent that the general intent of grade and pay
             retention are met.
     1.3.3.3. Pay retention will not be extended when an employee is returning from an overseas
     assignment because of unacceptable performance (as defined in 5 CFR, Part 432) or personal
     cause (as defined in 5 CFR, Part 752).
     1.3.3.4. Unless otherwise entitled to pay retention, employees selected for overseas positions are
     not authorized pay retention, except as provided in paragraphs 1.2.10. and 1.3.3.2.
  1.3.4. Pay Retention for FWS Employees. Pay retention will not be given to a FWS employee
  who voluntarily requests and accepts a position in a lower wage schedule area.
     1.3.4.1. When there is entitlement to pay retention, that is, at the end of the 2-year grade retention
     period, a FWS employee is entitled to:
         • Lowest scheduled rate of basic pay in the employee's grade after the action is taken which
             equals or exceeds his or her current rate of basic pay (NOTE: When the rate of pay falls
             between two scheduled rates, the employee will be placed in the higher of the two rates).
         • When there is no rate that equals or e xceeds the employee's current rate of pa y, the
             employee will retain either his or her current rate of basic pay or 150 percent of the maxi-
             mum rate of basic pay for the employee's grade after the action is taken, whichever is less.
     1.3.4.2. FWS Annual Adjustments Under Pay Retention. A FWS employee is entitled to 50
     percent of the amount of each annual adjustment in the maximum rate of basic pay payable to his
     or her grade. Adjustment will be made prior to a comparison with the maximum step of the grade
     to decide whether the employee stops receiving a retained rate.
     1.3.4.3. Decrease in Wage Schedule. When there is a decrease in the wage schedule, an
     employee entitled to retained pay will continue to receive the rate that was in effect prior to the
     decrease. There is no legal authority for a reduction in pay under these circumstances.
16                                                           AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

1.4. Apprentice and Shop Trainee. When employees are receiving training and instruction designed to
qualify them to perform all required duties in trade and craft occupations specified in Air Force approved
training programs, they are paid under a special pay plan for such programs. The special pay plan can be
used only for apprentices or shop trainees. To establish a special pay plan for apprentice and shop trainees
and to set pay rates see OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System, Subchapter 11.

1.5. Changing Pay Rates. Change pay rates only when you take a personnel action which changes an
employee’s:
    • Position.
    • Grade.
    • Type of appointment.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                   17

                                                Chapter 2

                              DUAL PAY AND DUAL EMPLOYMENT

2.1. Dual Pay and Dual Employment Responsibilities. Applicants and employees who receive a fed-
eral annuity or compensation from any other federal source than their Air Force civilian employment must
inform their servicing personnel office.
   2.1.1. The servicing personnel office:
       • Explains to employees how dual pay and dual employment restrictions affect them.
       • Notifies OPM, for civilian annuitants, and the appropriate uniformed service finance center,
          for military annuitants, concerning the federal civilian pay.
       • Notifies the appropriate uniformed service finance center of a pproved and terminated dual
          compensation waivers and ensures that employees are fully informed of the current status of
          such waivers.
       • Provides a copy of each SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action, to other federal agencies
          when employees work simultaneously for two or more agencies.
   2.1.2. OPM or the finance center determines the reduction in pay for civilian annuitants or the amount
   of military retired or retainer pay to be withheld.
   2.1.3. Employees remain financially liable even if the uniformed service finance center or the servic-
   ing personnel office fail to terminate waivers on a timely basis.

2.2. Dual Compensation Restriction Waivers. The following are conditions under which waivers of
compensation restrictions for retired military and federal civilian personnel may be made:
   •   OPM may authorize such waivers under the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990
       (FEPCA) when there are:
   •   Exceptional difficulties in recruiting or retaining qualified candidates for particular positions.
   •   Emergency conditions involving an immediate and direct threat to life or property.
   •   OPM has delegated the authority to DoD for employees who accept placement in positions at an
       installation that is within two years of its selected closure date and for temporary positions.

NOTE:
See table Table A3.1. for a quick reference on waiver authority.
   2.2.1. The OPM and DoD must approve these waivers:
       • Individually.
       • Only after deciding that a position is critical to an installation's mission.
   2.2.2. Base closure waivers may not be approved under this authority for:
       • Current DoD employees serving with reduced salary or retirement pay under the provisions of
          5 U.S.C. 5532, 8344, or 8468.
       • Current DoD employees who become eligible to retire during the year before a base closes.
18                                                               AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

         •    Former military or civilian personnel of installations in the same commuting area who retired
              under an early optional retirement or di scontinued service provisions or w ho received any
              special bonus or incentive for separation.
     2.2.3.   Requests for waivers must contain:
         •    Identification of the individual requiring the waiver.
         •    Appointing authority to be used.
         •    Position to which employee will be appointed.
         •    A properly classified position description or core personnel document for the current position.
         •    A fully completed application for federal employment for the position, signed by the individ-
              ual under consideration.
         •    A Civil Service Retirement System or Federal Employee Retirement System claim number, if
              any.
         •    The date of retirement, the type of retirement (voluntary, discontinued service, disability, and
              so forth), and the amount of current annuity, retired, or retainer pay.
         •    An in-depth analysis of the individual's qualifications that meet the emergency need or critical
              skills shortage.
         •    Certification by the individual that he or she will not accept the position if pay or retirement is
              reduced.
         •    Documentation of bona fide offers of non-federal employment, if any.
         •    Qualification requirements, including any selective factors or other specific requirements, that
              would justify the submission. If t he installation uses a vacancy announcement it should be
              included.
     2.2.4. Processing Waiver Requests. Requests for nontemporary positions may be based on an emer-
     gency hiring need, severe difficulty in recruitment, or the need to retain a particular individual.
     Requests must be fully documented in accordance with the requirements of 5 CFR 553.
         2.2.4.1. Send requests through the servicing MAJCOM to HQ USAF/DPCC, 1040 Air Force Pen-
         tagon, Washington DC 20330-1040, for review and forwarding to DoD and OPM.
         2.2.4.2. Send requests for Senior Executive Service (SES) and Senior Level (SL and ST) through
         the servicing MAJCOM to AFDPS, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040.
     2.2.5. The DoD rarely approves waivers for individuals who have taken advantage of early retirement
     or separation bonus options at locations outside the commuting area.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                 19

                                             Chapter 3

                                       OVERTIME WORK

3.1. Responsibilities:
   3.1.1. Commanders. Commanders must continually ensure that overtime work occurs only pursuant
   to mission needs.
       3.1.1.1. Review Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS) reports: P6602R04, Overtime/Compensa-
       tory Time Review; P6602R05, Overtime/Compensatory Time Usage Report; and P6605R01, Con-
       trol of Hours Report, to identify trends in excessive overtime usage.
       3.1.1.2. Perform self-inspection of overtime and compensatory time usage and documentation.
   3.1.2. Supervisors:
       • Establish tours of duty which require the payment of premium pay rates (for example, night
          work, Sunday work, overtime, holiday and so forth) only when the mission requires this work
          for efficient operations.
       • Obtain approval from their overtime authorizing official before ordering overtime (AF Form
          428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time). EXCEPTION:
          In an emergency, the supervisor may order overtime without authorization but must document
          the overtime no later than the following workday.
       • Consider changing tours of duty involving the assignment of overtime when the requirement
          conflicts with an employee's religious obligations or practices by permitting the employee to
          perform the overtime on another day or to excuse him or her from the assignment. EXCEP-
          TION: If f ailure to perform the overtime will prevent accomplishment of the mission, the
          employee is expected to perform the overtime.
       • Release employees from overtime if the additional work would impair health or efficiency or
          cause extreme hardship.
       • Schedule temporary duty (TDY) travel within an employee's regularly scheduled tour of duty
          to the maximum extent possible to avoid paying overtime.
       • Compare employee travel vouchers with time and attendance reports to determine if there is
          an entitlement to overtime.
       • Record approved travel-related overtime on the attendance records.
       • Prepare and process corrected time and attendance records when required.
   3.1.3. Employees:
       • May not receive overtime pay for w ork which a supervisor did not properly authorize and
          approve (except employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) who are suffered and
          permitted to work overtime (5 CFR 551.401)).
       • Provide a copy of their travel settlement voucher on which overtime is based to their supervi-
          sor.

3.2. Recording TDY Travel Requirement. When TDY outside regularly-scheduled duty hours is
essential and the employee is not entitled to overtime pay, the official ordering the travel:
20                                                               AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

     •   Records the reasons for ordering travel at that time.
     •   Gives a copy of the record to the employee when requested.
     3.2.1. Installations using automated time-and-attendance systems (like the Defense Civilian Payroll
     System [DCPS]) are not required to send additional documentation for overtime to the civilian payroll
     office unless local procedures require it.
     3.2.2. Officials certifying time and attendance, or their designees, must maintain required documen-
     tation to support the automated time and attendance record.

3.3. Administratively Uncontrollable Overtime. Employees may receive pay for administratively
uncontrollable overtime (AUO) on an annual basis if the MAJCOM and HQ USAF/DPCE approve the
arrangement. The request for AUO must be submitted in writing and forwarded through the MAJCOM
to HQ USAF/DPCE.
     3.3.1.   The written request must contain:
         •    Title, series, and grade of position.
         •    Brief description of the duties and responsibilities of the position.
         •    Justification for payment of AUO.
         •    Copy of the position description.
     3.3.2. Requests for AUO for positions in Services must contain a brief explanation why effective
     scheduling of the employee under the organizational flight structure cannot eliminate the need for
     AUO. Requests must be coordinated through the installation's respective MAJCOM/DPC and Ser-
     vices Director prior to submission to HQ USAF/DPCE.

3.4. (AFRC-Added) Overtime for Nonexempt Employees Under FLSA.. Overtime is authorized
for nonexempt ART employees under FLSA who attend the survival training course in civilian status.
Attendance at this course meets the criteria for compensation as hours of work as stipulated in 5 Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) 551.423.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                      21

                                               Chapter 4

       RECRUITMENT AND RELOCATION BONUSES; RETENTION ALLOWANCES;
                       SUPERVISORY DIFFERENTIALS

4.1. Introduction. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5753-5755 and 5 CFR 575 the Air Force may authorize
special bonuses, allowances, and differentials to alleviate recruiting and retention problems because of
differences in federal and non-federal pay for comparable positions or to correct pay inequities between a
supervisor and subordinate.
   4.1.1. The Air Force may not:
       • Use these special payments as a substitute for the classification process.
       • Grant special payments automatically to all new hires or transferees.
   4.1.2. The bonus, allowance, or differential will be based on the employee's retained rate when the
   employee is entitled to grade or pay retention.
   4.1.3. Except as provided in this chapter, the approving official is the individual with personnel
   appointing authority. In the Air Force, the official normally vested with such authority is the installa-
   tion commander. The authority may be further delegated.

4.2. Recruitment, Relocation, and Retention Payment Offer and Approval. The following officials
may recommend, coordinate, and approve payments under this paragraph. See tables Table A3.1. and
Table A4.1. for a quick reference on Air Force pay flexibilities and approval authority.
   4.2.1. Category I Employees (Centrally Funded/Managed Positions, such as PA L A C E
   Acquire, COPPER Cap, and Career Development/Broadeners):
       4.2.1.1. Recommend: Career Program PALACE Team Chief.
       4.2.1.2. Coordinate: Career Program Policy Chair (after review by HQ USAF/DPC).
       Approve: Installation Commander (appointing official) or designee.
   4.2.2. Category IIa Employees (Employees In Centrally-Managed Career Program Positions):
       4.2.2.1. Recommend: Gaining Supervisor.
       4.2.2.2. Coordinate: Career Program Policy Chair (after review by the PALACE Team Chief and
       HQ USAF/DPC).
       4.2.2.3. Approve: Installation Commander (appointing official) or designee.
       4.2.2.4. (Added-AFRC) For ART Officer positions, coordinate through the ART Officer Career
       Management Program Policy Chair (after review by HQ AFRC/DPC). The package must then be
       forwarded to HQ USAF/DPF for review and coordination prior to implementation. Approval
       authority is the numbered air force (NAF) commander for units within their NAF and the AFRC
       Vice Commander (AFRC/CV) for HQ AFRC positions.
   4.2.3. Category IIb Employees (Career SES, Senior Level (SL), and Scientific and Professional
   (ST)):
       4.2.3.1. Recommend: MAJCOM Commander.
22                                                          AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

        4.2.3.2. Coordinate: HQ USAF/DP.
        4.2.3.3. Approve: Executive Resources Board (NOTE: Limited term and emergency SES
        appointments are approved by SAF/OS).
     4.2.4. Category IIc Employees (Noncareer SES):
        4.2.4.1. Recommend: SAF/AA.
        4.2.4.2. Coordinate: Executive Resources Board.
        4.2.4.3. Approve: Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense.
     4.2.5. Category IIc Employees (Schedule C Employees):
        4.2.5.1. Recommend: SAF/AA.
        4.2.5.2. Coordinate: 11 MSS/CC.
        4.2.5.3. Approve: Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense.
     4.2.6. Category III Employees (Employees not Covered by Categories I and II Including Civil-
     ian Faculty Members at Air University and the Air Force Academy):
        4.2.6.1. Recommend: Gaining Supervisor.
        4.2.6.2. Coordinate: Second-Level Supervisor.
        4.2.6.3. Approve: Installation Commander (appointing official) or designee.
        4.2.6.4. (AFRC-Added) Only NAF/CCs and the AFRC/CV (for HQ AFRC positions) are autho-
        rized to approve actions requiring funding.

4.3. Request Procedures. Request packages must identify:
    • The employee's pay plan, occupational series, grade, step, and annual salary.
    • The requested percentage with rationale.
     4.3.1. Approving Officials:
         • May return a package without further action if they disapprove a request at any time in the
            approval process.
         • May not approve a greater bonus or allowance than the coordinating official has recom-
            mended.
        4.3.1.1. Category I. The career program PALACE team chiefs will prepare the request package
        and send it through AFPC/DPK for review and to HQ USAF/DPCE, 1040 Air Force Pentagon,
        Washington DC 20330-1040. HQ USAF/DPCE will forward package to HQ USAF/DPC for
        coordination. After coordination by HQ USAF/DPC, the package will be forwarded to the Career
        Program Policy Council Chair. If the Chair concurs, the package will be returned to the recruiting
        unit or career program to be included in the processing package for the employee. The processing
        package (personnel actions) will be sent to the servicing personnel office for final processing.
        4.3.1.2. Category IIa. The gaining supervisor, with assistance from the servicing personnel
        office:
            • Prepares the request.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                     23

           •   Sends it to the appropriate career program PALACE Team at AFPC/DPK, 555 E Street
               West, Suite 1, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4530.
           4.3.1.2.1. The PALACE team:
               • Reviews the package.
               • Sends it along the same path as described in 4.3.1.1.
           4.3.1.2.2. (AFRC-Added) For ART Officer positions, forward requests through supervisory
           channels and HQ AFRC/DPCC, 155 2nd Street, Robins AFB GA 31098-1635, to the ART
           Officer Career Management Program Policy Chair. The request must then be forwarded to
           HQ USAF/DPF, for review and coordination prior to implementation.
       4.3.1.3. Category IIb and IIc. The MAJCOM sends the request package to AFDPS, 1040 Air
       Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040.
           4.3.1.3.1. The MAJCOM sends packages for Schedule C employees (GM-15 and below) to
           11 MSS/DPC, 1460 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1460.
       4.3.1.4. Category III. Process the package in accordance with local procedures.
       4.3.1.4. (AFRC) Forward request through supervisory channels to the NAF/CC; for HQ AFRC
       positions forward request through supervisory channels to the AFRC/CV.

4.4. Case-by-Case Determinations. Decide whether to pay a recruitment or relocation bonus or a reten-
tion allowance on a case-by-case basis. EXCEPTION: A MAJCOM may request a relocation bonus
from the OPM through HQ USAF/DPCE when:
    • Employees are members of a specific group (for example, Office of Special Investigations crimi-
        nal investigators) who are subject to a mobility agreement and a determination is made the reloca-
        tion bonuses are necessary to retain employees.
    • A major organization is relocated to a different commuting area and a determination is made the
        relocation bonuses will keep operations from being interrupted.

4.5. Paying, Reducing, and Discontinuing Recruiting and Relocation Bonuses a n d             Retention
Allowances:
   4.5.1. Recruiting and Relocation Bonuses. Make payments in a lump sum as soon as possible
   after the bonus has been approved and the employee has reported for duty. Payments may not be
   made until after the employee has signed an agreement (see figure 4.1) to serve a minimum of 12
   months with the DoD.
Figure 4.1. Format for Service Agreement for Recruitment and Relocation Bonuses.
SERVICE AGREEMENT FOR RECRUITMENT AND RELOCATION BONUSES
A. INTRODUCTION. The Air Force has delegated authority to approve a recruitment or relocation
bonus to officials with appointing authority or their designee. The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 5753, subparts
A and B, part 575 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, and Department of Defense (DoD) policies
require, as a condition for receiving the bonus, that the employee sign a written service agreement to com-
plete a minimum of 12 months with the DoD.
B. CONDITIONS OF SERVICE:
24                                                            AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

1. Employees who accept a recruitment or relocation bonus are required to serve a minimum of 12
months in the DoD. Failure to meet this requirement will place the employee in debt to the DoD and he
or she will be required to repay the bonus on a pro rata basis. The amount to be repaid will be determined
by providing credit for each full month of employment completed under the service agreement. Failure to
complete the period of employment established under this service agreement will occur if the employee’s
service with the DoD is terminated before completion of the specified period of employment.
2. The bonus shall be calculated as a percentage of the employee’s rate of basic pay and will be paid as a
lump sum. Actual payment of the bonus will not occur until the employee has entered on duty or reported
to the new duty location.
3. The bonus is subject to the aggregate limitation on pay prescribed in subpart B, part 530 of title 5, Code
of Federal Regulations. It is also considered to be income for federal income tax purposes.
C. AGREEMENT. I, (name of employee), have read the preceding paragraphs and understand that I
must complete at least 12 months of service in the Department of Defense as a condition of my receipt of
a (type of bonus) bonus. I further understand failure to complete this period of service will result in my
indebtedness to the federal government and I will be required to repay the bonus on a pro rata basis. I
agree to these terms and accept a (type of bonus) bonus in the amount of ____ percent of my basic pay.



Employee (Name)                               Date
Approval Authority (Installation Commander or Date
designee)
     4.5.2.   Retention Allowance. Do not consider retention allowances to be part of basic pay. Pay them:
         •    In the same manner and at the same time as basic pay.
         •    For as long as the conditions require continuing the allowance.
         •    After an annual review and recertification, if the allowance continues beyond 12 months.
        4.5.2.1. Reduce or discontinue the allowance at any time when:
            • A lesser amount or no allowance at all would retain the employee.
            • Labor market conditions have changed and you can recruit employees without paying a
                recruitment bonus.
            • The need for the services of the employee have lessened.
            • Budgetary concerns prevent payment.
        4.5.2.2. The service agreement for relocation bonuses runs concurrently with the service agree-
        ment for a permanent change of station. Failure to complete the service agreement will obligate
        the employee to a pro rata repayment of the bonus.

4.6. Recording Recruitment and Relocation Bonuses and Retention Allowances. Approving offi-
cials are responsible for ensuring the basis for payment of the bonus or allowance is fully documented.
This documentation will be retained in the servicing personnel office.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                      25

4.6. (AFRC) Initial approval and annual recertification of bonuses and allowances must meet all require-
ments identified in 5 CFR, Part 575. Copies of supporting documentation for bonuses and allowances are
retained at the NAF/DPC.

4.7. Supervisory Differentials. An official’s decision to grant a supervisory differential, including the
amount of the differential, must be reviewed and approved by an official at a higher organizational level.
See table A3.1 for a quick reference on granting supervisory differentials.
   4.7.1. Officials with delegated review and approval authority may designate subordinates to make
   initial differential decisions, subject to the official’s final review and approval. Designations must be
   in writing and be included in local operating instructions.
   4.7.2. Only the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense may approve supervisory differentials for
   individuals appointed to Schedule C positions. Requests for approval of supervisory differentials for
   Schedule C positions will be coordinated through 11 MSS/DPC and HQ USAF/DPC prior to submis-
   sion to DoD.
   4.7.3. Supervisory differentials:
       • May not be paid if the subordinate upon which the differential is based is a foreign national
          (direct or indirect hire) or nonappropriated fund employee.
       • Will be calculated and paid in accordance with 5 CFR 575.405.
       • Will be adjusted and terminated in accordance with 5 CFR 575.406.
       • Will be terminated within 30 calendar days after the subordinate position or positions used as
          the basis for a supervisory differential becomes vacant.

4.8. Documenting and Recording Supervisory Differentials. Approving officials document the grant-
ing of a supervisory differential. Documentation includes:
    • Sufficient information for reconstructing the action.
    • Basis for determining the amount of the differential.
    • The comparison of continuing pay required by 5 CFR 575.405.
   4.8.1. The civilian personnel flight will maintain supervisory differential documentation.
26                                                            AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                                                 Chapter 5

                          SUPERIOR QUALIFICATION APPOINTMENTS

5.1. Introduction. The Delegation Agreement between DoD and OPM, dated 13 Jun 80, authorized DoD
to administer certain authorities previously reserved to OPM. Included under this agreement is the
authority to set advanced in-hire rates based on superior qualifications or the agency’s need for the candi-
date’s skill for employees under the General Schedule.

5.2. Superior Qualification Appointments. The appointing authority or designee is authorized to
approve higher rates of pay for an appointment of a specific individual with superior qualifications. The
recommendation and coordination process is the same as it is for the recruitment bonus. See table Table
A3.1. for a quick reference on approving above minimum entry rates for superior qualifications.
     5.2.1. Consider the advantages and disadvantages of all pay options when recruiting a candidate.
     Recruiting bonuses will not be used with superior qualification appointments unless comparable
     non-federal salaries justify both payments.

5.3. Documenting and Recording Superior Qualification Appointments. Approving officials must
fully document superior qualification appointments.
     5.3.1. Documentation includes:
         • A statement of the superior qualifications of the individual or the special need of the installa-
            tion that justifies the appointment.
         • Factors considered in deciding the employee's existing pay and in setting the pay at a higher
            rate than needed to match the individual's existing pay.
        •   Reasons for authorizing an advanced rate instead of or in addition to a recruitment bonus.
     5.3.2. Approving officials make their documents available for review upon request.
     5.3.3. When coding superior qualification appointments into the Defense Civilian Personnel Data
     System (DCPDS), use pay rate determinant "5" or "7."

5.4. Form Prescribed. AF Forms 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay and Compensatory
Time.



                                           MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS/Personnel
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                       27

                                              Attachment 1

                                        GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Administratively Uncontrollable Overtime (AUO)—Administratively uncontrollable overtime is
premium pay paid on an annual basis to an employee in a position in which the hours of duty cannot be
controlled administratively and which requires substantial amounts of irregular or occasional overtime,
with the employee being responsible for recognizing, without supervision, circumstances which require
the employee to remain at work.
Agency—Agency shall mean the Department of the Air Force.
Air Force Repromotion Rule—Repromotion occurs when an employee who was changed to a lower
grade is promoted from that lower grade. Change to lower grade must have been in the DoD and caused
by the employee to transfer with their function or by a reduction in force or reclassification. Pay is set at
the highest of the following rates: Current rate for grade and step employee held before change to lower
grade, GS mandatory promotion rule, top step of grade employee is being promoted to when the
employee’s current rate is more than the top step of the grade, or a higher rate if employee is entitled to
retain such a rate (e.g., pay retention).
Change to Lower Grade (CLG)—For GS, the change of an employee while continuously employed
from (a) one GS grade to a lower GS grade, with or without reduction in pay, or (b) a higher representative
rate in another pay system to a lower representative rate within a GS grade. For FWS, change of an
employee while continuously employed to (a) lower grade under the same wage schedule, whether in the
same or different wage area, or (b) to a job or grade with a lower representative rate under a different pay
system.
Conversion—A conversion occurs when an Air Force employee is given another appointment (e.g.,
temporary to career-conditional) without a break in service of more than three calendar days.
Existing Rate of Pay—The rate received immediately before the effective date of a transfer, promotion,
change to lower grade, within-grade increase, or (for FWS) revision of a wage schedule.
Federal Wage System (FWS)—The pay system for employees working in trades, crafts, skilled and
unskilled laboring positions. FWS employees are paid on an hourly basis and their pay is determined by
the prevailing rate paid to employees working under similar conditions in the same local area. Prevailing
rate positions are appropriated fund positions composed of a nonsupervisory grade (WG), leader grade
(WL), and a supervisory grade (WS). Nonsupervisory and leader regular wage schedules have 15 grades
and 5 rates of pay. Supervisory regular wage schedules have 19 grades and 5 rates of pay.
General Schedule (GS)—The pay system for e mployees who work in positions classified in
administrative, clerical, professional, and technical occupations. The GS is a schedule of annual rates of
basic pay, consisting of 15 grades, designated "GS-01" through "GS-15" with ten rates of pay for each
grade.
Governmentwide FWS Mandatory Promotion Rule—Pay on promotion is set at a rate that exceeds
the FWS employee’s existing scheduled rate of pay by at least four percent of the representative rate of the
grade from which the employee is promoted. If the top step of the grade is exceeded, pay is set at the top
step.
28                                                           AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

Governmentwide GS Mandatory Promotion Rule—Pay on promotion is set at a rate that exceeds the
GS employee’s existing rate of pay by at least two step increases. If the top step of the grade is exceeded,
pay is set at the top step.
GS Maximum Payable Rate—The lowest rate on the current pay scale of the employee’s grade that is
equal to or exceeds his or her highest previous rate.
Head of Agency—Head of agency shall mean the Secretary of the Air Force or his or her designee.
Highest Previous Rate (HPR)—Highest previous rate must be based on an employee serving on a
regular tour of duty at the higher rate under an appointment not limited to 90 days or less; or the employee
has served at least 90 continuous days under one or more appointments without a break in service.
(NOTE: Establish pay under these conditions with caution. Before setting the pay, consult 5 CFR
531.203(c) and (d) for GS employees, and OPM Operating Manual - Federal Wage System, Subchapter
8-3c and “e” for FWS employees. In the Air Force, HPR is not authorized when it was earned prior to a
two-year break in service.)
Locality Pay—Locality-based comparability payments for GS employees. Locality pay is basic pay only
for purposes of retirement (Civil Service Retirement System, Federal Employees Retirement System, and
the Thrift Savings Plan), life insurance, premium pay (including overtime pay, hazard pay, and standby
duty pay), severance pay, and lump-sum payments for annual leave. Locality pay is not basic pay for
within-grade increases, promotions, pay retention, highest previous rate, recruitment and relocation
bonuses, retention allowances, supervisory differentials, and other payments or benefits calculated as a
percentage of basic pay.
Mandatory Restoration—Situation where employee is entitled to be reemployed, and when
reemployed, their employment status must be restored as if they never left federal civilian employment.
New Appointment—First appointment, regardless of tenure, as an employee of the federal government
or the government of the District of Columbia. This appointment may be temporary or permanent.
One Cent Rule—The minimum pay raise on promotion from FWS to GS is one cent higher than the
employee’s current rate of pay.
Promotion—For GS, change of an employee while continuously employed from (a) one GS grade to a
higher GS grade, or (b) a lower rate of pay under another pay system to a higher rate within a GS grade.
For FWS, change of an employee while continuously employed (a) to a higher grade under the same type
of wage schedule, whether in the same or a different wage area, or (b) to a grade in a pay system with a
higher representative rate.
Rate of Basic Pay—For GS, rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an
employee before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any kind. For FWS, rate of pay fixed
by law or administrative action for the position held plus any night and environmental differential pay.
Reassignment—Change of an employee while continuously employed in the same agency from one job
to another without promotion or change to lower grade.
Reemployment—Employment, including reinstatement or another type of appointment, after a break in
service.
Reinstatement—Reemployment of a former employee based on the employee’s previous career or
career-conditional employment.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                    29

Representative Rate—Rate used to determine the nature of job change (promotion, change to lower
grade, reassignment) where different kinds of pay schedules are involved. The representative rate for GS
is step 4; for FWS, step 2.
Servicing Personnel Office—The AFPC, Civilian Personnel Operations, or unt il servicing is
transitioned to the AFPC, the Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF), test civilian personnel field operating
agencies, or a personnel office of another component servicing Air Force employees.
Special Rate—Used to provide higher pay rates to address recruitment or retention problems across an
occupation resulting from higher non-federal rates, remoteness of location, undesirable working
conditions, or other appropriate circumstances.
Superior Qualifications Appointment—Appointment of a specific individual with superior
qualifications for a position, made at a rate above the minimum rate.
Supervisory Differential—Supervisory differentials may be paid to a GS or GM employee responsible
for providing direct, technical supervision over the work of one or more civilian employees not covered
by the GS or GM system if the continuing pay of one or more of the subordinates would, in the absence of
such a differential, be more than the continuing pay of the supervisor. Continuing pay is defined in 5 CFR
575.405.
Transfer—Change of an employee, without a break in service from one branch of the federal government
(Executive, Legislative, Judicial) to another, or from one agency to another.
30                                                        AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                                           Attachment 2

                                    SETTING RATES OF PAY

Table A2.1. Setting Rates of Pay.
RU   TYPE OF           AND                AND                        PAY IS SET AT
LE    ACTION
1  New Appoint-                                             Step 1
   ment
1A              Use of superior or                          A step other than step 1
                special qualifica-
                tions has been ap-
                proved, or lead
                agency designated
                FWS      minimum
                step rate above
                step 1
2  Reemploy-    To a p ermanent Break in service of         Rate determined by HPR or GS
   ment (volun- appointment        2 years or less          maximum payable rate rule,
   tary                                                     whichever is most beneficial, pro-
   separation)                                              vided HPR or GS maximum pay-
                                                            able rate earned in the last two
                                                            years
2A                                      Break in service of Step 1
                                        more than 2 years
2B                   To a term appoint- Break in service of Rate determined by HPR or GS
                     ment               2 years or less     maximum payable rate rule,
                                                            whichever is most beneficial, pro-
                                                            vided HPR or GS maximum pay-
                                                            able rate earned in the last two
                                                            years
2C                                      Break in service of Step 1
                                        more than 2 years
2D                   To a temporary Break in service of Rate determined by HPR or GS
                     appointment        2 years or less     maximum payable rate rule,
                                                            whichever is most beneficial, pro-
                                                            vided HPR or GS maximum pay-
                                                            able rate earned in the last two
                                                            years
2E                                      Break in service of Step 1
                                        more than 2 years
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                 31

RU   TYPE OF                AND             AND                     PAY IS SET AT
LE    ACTION
3  Reemploy-          Placement from                       A step at least equal to the current
   ment (involun-     PPP, except for                      rate for the grade and step held at
   tary               Program S ( mili-                    separation or top step if it is great-
   separation)        tary spouse), and                    er. C ompare this to HPR or GS
                      Interagency Ca-                      maximum payable rate, setting
                      reer    Transition                   pay at rate providing greatest ben-
                      Program                              efit.
3A                    Placement from
                      RPL
4    Reemploy-                                             A rate at least equal to the rate the
     ment (manda-                                          employee would be receiving if
     tory                                                  he or s he never left federal civil
     restoration                                           service
     rights)
5    Reemploy-      Employee is re- Reemployed        at   Pay retention
     ment (injured ceiving workers last grade held and
     worker)        compensation     then changed to
                                     lower grade
6    Conversion at Employment     is Offer is to pe rma-   The step at least equal to the cur-
     the same grade continuous       nent or t emporary    rent step
                                     appointment
6A                                   FWS       employee    The wage rate of the gaining ac-
                                     being converted       tivity
                                     from one wage
                                     area to another
6B   Conversion at From temporary to                       The step at least equal to the cur-
     the same grade permanent    ap-                       rent step. Set pay to include WGI
                    pointment                              if time requirement met under
                                                           temporary appointment.
7    Conversion to                                         One of the following rates: Gov-
     a higher grade                                        ernment-wide GS mandatory pro-
                                                           motion rule, FWS promotion rule,
                                                           AF repromotion require-ment,
                                                           HPR, or GS maximum payable
                                                           rate rule, whichever is the most
                                                           beneficial. Set pay at the step at
                                                           least equal to current rate.
8    Conversion to                                         Unless entitled to grade or pay re-
     a lower grade                                         tention, step of the lower grade
                                                           which upon repromotion will not
                                                           exceed that previously held in the
                                                           higher grade
32                                                       AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

RU     TYPE OF             AND                 AND                  PAY IS SET AT
LE     ACTION
8A                                   From temporary to Step of the lower grade which
                                     permanent     ap- upon repromotion will not exceed
                                     pointment         that previously held in the higher
                                                       grade
8B                Change to lower Employee is other- Grade and/or pay retention
                  grade from a per- wise eligible
                  manent (non-tem-
                  porary
                  appointment)
9    Reassignment Within same wage                     No change in pay
                  or GS locality pay
                  area
9A                From regular to And action is vol- The same step in the special
                  special pay sched- untary            schedule as in the regular sched-
                  ules                                 ule
9B                From special to And action is vol- The same step in the regular
                  regular pay sched- untary            schedule as in the special sched-
                  ules                                 ule.
9C                                   Employee was in- Pay retention
                                     voluntarily reas-
                                     signed
9D                Change between Move is to wage The new wage area rate for grade
                  wage areas         area with higher and step
                                     rates
9E                                   Move is to wage Rate at least equal to existing rate
                                     area with lower before the move but no higher
                                     rates             than step 5 of the new wage area
9F                Changes between                      Base pay plus locality rate for the
                  GS locality areas                    new area
9G                From GM to GS                        The step that equals or exceeds
                  position                             the current rate of pay. If rate falls
                                                       between two steps, the higher step
                                                       is used.
10   Promotion    From GS to GS                        Step that exceeds existing pay by
                  position                             at least two steps, but no hi gher
                                                       than step 10, HPR, or GS maxi-
                                                       mum payable rate, whichever is
                                                       most beneficial.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                             33

RU    TYPE OF          AND                  AND                   PAY IS SET AT
LE    ACTION
10A              From FWS        to                       Step that exceeds existing pay by
                 FWS position                             4% of t he representative rate of
                                                          grade from which promoted, but
                                                          no higher than step 5, HPR, or GS
                                                          maximum payable rate, whichev-
                                                          er is most beneficial.
10B Promotion    From FWS to GS                           The rate that exceeds existing pay
                 position                                 by one cent, HPR, or G S maxi-
                                                          mum payable rate, whichever is
                                                          most beneficial.
10C              From GS/GM to                            The lowest FWS step that exceeds
                 FWS position                             the employee’s existing rate by
                                                          4% of GS representative rate of
                                                          current position, HPR, or GS
                                                          maximum payable rate, whichev-
                                                          er is most beneficial.
10D              From GM to GS                            Use GS mandatory promotion
                 position                                 rule IAW 5 U.S.C. 5334(b), HPR,
                                                          or GS maximum payable rate,
                                                          whichever is most beneficial.
10E              From regular to                          On the regular pay schedule, de-
                 special pay sched-                       termine the step of the new grade
                 ule                                      using the GS two-step rule; use
                                                          this step of the special schedule,
                                                          or HPR, or GS maximum payable
                                                          rate, whichever is most beneficial.
10F              From special to                          On the special pay schedule, de-
                 regular pay sched-                       termine the step of the new grade
                 ule                                      using the GS two-step rule; use
                                                          this step of the regular schedule,
                                                          or HPR, or GS maximum payable
                                                          rate, whichever is most beneficial.
10G              Air Force Repro-     Employee promot- A rate at least equal to the current
                 motion Require-      ed to a grade from rate of t he grade and step from
                 ment                 which involuntari- which demoted
                                      ly changed
10H                                   Employee’s      re- Stay on retained pay
                                      tained pay is high-
                                      er than top step of
                                      new grade
34                                                    AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

RU   TYPE OF            AND                 AND                    PAY IS SET AT
LE   ACTION
11 Change      to Action is volun-                         Unless entitled to grade or pay re-
   lower grade    tary                                     tention, step of the lower grade
                                                           which upon repromotion will not
                                                           exceed that previously held in the
                                                           higher grade.
11A                                   Employee enters a    Set at the first rate that equals or
                                      formal    training   exceeds the existing basic rate of
                                      program or DOP       pay. If existing rate exceeds max-
                                                           imum rate of the grade, apply pay
                                                           retention
11B Change      to Action is volun- Employee accepts       Set at the first rate that equals or
    lower grade    tary             lower grade for        exceeds the existing basic rate of
                                    nondisciplinary        pay. If existing rate exceeds max-
                                    reasons of i ll        imum rate of the grade, apply pay
                                    health or physical/    retention
                                    mental inability
11C                                 Position          is
                                    “hard-to-fill”
11D                                 Employee is re-
                                    ferred and selected
                                    from a career pro-
                                    gram certificate
11E Change      to Action is volun- Employee return-       Set at the first rate that equals or
    lower grade    tary             ing from overseas      exceeds the existing basic rate of
                                    assignment      ac-    pay. If existing rate exceeds max-
                                    cording to terms of    imum rate of the grade, apply pay
                                    a preestablished       retention
                                    agreement
11F                                 Employee accepts       Grade and pay retention
                                    lower grade to
                                    lessen impact of
                                    RIF
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                   35

RU     TYPE OF             AND                 AND                    PAY IS SET AT
LE     ACTION
11G                                   Returning       em-     The rate that would have been at-
                                      ployee to perma-        tained if temporary promotion
                                      nent grade after        had not occurred
                                      temporary promo-
                                      tion (AFRC) An
                                      employee on tem-
                                      porary promotion
                                      should be returned
                                      to his or her per-
                                      manent position
                                      prior to placing the
                                      employee          on
                                      leave-without-pay
                                      or separating the
                                      employee from the
                                      rolls of that activi-
                                      ty.
12 Change       to Involuntary action Action caused by        Rate from step 1 up to step of the
    lower grade                       employee’s failure      lower grade which if repromoted
                                      to perform accept-      will not exceed that previously
                                      ably or for disci-      held in the higher grade
                                      plinary reasons
12A                                   RIF, reclassifica-      Grade and pay retention when re-
                                      tion                    quirements are met
12B                                   Failure to success-     Use governmentwide minimum
                                      fully complete su-      requirement
                                      pervisory/
                                      managerial proba-
                                      tion
12C                                   DoD employee ac-        If the existing rate of pay falls be-
                                      companying mili-        tween two steps of the lower
                                      tary/civilian           grade, pay will be set at the higher
                                      sponsor                 step. Pay will be set at an even
                                                              higher step in the lower grade, in
                                                              accordance with the HPR rule, if
                                                              the employee has earned entitle-
                                                              ment to a higher rate by service in
                                                              another position.
36                                                         AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                                            Attachment 3

                                AIR FORCE PAY FLEXIBILITIES

Table A3.1. Air Force Pay Flexibilities.
Type of Au-        Purpose      Approval      Coverage
                                                     Applies    Limits          May Be Used
  thority                       Authority            Case-by- on Pay            in Combina-
                                                     Case or                      tion With
                                                        to
                                                     Groups
Recruitment To enable an See Table GS/GM,       Se- Case-by-c Subject          Special rates,
Bonuses (up agency to fill a A4.1. nior-Level/      ase       to               above-mini-
to 25% of position with a          ST, SES, law               EX-I ag-         mum       entry
basic pay)  candidate from         enforcement of-            gregate          rates, waiver
            outside federal        ficers, Execu-             pay limi-        of dual com-
            employment             tive Schedule,             tation           pensation lim-
                                   Presidential ap-           (NOTE:           itations,
                                   pointees, civil-           EX =             critical pay
                                   ian      faculty           Execu-           authority,
                                   members at AU              tive Lev-        travel expens-
                                   and    USAFA;              el)              es, advance
                                   others      with                            payments
                                   OPM approval
Relocation To enable an Same as Same as above Same as Same as                Special rates,
Bonuses (up agency to fill a above                  above     above          retention al-
to 25% of position with a                                                    lowances,
basic pay)  current federal                                                  waiver of dual
            employee who                                                     compensa-
            must relocate to                                                 tion limita-
            accept the posi-                                                 tions, critical
            tion                                                             pay authori-
                                                                             ty*
Retention       To enable reten- Same   as Same as above     Same as Same as Special rates,
Allowances      tion of hi gh above                          above   above   critical pay
(Up to 25%      quality employ-                                              authority
of basic pay)   ee or one for
                whom agency
                has special need
                and who proba-
                bly would other-
                wise        leave
                federal service
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                                   37

Type of Au-       Purpose          Approval      Coverage  Applies   Limits May Be Used
  thority                          Authority              Case-by- on Pay in Combina-
                                                           Case or            tion With
                                                              to
                                                           Groups
Waiver of    To enable an          OPM, or Any pay system Case-by-c None    Recruitment
Dual Com-    agency to re-         DoD (base or position  ase               bonuses,
pensation    cruit/retain     a    closure/                                 above-mini-
Limitations  military or civil-    temporary                                mum      entry
for Reem-    ian retiree when      positions)                               rates, special
ployed An-   there is excep-       through                                  rates, critical
nuitants     tional difficulty     HQ USAF/                                 pay authority
             in recruiting or      DPC
             retaining a qual-
             ified employee
Supervisory To compensate          Official in General Sched- Case-by-c   Cannot    Continuing
Differential General Sched-        organiza- ule (GS)         ase         exceed    pay, e.g., CO-
(Up to 3% of ule (GS) em-          tional level                           EX-I      LAs, special
continuing   ployees       who     higher than                            (except   law enforce-
annual pay) technically su-        recom-                                 with      ment       pay,
             pervise one or        mending                                Presi-    staffing dif-
             more      civilian    official                               dent’s    ferential, re-
             employees in a                                               written   tention
             different      pay                                           approv-   allowance,
             system       (e.g.,                                          al)       annual premi-
             FWS)       whose                                                       um pay, post
             continuing pay                                                         differentials,
             is more than the                                                       remote work-
             supervisor’s                                                           site    allow-
                                                                                    ance,        or
                                                                                    physicians
                                                                                    comparability
38                                                         AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

Type of Au-       Purpose       Approval        Coverage      Applies      Limits May Be Used
  thority                       Authority                    Case-by-      on Pay in Combina-
                                                              Case or               tion With
                                                                 to
                                                              Groups
Special         To       provideOPM,        Any pay system All posi-      Basic      Recruitment
Rates           higher pay ratesDoD Wage established by tions in          pay (in-   bonuses, relo-
                to address re-  Setting Di- federal statute covered       cluding    cation bonus-
                cruitment or re-vision                      grades,       special    es, retention
                tention                                     occupa-       rate)      allowances,
                problems across                             tional se-    cannot     above-mini-
                an occupation                               ries, and     exceed     mum      entry
                resulting from                              locations     EX-V       rates, waiver
                higher non-Fed-                                                      of dual com-
                eral rates, re-                                                      pensation lim-
                moteness       of                                                    itations
                location, unde-
                sirable working
                conditions, or
                other appropri-
                ate circumstanc-
                es
Above Mini-     To enable an See Table GS                     Case-by-c Cannot       Special rates,
mum Entry       agency to recruit A4.1.                       ase       exceed       recruitment
Rates (supe-    an     individual                                       maxi-        bonuses,
rior qualifi-   with high or                                            mum          waiver of dual
cation          unique qualifi-                                         rate of      compensa-
appoint-        cations or for                                          the          tion limita-
ments)          whom the gov-                                           grade        tions
                ernment has a
                special need
NOTE: *While a relocation bonus could be paid to an employee who is receiving a retention allowance,
a retention allowance cannot be authorized for an employee who is fulfilling a service agreement for a
relocation bonus. Note also that, although a relocation bonus and a recruitment bonus cannot be paid to
the same employee concurrently, approval could be granted to pay a relocation bonus to an employee who
had previously received a recruitment bonus. This would be appropriate only in rare situations where the
need for relocation could not have been foreseen when the recruitment bonus was offered.
AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000                                                         39

                                         Attachment 4

                     CHAIN OF AIR FORCE APPROVAL AUTHORITIES

Table A4.1. Chain of Air Force Approval Authorities.
                              RECOMMEND            COORDINATE             APPROVE
 CATEGORY I
 PALACE Acquire PAL-          PALACE Teams         HQ USAF/DPC           Installation
 ACE Knight COPPER Cap                             Career Program        Commander
 Career      Development/                           Policy Chair         or designee
 Broadners
 CATEGORY II
 Career Programs             Gaining Supervisor    PALACE Team           Installation
                                                   Chief HQ USAF/        Commander
                                                   DPC Career Pro-       or designee
                                                  gram Policy Chair
 SES/Senior Level (Career)    MAJCOM Com-           HQ USAF/DP           Executive Re-
                                 mander                                 sources Board or
                                                                       SAF/OS for limit-
                                                                       ed term and emer-
                                                                           gency SES
                                                                          appointments
 SES (Noncareer)                  SAF/AA          Executive Resourc-       Secretary or
                                                          es           Deputy Secretary
                                                        Board              of Defense
 Political     Appointees         SAF/AA             11 MSS/CC             Secretary or
 Schedule C Appointments                                               Deputy Secretary
                                                                           of Defense
 (AFRC-Added) ART Of-        Supervisory          HQ AFRC/DPC,         NAF/CC for unit
 ficer Career Management     Chain-of-Command     ART Officer Career   positions, AFRC/
 Program                                          Management Pro-      CV for HQ AFRC
                                                  gram Policy Chair,   positions.
                                                  and HQ USAF/
                                                  DPF
 CATEGORY III
 Locally Funded Locally      Gaining Supervisor        Second Level        Installation
 Selected Employees                                     Supervisor        Commander
                                                                           or designee
                                                                        (AFRC) NAF/
                                                                        CC for unit posi-
                                                                       tions; AFRC/CV
                                                                       for HQ AFRC po-
                                                                             sitions.
40                                                          AFI36-802/AFRCSup1 15 February 2000

                                             Attachment 5

                               IC 98-1 TO AFI 36-802, PAY SETTING


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS


This interim change (IC) 98-1 provides for certain responsibilities on the part of commanders in managing
civilian overtime and compensatory time. It also prescribes AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday
Premium Pay and Compensatory Time.
3.1. Responsibilities:
3.1.1. Commanders. Commanders must continually ensure that overtime work occurs only pursuant to
mission needs.
3.1.1.1. Review Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS) reports: P6602R04, Overtime/Compensatory
Time Review; P6602R05, Overtime/Compensatory Time Usage Report; and P6605R01, Control of
Hours Report, to identify trends in excessive overtime usage.
3.1.1.2. Perform self-inspection of overtime and compensatory time usage and documentation.
5.4. Form Prescribed. AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay and Compensatory
Time.
