BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-109
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           3 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                                   Force Support

                                                                    AIR FORCE COMMUNITY
                                                                        CENTER PROGRAMS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVPR                                                          Certified by: AF/A1S
Supersedes: AFI34-109, 25 July 1994                                       (Mr. Charles E. Milam)
                                                                                        Pages: 13


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services
Combat Support Programs. It outlines responsibilities and program requirements for Air Force
Communitiy Centers. This instruction is not applicable to the National Guard. It may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be
routed to AF/A1S for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR),
AFSVA/SVPR by using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFI
33-360, Publication and Forms Management, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision provides guidance and procedures for installation-level Community Center
Programs. This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include organization of information, definition of roles and responsibilities and guidance
concerning the sale of alcoholic beverages. This publication applies to the Force Support
Squadron (FSS) and any new flight/division/branch names associated with the merger at
installation or higher headquarter levels.
 2                                                                AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010



                                              Chapter 1

       GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE COMMUNITY CENTER PROGRAM

1.1. Program Mission, Vision, and Goals.
     1.1.1. The program’s mission statement defines its reason for existence: Provide multi-use,
     facilities to meet the needs of the community. Community Centers offer space for active
     duty members and all eligible members of base communities to recreate, get access for
     internet connectivity, and meet in a pleasant and relaxing atmosphere. Community Centers
     assist and/or coordinate installation, community, and squadron events.
     1.1.2. Vision Statement. Provide a friendly and inviting community center for airmen,
     families, and other eligible community members. Provide a central place for recreation
     services and information for the community. Provide knowledgeable and professional staff
     able to meet community and special interest needs.
     1.1.3. The goals of the Air Force Community Center Program are to:
        1.1.3.1. Serve as a mission support and quality of life asset for commanders.
        Participation in Community Center Programs are limited to those eligible to use Force
        Support activities. Use of the Community Center by individuals under the age of 16 is
        based on locally established policy.
        1.1.3.2. Offer a variety of programs and activities in all core program areas (personal and
        professional development, the performing arts, family and life skills, recreation and
        leisure).
        1.1.3.3. Provide an attractive, well-maintained environment for Airmen, families,
        retirees, and DoD civilians to participate in scheduled and self-directed activities.
        1.1.3.4. Offer instructional classes for the community and provide space for special
        interest groups.
        1.1.3.5. Provide information and referrals for individuals and groups interested in
        activities and events outside the installation.
     1.1.3.6. Provide collaborative programming with on-base and local off-base communities.
1.2. Core Program Areas and Activities. A comprehensive Community Center Program
includes four core program areas. They include: personal and professional development,
performing arts, family and life skills, and recreation and leisure. Core activities provide mission
support by fostering airmen, family and individual well-being, unit and community cohesion,
and physical fitness. They also ensure consistency in program opportunities across the Air
Force. If a suitable setting for the activity is available in other facilities, or partnering with other
community activities or events is possible, then the activity will be supported. A diverse
monthly program of activities will be offered that is interesting and appealing to patrons, as
determined by market demand.
     1.2.1. Personal and Professional Development. The program provides and/or facilitates
     opportunities for personal and professional development activities to encourage active duty,
     retirees, DoD civilians and family members to support and influence the program,
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                       3


  installation, and community to develop individual interest and competencies, to develop a
  positive self-image, to learn about and participate in the democratic process, to respect their
  own and others’ cultural identities, and to enhance their skills. The program includes, but is
  not limited to:
     1.2.1.1. The Congressional Award Program (CAP). The CAP is a public private
     partnership created by Congress to promote and recognize achievement, initiative, and
     service in America's youth (14-23 years old). The CAP provides a unique opportunity for
     young people to set and achieve personally challenging goals that build character and
     foster community service, personal development, and citizenship. Track and assist
     participants in achieving the available certificates and medals in the CAP.
  1.2.2. Family and Life Skills Programs. Programs and activities are offered to develop
  patrons’ capacity to engage in positive behaviors that nurture their well-being, sustain
  meaningful relationships, set personal goals, and enhance their competencies to live
  successfully as self-sufficient adults. For example: Money Managing classes, Real Estate
  information, Health & Wellness Fairs, Toast Masters Club, job fairs, resume writing,
  computer classes, Congressional Award Program.
     1.2.2.1. Offer on a regular basis cooperative programs with the Health and Wellness
     Center, Family Advocacy, and the Airman and Family Readiness Center.
     1.2.2.2. Offer or support programs and activities semiannually to enhance patrons’ skills
     in daily living and life planning, e.g., budgeting, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR),
     smoking cessation, and home buying.
     1.2.2.3. Provide facility tours, program orientation, and other resources for First-Term
     Airmen’s Center (FTAC).
  1.2.3. Performing Arts Programs. Offer activities to enable patrons to develop their creative
  and cultural awareness through knowledge and appreciation of music, theater, film and video
  production.
     1.2.3.1. Host the Air Force Family and Teen Talent Contest and local talent contests.
     Submit entries to major command for submission for Air Force-level competition.
  1.2.3.2. Hold special events to generate interest in the arts and expose patrons to the arts,
  e.g., art exhibits in conjunction with Art and Crafts Centers.
     1.2.3.3. Provide support for ethnic holiday celebrations and field trips to ethnic festivals.
     1.2.3.4. Offer performing arts activities (music lessons, dancing lessons, video
     production, and other requested classes).
     1.2.3.5. Provide installation project officer for the Air Force Worldwide Talent Search.
     Assist contestants in preparing material necessary for submission to the AF world-wide
     talent search.
     1.2.3.6. Provide installation project officer for Tops In Blue performances and Armed
     Forces Entertainment events.
  1.2.4. Recreation and Leisure. Programs and activities are offered to help patrons make
  positive use of leisure time and to develop an appreciation for the environment.
 4                                                            AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


      1.2.4.1. Self-directed Activities. Provide areas for activities, e.g., board games, state-of-
      the-art computer gaming, television, billiards, ping pong, etc.
      1.2.4.2. Internet Connectivity. Provide space for computers and internet service that is
      free and available for customers.
      1.2.4.3. Special Interest Groups. Provide space for special interest groups to meet.
      Refer customers to individuals, local groups, or national organizations sharing their
      interests. A bulletin board will be available for posting information on local club
      activities and individuals planning self-directed outings.
      1.2.4.4. Special Events and Community-wide Events. Provide, at a minimum,
      semiannual, events to promote community cohesion, provide opportunities for
      community members to interact with others, provide recreational opportunities, and help
      community members develop leisure skills. Events include such programs as the
      ―Cookie Challenge,‖ ―Live Green,‖ or other programs initiated by HQ AFSVA/SVP. For
      example: Fourth of July celebrations, Tree Lighting ceremony, Spring Fling, Concerts in
      the Park, Make A Difference Day, talent contests, community yard sales, summer
      festivals.
      1.2.4.5. Trade Mark Events. Provide, at a minimum, two events annually to promote
      community cohesion. Trade Mark Events include the Bed Race, Build a Boat, Give the
      World a Hand, Let’s Celebrate, Contests, Tournaments, and Competitions, and Airmen
      programs.
      1.2.4.6. Chess Program. Conduct local chess tournaments and provide instructional
      opportunities. Support and recommend active duty personnel interested in participation
      in the Air Force Chess tournament and the Inter Service Chess Championship.
1.3. Annual Program Requirements. The Community Center requirements should be used as
a guideline based on customer demand and installation requirements. Activities may be
adjusted, but installation should establish and maintain an annual calendar of events and
programs within each category.
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                       5


Figure 1.1. Annual Community Center Program Requirements.
 Category                                    Required per year
 Personal & Professional Development              Total 4
    Educational Seminars                     2
    Chess Program                            2
    Congressional Award Program              Ongoing
 Family and Life Skills                           Total 4
    Health and Wellness Cooperative Event    2
    Life and Self-enhancement Event          2
 Performing Arts Program                          Total 4
    Family and Teen Talent Contest           1
    Cooperative Event with Arts and Crafts   1
    Ethnic Event                             2
 Recreation and Leisure                           Total 4
    Instructional Classes                    4
    Community–wide Event                     2
    Special Interest Program                 2
 Other requirements
    Annual Assessment                        1
    Annual Staff Training                    As required
 6                                                             AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010



                                            Chapter 2

                       OVERALL MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS

2.1. Community Center Manager. The Manager has overall responsibility for developing and
managing a comprehensive Community Center Program.
     2.1.1. Plans and implements a comprehensive program incorporating the four core program
     areas and activities. Continually evaluates effectiveness and appeal of programmed activities
     through personal observation, attendance and participation statistics, informal reports from
     staff members or volunteers, and devises means for improving program operations.
     2.1.2. Plans and schedules a variety of program offerings taking into account the diverse
     interests and needs of participants; and other factors such as funds, facilities, equipment or
     staff support available or needed, and seasonal aspects of certain activities.
     2.1.3. Creates and administers appropriated fund (APF) and nonappropriated fund (NAF)
     budgets based on documented short- and long-range plans. Plans and justifies monthly,
     annual budget estimates for programs, equipment, and supplies.
     2.1.4. Develops and annually updates local operating instructions (OIs) to standardize
     program procedures and safety and risk-management plans. Coordinates these OIs with
     Flight Chief and FSS Commander for approval.
     2.1.5. Manages program personnel in accordance with Air Force policies and ensures
     required training standards are met. Supervises a subordinate work force engaged in
     performing various specialist and administrative functions related to the Community Center
     operation.
     2.1.6. Ensures programs have properly qualified, certified, and trained staff members and
     volunteers. Attends and participates in professional recreation conferences and workshops to
     keep abreast of developments, changes and advances in the field of recreation.
2.2. Permanent Military Personnel. May be assigned when filling:
     2.2.1. A position in a Category A or B (mission sustaining and/or community support)
     program, when the military service determines assignment of military personnel is required
     to upgrade or maintain essential military training or receive training to support wartime or
     contingency operations.
     2.2.2. A temporary assignment into the Community Center to include detail and temporary
     duty for a period not to exceed 90 days.
2.3. Training.
     2.3.1. Community Center Managers, Assistant Managers, and Program Managers receive at
     least 20 hours of training per year related to their positions.
     2.3.2. Community Center Managers, Assistant Managers, and Program Managers attend an
     Air Force Community Center conference, national, or regional training conference at least
     every other year.
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     7


   2.3.3. All staff receive 10 hours of training annually, such as customer service, Dram Shop,
   activity administration, anti-terrorist training, or other Community Center training.
   2.3.4. If staff work with youth, they are provided training at the time of employment and at
   least annually on child abuse prevention, identification, reporting, and conflict resolution.
   2.3.5. Volunteers are given orientation and training for the responsibilities they perform for
   the program.
   2.3.6. Staff and volunteers are provided information about their positions and a copy of their
   position description is reviewed at their initial employment and annually thereafter.
   2.3.7. Staff, specified volunteers, and contractors are required to have the appropriate
   background checks if they are working with youth.
2.4. Program Planning and Development.
   2.4.1. Develop an annual marketing plan by assessing market needs and interests through
   surveys, interviews, focus groups, comment cards, past participation data and trends, industry
   publications, and discussions with other managers. The squadron marketing specialist can
   provide assistance with Air Force data, other market assessment techniques, and
   development of the plan.
   2.4.2. Establishes long-term program goals and objectives in a 5-year plan outlining the
   objectives and supporting rationale. The plan must identify the resources (manpower,
   training, equipment, facilities, etc.) needed to initiate new or expanded programs. Identify
   when tasks, such as training or equipment purchases, must be completed to support future
   program goals.
   2.4.3. Dress and Personal Appearance. All staff are identified as Community Center
   personnel by wearing the Air Force Community Center logo either on a name tag or shirts
   provided. The logo can be displayed as a patch, pin, nametag, embroidered or screen print on
   clothing. Copies of the FSS program logo artwork are available from HQ AFSVA at
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil./ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.
   2.4.4. Hours of Operation. Hours of operation are set to reflect customer demands.
   Recreation professionals are expected to work when customers have free time such as
   weekends, holidays, and school breaks. Community Centers are normally open on weekends
   and after normal duty hours on weekdays.
   2.4.5. Volunteers. Volunteers are recruited, trained, utilized, and recognized for assisting
   with the Community Center Program. There is a recognition program for volunteers or they
   are recognized as part of the installation volunteer program.
   2.4.6. Non-recreational Facility Use. Community Center Programs have priority over non-
   recreation programs for use of the facility. Groups may request space in the Community
   Center when it is not required for recreation programs. Such use may not disrupt scheduled
   recreation programs. The FSS Commander/Civilian Leader or Community Center manager
   will establish guidelines for non-recreational use.
   2.4.7. Professional Associations. Professional and industry associations are good sources for
   information on Community Center type activities. They provide professional training for
   recreation staff.
 8                                                             AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


     2.4.8. National Recreation and Parks Association (NRPA) and the Armed Forces Recreation
     Society (AFRS) provide annual training for Community Center personnel.
2.5. Optional Programs. Although not considered core activities, the following programs may
also be offered:
     2.5.1. Bingo Operation. Community Centers may provide bingo in accordance with AFI 34-
     272, Air Force Club Program.
     2.5.2. Food Service Program. Community Centers are only permitted to sell prepackaged
     foods, snacks, sodas, or similar items on their own.
     2.5.3. Amusement Machines. Community Centers may have coin-operated mechanical or
     electronic amusement machines that do not have cash payout. Customers will not use these
     for gambling.
     2.5.4. Tour and Travel. Tour and travel office may operate within the Community Center if
     staff and community demand warrants the activity and there is no duplication of FSS
     program and operation.
     2.5.5. Outdoor Recreation Activities. Outdoor recreation office may operate within the
     Community Center if space and community demand warrants the activity and there is no
     duplication of FSS program and operation.
2.6. Program Categories and Funding. The categories and APF support goals for Services
activities are described in AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and
Recreation (MWR) and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs). Programs and
services that are delivered in a Community Center are funded according to the program category
(Category A, B, or C) and each program retains its own program code. Community Centers
participate in commercial sponsorship activities offered through marketing.
2.7. Participation Records and After-Action Reports. As a minimum, activity planning and
after-action records must include a descriptive program name, the date(s) of the program,
number of participants, and program duration in hours or beginning and ending times. After-
action reports will include customer feedback or suggestions, satisfaction ratings, and staff
generated suggestions for improvements or changes. To simplify annual planning and
budgeting, record program expenses, required supplies and equipment, and income along with
the participation data. Annually the Community Center Assessment is updated and forwarded to
AFSVA Community Program Specialist by 30 Jan of each year.
2.8. Alcoholic Beverages.
     2.8.1. Staff will not consume or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages while on duty.
     2.8.2. The installation commander approves the availability, sales, or consumption of
     alcoholic beverages at any FSS operated facility. This includes Community Centers,
     recreation areas, squadron parks, and special events and parties. Sponsors of parties or group
     functions are accountable for the responsible behavior of their group. The sponsors must
     submit a letter of request, through the FSS Commander/Civilian Leader, outlining their rules
     for serving and consuming alcoholic beverages at the party or function. The serving of any
     alcoholic beverages on an installation must comply with the provisions of AFI 34-219,
     Alcoholic Beverage Program. Those selling or serving must receive Dram Shop training in
     accordance with AFI 34-219, paragraph 1.5.
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    9


2.9. Serious Incident Reporting for Services Activities. In addition to local reporting
procedures and notification through the chain of command, FSS Commanders/Civilian Leaders
will notify HQ USAF/A1S (within 1 hour if possible) of serious incidents. Serious incidents will
also be reported at the AFSVA web site http://public.afsva.net/incidentreport/.
   2.9.1. Any major property damage to FSS assets (fire, natural disaster, major vehicle
   accident, etc.).
   2.9.2. Any serious injury resulting in death or extended hospitalization of an employee or
   patron.
   2.9.3. Any incident of a sensitive nature involving FSS employees or assets. Incidents
   involving lawsuits, with public affairs implications, or theft are examples of incidents
   considered sensitive.
2.10. Contracting-Out an Activity. AFSVA/CC approves the waiver to contract out a
Community Center or any part of the operation. Coordinate the waiver request with
HQ AFSVA/SVF for accounting guidance. The FSS Commander/Civilian Leader submits a
letter requesting the waiver through the MAJCOM/A1S to HQ AFSVA/SVP.
 10                                                          AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                          Chapter 3

                      INDIVIDUAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Service and Resale Operations. Offering customer services and selling products directly
related to community center activities is authorized. Operations must comply with AFJI 34-211,
Army and Air Force Exchange Service General Policies; and AFJI 34-210, Army and Air Force
Exchange Service Operating Policies.
   3.1.1. Resale Operations. Resale operations are designed to enhance the customers’ use of
   the facility, complement the programs, and increase Community Center participation. The
   level of market demand must be assessed before establishing a resale program. Base and
   local area souvenirs, balloons, T-shirts, patches, mugs, and other small items can be
   considered for resale.
   3.1.2. Equipment Use by Units or Squadrons. Encourage esprit de corps by establishing
   morale function items for unit and squadron use. Develop a local OI covering free use of
   these items. It will include a list of items, how many times per year an organization may
   have free use of these items, and what organizational levels are eligible to request free use
   items. The items are provided free at the written request of the suitable unit or squadron
   commander.
   3.1.3. Equipment Use by Other Groups. Girl Scouts, spouse clubs, special interest groups,
   and other groups must pay the standard fees for any equipment items they use. APF
   equipment can not be loaned or rented free of charge to private organizations or other groups.
   3.1.4. Facility/Room Rental or Use Agreements. Appropriate room use agreement is
   developed with the FSS leadership clearly defining official and unofficial usage and stating
   required deposits and fees.
       3.1.4.1. Unofficial room usage/functions are accessed appropriate fees as established
       locally.
       3.1.4.2. Official usage for retirements, promotions, or squadron activities must comply
       with Special Morale and Welfare (SM&W), policies authorized in AFI 34-201, Chapter
       12, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS). Activities must take place during regular
       operating hours.
       3.1.4.3. Facility use by any group or organizations including food service, must conform
       to Air Force public health requirements and local FSS policy.
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                   11


                                           Chapter 4

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. Air Staff (HQ USAF/A1S). Determines general FSS operational and Community Center
Program policies. Acts on requests for waivers to established policies. Works to ensure
adequate personnel and financial resources are provided to the FSS community.
4.2. Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA). Provides operational guidance, technical support to
MAJCOM-level and installation-level programs, implements training programs, and provides
staff assistance visits to support activity managers. Conducts centrally managed Air Force-wide
program initiatives.
4.3. Major Commands (MAJCOM). Establish command operating goals. Ensures policy
compliance through inspections and assistance visits. Conducts MAJCOM-unique training and
program initiatives.
4.4. Installation Commander.
   4.4.1. Provides adequate facilities, staffing, and resources to conduct Community Center
   programs.
   4.4.2. Approves hours of operation.
   4.4.3. Approves the sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine,
   in Community Centers in accordance with the following guidelines:
       4.4.3.1. Restricts all sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages, when applicable to a
       separate room within the center. Service must comply with AFI 34-219, Alcoholic
       Beverage Program.
       4.4.3.2. May not approve the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off the
       premises.
4.5. The FSS Commander or Civilian Director.
   4.5.1. Provides resources to accomplish the Community Center Program.
   4.5.2. Coordinates and schedules Community Center inspections.
4.5.3. Approves annual calendar of Community Center programs and events.
   4.5.4. Provides guidance for non-recreational use of the facility.
4.6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
   4.6.1. Prescribed Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS/Manpower and Personnel
 12                                                        AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program, 1 March 2003
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 34-121, Other Recreation Membership Clubs Programs, 19 July 1994
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds, 17 June 2002
AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets, 27 August 2004
AFI 34-204, Property Management, 27 August 2004
AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting, 10 January 2005
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program, 17 October 2007
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations Program, 8 March 2007
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
AFI 34-272, Air Force Club Program, 1 April 2002
AFI 64-301, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting Policy, 12 February 2002
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities, 11 April 2006
AFJI 34-210, Army and Air Force Exchange Service Operating Policies, 15 December 1992
AFJI 34-211, Army and Air Force Exchange Service General Policies, 17 June 1988
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1S—Director of Services
AFRS—Armed Forces Recreation Society
HQ AFSVA—Headquarters Air Force Services Agency
APF—Appropriated Funds
CAP—Congressional Award Program
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FTAC—First-Term Airmen’s Center
HQ—Headquarters
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFI34-109 3 SEPTEMBER 2010                       13


NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
NRPA—National Recreation and Parks Association
OI—Operating Instruction
SVPCR—Recreation and Business Branch
USAF—United States Air Force
