BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-701
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                      27 July 1994

                                                                    AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                     Supplement 1
                                                                                           1 December 2000
                                                                         Certified Current 20 February 2014
                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                  LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFRC WWW site at: http://www.afrc.af.mil
and the AFRCEPL (CD-ROM) published monthly.


OPR: AFPOA/DPW (Mr. John Leibrock)                        Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-711, 30 September 1991                                                    Pages: 16
  and AFI 36-701/AFRC SUP 1, 4 October 1996                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It contains the
Air Force procedures and guidance for managers and supervisors when dealing with employees repre-
sented by an exclusively recognized union. It assigns responsibilities to commanders, management offi-
cials, supervisors, civilian personnel officers (CPO), labor relations officers (LRO), and staff judge
advocates (SJA). It carries out the Federal Labor Relations Statute, 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71 (the Statute), and
DoD Manual 1400.25, Cha pter 711, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual System, Jan 24,
78. It does not apply to the Title 32 Air National Guard Technician Work Force. The reporting require-
ments in this instruction are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 37-124, Management and
Control of Information Reports Requirements.
(AFRC) The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFRC/DPCE (Judson L. Rigsby). This supplement imple-
ments and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-701, 27 J uly 1994. T his supplement
applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) installations/bases and non-AFRC civilian personnel
flights (CPF) servicing air reserve technicians (ART) assigned to reserve units. T he AFI is printed
word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Reserve Command supplementary material is indi-
cated by "(AFRC)" in boldface type. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve Command procedures
to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of this integrated supplement discard
the Air Force basic.
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 36-7 and Secretary of the Air Force Orders 111.1 and
111.5. It realigns responsibilities for third party filings from the personnel to the legal community. It dis-
continues the use of AF Form 1510.
(AFRC) This revision incorporates the procedures formerly in AFI 36-701/AFRC Sup 1, and aligns our
supplement with current instructions within AFI 36-701. The AFRC Labor Relations Officer (LRO)
2                                                            AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

located at HQ AFRC/DPCE is designated as the principal point of contact for AFRC activities in all mat-
ters dealing with the labor relations program.

Section A—Authorities and Responsibilities

1. HQ USAF. The Work Force Appeals and Relations Division (AFPOA/DPW) provides overall Air
Force policy and guidance on labor relations matters. Air Force Legal Services Agency, General Litiga-
tion Division (AFLSA/JACL), with the activity and the major command (MAJCOM) involved, prepares
and responds to appeals of arbitration awards made under 5 U.S.C. 7122 or other applicable provisions of
law or regulation. Only AFLSA/JACL authorizes written declarations of nonnegotiability.

2. MAJCOM. The major command director of civilian personnel will designate an individual as the
principal point of contact for labor relations with subordinate installations and AFPOA/DPW.

3. Commanders. Installation commanders:
   • Provide ove rall direction i n t he e xecution of t he L abor-Management Re lations Program at t he
      installation.
   • Attend labor relations training as prescribed by DoD Manual 1400.25 (DoD CPM), Chapter 711,
      paragraph 2-3.
   • Designate Ci vilian P ersonnel O fficers (CP O) t o a ct on t heir behalf in formulating l ocal
      labor-management relations policy.
   • Ensure sufficient resources to effectively manage the program.
   • Confirm certification of a labor organization as the exclusive representative of a collective bar-
      gaining unit.
    •   Authorize subordinates to engage in collective bargaining with the duly elected representatives of
        the work force.
    •   Make l awful c ommitments on be half of t he installation by e xecuting ne gotiated l abor m anage-
        ment agreements.
    •   Approve appropriate actions to resolve alleged unfair labor practices (ULP) filed by individuals
        or collective bargaining units.
    •   File ULP charges, as necessary, against collective bargaining agents when the MAJCOM has del-
        egated the authority to the installation.
    •   Post notices and implement orders as required by the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA).

4. CPO. Civilian Personnel Officers serve as principal advisors to commanders and their staff on l abor
relations matters. They participate in all third-party proceedings involving labor relations matters and
coordinate with appropriate parties on any proposed settlements arising out of such proceedings. The
CPO designates an LRO as the principal point of contact in conducting labor relations matters with labor
organization representatives.

5. LRO. The Labor Relations Officer:
   • Meets with labor organization representatives as necessary.
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                                         3

   •   Establishes a system for sharing information among management officials and supervisors on all
       aspects of t he labor relations program. T his system involves management officials and supervi-
       sors of tenant organizations s erviced by t he civilian personnel fl ight, re gardless of w hether the
       tenants are located on or off the installation.
   •   Contacts each new supervisor of bargaining unit employees within 60 days of appointment to dis-
       cuss their labor relations responsibilities.
   •   Trains m anagement officials a nd s upervisors i n t heir dut ies, re sponsibilities, and obl igations
       under the Air Force labor relations program, the Statute and the collective bargaining agreement.
   •   Distributes the approved collective bargaining agreement to all current and newly assigned man-
       agement officials and supervisors (military and civilian) responsible for its administration.
   •   Maintains an effective re lationship with t he Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) on l abor
       relations matters.
   •   Notifies e mployees i n ba rgaining units of t heir re presentation ri ghts s et fort h i n s ection
       7114(a)(2)(B) of the Statute.

6. Management Officials. Management officials and supervisors remain neutral in matters concerning
labor organization membership and representation to the extent required by the law. They administer the
negotiated agreement in the day-to-day work relationship with local union officials and bargaining unit
members and deal with labor organization representatives on appropriate matters. If the matter is outside
the jurisdiction of a management official or supervisor, he or she refers the labor organization representa-
tive to the LRO.
   6.1. Management officials and supervisors participate in contract negotiations with labor organiza-
   tion representatives when designated by the commander. They keep records of significant dealings
   with labor organization representatives and participate in third party administrative proceedings, as
   required.

7. SJA. The Office of The Judge Advocate General and Staff Judge Advocates (SJA) at subordinate lev-
els of command provide legal support for the labor relations program. The CPO must coordinate with the
SJA on the terms of any proposed settlement agreement in third party proceedings involving conditions of
employment for civilian employees.
7. (AFRC) The AFRC Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) provides legal support for the labor relations program
to the AFRC staff and to AFRC activities. AFRC activities coordinate their requirements with the LRO,
HQ AFRC/DPCE. The AFRC SJA provides an attorney to serve as the management representative when
a determination is made that an attorney is needed. The need for an attorney is based on complexity of
issues involved in the case, availability of trained personnel to present management's case effectively, and
similar factors. When a Civilian Personnel Officer (CPO) or LRO desires an attorney for this purpose, a
request should be made to the AFRC LRO. The request may be made by phone or included with the case
file when it is transmitted to HQ AFRC/DPCE.

Section B—Administering the Labor-Management Relations Program

8. Threatened or Actual Strikes, Work Stoppages, Slowdowns, or Prohibited Picketing. As part of
their overall personnel management responsibilities, CPOs, management officials, and supervisors antic-
ipate, identify, and promptly initiate action to correct any conditions which could result in a threatened or
4                                                             AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

actual strike, work stoppage, slowdown or prohibited picketing. When such actions threaten or occur,
management officials and s upervisors immediately no tify the C PO, who, in turn, n otifies the SJA and
takes other action under the local Work Stoppage Contingency Plan.

9. Strike Prevention and Contingency Plans. All M AJCOMs a nd t heir s ubordinate i nstallations
develop and implement strike prevention and contingency plans. The plans outline management actions
to continue essential services if there is a work stoppage due to a strike, slowdown, sick-out, prohibited
picketing, or other form of illegal concerted activity. These plans are for official use only and are avail-
able on a need-to-know basis to those individuals directly involved in developing or implementing them.
Review and update the plans biennially and, following any concerted activity, revise as needed.

10. Conflict of Interest. When the union activities of an Air Force employee appear to conflict, or are
incompatible with, the employee’s official duties and responsibilities, and either the em ployee or union
disagrees with this opinion, the installation may file a Clarification of Unit petition. The installation con-
sults with the MAJCOM/DPC before filing such a petition.

11. Air Force Elements Involvement in FLRA Pro-ceedings. There are several types of proceedings
which require AFPOA/DPW, AFLSA/JACL, MAJCOMs, and installations to deal with the FLRA or one
of its component elements (FSIP, General Counsel, regional offices). See attachment l for further details.

12. Representation Proceedings. When an installation or MAJCOM receives a representation petition,
notify both AFPOA/DPW and AFLSA/JACL immediately by telephone and forward a copy of the peti-
tion to those offices within one workday. AFLSA/JACL assigns a management representative to the case
and notifies the Regional Director, FLRA, of such assignment. The assigned representative issues or
coordinates on any further management correspondence concerning the case.
12. (AFRC) Also send a copy of the petition to HQ AFRC/DPCE.
    12.1. When there is a change in a unit recognition or a negotiated agreement, the CPO sends a copy
    of all certifications and three copies of the negotiated agreement together with three copies of Office
    of Personnel Management (OPM) Form 913B, Change Form-Recognitions and Agreements to
    AFPOA/DPW.
    12.1. (AFRC) Dispatch two copies of an agreement or supplement to HQ AFRC/DPCE, 155 Richard
    Ray Blvd, Robins AFB GA 31098-1635, at the s ame time copies are forw arded to D oD/FAS, 1400
    Key Boulevard, Arlington VA 22209-5144, for agency approval. Also, send one copy of t he com-
    pleted OPM Form 913b, at this time.

Section C— Recording and Reporting Employee Use of Official Time for Representational Functions

13. Background Information. The OPM requires federal agencies to record or account for official time
for employee representational functions, both agency and union related. This requirement is not limited
solely to functions specifically required by the Statute.

14. Time and Attendance Reporting of Represen-tational Data. Supervisors re cord employee time
used for representation on the appropriate Time and Attendance form. T he payroll office provides the
Timekeeper Guide and instructions. Supervisors enter official duty time in specified categories in
15-minute increments. Employees follow prescribed or negotiated procedures to absent themselves from
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                                         5

the worksite. Time and Attendance reporting forms or computerized reporting vary by payroll system and
location.

15. Publicity on Recording Representational Data. Management provides all appropriated and nonap-
pro-priated fund supervisors of employees engaged in representational functions with information on
recording representational data. The Timekeeper Guide for the payroll system supporting the installation
contains reporting instructions.

16. Purpose of Record Keeping Requirements. These record keeping requirements do n ot establish
rights to official time or travel or per diem. The Statute, rule, regulation, and negotiated agreement estab-
lish the basis for granting official time, and payment of travel and per diem costs.

Section D—Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) Proceedings

17. General Information. The Statute, section 7116, describes ULPs. P rocess ULP charges or com-
plaints according to that Section; FLRA rules found in 5 CFR Part 2423; DOD Manual 1400.25 chapter
711; and the provisions of this section.

18. ULP Charges Filed With an Installation. After receiving a ULP charge, the installation LRO fur-
nishes all pertinent information to AFLSA/JACL. (See attachment 2 for further details.) AFLSA/JACL
assigns a representative who issues or coordinates on any correspondence concerning the matter. The rep-
resentative provides copies of all material concerning the case to the MAJCOM/DPC and the installation
CPO. W hen the case involves an Air Force policy, the interpretation or application of a n Air Force
Instruction, or a potentially precedent-setting issue, also provide copies to AFPOA/DPW.
   18.1. The CPO or LRO provides policy direction and technical advice to the JACL-designated repre-
   sentative in all phases of the case and attends the ULP hearing as a technical advisor. AFLSA/JACL
   represents Air Force management in all ULP proceedings brought by the FLRA against the US. Air
   Force.

19. ULP Charges Filed by Management. MAJCOMs have the authority to file ULP charges, in writ-
ing, with the FLRA. They may delegate the authority to their installations. MAJCOMs will notify
AFLSA/JACL and AFPOA/DPW when management files a ULP charge.
19. (AFRC) The authority for filing ULP charges for matters affecting AFRC installations/bases and/or
ARTs assigned to reserve units is retained at HQ AFRC.

20. Decisions by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). Within one workday of receiving the ALJ
decision, the JACL-designated re presentative sends a copy to AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and
the installation CPO. The designated representative prepares any exceptions and supporting briefs as
explained in FLRA regulations, coordinates with the CPO, and files them with the FLRA. The represen-
tative sends information copies to the MAJCOM/DPC, HQ AFPOA/DPW, and the installation. On the
request of AFPOA/DPW, the representative will coordinate with AFPOA/DPW before filing an exception
to an ALJ decision which involves a precedential issue.
   20.1. When another party files an exception with the FLRA, the designated representative immedi-
   ately sends copies to AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and the installation. If necessary, the desig-
   nated representative prepares the opposition and supporting brief, coordinates with the CPO, and files
6                                                             AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

    them with the FLRA within appropriate time limits. The representative sends information copies to
    AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and the installation.

Section E—Negotiated Grievance and Arbitration Procedures

21. General Information. Sections E, F, and G describe processing grievances under a negotiated griev-
ance procedure, arbitrating such grievances, and appealing of grievance arbitration awards. These sec-
tions also discuss organizational and functional responsibilities and procedural requirements in such
matters.

22. Exclusivity. The collective bargaining agreement includes procedures for s ettling grievances.
Except as provided by the Statute, section 7121(d) and (e), the grievance procedure negotiated by the par-
ties will be the exclusive procedure for resolving grievances which fall within its coverage.

23. Statutory Exclusions. The Statute, section 7121(c), specifically excludes certain matters from a
negotiated grievance procedure.

24. Negotiated Exclusions. Under the Statute, the negotiated grievance procedure must cover any griev-
able issue unless there is an agreement to exclude it. The parties can agree to exclude any matter from the
negotiated grievance procedure. If a party proposes to exclude an item, both parties must bargain on the
matter. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on a proposed exclusion, follow the procedures of
section 7119 of t he Statute for t he resolution of collective bargaining impasses, including referral to the
Federal Service Impasses Panel.

25. Representation. A labor organization granted exclusive recognition in a collective bargaining unit
has the statutory right, on its own behalf or on behalf of a n employee in that bargaining unit, to present
and pr ocess grievances under the terms of the negotiated grievance procedure. A bargaining unit
employee who requests representation in pursuing a grievance may be represented only by the recognized
labor organization or b y an individual approved thereby. By law, bargaining unit employees retain the
right to submit a grievance under the negotiated procedure on t heir own behalf and without representa-
tion. In that situation, management gives the recognized labor organization the opportunity to be present
during the grievance proceedings. Any grievance adjustment with bargaining unit employees represent-
ing themselves must not violate the governing collective bargaining agreement.
    25.1. At the installation level, the CPO processes grievances under the negotiated grievance proce-
    dure. The CPO, LRO and SJA coordinate their actions in grievance arbitration matters.
    25.1. (AFRC) The CPO and LRO coordinate grievance arbitration cases with the AFRC LRO and/or
    AFRC SJA, as appropriate.
    25.2. Where an individual other than the CPO or LRO serves as management representative in arbi-
    tration proceedings, the CPO or LRO provides policy direction and technical advice to that manage-
    ment representative in all phases of the case. In preparing for arbitration, the CPO or the LRO, or a
    designee, jointly with the management representative, develops the theory of the case, the arguments
    and the facts management will present at the hearing. The CPO, the LRO, or designee also attends the
    arbitration hearing as a technical advisor. Using an attorney from the installation SJA office in arbi-
    tration proceedings is a matter of local discretion.
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                                          7

Section F— Arbitration Procedure

26. Questions and Issues. The initial issue in an arbitration is whether a matter is properly before the
arbitrator. Th e issue can be either procedural or substantive and either party presents it as a threshold
question. Unless the collective bargaining agreement specifies otherwise, the arbitrator has the option to
decide the issue before hearing the merits of the case, or to defer ruling on that threshold issue until after
hearing the merits.

27. Transmittal of Case File. Within three workdays after the union and management confirm a hearing
date with the arbitrator (or determine a date for submission of briefs in lieu of a hearing), the CPO mails a
copy of the case file to both AFPOA/DPW and the applicable MAJCOM office.
   27.1. Cases involving the following issues will not be sent to AFPOA/DPW unless questions of Air
   Force policy interpretation are raised in the case:
       • Suspensions of 14 days or less.
       • Reprimand.
       • Oral Admonishment.
       • Entries in Supervisor's Record of Employee.
       • Leave Administration.
       • Absence Without Leave (AWOL).
       • Overtime.
       • Performance Appraisal.
       • Parking.
   27.2. Ordinarily, include the following items in the Arbitration Case File sent to AFPOA/DPW:
       • Record of any grievance discussion and decision at the oral step of the grievance procedure.
       • All written grievance submissions at each step of the grievance procedure.
       • All responses to the written grievance submissions.
       • Any other documents (for e xample, proposed notices of di sciplinary actions, letters of deci-
          sion imposing discipline, investigation reports, regulatory excerpts, minutes of grievance dis-
          cussions, etc.) pertinent to the issues in the case.
       • The request for arbitration.
       • A copy of the completed AF Form 112, Arbitration Case Summary, which takes the place
          of a cover letter. (The LRO completes this form)
       • Pertinent portions of the collective bargaining agreement.
       • Do not send routine administrative correspondence in the arbitration case file.
   27.2. (AFRC) When the parties request a list of arbitrators, the CPO forwards a copy of the case file
   to HQ AFRC/DPCE on the day the request is forwarded. Use an AF Form 112, Arbitration Case Sum-
   mary, to transmit the file. Include all documents listed in this paragraph.
   27.3. Report changes in case status (changed hearing date, settlement, withdrawal, etc.) and any other
   significant developments promptly on A F Form 112 and send to AFPOA/DPW and the appropriate
8                                                             AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

    MAJCOM. When updating the AF Form 112, the CPO may reproduce the previously submitted form,
    add new information, and send the requisite number of copies of the amended version to higher head-
    quarters, as long as all entries remain legible.
    27.3. (AFRC) In order for the AFRC activity to pay the Air Force’s share of the arbitration expenses,
    including arbitrator’s fees, stenographic reporting services, and other incidental expenses involved,
    the following procedures are established.
       27.3.1. (Added-AFRC) When a decision is made to arbitrate a case, the LRO or CPO advises the
       base budget officer and the base contracting officer. S election of an arbitrator is accomplished
       according to the labor agreement.
       27.3.2. (Added-AFRC) The LRO or CPO may make preliminary contact with the arbitrator con-
       cerning the arbitration. However, final arrangements and commitments to the arbitrator are made
       by the base contracting officer.
       27.3.3. (Added-AFRC) When the arbitrator has been selected and a hearing date scheduled, if a
       hearing is to be held, the LRO or CPO prepares AF Form 9, Request for Purchase. (Attachment
       3 (Added) is a sample which may be used as a guide for preparing the AF Form 9) The amount to
       be entered under Estimated Total Cost should reflect management’s best estimate of the Air Force
       share of the arbitrator’s fee. C are must be exercised in wording the description of services to
       ensure it is clear the Air Force is only responsible for the Air Force’s share of the arbitrator’s fee.
       27.3.4. (Added-AFRC) Local Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funds will be used to defray
       expenses involved. If l ocal funds are not available, the base budget officer contacts HQ AFRC/
       FMAO for guidance.
       27.3.5. (Added-AFRC) The CPO or LRO forwards the AF Form 9 to the approval authority.
       When it has been approved, it will be forwarded to the budget office for certification of availabil-
       ity of funds. The AF Form 9 will be sent to the contracting officer who issues a contractual docu-
       ment and finalize the arrangements, on behalf of management, for the services of the arbitrator.
       27.3.6. (Added-AFRC) Upon completion of the arbitration and delivery of the arbitrator’s deci-
       sion and invoice, the LRO or CPO certifies the invoice for payment of management’s share of the
       fees.
       27.3.7. (Added-AFRC) Procurement of other services, such as stenographic services or court
       reporter, will be accomplished according to procedures outlined above.
    27.4. (Added-AFRC) In instances where an AFRC unit is a tenant on a non-AFRC base, the unit will
    be responsible for paying the employer's share of the arbitration expenses for a rbitration’s resulting
    from unit actions.

28. Submission Agreements. In preparing for the arbitration hearing, the management representative
attempts to reach agreement with the labor organization on the issues. Present the issues to the arbitrator
at the beginning of the hearing. Draft the submission agreement carefully. It determines the scope of the
arbitrator's authority and jurisdiction. Without a submission agreement (or some provision of the parties'
collective bargaining agreement which restricts the arbitrator's authority or jurisdiction), arbitrators gen-
erally have the power to frame and describe the issues before them as they see fit.
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                                         9

29. Dating of Arbitration Awards. Management representatives should specifically request arbitrators
date their awards no earlier than the date they place the awards in the mail. An installation may negotiate
such requirement in the parties’ collective bargaining agreement, or it may be made part of a submission
agreement in a particular case.

30. Arbitration Awards. The CPO sends four legible copies of all arbitration awards to AFPOA/DPW,
and one to the appropriate MAJCOM within three workdays of receipt. The CPO uses AF Form 112 to
transmit each arbitration award to AFPOA/DPW.

31. Special Reporting Requirements. When a CPO receives an award (adverse or otherwise) involving
an action under 5 U.S.C. 4303 or 7512 immediately send two copies of the award to AFPOA/DPW and
one copy to each of the following:
   AFLSA/JACL
   Room 706
   1501 Wilson Blvd.
   Arlington, VA 22209


   US Office of Personnel Management
   Office of Labor Management Relations - Room 7623
   1900 E. Street, NW
   Wash DC 20415-0001


Use AF Form 112 to transmit the award to each of these addresses.

Section G—Appeal of Arbitration Awards

32. Grounds for Appeal. An arbitration award is normally final and binding on the installation and labor
organization involved. Com pliance with an award is mandatory and enforceable under section 7116 of
the Statute. However, under section 7122(a) of the Statute, either party may appeal the award to the
FLRA on the grounds that it is contrary to any law, rule, or regulation, or on other grounds similar to those
applied by the federal courts in private sector labor-management relations. O nly AFLSA/JACL files
exceptions together with supporting briefs on behalf of the Air Force. Installations send requests for fil-
ing exceptions to AFLSA/JACL. T he FLRA has no j urisdiction, however, to review arbitration awards
which concern adverse actions taken under 5 U.S.C. 7512 or actions based on unacceptable performance
covered under 5 U.S.C. 4303.
   32.1. MAJCOMs may set additional processing require-ments for their installations for all arbitration
   awards.

33. Forms Prescribed
   AF Form 112, Arbitration Case Summary
10                                                 AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

     OPM 913B, Change Form-Recognition and Agreements



                                   BILLY J. BOLES, Lt. General, USAF
                                   DCS/Personnel
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                               11

                                         Attachment 1

 SUMMARY OF INVOLVEMENT OF US AIR FORCE ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENTS IN
                     THIRD PARTY PROCEEDINGS


   Type of Proceeding         FLRA Element      AF Element* In-      Examples of Actions
                                                volved               Taken by Air Force El-
                                                                     ements in Third Party
                                                                     Proceedings
   A.      Representation     Regional Office   Installation   and   1. Post Notice.
   Question at Installation                     CLLO                 2. File pre-hearing re-
   Level                                                             sponse.
                                                                     3. Gather and develop
                                                                     data in an organized
                                                                     manner.
                                                                     4. Provide witnesses
                                                                     and      representatives
                                                                     for hearing.
                                                                     5. Present agency po-
                                                                     sition at hearing.
                                                                     6. Prepare post-hear-
                                                                     ing brief.
                                                                     7. Provide observers
                                                                     and       administrative
                                                                     support if an election is
                                                                     required.
                                                                     8. If appropriate, file
                                                                     objection to election
                                                                     results.
                                                                     9. Take appropriate
                                                                     action on final decision
                                                                     of FLRA.
   B.      Representation     Regional Office   MAJCOM         and   Same actions as taken
   Question at MAJCOM                           CLLO                 by installation and
   level                                                             CLLO.
   C.      Representation     Regional Office   AFPOA and CLLO       Same actions as taken
   Question at HQ USAF                                               by installation and
   level                                                             CLLO.
12                                                   AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

     D. Negotiability Issue   FLRA Central   Installation    and   1. Develop counter
                              Office         MAJCOM         AFL-   proposal to contested
                                             SA/JACL               language.
                                                                   2. Obtain written re-
                                                                   quest for non-negotia-
                                                                   bility.
                                                                   3. Provide written re-
                                                                   sponse to union re-
                                                                   quest.
                                                                   4. Provide outline of
                                                                   arguments supporting
                                                                   declaration of non-ne-
                                                                   gotiability.
                                                                   1. Determine whether
                                                                   to authorize declara-
                                                                   tion of non-negotiabili-
                                                                   ty.
                                                                   2. Work with installa-
                                                                   tion and MAJCOM to
                                                                   develop agency brief.
                                                                   3. Obtain DoD ap-
                                                                   proval of Air Force po-
                                                                   sition.
                                                                   4. Submit agency brief
                                                                   to FLRA.
     E. Exception to Arbi-    FLRA Central   Installation and      Provide outline of ar-
     tration Decision         Office         MAJCOMAFPOA           guments which identi-
                                             and CLLO              fy basis for seeking
                                                                   exception to arbitra-
                                                                   tion award.
                                                                   1. Work with installa-
                                                                   tion and MAJCOM to
                                                                   develop agency brief.
                                                                   2. Obtain DoD ap-
                                                                   proval for Air Force
                                                                   position.
                                                                   3. File brief with FL-
                                                                   RA.
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                            13

   F. ULP at Installation   General Coun-     Installation   and   1. Provide copy of
   Level                    sel    Regional   CLLO                 charge to CLLO, and
                            Office                                 MAJCOM/DPC.
                                                                   2. Conduct prelimi-
                                                                   nary investigation of
                                                                   charge.
                                                                   3. Respond to charge.
                                                                   4.    Advise manage-
                                                                   ment officials during
                                                                   FLRA investigations.
                                                                   5. Make recommenda-
                                                                   tions to installation
                                                                   commander as to
                                                                   reaching      settlement
                                                                   agreement, if any.
                                                                   6. If complaint is is-
                                                                   sued, make necessary
                                                                   response. See G below.
                                                                   7. Provide copy of
                                                                   complaint and all sub-
                                                                   sequent material to in-
                                                                   stallation CCPO, and
                                                                   MAJCOM/DPC.
   G. ALJ Hearing of In-    Administrative    Installation and     1. Furnish witnesses.
   stallation level ULP     Law Judge         CLLOAFPOA            2. Present agency case
                                                                   at hearing.
                                                                   3. Prepare post-hear-
                                                                   ing brief, as required.
                                                                   4. Make recommenda-
                                                                   tions to installation
                                                                   commander at any
                                                                   step before completion
                                                                   of hearing.
                                                                   5. As necessary, file
                                                                   exceptions to ALJ de-
                                                                   cision with FLRA.
                                                                   6. Take appropriate
                                                                   action on decision by
                                                                   FLRA.        Coordinate
                                                                   with installation, MA-
                                                                   JCOM, and CLLO on
                                                                   precedential cases.
14                                                        AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

     H. Judicial Review        Court of Ap-       MAJCOM     and         Work with DoD and
                               peal               AFLSA/JACL             Department of Justice
                                                                         to develop and present
                                                                         Air Force position on
                                                                         FLRA decision.
     I. Impasse                FSIP               Installation and       1. Develop position.
                                                  MAJCOMMAJ-             2. Present case.
                                                  COM AFPOA              3. Determine if any
                                                                         proposed compromise
                                                                         should be accepted.
                                                                         4. Take appropriate
                                                                         action on decision by
                                                                         FSIP. Advise HQ
                                                                         USAF of precedential
                                                                         issues. Provide guid-
                                                                         ance and assistance
                                                                         concerning preceden-
                                                                         tial issues.
*Although not specifically listed, organizational elements at all levels will keep other interested Air
Force elements apprised of case status.
AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000                                                                      15

                                             Attachment 2

 GUIDELINE FOR INSTALLATION AND MAJCOM IN RECEIPT OF AN UNFAIR LABOR
                    PRACTICE CHARGE OR COMPLAINT

A2.1. Reporting. Report Unfair Labor Practice Charges and Complaints immediately by telephone tothe
Central Labor Law Office (CLLO). The person calling should provide the following information:
   A2.1.1. Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) docket number, if available. (If not available, pro-
   vide the docket number separately by telephone as soon as it is known.)
   A2.1.2. Identification and addresses of the parties, as reflected in the charge or complaint.
   A2.1.3. The section(s) of 5 U.S.C. 7116 alleged to have been violated.
   A2.1.4. A summary of t he allegations and dates involved, with a description of any supporting evi-
   dence.
   A2.1.5. The names and telephone numbers of management officials involved.
   A2.1.6. A summary of the results of management’s investigation into the matter and efforts of the par-
   ties to resolve the dispute.
   A2.1.7. Management’s perception of the issues, its position on the merits of the charge or complaint,
   and its views of the possibility of settlement.
   A2.1.8. The date the charge was served on management by the charging party.
   A2.1.9. The date the charge or complaint was received from the FLRA regional office.
   A2.1.10. Whether a grievance has been filed involving the same or similar matter.
   A2.1.11. Whether a negotiability request has been filed involving the same or similar matter.

A2.2. Correspondence.
   A2.2.1. Send one copy of the complete case file to the CLLO within one workday after notifying
   CLLO of the charge. Do not delay reports and submissions because any piece of information or evi-
   dence is lacking. Rather, file the report or submission, note the omission, and supply the missing
   material as soon as possible.
   A2.2.2. Send all correspondence received from the FLRA to the CLLO.
   A2.2.3. As soon as possible, following oral notification and transmission of the case file, send a writ-
   ten litigation report. Include in this report all matters previously summarized orally and forward any
   further information learned or de veloped subsequently. Include copies of doc umentary evidence.
   Obtain and include copies of statements from all management officials who have knowledge of t he
   case. (Such statements must be taken by a judge advocate or other government attorney, to protect
   them from compulsory discovery.) D o not contact or interview bargaining unit employees without
   prior, express approval of the CLLO attorney assigned to the case. Finally, include the name(s) of the
   base personnel (Judge Advocate and personnelist) who will serve as the local point of contact. Such
   persons must continue to advise the CLLO (immediately) by telephone with follow-up by mail) as fur-
   ther information becomes available or case developments occur.
16                    AFI36-701/AFRCSUP1 1 December 2000

     ATTACHMENT 3 (ADDED-AFRC)

         SAMPLE AF FORM 9
