BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-10141
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 3 MARCH 2011

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                    PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING FIRE
                                                      SAFETY DEFICIENCY CORRECTION
                                                                          PROJECTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEOA                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A7C
                                                                    (Maj Gen Timothy A. Byers)
                                                                                      Pages: 30


This publication implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities, Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA); Code
of Federal Regulations (CFR); Air Force instructions (AFI); Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC);
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), and other national consensus standards as adopted
and/or implemented by guidance. It establishes a program to identify, manage, and correct fire
safety deficiencies (FSD) as defined within this instruction. It provides objective criteria for
determining proper classification of FSD and the process for correcting, deferring, and reporting.
It defines the roles and responsibilities of key offices in the process. It supports processes
implemented by AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, and Department of Defense Instruction
(DODI) 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, for delivery of fire
prevention services. This instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG) units. Forward any issue not fully addressed by this instruction to the
major command (MAJCOM) or Air Staff for clarification. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force         Records         Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)          located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Users should send comments and
suggested improvements on AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through
MAJCOMs and HQ AFCESA, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319, to HQ
USAF/A7C, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20330-1260. Any organization may
supplement this instruction. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting
units (DRU) must send one copy of each supplement to HQ AFCESA/CEO; other commands
send one copy of each supplement to the next higher headquarters.
 2                                                                                               AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011



        1.      Overview. ...............................................................................................................    2
        2.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             3
        3.      Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD). ...............................................................................                6
        4.      Processing and Managing FSDs. ...........................................................................                    8
Figure 4.1.     Civil Engineer Work Request Process. ..................................................................                     10
Figure 4.2.     New Construction Project Design Process. ............................................................                       11
        5.      Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). ....................................................................                   11
        6.      Prescribed Forms: ..................................................................................................        12
        7.      Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................        12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              13

Attachment 2—FIRE SAFETY DEFICIENCY CODE DECISION MATRIX                                                                                    18

Attachment 3—FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING ANALYSIS/REVIEW MATRIX                                                                             19

Attachment 4—FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING EXPERTISE SOURCE MATRIX                                                                            23

Attachment 5—AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (AHJ) MATRIX                                                                                     26

Attachment 6—SAMPLE ELECTRONIC STAFF SUMMARY SHEET (E-SSS) FOR FIRE
             SAFETY MITIGATION/CORRECTIVE ACTION PLANS                                                                                      28

Attachment 7—SAMPLE ALTERNATIVE/EQUIVALENCY AND EXEMPTION REQUEST                                                                           30


1. Overview.
     1.1. Purpose. This instruction defines roles and responsibilities and is designed to help
     effectively identify, plan, program, and advocate for the resources required to fix existing fire
     safety deficiencies (FSD) and avoid them during new construction.
     1.2. Scope. This instruction implements the fire protection engineering policies established
     for the Air Force in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering
     for Facilities.
     1.3. Background. The procedures in this instruction are designed to effectively identify,
     plan, program, and advocate for the resources required to correct existing FSDs and avoid
     them in new construction. This policy guidance supersedes Fire Protection Policy Guidance,
     Determining Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) Codes, dated 17 March 2006. This guidance
     addresses the findings and the recommendations made by the Air Force Inspector General’s
     FSD Eagle Look Inspection Report published in August 2006. These new objective
     procedures are a complete departure from the FSD procedures previously included in AFI
     91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
     (AFOSH) Program, to address the findings and incorporate the recommendations made by
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                        3


   the FSD Eagle Look Inspection Report. This guidance supersedes the procedures in AFI 91-
   301, Attachment 8, ―Instructions for Deriving RACs for Fire Safety Deficiencies.‖
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations) (SAF/IEI). SAF/IEI
   establishes and provides oversight of policies relating to real property, real property systems
   and components, and engineering services, and grants waivers to those policies in appropriate
   circumstances. SAF/IEI is the approval authority for facility projects exceeding a certain cost
   or of a certain type.
   2.2. The Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/A7C). HQ USAF/A7C provides programming
   guidance, oversight, and policy as required. HQ USAF/A7C reviews, validates, and approves
   operation and maintenance (O&M) -funded projects classified as repair, unspecified minor
   military construction, or for operational requirements exceeding the Active Air Force
   MAJCOM commander's delegated approval authority. HQ USAF/A7C, through the
   Installation Support Panel, makes recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of the Air
   Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM), and the Air Force Group,
   Board, and Council on requirements for, and appropriate allocation of, resources. The Air
   National Guard (ANG) Civil Engineer and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Civil
   Engineer will process packages for SAF/IEI approval for O&M-funded (repair or unspecified
   minor military construction) projects exceeding approval authority of their MAJCOMs.
   2.3. MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs provide oversight to ensure compliance with the law and
   Department of Defense (DOD) and Air Force policies. MAJCOMs are responsible for
   establishing quality standards; providing MAJCOM-unique guidance to supplement Air
   Force policies, procedures, and instructions; validating requirements identified by their
   installations; developing and advocating MAJCOM budgets for sustainment, restoration and
   modernization (S/R&M) projects; promoting timely obligation of funds; project approval
   within delegated approval authorities; and execution of projects. The ANG Civil Engineer
   and AFRC Civil Engineer perform these MAJCOM functions for their installations.
   2.4. Installation Commander. The installation commander’s responsibilities include the
   following:
       2.4.1. Provide safe and healthful workplaces for all Air Force employees and require unit
       commanders, tenant commanders, functional managers, and supervisors to enforce
       AFOSH program requirements within their areas of responsibility. If unsafe and
       unhealthy working conditions exist, eliminate or control them through engineering,
       substitution, isolation, administrative controls, revised procedures, special training, or
       personal protective clothing and equipment (PPE).
       2.4.2. Ensure qualified personnel evaluate and assign FSDs.
       2.4.3. Review FSD-abatement projects and establish priorities.
   2.5. Base Leadership.
       2.5.1. Facility Board (FB). The FB consists of wing and group commanders who
       prioritize and approve wing projects (see AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities). This
       board has the final determination for the wing’s construction and design priorities.
4                                                                 AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


           2.5.1.1. The FB concept is to provide corporate oversight of civil engineering (CE)
           activities and programs (regardless of the funding source or method of
           accomplishment) and work proposed by other organizations that impact facilities.
           2.5.1.2. The primary responsibility of the FB is to ensure that facilities and
           infrastructure are able to fully support the wing’s mission. The FB will meet as
           required (semi-annually as a minimum) to review facility project programs and to act
           upon any pending real property use, installation development issues, and mission
           sustainment.
           2.5.1.3. The FB chairperson can establish working groups to assist the FB with
           addressing issues, data gathering, drafting options and recommendations as necessary.
           The FB reviews and validates facility projects and sets the priority order in which the
           projects are to be designed and funded.
           2.5.1.4. Members who represent their functional area of the wing’s mission should
           advocate their facility needs and assist in coordinating the impact that proposed
           projects will have on the wing mission and the installation.
           2.5.1.5. The base civil engineer (BCE) or an FB-appointed working group may
           submit a draft project priority list; however, it is the FB’s responsibility as the
           corporate body to ensure that the most urgent facility needs of the wing are being met,
           including the correction of FSDs.
           2.5.1.6. Projects are presented to the FB by the CE programs (CEP) flight.
       2.5.2. Functional Manager. The organizational commander responsible for the care,
       custody, and protection of assigned real property will initiate the process to correct
       existing FSDs and assist in preventing the creation of new FSDs. Responsibilities include
       the following:
           2.5.2.1. Ensure compliance with fire prevention requirements in their areas of
           responsibility.
           2.5.2.2. Provide safe and healthful workplaces and conduct self-inspections for
           hazards or deficiencies.
           2.5.2.3. Establish and implement hazard reporting and abatement programs.
           2.5.2.4. Establish procedures for employees to follow in situations of imminent
           danger.
           2.5.2.5. Enforce compliance with OSHA guidelines.
       2.5.3. Facility Manager (Building Manager). The facility/building manager works for
       the functional manager and is ultimately responsible for accomplishing the AF IMT 332,
       Base Civil Engineer Work Request, or calling in the work order to correct an FSD. The
       installation fire prevention office is available to assist the facility manager in completing
       the AF IMT 332 by identifying necessary corrective actions and the applicable design
       standard.
    2.6. Civil Engineering.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       5


     2.6.1. Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The BCE semi-annually briefs the Environment,
     Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) on any FSDs I and II remaining open
     or completed since the last briefing and annually briefs the ESOHC on the total number
     of FSD IIIs corrected during the past year.
     2.6.2. Chief of Programs. The chief of the CEP flight is responsible for ensuring that
     projects meet the requirements in UFC 3-600-01.
     2.6.3. Civil Engineer Programs (CEP) Flight. The CEP flight manages fire protection
     engineering requirements as prescribed by UFC 3-600-01. The CEP flight also ensures
     that the fire protection engineering analysis using operational risk assessment processes is
     performed in accordance with paragraph 4.6.
     2.6.4. Civil Engineer (CE) Programmers. CE programmers are responsible for
     developing the documentation for the project (e.g., DD Form 1391, FY__ Military
     Construction Project Data) in accordance with AFI 32-1032, Planning and
     Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and Construction Projects.
     CE programmers play a key role in correcting existing FSDs as part of facility
     enhancements and ensuring that new FSDs are not created. They also ensure the FSD is
     correctly annotated in the Automated Civil Engineering System – Project Management
     (ACES-PM).
     2.6.5. CE Customer Service. CE customer service is responsible for assigning work
     order numbers and work request numbers on AF IMT 332. Customer service personnel
     will enter the appropriate FSD information into the Integrated Work Information
     Management System (IWIMS).
  2.7. CE Operations (CEO) Flight. A CEO flight work request review board will determine
  if the work necessary to correct a FSD can be accomplished in-house or if the work needs to
  be sent to the CEP to create a project.
  2.8. Fire Emergency Services Flight. The fire emergency services flight is normally
  responsible for identifying FSDs. Once identified, the fire emergency services flight shall be
  involved in the work order review boards, facility working group meetings, and/or design
  review meetings. The fire emergency services flight will also attend pre-construction
  meetings and final facility inspections to ensure that fire safety policies and practices are
  being followed and that the FSD is properly corrected. Responsibilities include the
  following:
     2.8.1. Conduct fire protection inspections and assessments.
     2.8.2. Evaluate fire hazard reports and coordinate actions with installation ground safety
     personnel as required.
     2.8.3. Assign risk assessment codes (RAC) to fire-related hazards and/or FSD rating to
     FSDs and coordinate them with safety officials as required.
     2.8.4. Maintain copies of OSHA and AFOSH standards and other fire prevention
     guidelines.
     2.8.5. Maintain a file of approved permanent exemptions or alternative/equivalency
     exemptions related to fire protection standards and requirements.
 6                                                                  AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


        2.8.6. Maintain a file of approved mitigation/corrective action plans developed under this
        guidance to fire-related standards.
3. Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD).
     3.1. Existing Facilities. Existing facilities on which no work is planned or underway are
     assumed to have been correctly constructed in accordance with the codes and standards in
     effect at the time of design/construction. Those standards in effect at the time the original
     construction project reached the 35 percent design complete stage are normally considered to
     be the design basis for the fire protection features of the facility.
        3.1.1. An FSD exists when it can be clearly demonstrated that some feature within the
        facility specifically did not meet the minimum construction standards in effect at the time
        of design or construction.
        3.1.2. An FSD exists when it can be shown the facility was modified or renovated and it
        can be clearly demonstrated that the modified or renovated feature specifically did not
        meet the minimum construction standards in effect at the time of design, modification, or
        construction.
        3.1.3. An FSD exists when it can be shown the facility occupancy (classification)
        changed and the building features did not meet the minimum construction standards in
        effect at the time of the occupancy change.
        3.1.4. An FSD exists when there is a current code or standard that specifically requires a
        retroactive level of installed fire protection or life safety features which are not met in an
        existing facility. FSDs are not created simply because current or future criteria require
        additional or different fire protection features than those currently installed in an existing
        facility unless there is a specific retroactive requirement. Generally, NFPA 101, Life
        Safety Code®, establishes the specific minimum fire protection feature requirements for
        existing buildings; however, there are a few other standards which address specific
        occupancies and these could also cause an FSD. To apply to all buildings immediately, a
        new requirement must have specific guidance that the technical requirement is mandatory
        in all current existing buildings (much like NFPA 101 has specific chapters establishing
        the standards for existing occupancies).
        3.1.5. An FSD exists when the current installed fire protection features (e.g.,
        construction elements, separation elements, fire detection/alarm systems, fire suppression
        systems) are not adequate for the current conditions (e.g., assets, materials, mission) in
        the facility. These conditions may result from changes in commodity configurations
        and/or materials, changes in function operations (such as open storage to rack storage),
        change in process from a manual operation to an automatic or electronic operation,
        change from routine administrative operations to 24/7 command and control, change
        from a test platform to an operational mission platform. An FSD exists when it can be
        shown the facility operations or mission changed and the building features did not meet
        the minimum construction standards in effect at the time of the change. FSDs are not
        created simply because current or future criteria require additional or different fire
        protection features than those currently installed in an existing facility; an FSD only
        exists if there is a protection deficiency, unless there is a specific change in risk exposure.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       7


     3.1.6. An FSD identified during a fire inspection that is not corrected during the
     inspection visit will require the fire inspector to prepare an AF Form 1487, Fire
     Prevention Visit Report. This in turn may require the fire inspector to assist the facility
     manager with filling out and turning in a job order (minor work) or AF IMT 332 to
     correct the deficiency.
  3.2. New Facilities. New facilities shall include all the fire protection features required by
  applicable codes and standards. Any failure to meet any fire protection feature will create an
  FSD. The fire chief or his/her designated representative provides consultation and design
  recommendations regarding firefighting operational requirements. The fire chief is not
  responsible for fire protection or life safety system designs. The fire chief coordinates on
  design drawings to signify for the fire department that firefighting operational
  recommendations have been incorporated. This coordination does not indicate acceptance or
  approval of the fire protection engineering design.
  3.3. Conflicting Criteria. If criteria conflicts exist then UFC 3-600-01 applies. Note that
  the practice of ―use the most stringent requirement‖ does not apply. In cases where criteria
  conflicts are not resolved by the technical guidance contained in UFC 3-600-01, request
  clarification from HQ AFCESA/CEO through the MAJCOM. For overseas installations, also
  see Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 00-7, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria –
  Correlation of US and Host Nation Codes and Criteria.
  3.4. Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD) Codes.
     3.4.1. FSD I. FSD I includes missing fire protection systems or missing NFPA 101
     features in any building or process. Any facility FSD which results from a failure to
     comply with the following is considered an FSD I:
         3.4.1.1. New Facilities. New facilities must meet the requirements specified in UFC
         3-600-01, paragraph 1-3.2.1. Such facilities shall not be considered as a complete and
         usable facility until such time as the deficiency is corrected.
         3.4.1.2. Modernized, Renovated, Repaired, Restored, Upgraded and Change-of-
         Occupancy Facilities. These facilities must meet the requirements of UFC 3-600-01,
         paragraphs 1-3.2.2 thru 1-3.2.4.
         3.4.1.3. Existing Facilities. Existing facilities must meet the minimum requirements
         of NFPA 101 for existing occupancies (UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-3.1). For other
         FSDs which impact mission-priority facilities or generate a loss potential in excess of
         $5 million, the issue will be elevated to the installation fire marshal to determine the
         appropriate FSD code.
         3.4.1.4. Impairments. Impairments of fire safety features required for existing
         occupancies in accordance with NFPA 101 which are not corrected within 24 hours.
     3.4.2. FSD II. FSD II includes deficiencies in existing fire protection systems or
     features in any building or process not covered by 3.4.1. Any existing fire protection
     system/feature identified in UFC 3-600-02, O&M: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance
     of Fire Protection Systems, which is out of service or impaired so as to prevent automatic
     or manual (manual is applicable only if the system/feature is only operated by manual
     activation) response to a fire event for more than 72 hours shall be considered an FSD II.
 8                                                                 AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


        3.4.3. FSD III. All other FSDs not covered by paragraphs 3.4.1 and 3.4.2 are classified
        FSD IIIs.
        3.4.4. FSD Code Decision Matrix. Attachment 2 is a decision matrix to correctly
        classify FSDs for various situations.
4. Processing and Managing FSDs. These processes are not an alternative to the operational
risk management (ORM) analysis; rather, ORM is an integral part of the risk quantification
necessary to processing and managing FSDs. ORM documentation should be part of the
supporting      information    with    any      mitigation/corrective action   plan     or
alternative/equivalency/exemption approval request.
     4.1. FSD I. FSD I indicates a deficiency with the greatest risk to life and mission continuity.
     Facilities with an identified FSD I should not be occupied except in accordance with an
     approved corrective action plan.
        4.1.1. Corrective Action Plan. For an existing facility, a mitigation/corrective action
        plan shall be prepared by the facility user with the support of the fire emergency service
        flight, the CEP flight, the operations flight (as appropriate), and wing safety. The plan
        shall specifically identify the level of occupancy and operations permitted pending the
        correction of the FSD I. The wing commander shall approve the plan before forwarding it
        to the MAJCOM/A7 for informational purposes. See the sample provided in Attachment
        6.
        4.1.2. Alternatives/Equivalences. Requests for approval of alternative or equivalent
        methods to meet the intent of a criteria requirement must be submitted through the
        MAJCOM to HQ AFCESA/CEO (see UFC 3-600-01) by the appropriate commander.
        Alternative/equivalency requests should be submitted following the staff study process
        and format in Air Force handbook (AFH) 33-337, Tongue and Quill. Emphasis should be
        placed on explaining how the selected technical solution/process achieves the intent of
        the criteria requirement. See the sample provided in Attachment 7.
        4.1.3. Exemptions. Requests for permanent exemption to criteria must be submitted
        through the MAJCOM to HQ AFCESA/CEO (see UFC 3-600-01) by the appropriate
        commander. Exemptions should be submitted following the staff study process and
        format in AFH 33-337. Emphasis should be placed on explaining how the increased
        mission continuity risk can be tolerated/assumed by the Air Force. See the sample
        provided in Attachment 7.
     4.2. FSD II. FSD II indicates a significant risk to mission continuity and/or existing
     property capability. Facilities with an identified FSD II should not be occupied unless interim
     control measures are in place.
        4.2.1. Corrective Action Plan. For an existing facility, a mitigation/corrective action
        plan shall be prepared by the facility user with the support of the fire emergency service
        flight, the CEP flight, the operations flight (as appropriate), and wing safety. The plan
        shall specifically identify the level of occupancy and operations permitted pending the
        correction of the FSD II. The wing commander (or other appropriate commander) shall
        approve the plan before forwarding it to the MAJCOM/A7 for information. See the
        sample provided in Attachment 6.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       9


     4.2.2. Repair or Correction of Fire Protection System Impairments/Feature
     Performance.
         4.2.2.1. Impairments affecting the performance of installed fire protection features
         shall be corrected immediately after identification using the highest priority in the
         appropriate repair work identification and management system.
         4.2.2.2. When the impairment will exist for more than 72 hours, an FSD II is
         established and the installation authorities for fire system/feature maintenance and
         fire emergency services shall collaborate with the facility/area user to jointly develop
         written control/mitigation measures. These measures, to the maximum degree
         possible, shall ensure personnel safety as well as mission continuity (and, as
         appropriate, high-value asset protection) until the impairment is corrected. The jointly
         developed package must also identify the remaining mission risk exposure. In the
         absence of interim control measures, the facility shall be evacuated or operations
         stopped. Implementation of interim control measures are not considered a permanent
         fix and shall not reduce the priority required to correct the impairment. See the
         sample provided in Attachment 6.
         4.2.2.3. The maintenance activity must inform the installation and/or operational
         commanders of new impairments not corrected within 72 hours, the jointly developed
         interim control measures being recommended, and the remaining mission risk
         exposure.
         4.2.2.4. The maintenance activity must regularly inform the installation and/or
         operational commanders, not less than twice a year, on the status of system
         impairments, in-place compensatory measures, projected corrective actions, and
         corrective actions completed since the last report.
     4.2.3. Alternatives/Equivalences. Requests for approval of alternative or equivalent
     methods to meet the intent of a criteria requirement must be submitted through the
     MAJCOM to HQ AFCESA/CEO by the appropriate commander. Alternative/equivalency
     requests should be submitted following the staff study process and format in AFH 33-
     337. Emphasis should be placed on explaining how the selected technical
     solution/process achieves the intent of the criteria requirement. See the sample provided
     in Attachment 7.
     4.2.4. Exemptions. Requests for permanent exemption to criteria must be submitted
     through the MAJCOM to HQ AFCESA/CEO by the appropriate commander. Exemptions
     should be submitted following the staff study process and format in AFH 33-337.
     Emphasis should be placed on explaining how the increased mission continuity risk can
     be tolerated/assumed by the Air Force. See the sample provided in Attachment 7.
  4.3. FSD III. FSD III indicates a deficiency with the least risk to life, mission continuity
  and/or existing property capability. Facilities with an identified FSD III may be routinely
  occupied. FSD IIIs are typically identified, tracked, and corrected during scheduled facility
  renovation or remodeling projects.
  4.4. In-House Work. If CEO approves the work to be accomplished in-house then the CE
  shops will accomplish the work and fill out the appropriate IWIMS automated records. See
  the work request process in Figure 4.1.
 10                                                            AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


Figure 4.1. Civil Engineer Work Request Process.




   4.5. New Project. If CEO determines that a new project is required to correct an identified
   FSD, the information will be transferred to the CEP flight and the documentation that was
   entered into IWIMS must be reentered in ACES-PM. Note: For accurate tracking and FSD
   management, the FSD fields must also be reentered into the ACES-PM program. From this
   point onwards, the project becomes just like any other design project and follows the design
   process in Figure 4.2.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                       11


Figure 4.2. New Construction Project Design Process.




   4.6. Fire Protection Engineering Analysis. UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4, requires every
   project to receive a fire protection design analysis; paragraph 1-5 requires this analysis be
   conducted by a qualified fire protection engineer for major projects. In some cases the results
   of the analysis is ―no analysis is required.‖ Attachment 3 provides a matrix describing when
   an analysis is required and what type of analysis is required. Attachment 4 provides a matrix
   where the expertise to conduct the fire protection design analyses in UFC 3-600-01,
   paragraphs 1-4 and 1-5, may be obtained.
       4.6.1. Phased projects will be considered cumulatively when determining whether or not
       the project requires an analysis in accordance with UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-4 or 1-5.
       4.6.2. Phased projects will be considered cumulatively when determining the percentage
       of the facility involved and the cost of the work versus the replacement cost of the
       facility.
       4.6.3. The initial analysis of phased projects will evaluate all phases together and a
       comprehensive documentation package will be developed and follow all phases through
       the design, construction, maintenance, or repair process.
5. Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). The office responsible to approve exemptions and
plans and interpret technical criteria issues varies depending on the issue and its technical
complexity.
   5.1. Attachment 5 provides clarification and specific guidance on the AHJ at various levels
   of project execution based on the type of work being performed or the question being
   considered.
 12                                                             AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


   5.2. For military child care facilities, United States Code (USC) Title 10, Section 1794,
   Child Abuse Prevention and Safety at Facilities, requires that all fire and life safety
   deficiencies in child development and youth program facilities be corrected within 90 days or
   that an exemption be approved by SAF/IE; otherwise, the public law requires that the facility
   be closed. Exemptions must be approved before the conclusion of the 90-day period to
   prevent closure of the activity. Note: ―Exemptions‖ as used in Title 10 includes both
   permanent and expiring.

6. Prescribed Forms:

None.

7. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
DD Form 1391, Military Construction Project Data




                                             Loren M. Reno, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS/Installations, Logistics & Mission Support
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                    13


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 USC Sec. 1794, Child abuse prevention and safety at facilities, 1 January 2008
AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and
Construction Projects, 15 October 2003
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 91-202, The U.S. Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 27 March 1995
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 5 August 2003
ETL 00-07, Fire Protection Engineering Criteria – Correlation of US and Host Nation Codes
and Criteria, 10 May 2000
UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, Change 1, 14 July 2009
UFC 3-600-02, O&M, Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, 1
January 2001
DODI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services (F&ES) Program, 21 December 2006
OPM Series 804, Fire Protection Engineering Series
AWWA Manual 14, Recommended Practice for Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection
Control
AWWA Manual 31, Distribution System Requirements for Fire Protection, Fourth Edition
NFPA Life Safety Code 101®, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
24/7—24 hours a day, seven days a week
A4/7—Deputy Chief of Staff, Installations, Logistics & Mission Support
ACES-PM—Automated Civil Engineer System – Program Management
A-E—Architect and Engineer
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Engineering and Environmental Excellence
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
 14                                                     AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


AFDPO—Air Force Departmental Publishing Office
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Action Officer
AWWA—American Water Works Association
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineer
CEO—Civil Engineering Operations
CEP—Civil Engineer Programs
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
ESOHC—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Council
SSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
FB—Facility Board
FM-GLOBAL—Factory Mutual - Global
FPE—Fire Protection Engineer
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiencies
HQ AFCESA/CEO—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operations and Programs
Support Division
HQ AFCESA/CEOA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Operations and Programs
Support Division, Engineer Support Branch
HQ USAF/A7C—The Civil Engineer
IAW—In Accordance With
IBC—International Building Code
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                     15


IMT—Information Management Tool
IWIMS—Integrated Work Information Management System
MAJCOM/A1—Major Command Directorate of Manpower and Personnel
MAJCOM/A7—Major Command Directorate of Installations and Mission Support
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCP—Military Construction Program
MIC—Microbial Induced Corrosion
N/A—Not Applicable
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
S/R&M—Sustainment/Restoration and Modernization
SABER—Simplified Acquisition of Base Engineer Requirements
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/IEI—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations)
SAF/IE—Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
SOW—Statement of Work
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UFGS—Unified Facilities Guide Specification
USC—United States Code

Terms
Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ)—An organization or office responsible for enforcing the
requirements of a code or standard, or for approving equipment, materials, an installation, or a
procedure.
Exemption—An approved permanent change to a procedure, criterion, or rule prescribed in
standards which provide an equivalent degree of protection to personnel.
Facility Manager (Building Manager)—The unit commander designates, in writing, an officer,
senior noncommissioned officer, or civilian of equal rank as primary and alternate building
manager for each facility assigned to the organization. The building manager is the
 16                                                               AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


representative and official contact whenever the building needs base civil engineering (BCE)
work.
Fire Hazards—A condition that can cause a fire to occur, or, if left unchecked, cause a fire to
grow.
Fire Prevention—The office in the fire emergency services flight that deals with preventing the
outbreak of fire by eliminating fire hazards through such activities as inspection, code
enforcement, education, and investigation programs.
Fire Protection—Methods used to control or extinguish a fire, which includes actions taken to
limit the adverse environmental, social, political, economic, and life-threatening effects of fire.
Fire Safety Deficiency (FSD)—A condition which reduces fire safety below an acceptable
level, including noncompliance with standards, but by itself cannot cause a fire to occur. See
Occupational Deficiency.
Functional Manager—The senior operating official at all levels exercising managerial control
of an activity or operation. This individual usually can acquire and commit resources for the
abatement of occupational safety and health hazards. Functional managers are designated by the
MAJCOM or installation commanders.
Hazard Abatement Program—A systematic, priority program to manage, assess, and monitor
abatement actions.
Imminent Danger—Conditions or practices in a workplace which could reasonably be expected
to cause death or severe physical harm immediately or before such dangers can be eliminated
through normal abatement procedures.
Impairment—Conditions which cause a fire safety feature to not perform as designed or
intended by code or standard. Impairments include a much broader number of features than just
detection or suppression systems.
Interim Control Measures—Temporary actions taken to reduce the degree of risk associated
with a hazard or deficiency pending completion of an abatement project. Interim control
measures may not provide complete compliance with the required code or standard.
Mitigation Measures—Actions taken by the installation to reduce risk, enhance life safety,
and/or ensure mission continuity and continue critical operations when fire and life safety
features are degraded or don’t meet minimum standards. These measures are locally developed
and may include, but are not limited to, fire watches, increased fire prevention and/or safety
inspections, user/operator special procedures or operating conditions, limiting/prohibiting
specific or unique operations, one-time approval for certain operations, additional manual fire
suppression devices, additional user supervision of specific operations, and fire department first-
response or major crash apparatus standby for specific unique operations. The key mitigation
measures should address how the facility user is going to exercise increased fire safety vigilance
during the period the mitigation measures are to be used. Mitigation measures may be part of
interim mitigation controls used while a fire safety feature is impaired or part of a long-term
mitigation/corrective action plan.
Mitigation/Corrective Action Plan—Normally an electronic staff summary sheet (e-SSS) will
be prepared and routed in accordance with Part VI of AFH 33-337. The e-SSS should include,
but is not limited to, a statement about the deficiency, an analysis of the problem, the
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                          17


recommended mitigation and interim control measures, and a plan that ultimately corrects the
deficiency. The operational risk management (ORM) process is one process which may be used
to develop and test the mitigation/corrective actions; however, the ORM process may not be used
to waive or void correcting the deficiency. Another process which can be used to develop the
mitigation/corrective action plan is the ―Staff Study Report‖ outlined in Part VI of AFH 33-337.
National Consensus Standards—Standards published by recognized standards organizations
such as the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA), American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), Compressed
Gas Association (CGA), and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).
National consensus standards adopted by Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) are part of OSHA standards.
Occupational Deficiency—Conditions, procedures, and practices that are in non-compliance
with criteria requirements, but do not, in themselves, create a potential for producing a fire
mishap. Deficiencies may, however, create a potential for secondary injuries or illnesses or may
contribute to the severity of an injury or illness that has already occurred, create secondary fires,
contribute to the severity of the fire, or reduce/degrade mission execution or continuity.
Examples include a lack of fire detection or suppression equipment and systems, inoperative
smoke detector, lack of exit signs, inoperative/partially operative fire detection or suppression
features, and missing or inadequate egress features. A clear distinction between hazards and
deficiencies may not always be possible; therefore, the judgment and experience of qualified
safety, fire protection, and health personnel must be relied upon. Occupational deficiencies
include fire safety deficiencies (FSD) and should not be assigned risk assessment codes (RAC).
Occupational Hazard—Conditions, procedures, and practices directly related to the workplace
that can create a potential for producing occupational injuries, property or equipment damage,
mission degradation, damage to the environment, or illnesses. These hazards are normally
assigned Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1, RAC 2, or RAC 3.
Risk Assessment Code (RAC)—An expression of the degree of risk associated with an
occupational hazard that combines hazard severity and mishap probability into a single numeric
identifier.
       18                                                                               AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                                           Attachment 2
                           FIRE SAFETY DEFICIENCY CODE DECISION MATRIX

     Table A2.1. Fire Safety Deficiency Code Decision Matrix.
                                                                                                                          then the FSD
Rule                                              If the deficiency is a result of
                                                                                                                             code is
 1          failure to meet the minimum NFPA 101 requirements for an existing building occupancy                               1
            failure to meet a fire or life safety requirement of a UFC or other document for an existing building and
 2                                                                                                                             2
            not covered under Rule 1
            any deficiency in fire safety features resulting from new construction which does not meet the
 3                                                                                                                             1
            minimum construction requirements of UFC 3-600-01, paragraph 1-3.2.1.
            any deficiency in fire safety features which results from a modernization, renovation, repair,
 4          restoration, upgrade, or change of occupancy project which does not meet the minimum construction                  1
            requirements of UFC 3-600-01, paragraphs 1-3.2.2 through 1-3.2.4.
            any out-of-service or impaired means of egress feature required by NFPA 101 for an existing
 5                                                                                                                             1
            occupancy not corrected within 24 hours
 6          any out-of-service or impaired means of egress feature and not covered under Rule 5                                2
            an out-of-service or impaired fire alarm and notification system required by NFPA 101 for an existing
 7                                                                                                                             1
            occupancy
            a facility fire alarm system which does not report fire alarm signals to the fire alarm receiving center or
            other constantly attended location operated by trained personnel and protecting any facility used for
 8                                                                                                                             1
            sleeping or command, communications and control (C3) facility (excludes battery-operated smoke
            detectors and similar alarms that are not part of the facility central fire alarm system)
 9          an out-of-service fire alarm and notification system and not covered under Rules 7 and 8                           2
            a facility fire alarm which does not report fire alarm signals to the fire alarm receiving center or other
 10                                                                                                                            2
            constantly attended location operated by trained personnel and not covered under Rule 7
 11         an out-of-service or impaired fire detection system required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy                 1

 12         an out-of-service or impaired fire detection system and not covered under Rule 11                                  2
            an out-of-service or impaired fire suppression system required by NFPA 101 or UFC 3-600-01 for an
 13                                                                                                                            1
            existing occupancy
 14         an out-of-service or impaired fire suppression system and not covered under Rule 13                                2
            any impairment which would prevent a fire suppression system, fire detection system or fire
 15         alarm/notification system from automatically responding to a fire event not covered by Rules 3, 7, 11,             2
            or 13
            an air compressor or supplementary air supply either out of service or out of automatic service serving
 16                                                                                                                            1
            any type of dry-pipe or pre-action sprinkler system
            two (2) or more fire pumps either out of service or out of automatic service in a fire protection water
 17                                                                                                                            1
            pump system/facility required by NFPA 101 for an existing occupancy
 18         a fire pump either out of service or out of automatic service and not covered under Rule 17                        2
            one (1) or more pressure booster fire pumps is either out of service or out of automatic service
 19         providing supplementary pressure to fire suppression systems required by NFPA 101 for an existing                  2
            occupancy
            a fire protection system pressure maintenance (jockey) pump out of service, out of automatic-service, or
 20                                                                                                                            2
            constantly running
 21         all other FSDs                                                                                                     3
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                                            19


                                                Attachment 3
           FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING ANALYSIS/REVIEW MATRIX

Table A3.1. Fire Protection Engineering Analysis/Review Matrix.
                                                                                             then the following
Rule   If work involves                                And                                                               and
                                                                                                is required
 1     a sprinkler        any of the following exist:                                       analysis IAW UFC         stamped /
       system             (a) providing a new or relocated point of connection to the       3-600-01, paragraph      sealed /
                          water distribution system for installed water-based fire          1-5                      signed
                          suppression systems. Connections must comply with                                          analysis and
                          AWWA Manuals 14 and 31.                                                                    drawings.
                          (b) determining the applicable IBC requirements and NFPA
                          standards to be applied, or, in the case where no such
                          standard exists, the engineering study, judgments, and/or
                          performance-based analysis and conclusions.
                          (c) classifying room or area occupancy group.
                          (d) establishing the design approach (this includes system
                          type, densities, device temperature rating, and spacing for
                          each separate hazard occupancy).
                          (e) establishing the characteristics of water supply to be
                          used, such as main size and location, whether it is dead-end
                          or circulating; and if dead-end, the distance to the nearest
                          circulating main, as well as its minimum duration and
                          reliability for the most hydraulically demanding design area.
                          (f) evaluating when private or public water supplies are used,
                          the flow test data, including date and time of test, who
                          conducted test or supplied information, test elevation, static
                          gauge pressure at no flow, flow rate with residual gauge
                          pressure, hydrant butt coefficient, and location of test in
                          relation to the hydraulic point of service.
                          (g) determining the valving and alarm requirements to
                          minimize potential for impairments and unrecognized flow
                          of water.
                          (h) designing to prevent microbial induced corrosion (MIC).
                          The engineer of record shall make reasonable efforts to
                          identify water supplies that could lead to MIC. Such efforts
                          may consist of discussions with the local water purveyor
                          and/or fire official, familiarity with conditions in the local
                          area, or laboratory testing of water supplies. When
                          conditions are found that may result in MIC contamination
                          of the fire protection piping, the engineer shall design
                          corrective measures.
                          (i) determining required backflow prevention and metering
                          specifications and details to meet local water purveyor
                          requirements, including maximum allowable pressure drop.
                          (j) establishing the performance specifications of all yard and
                          interior fire protection components.
 2     a sprinkler        relocating, replacing, installing 10 or fewer sprinkler heads     analysis not required    N/A
       system             and Rule 1 does not apply
 3     a sprinkler        relocating, replacing, installing 11 or more sprinkler heads      analysis IAW UFC         documented
       system             and Rule 1 does not apply                                         3-600-01, paragraph      with project
                                                                                            1-4                      file.
 20                                                                             AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                                                                           then the following
Rule   If work involves                                  And                                                            and
                                                                                              is required
 4     a sprinkler         relocating, replacing, installing 50 or more sprinkler heads   analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       system                                                                             3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
                                                                                          1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 5     a detection and     relocating, replacing, installing 5 or fewer devices and/or    analysis not required    N/A
       alarm system        appliances
       device

 6     a detection and     relocating, replacing, installing 6 to 24 devices and/or       analysis IAW UFC        documented
       alarm system        appliances                                                     3-600-01, paragraph     with project
                                                                                          1-4                     file.
 7     a detection and     relocating, replacing, installing 25 or more devices and/or    analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       alarm system        appliances                                                     3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
                                                                                          1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 8     a fire protection   Relocating                                                     analysis not required    N/A
       control panel


 9     a fire protection   replacing, or installing (and Rule 5 or 6 applies)             analysis IAW UFC        documented
       control panel                                                                      3-600-01, paragraph     with project
                                                                                          1-4                     file.
 10    a fire protection   replacing, or installing (and Rule 7 applies)                  analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       control panel                                                                      3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
                                                                                          1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 11    a special fire      relocating, replacing, installing                              analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       suppression                                                                        3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
       system (gaseous                                                                    1-5                     signed
       agents, dry                                                                                                analysis and
       chemical agents,                                                                                           drawings.
       carbon dioxide,
       etc.)
 12    a wet chemical      relocating, replacing, installing                              analysis IAW UFC        documented
       fire suppression                                                                   3-600-01, paragraph     with project
       system over                                                                        1-4                     file.
       cooking
       equipment
 13    changes to the      less than 5% of the gross floor area is involved and the       analysis not required   N/A
       interior building   project does not add or move existing walls or change
       structure/layout    doors/openings

 14    changes to the      more than 5% of the gross floor area is involved or the        analysis IAW UFC        documented
       interior building   project moves existing walls, or adds new walls or changes     3-600-01, paragraph     with project
       structure/layout    doors/openings                                                 1-4                     file.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                                         21


                                                                                            then the following
Rule   If work involves                                  And                                                          and
                                                                                               is required
 15    changes to the      constructed through the S/R&M process                           analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
       interior building                                                                   3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
       structure/layout                                                                    1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 16    changes to the      constructed through the MCP process                             analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
       interior building                                                                   3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
       structure/layout                                                                    1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 17    an addition to an   the original building and the adjacent building are not         analysis IAW UFC       documented
       existing building   separated by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC     3-600-01, paragraph    with project
                           or not all openings protected and the gross combined floor      1-4                    file.
                           area is:
                           a) < 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or
                           b) < 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction
 18    an addition to an   the original building and the adjacent building are separated   analysis IAW UFC       documented
       existing building   by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC with all      3-600-01, paragraph    with project
                           openings protected and the gross combined floor area is:        1-4                    file; FPE
                           a) > 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or                               review not
                           b) > 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction                              required.
 19    an addition to an   the original building and the adjacent building are not         analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
       existing building   separated by a firewall meeting the requirements of the IBC     3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
                           or not all openings protected and the gross combined floor      1-5                    signed
                           area is:                                                                               analysis and
                           a) > 15,000 square ft for Type I and II construction; or                               drawings.
                           b) > 5,000 square ft for Type III, IV, and V construction
 20    an addition to an   constructed through the MCP process                             analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
       existing building                                                                   3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
                                                                                           1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 21    a new building      that is less than 3,000 square ft and does not involve any      analysis IAW UFC       documented
                           special occupancies listed in UFC 3-600-01, Chapter 6           3-600-01, paragraph    with project
                                                                                           1-4                    file.
 22    a new building      that is 3,000 square ft or greater                              analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
                                                                                           3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
                                                                                           1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 23    a new building      is any special occupancies specifically addressed in UFC 3-     analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
                           600-01, Chapter 6                                               3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
                                                                                           1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 24    a new building      constructed through the MCP process                             analysis IAW UFC       stamped /
                                                                                           3-600-01, paragraph    sealed /
                                                                                           1-5                    signed
                                                                                                                  analysis and
                                                                                                                  drawings.
 22                                                                           AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                                                                             then the following
Rule   If work involves                                 And                                                               and
                                                                                                is required
 25    the potable water   repairing without upgrading, modernizing, or relocating          analysis not required   N/A
       distribution
       system

 26    the potable water   repair including upgrading, modernizing, relocating, or          analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       distribution        replacing, or new installations                                  3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
       system                                                                               1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                    analysis and
                                                                                                                    drawings.
 27    a non-potable       upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or installing     analysis not required   N/A
       water system        and where the system does not support fire suppression
                           systems nor fire hydrants

 28    a non-potable       upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or installing     analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       fire protection                                                                      3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
       water system                                                                         1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                    analysis and
                                                                                                                    drawings.
 29    the electrical      upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or new            analysis not required   N/A
       distribution        installations; and transformers or substations are not located
       system              within 50 feet of any structure

 30    the electrical      upgrading, modernizing, relocating, replacing, or new            analysis IAW UFC        stamped /
       distribution        installations; and transformers or substations are located       3-600-01, paragraph     sealed /
       system              within 50 feet of any structure                                  1-5                     signed
                                                                                                                    analysis and
                                                                                                                    drawings.
 31    a phased project    all phased projects will be considered cumulatively when         the initial analysis    documented
                           determining the percentage of building involved and to           will evaluate all       with project
                           determine if any other rule applies to the project               phases together         file through
                                                                                                                    all phases of
                                                                                                                    construction.
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                                         23


                                                Attachment 4
          FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERING EXPERTISE SOURCE MATRIX

Table A4.1. Fire Protection Engineering Expertise Source Matrix.
                           and the project is
         Analysis in                              and designed               fire protection engineering expertise
Rule                       being managed by
       accordance with                                 by                             may be provided by
                               or through
 1     UFC 3-600-01,       N/A                  N/A                none required
       paragraph 1-4, is
       not required
 2     UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering     base engineering   a) matrixed engineering resources within the base
       paragraph 1-4, is   programming or       programming        engineering programming or maintenance engineering
       required            maintenance                                 (1) Architect - life safety analysis and basic building
                           engineering                                 code compliance for fire resistance, permitted area,
                                                                       separation
                                                                       (2) Electrical - egress lighting, exit marking, detection,
                                                                       alarm, and notification systems
                                                                       (3) Mechanical - suppression systems
                                                                   b) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series
                                                                   standard
                                                                   c) A-E services contract
                                                                   d) AFCESA fire protection engineering tool box task
                                                                   order
 3     UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering     SABER or other     a) matrixed engineering resources within the base
       paragraph 1-4, is   programming or       base-level         engineering programming or maintenance engineering
       required            maintenance          contract support       (1) Architect - life safety analysis and basic building
                           engineering                                 code compliance for fire resistance, permitted area,
                                                                       separation
                                                                       (2) Electrical - egress lighting, exit marking, detection,
                                                                       alarm, and notification systems
                                                                       (3) Mechanical - suppression systems
                                                                   b) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series
                                                                   standard
                                                                   c) A-E services contract
                                                                   d) AFCESA fire protection engineering toolbox task
                                                                   order
 4     UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering     service design     the design and construction agent should provide the
       paragraph 1-4, is   programming or       and construction   required expertise on staff or through any A-E supporting
       required            maintenance          agent              services
                           engineering
 5     UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering     independent        fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-4, is   programming or       A-E firm           the A-E SOW
       required            maintenance
                           engineering
 24                                                                        AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                            and the project is
         Analysis in                              and designed                fire protection engineering expertise
Rule                       being managed by
       accordance with                                 by                              may be provided by
                                or through
 6     UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                MAJCOM             a) matrixed engineering resources within the MAJCOM
       paragraph 1-4, is   engineering and       engineering and    construction and engineering activity
       required            construction          construction           (1) Architect - life safety analysis and basic building
                           activity              activity               code compliance for fire resistance, permitted area,
                                                                        separation
                                                                        (2) Electrical - egress lighting, exit marking, detection,
                                                                        alarm, and notification systems
                                                                        (3) Mechanical - suppression systems
                                                                    b) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series
                                                                    standard
                                                                    c) A-E services contract
                                                                    d) AFCESA fire protection engineering toolbox task
                                                                    order
 7     UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                service design     the design and construction agent should provide the
       paragraph 1-4, is   engineering and       and construction   required expertise on staff or through any A-E supporting
       required            construction          agent              services
                           activity
 8     UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                independent        fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-4, is   engineering and       A-E firm           the A-E SOW
       required            construction
                           activity
 9     UFC 3-600-01,       AFCEE or              task order         fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-4, is   AFCESA                contractor         the task order statement
       required            construction /
                           S/R&M activity
 10    UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering      base engineering   a) matrixed engineering resources within the base
       paragraph 1-5, is   programming or        flight             engineering programming or maintenance engineering
       required            maintenance                                  (1) Architect - life safety analysis and basic building
                           engineering                                  code compliance for fire resistance, permitted area,
                                                                        separation
                                                                        (2) Electrical - egress lighting, exit marking, detection,
                                                                        alarm, and notification systems
                                                                        (3) Mechanical - suppression systems
                                                                    b) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series
                                                                    standard
                                                                    c) A-E services contract
                                                                    d) AFCESA fire protection engineering toolbox task
                                                                    order
 11    UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering      SABER or other     a) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series standard
       paragraph 1-5, is   programming or        base-level         b) A-E services contract
       required            maintenance           contract support   c) AFCESA fire protection engineering toolbox task order
                           engineering
 12    UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering      service design     the design and construction agent shall provide the
       paragraph 1-5, is   programming or        and construction   required expertise on staff or through any A-E supporting
       required            maintenance           agent              services
                           engineering
 13    UFC 3-600-01,       base engineering      independent        fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-5, is   programming or        A-E firm           the A-E SOW
       required            maintenance
                           engineering
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                                       25


                            and the project is
         Analysis in                              and designed               fire protection engineering expertise
Rule                       being managed by
       accordance with                                 by                             may be provided by
                                or through
 14    UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                MAJCOM             a) Staff engineer qualified to the OPM 804 series standard
       paragraph 1-5, is   engineering and       engineering and    b) A-E services contract
       required            construction          construction       c) AFCESA fire protection engineering toolbox task order
                           activity              activity

 15    UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                service design     the design and construction agent shall provide the
       paragraph 1-5, is   engineering and       and construction   required expertise on staff or through any A-E supporting
       required            construction          agent              services
                           activity
 16    UFC 3-600-01,       MAJCOM                independent        fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-5, is   engineering and       A-E firm           the A-E SOW
       required            construction
                           activity
 17    UFC 3-600-01,       AFCEE or              task order         fire protection engineering requirements incorporated in
       paragraph 1-5, is   AFCESA                contractor         the task order statement
       required            construction /
                           S/R&M activity
        26                                                                           AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                                         Attachment 5
                              AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (AHJ) MATRIX

       Table A5.1. Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) Matrix.
Rule        If a specific                     and                              and                 then the approval AHJ is the
          technical issue
             addresses
 1     fire department         N/A                                 N/A                             chief, fire emergency services
       access points to the                                                                        flight
       building or into the
       building
 2     fire department         N/A                                 N/A                             chief, fire emergency services
       connections to                                                                              flight
       support installed
       fire suppression
       systems
 3     fire hydrant            N/A                                 N/A                             chief, fire emergency services
       locations to                                                                                flight
       support fire
       department
       operations in and
       around a facility
 4     whether a standard      N/A                                 N/A                             chief, fire emergency services
       or code                                                                                     flight
       requirement has
       been addressed
 5     whether a technical     N/A                                 N/A                             chief, programs flight
       solution / approach
       correctly meets or
       exceeds a standard
       or code
       requirement
 6     a requirement /         which is indicated may be used if   UFC 3-600-01 does not           chief, programs flight
       criteria option         "approved by" or "acceptable to"    specifically prohibit the
       included in an          the authority having jurisdiction   technical option or the
       NFPA standard or                                            facility user has no
       code                                                        document or criteria
                                                                   preventing the specific
                                                                   technical application and it
                                                                   is not covered by Rules 1, 2,
                                                                   and 3
 7     a requirement /         N/A                                 N/A                             chief, programs flight
       criterion option is
       included in UFC 3-
       600-01 or another
       UFC
       AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                                               27


Rule        If a specific                       and                                  and                 then the approval AHJ is the
          technical issue
             addresses
 8     a requirement /          the installation or activity requests   the installation prepares a      installation host wing/center
       criterion is             temporary relief from compliance        mitigation/corrective action     commander
       included in an           and it is not covered by Rule 11        plan including interim
       NFPA standard or                                                 controls, final corrective
       code, FM-Global                                                  actions and an estimated
       loss prevention                                                  completion date; approved
       data sheet, UFC,                                                 by the user, safety, fire
       UFGS or other                                                    protection, and the facilities
       technical guidance                                               board
 9     a requirement/           the installation, activity, design      the MAJCOM concurs with          HQ AFCESA/CEOA
       criterion is             and construction agent, A-E, user,      the request                      (UFC 3-600-01, paragraph
       included in an           or MAJCOM develops and                                                   1-3.7)
       NFPA standard or         documents an alternative or
       code, FM-Global          equivalent approach to comply
       loss prevention          with the requirement
       data sheet, UFC,
       UFGS or other
       technical guidance
       document
 10    a requirement/           the installation or activity requests   the MAJCOM concurs with          HQ AFCESA/CEOA
       criterion is             permanent relief from compliance        the request                      (UFC 3-600-01, paragraph
       included in an                                                                                    1-3.8)
       NFPA standard or
       code, FM-Global
       loss prevention
       data sheet, UFC,
       UFGS or other
       technical guidance
       document
 11    technical                the installation or activity requests   MAJCOM/A1 and /A7                SAF/IE (10 USC Sec. 1794)
       requirements/            relief (temporary, for more than 90     concur, HQ
       criteria for youth       days, or permanent) from                AFCESA/CEOA concurs
       activities facilities,   compliance and the base prepares        and AF/A1 and A4/7 concur
       including child          a plan including interim controls
       development              and final corrective actions
       centers, school age      (alternative or equivalent
       program facilities,      approach[s] to comply with the
       youth/teen centers,      requirement, see Rule 9)
       and instructional
       class facilities
 28                                                               AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                          Attachment 6
   SAMPLE ELECTRONIC STAFF SUMMARY SHEET (E-SSS) FOR FIRE SAFETY
               MITIGATION/CORRECTIVE ACTION PLANS

A6.1. Instructions. Staff Summary Sheets requiring your group or wing commander’s
signature should be sent through your internal channels via e-mail. The office of primary
responsibility (OPR) transmits the package via e-mail to the first reviewer to
coordinate/comment. The first reviewer should forward (never reply) the package with
comments (if any) to the next reviewer. This procedure is repeated until the last reviewer has
coordinated on the package. The last reviewer forwards the entire package back to the OPR.


Figure A6.1. Sample Electronic Staff Summary Sheet (E-SSS) for Fire Safety
Mitigation/Corrective Action Plans.

From: 42 FG/CC [typically the using organization commander]
Sent: [insert the date]

To: 42 FW/CC [typically the wing commander]
Cc: [include all offices that should receive copies of the final approved e-SSS]

Subject: Fire Safety Deficiency Mitigation/Action Plan – Building [bldg number], [bldg name],
[street address]
COORDINATION
[Note: The three offices that jointly prepared the plan come first and each reviewer inserts the
date when they completed their review/coordination. Please FORWARD (never REPLY) to the
next agency after coordination.]

Office                                Action         Last Name/Rank/Date
42 FG/[Functional user OPR]           Coord          Thomas, MSgt, 12 May 10
42 CES/CEF                            Coord          Humphries, GS-11, 12 May 10
42 FW/SEG                             Coord          Sample, GS-11, 12 May 10
42 FG/CC                              Coord          Phillips, Lt Col
42 FW/SE                              Review         Gordon, GS-12
42 CES/CC                             Review         Jones, Lt Col

[Note: Local policies will determine if additional offices are required to review and coordinate
on the package before submittal to the wing commander.]

42 FW/CCE                             Review         Tonnies, Capt
42 FW/CC                              Approve        (FW/CC signed. To [CC Secretary] for
                                      mailing/distribution.)
42 FG/[Functional user OCR]           Info/File      Smith, GS-11

[Note: The Options for Action are Sign, Coord, Approve, Review, Info, or File]
AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011                                                                     29



                                     STAFF SUMMARY

AO: MSgt Mark Thomas, 42FG/AM, 3-6315 [action officer/functional user OPR name, rank,
unit/office symbol, on-base phone number]

SUSPENSE: [include any suspense date or N/A]

SUMMARY: [Short one- or two-sentence summary of the deficiency, if applicable.]

1. PURPOSE. [The only attachment should be any extremely lengthy document, nothing else.
All pertinent information should be included in this section. The reader should not have to look
anywhere else for an explanation of the package’s contents.]

2. DISCUSSION. [State the reason for the needed signature/coordination and any pertinent
information needed to inform them why they are receiving the package. Include all information
in the e-mail (e.g., tabs, talking papers).]

3. INTERIM MITIGATION ACTIONS.

4. PERMANENT CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN.

[Add the applicable tabs]
 30                                                               AFI32-10141 3 MARCH 2011


                                          Attachment 7
      SAMPLE ALTERNATIVE/EQUIVALENCY AND EXEMPTION REQUEST

Figure A7.1. Sample Alternative/Equivalency and Exemption Request.

MEMORANDUM FOR AETC/A7 [appropriate functional offices]
               HQ AFCESA/CEO
               IN TURN

FROM: 42 CES/CC
      1200 Ash Street, Room 123
      Randolph AFB TX 78236-2550

SUBJECT: Fire Protection Engineering [Alternative/Equivalency] [Exemption] Request –
[identify the specific subject of the request]

1. PROBLEM: [Clearly and concisely state the problem you are trying to solve, including the
specific criteria that are potentially being waived or met through other alternatives or
equivalency.]

2. FACTORS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM:

   2a. Facts. [Limit your facts to only those directly related to the problem.]

   2b. Assumptions. [Should be realistic and supported by your study.]

   2c. Criteria. [List the standards, requirements, or limitations you will use to test the possible
   solution(s). Ensure you can use standards to measure or test your solution(s).]

   2d. Definitions. [Describe or define terms to inform your audience.]

3. DISCUSSION: [This section shows the logic that was used to solve the problem. Introduce the
problem and provide some background information, if necessary. Then explain your solution(s)
or possible solution(s).]

4. CONCLUSION: [State your conclusion as a workable, complete solution to the problem you
described previously in the ―Discussion‖ section. Include a clear description of the mission
continuity risk being assumed by the wing/installation.]

5. ACTION RECOMMENDED: [Tell the reader the action(s) necessary to implement the
solution. This should be worked so the ultimate decision maker only needs to sign the document
to implement the solution.]

                                                 JOHN DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                                 Commander
