BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-225
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            19 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                        Services

                                                              AIR FORCE SERVICES
                                               NONAPPROPRIATED FUND GOVERNANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1SR                                                               Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes: AFI34-124, 25 July 1994                                                      Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds. It outlines the Air
Force Services corporate governance structure concepts of operation. This AFI does not apply to
the Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force
Records            Disposition          Schedule           (RDS)           located            at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been changed from AFI 34-124 to AFI 34-225 to correctly align under
AFPD 34-2. Previous instruction included the Air Force Morale Welfare and Recreation
Advisory Board and its supporting committees which was replaced with the Secretary of the Air
Force’s charters establishing the Air Force Services Council (and its supporting committees) and
the Air Force Services Audit Committee. It outlines the objectives, operating philosophies,
meeting requirements, participation requirements and board members for the Air Force Services
Council, Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Finance Committee, Air Force Nonappropriated Fund
Investment Subcommittee, and the Air Force Services Audit Committee.
 2                                                               AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011



                                             Chapter 1

                                 CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS

1.1. Program Objective. The Air Force is required by Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 1015.15, Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources, to establish appropriate
bodies of governance for the management and control of nonappropriated fund (NAF) resources.
Governance of NAF Instrumentalities (NAFIs) is provided by two major bodies: The Air Force
Services Council, which is further supported by the Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Finance
Committee and the Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Investment Subcommittee; and the Air
Force Audit Committee.
Note: The Air Force Civilian Welfare Fund and the Air Force Fisher House Fund have separate
governance structures and are not covered by this instruction.
1.2. Operating Philosophy. The Air Force Services Council and Air Force Audit Committee
base their recommendations on the "common cause" approach. This approach:
     1.2.1. Dictates the prudent use of available resources to promote the best interests of the Air
     Force and Air Force NAFIs that support Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) activities,
     events and programs that benefit our Airmen and other authorized patrons.
     1.2.2. Requires a balanced support of MWR programs and the Air Force communities.
     Support is based on an evaluation of compelling program needs and recommended action to
     achieve program objectives using limited resources.
1.3. Participation:
     1.3.1. The chairperson may permit participation by alternates recommended by members
     who will not be able to attend a meeting or who will be unable to serve as a member for a
     period of time. Names of recommended alternates must be provided in writing to the
     chairperson.
     1.3.2. Members must be active duty military or federal civilian appropriated fund or NAF
     employees. Contractors may not serve as primary or alternate members.
1.4. Meetings.
     1.4.1. Meetings will be held on a regular basis or at least annually, unless otherwise
     specified in its respective charter. The chairperson may convene special meetings as
     required.
     1.4.2. Notice of each meeting shall be given to each member as far in advance as possible.
     1.4.3. The majority of the voting members or approved alternates present shall constitute a
     quorum for the transaction of business, and, if a quorum is present at a meeting, the action
     taken by a majority of the members or approved alternates present and voting shall be the
     action of the council/committee.
     1.4.4. Each member or approved alternate present shall have one vote. The chairperson shall
     not vote except in the case of a tie.
AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011                                                                 3


  1.4.5. Each governing body shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings, and report them
  to the HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services
  (AF/A1), unless specified in its respective charter.
  1.4.6. Headquarters Air Force Services (AF/A1S) and the Air Force Services Agency
  (AFSVA) staffs administer and conduct the daily business of any council or committee
  referred to in this AFI.
  1.4.7. The council and committee are subject to the guidance in DoDI 5105.18_AFI 90-
  1402, Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program.
 4                                                              AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011


                                            Chapter 2

                              AIR FORCE SERVICES COUNCIL

2.1. Purpose. The AF Services Council is an advisory body that makes recommendations to the
AF/A1 on Air Force NAF matters in accordance with the Air Force Services Council Charter.
The Council:
     2.1.1. Suggests broad policies for Services and for the administration, control and use of Air
     Force NAFs.
     2.1.2. Reviews and makes recommendations on NAF budgets for the AF/A1S and AFSVA.
     2.1.3. Recommends ways to use and distribute central NAF revenue sources; e.g., Exchange
     dividends.
     2.1.4. Recommends Central NAFI financing for construction projects prioritized on the basis
     of need.
     2.1.5. Implements appropriate analysis and evaluation procedures and indicators to ensure
     that NAFIs are meeting the objectives for which they were established.
     2.1.6. May establish committees to assist in carrying out its responsibilities. The Air Force
     Services Council ensures that any committee the council establishes performs the
     committee’s functions IAW its charter.
2.2. Composition. Members are listed in Table 2.1. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force
(CSAF) approves changes to the Air Force Services Council's membership.

Table 2.1. Air Force Services Council Members and Advisor
 Position                                                                      Role
 Assistant Deputy Chief Staff, Manpower, Personnel & Services                  Chair
 Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost and Economics)              Member
 Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Budget)                          Member
 Deputy Director of Manpower, Organization and Resources                       Member
 Director of Air Force Services                                                Member
 Air Force Director of Budget Operations                                       Member
 Chief of Construction and Engineering Division                                Member
 Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force                                        Member
 Chief, Air Force Services Law Division                                        Advisor
                                                                               Advisor
 Air Force Services Agency Director of Financial Management and
 Comptroller – Custodian of Air Force Central NAFIs
AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    5



                                         Chapter 3

          AIR FORCE NONAPPROPRIATED FUND FINANCE COMMITTEE

3.1. Purpose. The Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Finance Committee is an advisory body
that makes recommendations, consistent with Federal Law, Department of Defense policy, Air
Force policy, and good business practices, to the Air Force Services Council on Air Force NAF
fiscal and related matters. The Committee:
   3.1.1. Reviews annual financial results of NAF operations and recommends to the Air Force
   Services Council financial plans, policies, and management information systems affecting
   items such as cash flow, allocations, budgets, dividend distributions, NAF facility
   construction, and return on facility investments.
   3.1.2. Has access to and reviews the NAF database maintained by AFSVA for comparative
   analysis purposes to facilitate development of appropriate financial policy and practice
   recommendations.
   3.1.3. Reviews and recommends policies and practices for financial programs such as those
   for banking, insurance, employee benefits, and NAF accounting.
   3.1.4. Reviews the annual Certified Public Accountant audit report on the central Air Force
   NAFIs and Public Accountant Contract Audit (PACA) Program summary reports and
   recommends revised policies and practices where warranted.
   3.1.5. Ensures that managerial and accounting controls are reviewed for adequacy in
   protection of NAF assets, and recommends actions to be taken to reduce risk exposure,
   enhance internal controls, and improve practices.
3.2. The Air Force NAF Finance Committee will establish an Investment Subcommittee to
make recommendations to the Committee on investment processes and strategies. The Air
Force NAF Finance Committee may establish other subcommittees to assist in carrying out its
responsibilities.
3.3. Composition. Members are listed in Table 3.1. The Air Force Services Council may
approve changes to the Committee’s membership.

Table 3.1. Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Finance Committee Members and Advisors
 Position                                                                           Role
 Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Budget)                               Chair
 Deputy Director of Manpower, Organization and Resources                            Member
 Director of Services for the Air Force                                             Member
 Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost and Economics)                   Member
 Chief of Construction and Engineering Division                                     Member
 Air Force Services Agency Director of Financial Management and Comptroller –       Advisor
 Custodian of the AF Central NAFIs
 Chief, Air Force Services Law Division                                             Advisor
 6                                                              AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011



                                            Chapter 4

      AIR FORCE NONAPPROPRIATED FUND INVESTMENT SUBCOMMITTEE

4.1. Purpose. The Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Investment Subcommittee is an advisory
body that makes recommendations consistent with Federal Law, Department of Defense (DoD)
policy, Air Force policy, and good business practices to the AF NAF Finance Committee and the
AFSVA Trustee on Air Force NAF investment policy and related matters. The Subcommittee
will:
     4.1.1. Recommend investment policy in accordance with DoD 1401.1-M, Personnel Policy
     Manual for Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and DoDI 1015.15.
        4.1.1.1. Follow an investment philosophy set forth in the Employee Retirement Income
        Security Act of 1974, as amended.
        4.1.1.2. Recommend only investment mediums authorized in DoD 1401.1-M for NAF
        retirement funds and those authorized in DoDI 1015.15 for all other NAF Funds.
     4.1.2. Review investment portfolios for yield, risk (safety), liquidity, and adequacy of funds
     for intended purposes and makes investment recommendations to the Air Force NAF Finance
     Committee and the AFSVA Trustee.
4.1.3. Review performance of funds managers and recommend the hiring and firing of
outside consulting and evaluation services.
     4.1.4. Recommend the hiring and firing of outside fund managers, if advantageous to the
     investment fund, and make recommendations on the selection of outside funds manager.
     4.1.5. Recommend the use of third-party custodial arrangements for safekeeping of equity
     and fixed-income securities.
     4.1.6. Review investment regulations and control procedures for adequacy and recommend
     needed changes.
4.2. The AF NAF Finance Committee ensure the Subcommittee performs its functions in
accordance with its Charter.
4.3. Composition. Members are listed in Table 4.1. The Air Force Finance Committee
Chairman may approve changes to the Subcommittee’s membership.
AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011                                                      7


Table 4.1. Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Investment Subcommittee


Position                                                              Role
Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost & Economics)        Chair
Chief, Requirements Division (Services Directorate)                   Member
Appointee from US Treasury Financial Services                         Member
Accounting, Finance, or Economics Professor                           Member
Government employee member-at-large with investment expertise         Member
AF Services Agency Director of Financial Management and Comptroller   Advisor
Chief, AF Services Law Division                                       Advisor
AF Services Agency Investment Officer                                 Advisor
 8                                                              AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011



                                              Chapter 5
                        AIR FORCE SERVICES AUDIT COMMITTEE

5.1. Purpose. The Air Force Services Audit Committee is the Air Force body that ensures
adequate audit coverage of NAFIs. The Committee:
     5.1.1. Establishes audit frequency and scope requirements for NAFIs.
     5.1.2. Identifies audit contract deliverables.
     5.1.3. Monitors performance of audit contractors and identifies sources to be solicited.
     5.1.4. Monitors management actions taken in response to audit findings                      and
     recommendations and recommends additional corrective action to the AF/A1
     5.1.5. Reviews trend reports and recommends improvements in internal controls and
     operations to the AF/A1.
5.2. Committee Composition. Members are listed in Table 5.1. The CSAF may approve
changes to the Air Force Services Audit Committee’s membership.

Table 5.1. Air Force Services Audit Committee Members and Advisors
 Position                                                                                Role
 Air Force Director of Budget Operations                                                 Chair
 Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force                                                  Member
 Associate Director, Manpower and Personnel Division, Support and Personnel
                                                                                         Member
 Audits Directorate, Air Force Audit Agency
 Auditor General of the Air Force                                                        Advisor




                                                DARRELL D. JONES
                                                Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI 34-225 19 OCTOBER 2011                                                                9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds, 7 January 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoD Instruction 1401.1-M, Personnel Policy Manual for Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities, 15 November 1985
DoD Instruction 5105.18_AFI 90-1402, Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee
Management Program, 24 March 2011
DoD Instruction 1015.15, Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources, 20 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
AF/A1S— Headquarters Air Force Services
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFSVA— Air Force Service Agency
CSAF— Chief of Staff of the Air Force
IAW— In Accordance With
NAF— Nonappropriated Funds
NAFI— Nonappopriated Fund Instrumentalities
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
PACA— Public Accountant Contract Audit
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
