BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-205
42D AIR BASE WING (AETC)
                                              MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE SUPPLEMENT

                                                                              18 MARCH 2005
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 26 April 2007
                                                                 Certified Current, 4 April 2011

                                                                                        Security

                                                 THE AIR FORCE CORRECTIONS SYSTEM
             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
                        http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 42 SFS/S3C                   Certified by: 42 SFS/CC (Maj L. Michelle Stringer)
Supersedes AFI 31-205/MAXWELLAFBSUP, 28 November 2000                      Pages: 3

AFI 31-205, 7 April 2004, is supplemented as follows.

This supplement implements AFI 31-205, The Air Force Corrections System. It establishes
guidance and procedures for the Air Force Corrections System (AFCS) on Maxwell AFB.
Failure to observe the prohibitions of this supplement may result in administrative actions or
other disciplinary measures. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force. Use AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to recommend
changes to this supplement; see Attachment 4 (Added) (MAFB). Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-
123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This supplement applies to all
units assigned or attached to Maxwell AFB, except US Air Reserve, Air National Guard, or the
Federal Prison Camp located on Maxwell AFB.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the OPR, Certifying and Approving Officials; updates office
symbols throughout, adds additional guidance pertaining to organizations providing health and
comfort supplies to their personnel in confinement and local requirements for marriage while
serving a sentence in confinement. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

1.2.2.2. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is current and on file in Confinement
(42 SFS/S3C) and Plans and Programs (42 SFS/S5P) offices authorizing the use of the
Montgomery County Jail as an overflow facility.
2                                        AFI 31-205_MAXWELLAFBSUP                  18 MARCH 2005

1.2.2.2.1. A MOA is coordinated to house both male and female overflow inmates due to lack of
bed space at this facility. The parent unit should provide temporary billeting arrangements for
inmates whose offense is a non-violent offense and does not warrant more than one escort if
arrangements for overflow cannot be met at the county jail.

1.2.7. The Confinement Facility at Maxwell AFB is designated as a level 1 confinement facility
and has the capability of housing pre-trial detainees or post-trial inmates for 180 days or less, or
up to 1 year with HQ AFSFC/SFC approval.

1.3.10.1. Parent unit commanders or designees (E-7 or above) are responsible for confined
personnel, regardless of location, until formal transfer of the confined person is complete. This
responsibility includes, but is not limited to, providing escorts, assisting confined member’s
family, visiting confined members at least monthly and obtaining transfer orders. The
commander or designee also assigns escorts (after being given an escort briefing) for all routine
matters; for example, dental/medical appointments, base details etc.

2.1. The Operations Officer (42 SFS/S3) is appointed as the confinement officer. The
42 SFS/S3C is appointed as the confinement NCO.

2.3. The training section (42 SFS/S3T), in conjunction with 42 SFS/S3C, is responsible for
developing and maintaining local training on confinement/corrections procedures.

3.2.7. Any victim/witness, as a result of threat, battery or fear of bodily harm from an adjudged,
pre-trial or sentenced inmate should contact the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) or corrections
officer for action and guidance on this matter. The correction officer and the SJA coordinate
efforts to provide the witness protection under the Victim and Witness Rights Program.

5.1.1. If confinement is ordered for reasons other than as a result of trial such as pre-trial
confinement, the commander of the member being confined signs the confinement order. In their
absence, the installation commander or designated representative may sign. Promptly upon pre-
trial confinement, the person is advised by AF IMT 444, Advisement of Rights upon Pre-trial
Confinement, as to why they are confined, as required by Rule for Courts-Martial 304 and 305,
Manual for Courts-Martial, by the Briefing Official (the person ordering confinement) and is
witnessed by confinement staff personnel or representative. The form must be signed by the
inmate, briefing official and witness.

5.1.2. If the person is being confined as a result of trial, the trial counsel, assistant trial counsel
or the confinee’s commander may sign the DD Form 2707, Confinement Order, authorizing
confinement. The trial counsel notifies the security forces desk sergeant, who dispatches two
patrolmen who have been trained and who are familiar with confinement procedures. The
patrolmen take the inmate into custody, and pick up a completed copy of the AF IMT 1359,
Report of Result of Trial, and a DD Form 2707.

5.3.2.5. A base psychiatrist evaluates each prisoner upon initial confinement. The evaluation
determines if the inmate is a suicidal or homicidal risk and develops a plan for follow-on
appointments.
AFI 31-205_MAXWELLAFBSUP                18 MARCH 2005                                             3

6.1.1.2. Organizations with members in confinement on a non-pay status use installation
Operation and Maintenance funds or squadron-appropriated funds to acquire health and comfort
supplies. The confinement officer has established a health and comfort stock to provide needed
supplies to inmates until the parent unit can provide them. Any mandatory items missing during
initial inventory must be delivered by the parent unit within 72 hours of initial confinement.

6.4. Inmates’ visiting hours are Sunday and federal holidays from 1300 until 1500, unless
previously approved by the confinement officer or NCOIC.

6.6. The SFS/CC may approve inmate marriages, but will encourage personnel to wait until after
their sentence to confinement is completed. Title 30 of the Code of Alabama governs Marital
and Domestic Relations. Section 30—1-14 of the Code delineates the the minimum age for
contracting marriage in Alabama is 16. Anyone under the age of 18, however, is subject to
following the provision of Section 30-1-5, which outlines the prerequisites that must be
completed for marriage. Section 30-1-9 states, “Marriage licenses may be issued by the judges of
probate of the several counties.” In Montgomery County, no blood test is required for a marriage
license. Cost for the license is payable in the form of Cash, Visa, Mastercard, or local check.
Once the license is issued it is valid for 30 days from the date of issuance. For persons over the
age of 18 and residents of Alabama, the following is required: an official picture ID, certified
copy of birth certificate, a second form of identification like a social security card. Incarcerated
applicants must supply a letter of approval from the Warden for the incarcerated person and
identification. In addition to local requirements, all requirements IAW AFI 31-205, Attachment
24 will be followed. NOTE: This information is general in nature and should not be construed
as legal advise. In the event a member while in a confinement facility requests to be married,
coordination should occur with the base legal office.

8.2. The 42 SFS/CC has determined a vehicle operator can serve as an escort when on the
installation.

9.2. Pre-transfer conference is held with the inmate, inmate’s first sergeant or designee,
confinement officer and NCOIC to explain the purpose of transfer and resolve personal property
and funds disposition. A letter is maintained in the correctional treatment file (CTF).

11.5. The 42 SFS/CC directs the use of the security forces gym, located in Bldg 929, as the
designated facility for inmate workouts.



                                                     PAUL H. MCGILLICUDDY
                                                     Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander, 42d Air Base Wing
