BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2855
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                15 APRIL 2009
                                                         PACIFIC AIR FORCES COMMAND
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                          8 DECEMBER 2009
                                                           Certified Current 20 December 2011
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                  JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL AWARDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/JAXP                                                              Certified by: AF/JAX
Supersedes: AFI 36-2855, 15 February                                    (Colonel Roberta Moro)
            2002                                                                        Pages: 8
                                           (PACAF)
OPR: HQ PACAF/JA                                                   Certified by: HQ PACAF/JA
Supersedes: AFI 36-2855_PACAFSUP1,                                         (Maj Ronald Cramer)
            29 Sep 04                                                                  Pages:2


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and describes

The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) awards presented to individuals in recognition of their
outstanding service or contributions to The Judge Advocate General’s Corps. It describes the
annual and extraordinary achievement awards and establishes nomination procedures. This
instruction applies to all civilian and military members of The Judge Advocate General’s Corps,
including Active Duty, Reserves, and Air National Guard.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Title 5 United States Code Section 3301, 10 USC § 806, and DoD Instruction
1348.33, Military Awards Program, authorize collection and maintenance of the information;
Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice, F051 AFJA C, Judge Advocate Personnel Records,
applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123
2                                           AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009


(will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

(PACAF) This supplement does not apply to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) or Air National
Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss_af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: revises the title of the Albert M. Kuhfeld, Reginald C. Harmon, Steve Swigonski, and
David Westbrook awards; revises the eligibility criteria for the Karen Yates-Popwell award;
establishes the Unsung Hero Award (Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., Award); changes the suspense date
for nominations; deletes the requirement to forward six copies of each nomination package to
HQ USAF/JAX; and institutes the Headquarters Centralized Board process.

(PACAF) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

(PACAF) Major changes include: deletes the PACAF Outstanding Legal Assistance Program
Award; combines the PACAF Outstanding (Small and Large) Base Legal Office of the Year
Award into one award; establishes suspense date for nominations; and revises procedures for
submitting nominees.

(PACAF) AFI 36-2855, Judge Advocate General Awards, 15 April 2009, is supplemented as
follows:
1. Description of the Annual Awards:
    1.1. Outstanding Young Judge Advocate of the Year Award (Albert M. Kuhfeld
    Award). Brigadier General and Mrs. Richard C. Hagan, USAFR, Retired, established this
    award in honor of the late Major General Albert M. Kuhfeld, USAF, Retired, who formerly
    held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is an active duty officer selected as the most
    outstanding young judge advocate of the year based on demonstrated excellence, initiative,
    and devotion to duty. Eligible candidates are active duty Air Force judge advocates serving
    in the grade of captain or major as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award
    is given.
    1.2. Outstanding Air Reserve Component Judge Advocate of the Year Award
    (Reginald C. Harmon Award). This award honors Major General Reginald C. Harmon,
    USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is an officer
    selected as the most outstanding Air Reserve Component (ARC) judge advocate based on
    training accomplishments or contributions to mission support; exhibition of leadership in
AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009                                                             3


  contributing to civic, cultural, or professional activities in the military or civilian community;
  and enrollment in off-duty programs of professional self-improvement. Eligible candidates
  are ARC judge advocates in the grade of lieutenant colonel or below as of 31 December of
  the calendar year for which the award is given. On the AF IMT 1206, Nomination for
  Award, the first heading should be ―    Total Number of Points Earned‖ for the period of the
  award, followed by a break-down of the nominee’s points earned from Active Duty, Inactive
  Duty Training, and the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning [formerly the
  Extension Course Institute]. The substantive portion of the nomination should reflect the
  nominee’s total contributions during the period of the award and not merely concentrate on
  one significant event.
  1.3. Outstanding Civilian Attorney of the Year Award (James O. Wrightson, Jr.,
  Award). Mr. John A. Everhard established this award in memory of Mr. James O.
  Wrightson, Jr., who formerly held the position of Chief, Military Affairs Division, Office of
  The Judge Advocate General, USAF. The annual winner is a civilian employee selected as
  the most outstanding civilian attorney of the year based upon demonstrated excellence,
  initiative, and devotion to duty. Eligible candidates are civilian attorneys employed by or
  serving with The Judge Advocate General’s Corps.
  1.4. Outstanding Young Paralegal of the Year Award (Steve Swigonski Award). This
  award honors Chief Master Sergeant Steve Swigonski, USAF, Retired, the first Special
  Assistant for Legal Airman Affairs to TJAG. The annual winner is an active duty paralegal
  selected as the most outstanding young paralegal of the year based upon demonstrated
  superior initiative, technical skill, leadership ability, and devotion to duty. Eligible
  candidates are active duty (AD) Air Force paralegals in the grade of technical sergeant or
  below as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given.
  1.5. Outstanding Paralegal Senior Noncommissioned Officer of the Year Award
  (Karen Yates-Popwell Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant Karen E. Yates-
  Popwell, USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of Senior Paralegal Manager to
  TJAG. The annual winner is an active duty senior noncommissioned officer (NCO) selected
  as the most outstanding paralegal senior NCO of the year based upon demonstrated
  excellence, superior initiative, leadership, and management skills. Eligible candidates are
  active duty Air Force paralegals serving in the grade of senior master sergeant or master
  sergeant as of 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given.
  1.6. Outstanding Air Reserve Component Paralegal of the Year Award (David
  Westbrook Award). This award honors Chief Master Sergeant David Westbrook, USAFR,
  Retired, a former senior Individual Mobilization Augmentee paralegal to the General Law
  Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General, USAF. The annual winner is an ARC
  member selected as the most outstanding paralegal of the year based upon demonstrated
  superior initiative; technical skill; training accomplishments or contribution to mission
  support; exhibition of leadership qualities in contributing to civic, cultural, or professional
  activities in the military or civilian community; and enrollment in off-duty programs of
  professional self-improvement. Eligible candidates are ARC paralegals not otherwise
  serving on an Active Guard Reserve (AGR) tour during the calendar year for which the
  award is given. On the AF IMT 1206, the first heading should be ―     Total Number of Points
  Earned‖ for the period of the award, followed by a break-down of the nominee’s points
  earned from Active Duty, Inactive Duty Training, and the Air Force Institute for Advanced
4                                             AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009


    Distributed Learning [formerly the Extension Course Institute]. The substantive portion of
    the nomination should reflect the nominee’s total contributions during the period of the
    award and not merely concentrate on one significant event.
    1.7. Outstanding Legal Service Civilian of the Year Award (Harold R. Vague
    Award). This award honors Major General Harold R. Vague, USAF, Retired, who formerly
    held the position of TJAG. The annual winner is a civilian employee selected as the most
    outstanding employee based upon demonstrated excellence, initiative, and devotion to duty.
    Eligible candidates are civilians, excluding attorneys, employed by or serving with The Judge
    Advocate General’s Corps and providing legal and/or administrative support to Corps legal
    offices. Give special consideration to individuals who develop or improve systems,
    programs, or procedures that enhance management efficiency or cost-effectiveness for Air
    Force legal programs.
    1.8. Outstanding Senior Attorney Award (Stuart R. Reichart Award). This award
    honors Mr. Stuart R. Reichart, who formerly held the position of General Counsel of the Air
    Force. It is presented annually by the Air Force Association (AFA) and recognizes the
    outstanding legal achievements of a senior Air Force attorney. The award honors
    demonstrated excellence and initiative; leadership and management skills; and
    professionalism in the practice of law. Eligible candidates are attorneys with at least 14 years
    of service with the Department of Defense, with the most recent 7 years as a judge advocate
    (AD or ARC) or civilian attorney, or both, for the Air Force. The last day for meeting the
    eligibility requirements is 31 December of the calendar year for which the award is given.
    Although nominations should cite specific personal achievements, the award is for
    continuous contributions throughout a career of federal service, not a single accomplishment.
    1.9. (Added-PACAF) PACAF Outstanding Base Legal Office (Mahalo) of the Year
    Award. This award recognizes outstanding achievement by a base legal office in leadership,
    achievements, and community service. It is presented annually for the preceding calendar
    year.
    1.10. (Added-PACAF) PACAF Outstanding Paralegal Airman (AB-SrA) of the Year
    Award. The annual winner is the active duty airman (AB-SrA) selected as the most
    outstanding paralegal of the year. Headings on the nomination form are limited to
    Leadership and Performance in Primary Duty, Significant Self-Improvement, and
    Base/Community Involvement. This award recognizes Airmen who are serving in the
    grade of senior airman and below as of 31 December of the year for which the award is
    given.
2. Submitting Nominations for Annual Awards:
    2.1. MAJCOMs and the Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA) will establish their
    own procedures to select command/organizational nominees. Each MAJCOM and AFLOA
    may submit one nomination per award category, except for the Reichart Award. There is no
    limit on the number of Reichart Award nominations that may be submitted – all Reichart
    Award nominations satisfying the award criteria shall be forwarded to the Professional
    Development Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General (AF/JAX) to be considered at
    the TJAG annual awards boards. All other field operating agencies, other direct reporting
    units, and all other organizations not specified above shall submit their nominations to
    AF/JAX to compete at the Headquarters Centralized Board. This centralized board is
AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009                                                        5


  designed to provide a more level playing field among all nominees; it will meet prior to the
  TJAG annual awards boards and will forward one nomination per award category, except for
  the Reichert Award, for which all nominations satisfying the award criteria will be
  considered at the TJAG annual award boards. The selected nominations from the
  Headquarters Centralized Board will compete at the TJAG annual awards boards against the
  nominations submitted by each MAJCOM and AFLOA. AF/JAX is the OPR for the
  Headquarters Centralized Board.
     2.1.1. (Added-PACAF) NAFs will establish their own procedures to select nominees.
     Each NAF may submit one nomination per award category, except for the Reichart
     Award. There is no limit on the number of Reichart nominations that may be submitted.
     All Reichart Award nominations satisfying the award criteria shall be forwarded to HQ
     PACAF for submission to AF/JAX.
  2.2. Submit nominations to AF/JAX through judge advocate channels. Limit nominations
  for all annual awards, except the Reichart Award, to activities occurring during the calendar
  year for which the award is given. You may highlight previous significant achievements that
  establish a consistent record of exemplary performance; however, the primary focus of the
  nomination must remain on the year for which the award is given. For all annual awards,
  emphasize the nominee’s accomplishments and how those accomplishments impacted the
  mission. Each nomination package shall be organized as follows:
     2.2.1. Attach the nomination package with two-hole punch fasteners in a standard brown
     file folder. Do not use staples, binders, plastic page covers, paper clips, or any other
     fastening. Place a white label on the front of each folder with the following information
     in all capital letters: nominee’s full name and rank on the first line, the annual award
     category on the second line, and the nominating MAJCOM (or appropriate organization)
     on the third line.
     2.2.2. On the left flap of the open folder, from top to bottom, assemble the following
     without tabs or dividers:
         2.2.2.1. Nomination Form. Submit one AF IMT 1206 using PureEdge™ Viewer
         software, in bullet format, not more than one page in length (front side only).
         Nominations for the Reichart Award only may utilize the front and reverse sides of
         the AF IMT 1206 – if the reverse side of the IMT is used, it must be printed head-to-
         foot for the nomination package. List the nominee’s accomplishments using the
         award criteria set out in the description of each annual award, above. Highlight the
         headings by typing them in all capital letters. For example, headings for a Kuhfeld
         Award nomination should be: DEMONSTRATED EXCELLENCE, INITIATIVE,
         and DEVOTION TO DUTY. Ensure that no text is concealed by fasteners. The
         name block on the IMT must also include the nominee’s ―            go by‖ name in
         parentheses.
             2.2.2.1.1. Indorsements. Type the name and rank of the initiating commander in
             the block on the AF IMT 1206 entitled ―
                                                   Rank/Name of Unit Commander.‖ The
             commander should not sign the nomination. Ensure the AF IMT 1206 contains
             the commander’s telephone number. No indorsement memoranda should be
             included nor will be considered.
6                                           AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009


           2.2.2.2. Biographical Sketch. Include a one-page biographical sketch in narrative
           format. Do not submit official Air Force biographies. For the Harmon and
           Westbrook awards, ensure that the biographical sketch details what, if any, civilian
           employment the nominee performs or any significant community involvement.
       2.2.3. For the Reichart Award only, in addition to the documents identified above, on the
       right flap of the open folder, from top to bottom, in reverse chronological order, printed
       head-to-foot, include copies of all officer performance reports or civilian performance
       appraisals. Do not use tabs or dividers.
       2.2.4. (Added-PACAF) NAFs will submit packages, including Nomination Form,
       Biographical Sketch, officer performance reports/civilian performance appraisals
       (Reichart Award only) and official photograph, via electronic mail to PACAF/JA v3
       mailbox.
       2.2.5. (Added-PACAF) The PACAF Base Legal Office (Mahalo) of the Year Award
       and the PACAF Outstanding Paralegal Airman (AB-SrA) of the Year Award are
       submitted in bullet format on an AF 1206, Nomination for Award. The PACAF Base
       Legal Office (Mahalo) of the Year Award is limited to one page in length (front side
       only). The PACAF Outstanding Paralegal Airman (AB-SrA) of the Year Award is
       limited to 28 lines, including headings.
3. Processing Nomination for Annual Awards:
    3.1. Forward the nomination package to: HQ USAF/JAX, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Room
    5B269, Washington, DC 20330-1420. The suspense for all nominations is 1 April annually,
    or if 1 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter. Each MAJCOM, AFLOA, and
    each organization covered by the Headquarters Centralized Board process may submit one
    nomination for each annual award category; however, any level of command may submit
    multiple nominations for the Reichart Award.
       3.1.1. (Added-PACAF) The suspense for all packages is 1 March annually, or if 1
       March falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.
    3.2. MAJCOM, AFLOA, and the Headquarters Centralized Board nominees must forward
    one official military photograph, head and shoulders shot, 8½‖ by 11‖, to AF/JAX by 15
    April annually, or if 15 April falls on a weekend, the first duty day thereafter.
4. Additional Achievement Awards:
    4.1. Special Service Award. This award recognizes outstanding individual contributions to
    The Judge Advocate General’s Corps. It may be presented to a member of the Corps, a
    military member outside the Corps, or a member of the civilian community. TJAG is the
    approval authority for the award. Candidates should be nominated within 90 days of their
    outstanding contribution to the Corps. Nominations may be submitted from any source at
    any time throughout the year; no particular format is required. Nominations originating
    within The Judge Advocate General’s Corps should be forwarded through respective
    MAJCOM staff judge advocates (or equivalent), for coordination, to AF/JAX. All other
    nominations may be submitted directly to AF/JAX.
    4.2. Unsung Hero Award (Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., Award). This award honors Brigadier
    General Olan G. Waldrop, Jr., USAF, Retired, who formerly held the position of Staff Judge
AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009                                                      7


   Advocate, Air Force Materiel Command. It recognizes individuals who demonstrate selfless
   devotion to duty, support to others, and dedication to the Judge Advocate General’s Corps.
   Nominations may be submitted from any source at any time throughout the year; no
   particular format is required. Submit nominations directly to the Office of The Judge
   Advocate General (AF/JA). TJAG will personally select any recipient or recipients. The
   selected individual or individuals will be announced at the annual TJAG awards banquet
   along with the annual award winners.
5. Recognition:
   5.1. Except for the Special Service Award, individuals are ineligible to receive the same
   TJAG award covered in this instruction on more than one occasion.
   5.2. Except for the Special Service Award, The Judge Advocate General will present award
   certificates and plaques to each winner at the annual TJAG awards banquet. The Reichart
   Award winner will also be recognized at the AFA’s annual Air & Space Conference and
   Technology Exposition. Plaques recognizing the winners in each category are displayed at
   the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s School.
   5.3. Military recipients of the annual awards covered in Paragraph 1 may wear the Air
   Force Recognition Ribbon; civilian recipients may wear the lapel pin.
   5.4. (Added-PACAF) Each PACAF-level winner will receive a plaque and photograph will
   be displayed at HQ PACAF.
6. Forms Adopted: This publication adopts AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, as
referenced in AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs.
6. (PACAF) Adopted Forms: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF 1206,
Nomination for Award.




                                          JACK L. RIVES, Lt General, USAF
                                          The Judge Advocate General

                                          (PACAF)

                                          DAWN E.B. SCHOLZ, Colonel, USAF
                                          Staff Judge Advocate
8                                        AFI36-2855_PACAFSUP_I 8 DECEMBER 2009


                                   ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD— Active Duty
AFA— Air Force Association
AFDW— Air Force District of Washington
AF/JA— Office of The Judge Advocate General
AFLOA— Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AGR— Active Guard Reserve
ARC— Air Reserve Component
IMT— Information Management Tool
JAX— Professional Development Division, Office of The Judge Advocate General
MAJCOM— Major Command
NCO— Noncommissioned Officer
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
TJAG— The Judge Advocate General
USAF— United States Air Force
USAFA— United States Air Force Academy
USAFR— United States Air Force Reserve
