BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                   AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        SUPPLEMENT

                                                                              1 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                   FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A7XE                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A7X
                                                                            (Col Sherry M. Bunch)
                                                                                         Pages: 3

AFI 32-2001, Fire and Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008, is supplemented as
follows. It prescribes unit mission, organization and responsibilities of the fire protection flight
within Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC). It applies to all AFGSC fire protection
flights. This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) firefighters in training status. Refer to AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency
Force (BEEF) Program, and applicable AFRC and ANG supplements. Refer recommended
changes or questions regarding this supplement to the Office of Primary Responsibilities (OPR)
using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims.
1.6.1. The Command Fire Emergency Services staff conducts Emergency Services-Staff
Assistance Visits (EO-SAV) in conjunction with a cross functional Readiness Division (HQ
AFGSC/A7X) team (emergency management, explosive ordnance disposal, fire emergency
services) to provide oversight and technical services to the installations.
1.8.1. The Civil Engineer (CE) Programs Flight Chief is responsible to the Fire Marshal to
ensure all construction projects are designed and constructed in accordance with all applicable
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC), Engineering Technical Letters (ETL), National Fire Protection
Association Codes and Standards (NFPA), Host Nation Agreements, and command specific
criteria. The CE Operations Flight Chief (or contractor operations service) is responsible to the
2                                              AFI 32-2001_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010


Fire Marshal for inspection, testing, maintenance, and documentation associated with all fire and
life safety systems, to include fire rated construction, fire detection, notification, suppression,
and water distribution systems.
3.2.1. The Fire Emergency Services Assessment Program (FESAP) will serve as the source
document to assess and validate compliance with regulatory requirements and training. AFGSC
will conduct an annual Fire Chief’s workshop in conjunction with the annual Fire and
Emergency Services Symposium to review FESAP compliance and discuss concerns affecting
AFGSC. This product will also serve as the primary program to illustrate career progression and
professional development.
3.3.2.1. Any deviation from the requirements of UFC 3-600-01 shall be submitted for exemption
approval to the AFGSC/A7O engineering staff.
3.3.2.1.1. (Added) The AFGSC/A7O engineering staff will serve as the primary point of contact
for facility engineering pertaining to fire and life safety systems and will coordinate with the
appropriate licensed technical experts as required. The AFGSC/A7O engineering staff, in
concert with the AFGSC/A7XE staff, develops fire protection engineering policies and guidance
to support AFGSC installations.
3.3.2.2. Fire department review does not signify full compliance with codes and criteria.
3.5.2.5. FES command vehicles will be equipped with ground to aircraft radios in order to assist
the incident commander with the management of aircraft/airfield emergencies.
5.1.1. Mutual Aid Agreements. Mutual aid agreements will be reviewed every two years and
updated as necessary.
5.1.9. Pre-incident plans will be reviewed and validated at least every two years.
AFI 32-2001_AFGSCSUP 1 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            3


                           Attachment 9 (Added)
        ICBM FACILITIES AND TRANSPORT VEHICLE FIRE PROTECTION

A9.1. Pre-Incident Planning For ICBM Facilities: Launch Facilities (LF), Launch Control
Centers (LCC), Launch Control Equipment Buildings (LCEB), Missile Alert Facilities (MAF),
and Missile Transport Incidents.
A9.1.1. The Base Fire Chief will ensure each community fire department supporting ICBM
facilities is contacted to verify emergency reporting phone numbers and emergency response
capabilities by 1 February on an annual basis (e.g. fire, hazardous materials, emergency medical
services, confined space rescue, high-angle rescue, etc). A dated copy of the contact and
capability listing will be maintained in the Emergency Communications Center (ECC).
A9.1.2. Each community fire department supporting ICBM facilities will be provided the
following information. Comply with DODD 5210.83, Department of Defense Unclassified
Controlled Nuclear Information, for routine release of Unclassified Controlled Nuclear
Information to emergency responders.
A9.1.2.1. Floor plans and fire protection features of MAF, LCC, LCEB, and LF.
A9.1.2.2. Isolation/Evacuation distances and hazards for MAF, LCC, LF, and transportation
incidents.
A9.1.2.3. ICBM Transport-vehicles description and hazards.
A9.1.2.4. Helicopter firefighting and rescue guidance (include other applicable aircraft guidance
emergency information as required).
A9.1.3. Training for LCC, LCEB, MAF, LF, and Transport Vehicle familiarization will be
offered to local community emergency responders at least annually.
A9.2. Missile Alert Facility (MAF) Manager Training:
A9.2. MAF Managers will receive initial (upon appointment) and annual refresher training from
Base Fire Prevention personnel regarding the inspection and use of facility fire extinguishers and
standpipe systems, fire alarm systems, suppressions systems, and fire/emergency reporting
procedures.
A9.2.1. Facility occupants will be instructed to immediately contact the Base Fire Department
when reporting fire-related emergencies. The Emergency Communication Center will in turn
contact the appropriate community response agency. Flight Security Controllers, crew members,
and facility managers will be briefed on the importance of immediate emergency reporting and
expected response times.
A9.2.2. The Fire Chief will ensure facilities fire reporting and fire evacuation drills are
conducted annually and fire reporting numbers are clearly posted.



                                                    ANN L. MITCHELL, SES, DAF
                                                    Director of Logistics, Installations, and
                                                    Mission Support
