BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1023
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                     AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                          SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                16 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                           DESIGNING AND CONSTRUCTING
                                                       MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A7PP                                                 Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A7P
                                                                         (Lt Col Walter D. Graves)
                                                                                         Pages: 17
This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 32-1023, Designing and Constructing
Military Construction Projects, 21 April 2010. This supplement identifies and describes basic
architectural and interior design facility standards for any Air Force Global Strike Command
(AFGSC) facility. These standards also provide the foundation for a sound base appearance program.
AFGSC facilities include any facility located on an AFGSC installation or belonging to an AFGSC
unit including tenants on AFGSC bases and AFGSC units on other Major Command (MAJCOM)
Installations. It covers all project types including Military Construction (MILCON), Operations and
Management (O&M), Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF), Emergency MILCON (P-341), and any base
or tenant support by contract, in-house, Self-Help, Guard or Reserve Forces or Rapid Engineer
Deployable Heavy Operations Repair Squadron Engineer (RED HORSE) resources. AFGSC units are
authorized to further supplement this supplement with stricter standards. AFGSC Civil Engineer (CE)
reserves the right to approve such supplements prior to issuance. This instruction applies to HQ
AFGSC, its Numbered Air Forces (NAF) and their assigned wings. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
    2                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


(Added) Chapter 6
(Added) AFGSC ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS
6.1. (Added) Architectural Design Policy:
6.1.1. (Added) General. "Good design" is defined as design that contributes to the overall harmony
and appearance of the base rather than design that attracts individual attention. Common architectural
element or theme should tie all buildings together to create architectural compatibility and enhance
base appearance. Buildings that hold special importance on the base such as wing headquarters and
chapels should stand out as object buildings. Other buildings should function as background
buildings. All buildings should be aesthetically attractive, convenient and logically laid out,
technically sound, compatible with their environment and built to reduce life cycle costs. Responsible
design and attention to detail will achieve this goal.
6.1.2. (Added) Site Conditions. Provide site improvements and building forms appropriate to any
new, future or existing buildings. Facilities having similar or related functions should be located in
the same vicinity. Do not let parking dominate. Encourage pedestrian access. Relate building forms to
each other. Create small clusters of related buildings as opposed to spreading out buildings across the
landscape.
6.1.2.1. (Added) Environmental. Design facilities in ways that enhance environmental quality and
minimize consumption of natural resources. Tightly cluster buildings that are related to each other
creating walkable campuses. These clusters will reduce the amount of land use, utility costs to run
utilities to large expanses of land and vehicle costs to move from building to building.
6.1.2.2. (Added) Layouts. Provide functional layouts that are logical and satisfy users' needs both
inside and outside of the facility as well as layouts that have the ability to accommodate other future
users. Anticipate and plan for expansion.
6.1.2.3. (Added) Low Maintenance. Use permanent, low-maintenance exteriors that are compatible
with AFGSC base standards and their natural and manmade environments. Use materials that do not
require painting during their lifetime. Emphasize low life-cycle costs. Use indigenous landscaping
that requires little or no irrigation, little or no maintenance and does not attract birds and/or other
wildlife that may pose a hazard to aviation.
6.1.2.4. (Added) Aesthetics. Design buildings that are aesthetically attractive using materials that are
indigenous to the local area or the function of the building. Keep in mind that not all buildings have
to be object buildings. Facilities such as wing headquarters, chapels, public buildings, etc., should
stand out as object buildings, whereas other buildings should blend into the background emphasizing
the object buildings. Facilities should foster a sense of pride among its occupants.
6.1.2.5. (Added) Technology. Provide technically sound buildings at low costs. Take advantage of
emerging technologies.
6.1.2.6. (Added) Cost. Reduce life-cycle costs. Concentrate on low life-cycle costs as opposed to low
initial costs. AFGSC facilities should be designed, constructed and maintained to last decades.
Reduce labor-intensive maintenance procedures.
6.1.2.7. (Added) Approval. Obtain user approval of design concept layout prior to predesign
conferences in order to prevent costly changes during final design, contracting and construction. This
    3                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


is normally done through a Customer Concept Document (CCD) prior to preparation of programming
documents.
6.2. (Added) Site Design. The land between and around buildings provides the fabric which holds
bases together. As such, these areas need to be as well thought out as the buildings. Well-designed
outdoor spaces help create friendly, inviting, walkable communities. Site selection and design are
important to achieve compatibility with the base General Plan (GP). The following guidelines for site
location, site issues, pavements, landscaping, site amenities, site signage and infrastructure will help
contribute to this compatibility. Include all applicable standards including Antiterrorism/Force
Protection (AT/FP).
6.2.1. (Added) Location. Situate new buildings within compatible functional groups as determined
by the base master plan.
6.2.1.1. (Added) Complexes. Locate buildings supporting common functions such as civil
engineering, administrative or flying functions in complexes in order to share a common
infrastructure of roads, parking, utilities and security. These tight clusters should read as one idea
with similar details and materials that link them aesthetically as well as functionally. Provide enough
space around a complex for expansion. Assume 10 percent expansion whenever other supporting data
is not available.
6.2.1.2. (Added) Traffic. When existing traffic patterns are changed by new construction proposals,
provide adequate traffic alternatives to coincide with construction of the new project. Locate
buildings so that you can walk between buildings in a functional group. Only encourage driving when
walking cannot be accommodated.
6.2.1.3. (Added) Noise. Consider noise levels and attenuation requirements when locating facilities.
Do not locate facilities within incompatible noise zones unless no other options are available.
6.2.2. (Added) Site. Once the site has been selected, address every aspect of site planning early in the
process, including building siting, relationship of interior spaces to the site, pavement, landscaping,
pedestrian access, signage, service equipment, infrastructure and other barriers. Design facilities
considering both the inside functional requirements of the buildings and the influence of the site.
6.2.2.1. (Added) Site influence. Do not use sites that force building functions into basements, third
floors, or uneconomical shapes such as curves, diagonals or long rectangles unless no other
alternative exists.
6.2.2.2. (Added) Open Area. Use sites that permit open landscape space around buildings to separate
the building from required pavement. Prevent an overcrowded appearance. Do not allow pavements
to come directly up to facilities except for especially selected, purely industrial uses.
6.2.2.3. (Added) Existing Site Contours. After positive drainage away from buildings is developed,
use existing or natural grades and contours to avoid excessive cut and fill operations.
6.2.2.4. (Added) Setbacks. Sites need to allow minimum setbacks from other structures such as
buildings, roads and parking to meet force protection requirements per Department of Defense
Unified Criteria (DoD UFC) 4-010-01, Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings.
6.2.2.5. (Added) Environmental. Site buildings in accordance with appropriate laws and directives
regarding wetlands, flood plains, protected species habitat and archeological sites.
    4                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.2.2.6. (Added) Screening. Screen utility equipment, dumpsters and storage areas when appropriate.
Ensure compliance with Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings. Use walls and mature
landscaping or berms. Exterior recycling bins should be treated and screened as trash dumpsters
where appropriate.
6.2.3. (Added) Pavements. Pavements include streets, parking lots, sidewalks and airfield pavement.
6.2.3.1. (Added) Parking. Use size, location and screening to prevent parking from becoming a
dominant feature. Use consistent angles and stall sizes in all parking areas. Use drop-off areas at
high-use facilities to decrease close-in parking. Use raised parking islands to break up parking areas.
Curb all parking lots and avoid using wheel stops/bumper blocks.
6.2.3.2. (Added) Buildings and Parking Lots. When a building is located between a street and a
parking lot the building appearance is improved and the parking is screened with minimum cost.
Consider building shape and relationship to other buildings to provide as much screening as possible.
Ensure the principle or main view of the building presents a pleasing and uncluttered appearance. The
parking arrangement is a major factor in providing an orderly appearance. Ensure distances between
facilities and parking areas are in accordance with Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings.
6.2.3.3. (Added) Parking Lot Size. Use separate smaller parking lots of 50 cars or less rather than
one large lot. Where large parking lots exist, landscape approximately 10 percent of the area within
the lot.
6.2.3.4. (Added) Walking Distance. Design parking lots to limit walking distance. Use a maximum
of 200 feet for most buildings; for transient and unaccompanied housing, limit luggage carrying and
walking distance to 100 feet.
6.2.3.5. (Added) Paving. Use economical asphalt paving for most vehicle parking areas. Use
concrete for sidewalks and curbs. Consider special unit pavers for courtyards, plazas, entrances and
other high-profile sites or where needed for historical preservation. Provide a landscape buffer
between all buildings and paved areas.
6.2.3.6. (Added) Streets. Avoid utility or other cuts in pavement. Whenever possible, use tunneling
technologies to go under pavement with conduits or piping. Streets should intersect at right angles
and offset intersections should be avoided.
6.2.3.7. (Added) Curbing. Curb all parking, access roads and streets (except remote/isolated). All
primary streets and all parking lots should be paved with integral concrete curbs and gutters. Painted
curbs are very difficult to maintain so they should not be used. Provide mower ramps for access to
grass areas.
6.2.3.8. (Added) Walkways. Use concrete walkways at least 48 inches wide to link facilities and
promote pedestrian use. Illuminate walkways used heavily at night. Provide walkways on at least one
side of every street and between all facilities. Avoid placing utility poles or signs too close to
sidewalks.
6.2.3.9. (Added) Handicapped Access. Ensure handicapped access is provided at intersections,
crosswalks and wherever Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard (UFAS) or Architectural Barriers
Act (ABA) requires placement.
    5                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.2.3.10. (Added) Drainage. Design paved areas to minimize drainage. Drain into natural water
courses, detention and retention ponds.
6.2.4. (Added) Landscape. The use of appropriate trees and other landscape plantings adds beauty to
the base, promotes energy efficiency, inhibits erosion, reduces noises and enhances safety by helping
to control blowing/drifting snow. Landscape planting also supports national policy aimed at
enhancing air quality. All landscape plantings should comply with the base land management plan.
Develop functional rather than purely visual landscapes. Plan to reduce maintenance. Provide a
landscaped space uncluttered by vehicles in front, at the entrance, and between the main viewing
street and buildings.
6.2.4.1. (Added) Plant Material. Consult the base architectural standards for an appropriate
landscaping material list. Use indigenous, low maintenance, adapted trees and shrubs locally
recommended for urban or street use that can survive without irrigation after the first season (one
year) warranty maintenance period. Do not use plant material that drops large amounts of fruit or
seedpods. Select deciduous trees that drop all their leaves early in the fall season rather than those that
retain brown leaves most of the winter and continue to be a maintenance problem for many months.
Consider fabric barriers that contain an effective pre-emergent herbicide that will provide protection
for many years.
6.2.4.2. (Added) Sustainable Landscaping. Landscaping practices should incorporate sound design
planning while minimizing the requirement for fertilizers and pesticides. Use water efficient practices
such as mulches, efficient irrigation systems (drip irrigation), and reclaimed water. Consider using
boulders with plants, gravel blankets for grass, and pebbles for ground cover. Soften arid landscaping
with varied contours and drought-tolerant plantings.
6.2.4.3. (Added) Preservation. Preserve existing landscape where possible. Use consolidated
development areas to help preserve the existing landscape. Avoid over planting and allow for natural
growth and form of plants. Limit turf and keep it free of obstructions which require trimming. Define
planting areas with walkways, edging and concrete curbs.
6.2.4.4. (Added) Mowing Strips. Provide planting beds with wide mowing strips. Mowing strips
should eliminate hand trimming and edging caused by turf creeping into bedding plants.
6.2.4.5. (Added) Surface Runoff. Use trees, shrubs, grass and landscaping to manage storm water
runoff. Terrace steep slopes.
6.2.4.6. (Added) Berms. Use berms to screen and restrict views. Limit berm slope to one foot in 10
feet. Do not use earth berms against building walls.
6.2.4.7. (Added) Function. Use landscape to reduce energy cost, shade to prevent heat and glare, and
windbreaks to lessen air infiltration. Use landscape to screen unsightly views, control pedestrian
circulation, define entries and accentuate outdoor amenities.
6.2.5. (Added) Site Components. Site components include site furniture, bicycle racks, trash
receptacles, etc. Site components and the spaces in between buildings should be as carefully planned
as the spaces within buildings. These spaces provide a cost-effective way to provide pleasurable
spaces. Encourage attention to detail concerning each of these site components. Work to reduce visual
clutter, unnecessary signs, receptacles, etc. Include all applicable standards including AT/FP.
    6                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.2.5.1. (Added) Site Furniture. Site furniture is defined as furniture or other accessories provided in
outdoor areas for the comfort or convenience of personnel. Examples are benches, litter receptacles,
ash cans, picnic tables, and bicycle racks. The design of site furnishings should respond to the local
climate and cultural influences.
6.2.5.2. (Added) Color. Use site furnishings to complement exterior color schemes. Limit colorful
accents to high-profile sites. Ban the use of red ash cans and yellow equipment pipe bollards. Traffic
control bollards conform to traffic standards.
6.2.5.3. (Added) Materials. Use durable materials that are appropriate for the architectural context
and the environment, such as factory-finished metals, precast concrete or quality wood. In hot
climates, be careful of metal finishes that may burn anyone who might touch the object.
6.2.5.4. (Added) Outdoor Seating. Provide comfortable benches or seat walls near building
entrances and in courtyards. Tables should be limited to informal gathering places such as picnic or
dining areas.
6.2.5.5. (Added) Receptacles. Place litter receptacles and planters on paved sites where they are clear
of circulation. All litter receptacles require attached lids. Ash receptacles must match outdoor
furniture.
6.2.5.6. (Added) Bollards. Bollards shall be set into paving or placed in sleeves to allow access. Use
bollards to enhance pedestrian protection and provide vehicle control.
6.2.5.7. (Added) Bicycle Racks. Bicycle racks should be located near entrances in secure, visible
areas. Racks must be on concrete, brick or block pads. Use simple, attractive racks.
6.2.5.8. (Added) Other Assorted Items. Consider accessories such as newspaper vending machines,
smoking receptacles, planters, refuse containers and other equipment in design plans. Neutralize the
visual impact of these items by painting, concealment, or removal. Develop a base standard that
defines acceptable means of accomplishment. Locate these items in convenient yet discrete locations.
6.2.6. (Added) Site Signage. Site signage must provide clear, consistent and necessary direction or
information. Correctly designed and controlled signs can be a positive aspect of the installation's
overall professional image and appearance.
6.2.6.1. (Added) Visual Clutter. Reduce visual clutter by eliminating super-graphics, poorly
designed signs and outdated information. Condense and consolidate information to minimize the
number of signs. Standardize the height of all signs by type. Use sign systems that will accommodate
changes. All signs will be in accordance with UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard.
6.2.6.2. (Added) Color. All exterior signs will be consistent throughout each installation. Poles and
backs of signs should be painted or factory finished to match.
6.2.6.3. (Added) Street Signs. Include the AFGSC shield on all street signs. Color and lettering
should be consistent across the installation. Ensure there is a street name sign for each street at
intersections.
6.2.6.4. (Added) Directional Signs. Install directional signs only where needed to guide visitors and
new base personnel. Normally, only four entries should be displayed on a sign.
    7                                                AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.2.6.5. (Added) Special Signs. Limit unique signage to high-visibility locations where highlights are
required to support the architectural theme. Avoid plastic letters and marquee and warning signs on
the outside of utility or equipment room doors unless required by code.
6.2.6.6. (Added) Parking Signs. Reduce the number of parking signs by strictly limiting reserved
parking, including temporary reserved parking. Standardize reserved parking designations by
installation.
6.2.6.7. (Added) Temporary Sign Standards. Develop a simple base standard for temporary signs
such as a painted brown 4"x4" column with a wood base and a brown sign with white lettering.
6.2.7. (Added) Infrastructure. Components of the installation infrastructure such as street and area
lighting and fuel and water storage tanks must be considered when developing facilities. Emphasis
should be placed on reducing visual impact by proper siting, painting, screening or concealment.
Utilities should be underground whenever possible. Allow sufficient capacity for future growth.
Ensure all applicable standards are followed including AT/FP.
6.2.7.1. (Added) Color. New equipment should have a factory-applied color appropriate to the
installation standards. Paint existing equipment to match. Avoid galvanized or green finishes.
6.2.7.2. (Added) Screening. Use walls and landscaping to screen all utility equipment but maintain
required access and clear zones. Avoid the use of metal or wood fencing. See the Base architectural
standards for screening materials appropriate at each base.
6.2.7.3. (Added) Special Purpose Lights. Use lighted bollards along high-use walkways, inset stair
and wall lights for plazas and high-use walkways.
6.2.7.4. (Added) Street and Parking Lights. Rectangular shaped luminaries are preferred for high-
profile locations and dark colored cobra heads for outlying sites. Comply with the Base architectural
standards. Use consistent lamp types. Metal halide lamps are preferred for most areas, but high-
pressure sodium lamps may be used where necessary. Avoid bright finishes and trendy mountings.
Avoid use of low-pressure sodium lamps.
6.2.7.5. (Added) Fuel and Water Storage Tanks. Avoid multiple colors, super-graphics, logos and
glossy finishes. Colors should be consistent with the installation base architectural standards.
Elevated storage tanks may be used to display the AFGSC shield if appropriately sized and
proportioned (see UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standards, for requirements).
6.2.7.6. (Added) Security. Use quartz lights in secure areas and controlled access points where an
instant-on feature is required.
6.2.7.7. (Added) Fire Protection. All facilities must be designed and constructed in accordance with
Mil Handbook 1008C and UFC.
6.2.7.8. (Added) Sewer. When siting multiple facilities, gravity flow sewers are desired instead of
individual pumping stations at each facility.
6.2.7.9. (Added) Efficient Use of Utilities. New facilities must be designed and constructed to
minimize life cycle costs or exceed energy performance standards. Active and passive solar will be
considered in new designs. Water conservation initiatives are encouraged. Many varieties of
fluorescent and high-intensity discharge lighting will produce quality lighting.
6.3. (Added) Facility Design:
    8                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.3.1. (Added) General. Buildings and the areas around them provide not only places of work and
relaxation, but also reflect a sense of pride. As such, each building and its site should be aesthetically
attractive, convenient for its users, technically sound, compatible with its environment and built with
long-lasting materials and details. Refer to the installation base architectural standards for exterior
base standards. Base standards establish an architectural theme in keeping with the existing historical
styles, local climate and construction standards. Provide economical construction without
compromising a high quality, architecturally pleasing and professional military appearance. Ensure
all standards are followed including AT/FP.
6.3.2. (Added) Exterior. Requires careful management to achieve the desired overall compatibility.
Each base has to define a context and direction based on existing built and natural environment.
Ensure that the exterior details respond to the building's use, location and importance on base. Use of
the following guidelines will achieve the desired AFGSC standard.
6.3.3. (Added) Form. Use simple plans and building forms as well as conventional sloping roofs.
Eave heights may vary as required by interior functional relationships, but do not use more than one
pitch angle on a building. Do not combine two kinds of roof such as flat and sloping roofs on the
same building unless it is clearly justified by the influence of adjacent architecture, building function
or layout. Minimize corners, offsets and curves on horizontal and vertical surfaces. Use only as
clearly justified by the adjacent architecture, building function or layout.
6.3.3.1. (Added) New versus Old. Imitate and improve on existing base building forms to provide
harmony between new and old. When new sloping roofed buildings are sited among existing flat
profiled buildings, steps must be taken to develop some secondary flat forms to relate the new to the
old.
6.3.3.2. (Added) Height. Except for dormitories, which are limited to three stories, limit buildings to
two stories above ground unless approved by AFGSC/A7P.
6.3.3.3. (Added) Main Entrance. Emphasize the main entrance of all facilities.
6.3.3.4. (Added) Mechanical. Do not let mechanical systems become form-givers. Locate
mechanical units to the rear or side of buildings. Design these features to blend in and to integrate
with the building architecture in such a way that they are not prominent or detectable. Match
materials for mechanical enclosures to the building they serve (i.e., masonry with masonry). Use of
roof-mounted equipment requires a waiver from HQ AFGSC/A7P. If required, match the equipment
enclosure to the roof or wall material, as much as possible. Equipment wells are also acceptable. As a
minimum, screen any equipment at ground level with landscape. In arid climates, architectural
screens are required. When screening mechanical equipment, ensure adequate clearance as
recommended by the equipment manufacturer is provided to allow for proper air circulation and
maintenance.
6.3.4. (Added) Walls. Minimize use of curves, cants or angles other than 90-degree corners. Use only
as clearly justified by the adjacent architecture, building function or layout.
6.3.4.1. (Added) Material. On exterior walls, use low maintenance, durable materials that are
integrally colored and textured such as brick, split-face Concrete Masonry Units (CMU), split ribbed
CMU, prominently exposed aggregate on precast concrete or other substrates and integrally colored
concrete that is textured by use of form liners. Brushed, honed or sandblasted concrete is not
acceptable. Avoid materials that require painting. Use of bricks, blocks or grout containing fly ash or
    9                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


other byproducts is encouraged. Use concrete containing fly ash or other recycled materials. On
interior walls, the use of exposed or painted CMU is not allowed except in gymnasiums or industrial
uses.
6.3.4.2. (Added) Metal. Metal walls are only acceptable for extremely large buildings such as aircraft
hangars and temporary buildings.
6.3.4.3. (Added) Doors and Windows. Use energy-efficient doors, windows and door/window
frames. Consider if doors or windows from previous facility modifications can be reused/recycled.
Use of doors, windows and door/window framing containing recycled materials is encouraged.
6.3.4.4. (Added) Painting. Do not paint new buildings and do not use materials that are typically
restored by painting such as stucco, metal fascia and various kinds of siding. Do not paint CMU.
Secondary doors may be painted as described in the next paragraph. On metal buildings, select a
factory prefinished material. See the base architectural standards for this selection.
6.3.4.5. (Added) Anodized Aluminum. Color anodized aluminum in neutral colors is recommended
for exterior metals normally associated with walls such as fascia, gutters, downspouts, windows and
building entrances. Fire exit doors and other secondary doors and frames may be painted for
economy. When painting secondary doors and fire exits, they should be painted to match the primary
color anodized entrances or painted to match adjacent walls; this is a designer option. The objective is
to produce a simple appearance which is uncluttered by many colored shapes.
6.3.5. (Added) Doors and Windows. Aluminum anodized, factory finished door and window frames
are preferred for most locations. Avoid use of mirrored glazing. Operable windows and tinted,
energy-efficient glazing are encouraged. Where appropriate, install window screens to take advantage
of natural ventilation. Provide window screens where windows are operable and designed for
ventilation. Windows that operate primarily to allow cleaning do not need screens. Provide screens
for Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing (UEPH).
6.3.6. (Added) Roofs. Use sloped roofs greater than 3:12 on AFGSC buildings except where
mandated by historical preservation requirements. Use proven cost-effective roof systems with high
durability and weather resistance such as factory-finished standing-seam metal or shingle roof. These
low-maintenance alternatives are required because of the poor maintenance history of flat multi-ply
built-up roofs. Generally use a hip or gabled roof. Do not combine roofing materials such as metal
and shingles on one roof. Make all of the building parts compatible with each other. Overhangs for
weather protection and shade are desirable. Avoid rooftop mechanical equipment. Where
unavoidable, make sure rooftop units are screened. Use of roof- top mechanical units requires a
waiver from HQ AFGSC/A7P. Roofing made from recycled materials is recommended.
6.3.6.1. (Added) Alternatives. Do not use low slope roofing if 3:12 or steeper pitch is feasible.
Building form and size (extremely large buildings such as supply facilities or commissaries) may
occasionally require lower slopes and other materials. Slopes as low as 1:12 are generally accepted
for metal (consult with manufacturers for particulars). When a multi-ply built-up roof is used, slope
the roof at 1/4:12 minimum. The slope is to be accomplished with structural members for new built-
up roofs, not by tapering the insulation. Roofs with slopes under 3:12 require a waiver from HQ
AFGSC/A7P.
    10                                                AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.3.6.2. (Added) Drainage. Provide continuous roof slope to the perimeter of the building. Do not
design interior valleys or depressions that will form ponds if a roof drain becomes obstructed. Ensure
overflow scuppers are provided in accordance with applicable codes for parapets.
6.3.6.3. (Added) Skylights and Clerestories. These features may be used where strong functional
and economic justification dictates. Fully document economic justification and submit with proposed
design to include life-cycle cost of special ballast and control devices. Be sure to consider heat load
and occupant comfort as part of the proposed design. General area lighting for warehouses is not
considered strong enough functional justification to compensate for the generally high maintenance
associated with large numbers of skylights on a flat roof.
6.3.6.4. (Added) Metal Fascia. Do not use wide metal fascias with flat roofed buildings. If a band is
desired around the top of a building, provide it with masonry detailing such as projections, soldier
course or stack bond. Masonry detailing provides a more durable maintenance free fascia that does
not require painting.
6.3.7. (Added) Additions. When building additions are proposed, careful coordination is required to
determine if the addition should match the old building or if the old building should be changed and
brought up to AFGSC standards at the same time as the addition.
6.3.7.1. (Added) Small Additions. When additions are less than 25% of the existing building's floor
area, design additions to match the original construction.
6.3.7.2. (Added) Large Additions. When additions exceed 40% of the original building area, the
addition and the original construction are required to comply with AFGSC standards. For example, a
flat-roofed building of 10,000 square feet needs an addition of 5,000 square feet. In this example
5,000 is more than 40%. Therefore, the addition shall have a sloped roof per this instruction, and the
roof of the original building shall be replaced with a sloped roof.
6.3.7.3. (Added) Compatibility. In either case (large or small), when additions are complete, they
should be architecturally compatible rather than obvious add-ons.
6.3.7.4. (Added) Fire Sprinklers. Designers need to evaluate the need for sprinkler protection for
both the new and existing structures in accordance with Mil Handbook 1008C and NFPA 101.
6.3.8. (Added) Metal Buildings. Metal buildings may be used for large structures, such as hangars,
or temporary facilities. All metal buildings except hangars require a waiver from AFGSC CE. Large
buildings are still required to have a masonry base proportionate to the height of the building.
Temporary buildings must be approved and justified IAW the provisions of AFI 32-1021 Chapter 6.
Specialized facilities such as water towers and fuel tanks may be metal.
6.3.8.1. (Added) Location. Do not use metal buildings in highly visible locations unless other metal
buildings surround them. Metal buildings used anywhere should be well screened with walls or
vegetation. Large structures require a masonry base proportional to the height of the building. When
designing a new metal building, consider using a textured, integrally colored masonry base for
durability.
6.3.8.2. (Added) Finish. Use factory applied finishes with more than 15-year warranties.
6.3.8.3. (Added) Submit Site Justification. At the programming stage, submit siting criteria and
waiver request to HQ AFGSC/A7P when required. Indicate adjacent building construction. If the
    11                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


building is isolated, describe how visible it is from major, minor or service roads. State reason for
selection of metal over masonry in addition to cost consideration.
6.3.8.4. (Added) Protective Masonry. Provide protection on the exterior of buildings where impact
to metal panels is probable. For example, integrally colored and textured masonry should be used at
entrances, at corners, exterior wainscot to four feet high where vehicles are parked next to buildings,
around forklift operations and at loading docks.
6.3.9. (Added) Colors. Each installation is required to have an exterior color standard. The
Command standard for the field color is neutral colors (i.e. grey, tan or beige) or colors that naturally
occur in traditional building materials. Trim colors will be complementary to regional color motifs.
Use neutral anodized colors, such as brown tone or gray tone. Judgment has to be exercised in
selection of colors for isolated miscellaneous features such as exit doors, downspouts, etc. In some
cases, a building benefits from having isolated features colored to match adjacent light-colored walls.
This is very important on older buildings with many windows and doors. Coloring trim a contrasting
color can produce a cluttered appearance.
6.3.9.1. (Added) Wall Materials. Select neutral colors such as beiges and browns.
6.3.9.2. (Added) Exterior Metals. Use neutral anodized colors such as bronze. When aluminum,
hollow metal and wood are mixed on one building, hollow metal and wood may be painted to match
the aluminum color or adjacent walls. In any case, do not use a third color that does not match the
bronze metals. Use one trim color to the greatest extent possible.
6.3.9.3. (Added) New Work. Do not paint new masonry.
6.3.9.4. (Added) Color Use. Usually two colors on a building produce the best appearance--one wall
color and one trim color. Do not use more than three colors--one wall color and two trim or accent
colors such as exposed aggregate fascia, columns, beams, etc.
6.3.10. (Added) Utility and Dumpster Enclosures. Provide an enclosed yard to conceal
miscellaneous support items such as generators; transformers; trash; lawn equipment; flammable
storage; heating, ventilating, and air conditioning; meters; and aboveground tanks.
6.3.10.1. (Added) Enclosures. Match enclosing walls to the building wall material. Split faced CMU
is a good durable material. When this is not possible, metal slats and planting may be used. In some
cases, plant material by itself may be used to conceal the service area, but it must functionally conceal
the service area at the time of planting. All enclosures need to be at least 6 feet tall. If the items being
concealed are taller than 6 feet, then the enclosure should be as tall as the tallest item in the
enclosures plus 6 inches. The use of open panel block is permitted when enclosing electrical
substations, transformers or switches for proper heat dissipation.
6.3.10.2. (Added) Gates. Provide gates for trash enclosures or where accessibility or serviceability is
an issue of concern/function.
6.3.10.3. (Added) Subdivide. Organize and layout the service yards by responsibility. For instance,
HVAC equipment should not be in the trash enclosure. Many of the functions may require separation
and separate access such as tools, lawn mowers, fuel, etc.
6.3.10.4. (Added) Pavement. Provide vehicular access and surfacing such as pavement, grass pavers,
or gravel to reduce maintenance. Use concrete curbs or edging.
    12                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.3.10.5. (Added) Service Areas. Integrate service areas with the building design and match adjacent
materials.
6.3.11. (Added) K-SPAN. K-SPAN use and application are more suited to forward operating
locations of Central Command (CENTCOM) and Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), or during
contingency operations. In all cases, K-SPAN facilities to be located on AFGSC bases require HQ
AFGSC/A7P siting approval prior to purchase, delivery or start of work. Treat inflatable buildings the
same.
6.3.11.1. (Added) Use. Limit K-SPAN to storage applications outside the main area of AFGSC bases
such as weapon storage areas or industrial yards.
6.3.11.2. (Added) Structural. Provide additional reinforcing and structural analysis when either
design wind load or design live load exceeds allowable values for a K-SPAN structure of given width
and height. Consider K-SPAN structures with a factory finished metal.
6.3.11.3. (Added) Site Justification. Submit site justification with programming documents. Provide
enough information about the intended site to satisfy HQ AFGSC/A7P that the K-SPAN buildings
will be compatible with their surroundings. Indicate what is in the site vicinity and if the buildings are
visible from roads or populated areas.
6.3.12. (Added) Solar Application. Integrate solar components with roof or wall forms. Give
preference to passive solar applications over active solar applications. Do not let solar components
clutter or break the normal building form line. EXAMPLE: Vertical collectors should look like glass
walls and roof collectors should match the roof slope. EXCEPTIONS: When collectors do not look
like walls or match roof slopes, screen them from view with materials that coordinate with the
building material.
6.3.13. (Added) Facility Signs. Provide signs that comply with base architectural compatibility.
Limit signs to function identification and street address, and ensure they are easily readable from the
street. Avoid miscellaneous emblems, logos and direct-paint applications. Standardize building
address sign size and placement on each installation. One unit identification sign is permitted for each
facility.
6.3.13.1. (Added) Moving Signs. Do not use moving or revolving signs.
6.3.13.2. (Added) Monument. Use of pole-mounted or Army & Air Force Exchange Service
(AAFES) concession monument signs is a local base decision that has to consider suitability in terms
of base architectural compatibility issues. Base personnel should decide this issue.
6.3.13.3. (Added) Lettering Size. Keep sign sizes to a minimum. The rule to follow for readability is
one inch of letter height for each 25 feet of view distance. EXAMPLE: If a sign is intended to be
read from a passing car using a road 100 feet away, the largest sign lettering would be 4 inches (100
divided by 25 equals 4). Do not oversize.
6.3.13.4. (Added) AAFES/Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA)/Commercial Signs. Logo and
lettering supplied by AAFES/DeCA/or the parent organization are required to be light to dark bronze.
It must also comply with the standards that follow.
    13                                                AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.3.13.4.1. (Added) Format shall be AAFES logo followed by facility name (i.e., AAFES BASE
EXCHANGE). This format shall be used for all AAFES facilities including shoppettes, laundry and
dry cleaners, military clothing sales and class six stores.
6.3.13.4.2. (Added) Logo and facility name shall be the same height and positioned on one
continuous horizontal line wherever possible.
6.3.13.4.3. (Added) Facility name shall be spelled out completely with individual letters.
6.3.13.4.4. (Added) Logo and letters shall be mounted directly to the building fascia or exterior wall
adjacent to the facility's main entrance. The back edge of logo and letters shall be 1/4 inch from the
face of the wall or fascia.
6.3.13.4.5. (Added) Logo and letters shall be light or dark bronze anodized aluminum or other
noncorrosive material in a light or dark bronze color. Select finish color for maximum contrast and
readability.
6.3.13.4.6. (Added) Logo and letters shall be available in even height increments from 2 to 16 inches.
Choose the appropriate size and color for each facility and location.
6.3.13.4.7. (Added) The ratio of height to depth of logo and letters shall be approximately 8 to 1.
6.3.13.5. (Added) Lighted Signs. Internally lighted signs create a commercial impression that is not
compatible with AFGSC goals. When night visibility is functionally required, use external flood or
spotlights that illuminate both the sign and adjacent landscape or building. Illumination of the sign
with its surroundings makes a better impression and improves orientation.
6.3.13.6. (Added) Lettering. All lettering on all base signs should be of the same style. Uppercase
Helvetica medium type style is recommended.
6.3.14. (Added) Exterior Graphics, Striping and Banding:
6.3.14.1. (Added) Super Graphics. Painted stripes and letters may be used to rehabilitate large,
plain, existing buildings. Design graphics to function: define entrances, identify building numbers and
conceal clutter. Proportion graphics to the building size. Do not exceed three feet in height of letters
or banding for the largest buildings.
6.3.14.2. (Added) Use. Use graphics to relate buildings to each other instead of making a building
prominent.
6.3.14.3. (Added) Limits. Graphics are not required on every building. Too much graphic work
reduces a building to a billboard. Except for painted masonry and metal buildings, identification
signage should be located in adjacent landscaped space at eye level rather than being attached to walls
or fascia. This will provide a better impression of the total base. A building's order of importance
should be established by factors such as quality of architecture and landscape, not size and location of
signage.
6.3.14.4. (Added) New Buildings. Do not use high-color contrasting bands and stripes on new
buildings. Use masonry detailing, or texture changes to provide interest. This does not apply to
exposed aggregate panels when used as a fascia.
    14                                                 AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


6.3.14.5. (Added) Structural Elements. Do not paint structural columns and beams. This approach
generally creates clutter. Instead, design a banding scheme that relates the building to other buildings
on the base.
6.3.15. (Added) Antiterrorism/Force Protection (UFC 4-010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism
Standards for Buildings). Coordinate and integrate AT/FP elements such as walls, blast protection
and fences with base and building architecture as well as good architectural practices. Use distance in
a positive way. During facility site design, use landscaping, bollards, planters, and other site
amenities as barriers. Provide adequate lighting. Place utilities underground. Good AT/FP planning
and design is compatible with good planning and architectural practices.
(Added) Chapter 7
(Added) AFGSC INTERIOR DESIGN STANDARDS
7.1. (Added) Interior Design Policy:
7.1.1. (Added) These standards have been developed to provide for the best possible coordination of
interior finishes and furnishings for long-lasting maintainable interiors.
7.1.2. (Added) These standards are developed around an understanding of the elements and
principles of design and of how the industry operates.
7.1.3. (Added) The AFGSC standards ensure materials purchased and installed in our facilities will
perform well in respect to both aesthetics and durability.
7.2. (Added) Command Standards. AFGSC standards vary based upon whether a finish is
permanent or non-permanent. Generally, permanent finishes last longer and consequently need to be a
color that will not become dated after a few years. Non-permanent finishes do not last as long and can
be updated as palettes change.
7.3. (Added) Permanent Finishes:
7.3.1. (Added) Permanent finishes are generally the hard surface Structural Interior Design (SID)
finishes that will last 15 to 20 years and whose removal and re-installation can be costly and may
cause a major disruption to the facility. Items such as Vinyl Composition Tile (VCT), ceramic, and
other hard surface tiles, plastic laminates, toilet partitions, lockers, window blinds, all modular or
systems furniture panels, work surfaces, flipper doors, etc, are considered permanent finishes.
7.3.2. (Added) Command standards require that all permanent finishes be in either brown-tone or
grey-tone neutrals. These neutral shades can be from very light (such as off-white) to a mid-range
neutral of the same shade (taupe). Neutrals with obvious pink, yellow, or blue undertones should be
avoided.
7.4. (Added) Non-permanent Finishes:
7.4.1. (Added) Carpet, paint, vinyl wallcovering, upholstery, artwork, etc, are considered non-
permanent finishes. Non-permanent finishes will last from 5 to 7 years under most conditions.
7.4.2. (Added) Command standards allow non-permanent finishes to be any coloration appropriate to
the facility. Most often, these finishes will be in mid-range colorations. Very seldom, would there be
a use for pastel or very bright colors in AFGSC facilities.
    15                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


7.4.3. (Added) While non-permanent finishes are permitted in various colors, it is highly
recommended that in office and other work areas, vinyl wallcovering or painted wall surfaces be kept
in a neutral coloration. Light reflective surfaces are important to a productive work environment.
Develop a neutral shell for the interior space of work areas, allowing the carpet, upholstery, artwork
and accessories to provide the color accents. Since many facilities frequently change occupants or
even function, this neutral shell provides a solid base for future flexibility.
7.5. (Added) Finishes and Treatments:
7.5.1. (Added) Carpet. In most facilities, a bold tweed or patterned nylon commercial grade loop
pile carpet is appropriate. Bold tweed means yarns of several different colors, not various shades of
the same color. This allows for several upholstery color combinations within a facility. The majority
of yarns must be in mid-range to dark tones to increase the carpet's soil hiding capabilities. In most
cases, a dense loop pile is the most hardwearing type of carpet. The face weight should be a minimum
of 26 ounces per square yard. Equally important is the density of a carpet product. Density is a key
factor in soiling and resiliency. In an adequately dense pile, dirt will remain on the surface so that it is
easily vacuumed away. In addition, fibers that are more compact are less likely to crush since tufts
tend to support each other in the upright position. AFGSC recommends a minimum density factor of
5,000 for commercial carpets. Solution-dyed carpets are recommended for medical facilities, Child
Development Centers, lodging facilities and Youth Centers. Olefin and polyester (PET) carpet fibers
do not meet heavy or severe wear classifications required for the majority of AFGSC facilities.
Polyester carpet is currently manufactured only in cut pile products and its crush resistance is poor.
Olefin and polyester carpeting has limited use in light or moderate wear applications possibly
including military family housing.
7.5.1.1. (Added) Carpet Tile/6' Vinyl Backed. Use of carpet tile is strongly recommended in office
areas with systems or modular furniture. Installation techniques are available which allow carpet tile
removal and installation without disassembling systems furniture arrangement. Carpet tile or its
associated 6-foot wide rolled goods should also be used in corridors. Tile or 6-foot vinyl-backed
products must be installed with manufacturer's recommended releasable adhesive. Extra tiles or
yardage from the same dye lot may be ordered to replace tiles or patch as necessary. Bold tweed
patterns or textures help to hide seaming.
7.5.1.2. (Added) Solid Carpet/Border. Use of solid-colored carpet is approved only for senior
leaders’ offices and Distinguished Visitor quarters in lodging facilities. Carpet borders may be solid
in color. They may be installed with either carpet tile or roll goods. Do not over-do borders within a
facility.
7.5.2. (Added) Hard Surface Flooring. Hard surface or resilient flooring should be used mainly in
heavy abuse areas, wet rooms or walk-off areas to provide superior wearability and cleanability; for
exceptions, see the Housing Guide and the Unaccompanied Personnel Housing Guide.
7.5.2.1. (Added) Ceramic Tile, Porcelain Tile, Natural Stone and Cast Stone Flooring. A
mottled, flecked or speckled floor tile should be used. Use a medium to dark-toned grout that
coordinates with the floor tile to avoid a stained or soiled appearance. Tile banding accents or patterns
are allowed on walls and floors, provided the accent is another neutral shade that coordinates with the
dominate tile color. Install with a coordinating base of the same material.
    16                                                  AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


7.5.2.2. (Added) VCT, Sheet Vinyl, Laminate Flooring, Stratica ®, etc. NOTICE: A mottled,
flecked, speckled, wood or stone pattern should be used. Avoid very light tones. Install with a
coordinating vinyl or rubber base. Laminate flooring is not recommended for commercial
applications.
7.5.3. (Added) Vinyl or Rubber Base and Carpet Base. Vinyl or rubber base color should
coordinate with the floor or wall surface. Do not use an accent color for the base. A no-toe profile
base should be used with carpet tile installations. A 4-inch carpet base surged with a coordinating
thread or capped with a coordinating neutral vinyl or rubber carpet cap can be used in carpeted areas.
If carpet base is to be used in place of a vinyl or rubber cove base, it should be the same product that
meets the wall whether field or border carpet.
7.5.4. (Added) Vinyl Wallcovering. Type II wallcovering is recommended in most applications for
its superior durability and inherent ability to hide wall imperfections. Type I cannot be used in
AFGSC facilities. A vertical texture or pattern will help hide seaming and a heavy overall texture will
hide nail holes or other damage that may occur during the life of the product. Napped material or wall
carpet cannot be used as an interior finish.
7.5.5. (Added) Paint. Use a low-sheen, latex enamel for all painted surfaces. Flat paint is difficult to
maintain. Use a semi-gloss finish for trim paint.
7.5.6. (Added) Wainscot and Chair Rail. Wainscot is not recommended in most areas. Dark
paneled wainscot has the effect of visually reducing the size of small office spaces, while in hallways
it has a railroading effect. A Type II heavy-duty vinyl wallcovering installed floor to ceiling will have
a better effect. The purpose of chair rail is to protect wall surfaces from being marred by chair backs.
Therefore, the chair back height must be considered to properly locate the chair rail. It may be stained
or painted to coordinate with the other woodwork or doors. Wainscot and chair rail should be no
more than 36" high in rooms and no more than 42" high in corridors. Heavy vinyl bumper guards
may also be used to protect walls in corridors where needed. These should be in neutral tones to
coordinate with the walls.
7.5.7. (Added) Laminates and Solid Surfacing. Laminate surfaces are more easily maintained if
they have a flecked, speckled, mottled, textured or stone look in a matte finish. Soiling and water
spotting is nearly invisible on this type of surface. Solid surfacing material (Corian ®, Avonite ®,
etc.) has an extended life cycle and superior reparability, but is a costly alternative to plastic laminate
and should be considered with caution.
7.5.8. (Added) Doors and Door Frames. Depending on the quality of the doors, they may be either
stained or painted. If painted, select a color to blend or coordinate with the walls. Paint should be a
semi-gloss finish. It is not recommended to paint doors and jambs in accent colors as this fragments
the space. Use artwork, upholsteries, etc, for color.
7.5.9. (Added) Window Blinds. Vertical blinds or metal horizontal blinds should be neutral color.
Dark blinds that match the anodized finish of the window frames are acceptable, provided the
windows are of reflective glass to prevent heat build-up.
7.5.10. (Added) Ceilings. In almost all facilities, ceilings (whether painted or ceiling tile), are to be
white or off-white. Textured ceiling tiles in two-foot squares with a tegular edge are recommended.
    17                                                AFI 32-1023_AFGSCSUP 16 AUGUST 2010


7.5.11. (Added) Systems/Pre-wired Workstations/Modular Furniture. Removable tack boards can
be purchased in a colored or patterned accent fabric. Only one type of systems furniture should be
used per building in order to allow greater flexibility in reconfiguration as occupants' needs change
and to provide continuity throughout the space. In open office areas with systems furniture, carpet tile
is recommended. Installation techniques are available which allow carpet tile removal and installation
without disassembling systems furniture arrangement.
7.5.12. (Added) Interior Signage. Interior signage should coordinate with the facility color scheme.
Neutral colors or brushed metals are preferred in most buildings. Select a style with user-friendly
changeable inserts to increase flexibility and life span. Text should be a contrasting color from the
background. Type style and size should be easily legible. Ensure that all new signage is ABA
compliant. Signage should provide for ease of traffic flow throughout the facility, and clearly
delineate office locations.




                                                       ANN L. MITCHELL, SES-2, DAF
                                                       Director of Installations, Logistics
                                                       and Mission Support
