BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-254
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           1 OCTOBER 2007

                                                                                                Services

                                                          SERVICES EDUCATION AND TRAINING




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A1SR                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S (Mr. Arthur J. Myers)
Supersedes AFI 34-254, 1 February 1997                                                   Pages: 17

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support
Program. It incorporates changes to AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Program, AFI 36-2108, Enlisted
Classification, and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, by assigning responsibilities and provid-
ing guidance for developing, managing, and implementing Services education and training requirements.
It applies to individuals at all levels including Air National Guard (ANG) units and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version adds in the
Concept, Development and Framework for Services Force Development. The revision also includes clar-
ification on core competency training requirements, readiness training requirements as well as changes to
the Services Training and Education Plan (STEP). It explains training guidelines, timelines and prerequi-
sites to attending informal and formal training.
2                                                                       AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


                                               Chapter 1

                                           INTRODUCTION

1.1. Services Education and Training Tenets. This publication institutionalizes the basic tenets of Ser-
vices education and training. These basic tenets cover the spectrum of career development, utilization,
and education and training for Services people by ensuring the fundamental requirements are in place to
meet the Air Force Services mission.

1.2. What We Teach. Services education and training programs provide employees with a variety of
skills and knowledge through learning systems that range from basic skills to professional continuing
education courses. The education and training courses are complementary and are presented in a building
block manner throughout the careers of Services professionals.
    1.2.1. Services managers recognize that attendance at Services education and training courses is an
    investment in improved production effectiveness and efficiency, and is critical to operational success
    and individual career development.
    1.2.2. Successful Services education and training programs teach Services individuals to perform
    repetitive jobs consistently and nonrepetitive jobs with standardized logic and analysis. These pro-
    grams focus on personnel performing the same duties across the Air Force, and ensure those individ-
    uals deliver consistent customer-oriented performance.

1.3. Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW).
    1.3.1. Purpose. The U&TW is a forum and quality control tool to determine and manage career field
    education and training requirements. The Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM) ensures develop-
    ment, implementation, and maintenance of the Services Career Field Education and Training Plan
    (CFETP). The CFETP is a core document that indicates minimal training needed at appropriate points
    in a career path.
    1.3.2. Enlisted.
       1.3.2.1. Chair. Services Air Force Career Field Manager or Designated Representative (HQ
       USAF/A1S).
       1.3.2.2. Voting Members. AFSVA/SVXT, each MAJCOM and ANG functional manager (or a
       senior representative from each MAJCOM and the ANG). Members must have significant func-
       tional experience in core Services functions and the authority to speak for their respective MAJ-
       COMs.
       1.3.2.3. Advisors. AETC Training Pipeline Manager (TPM), AETC Training Manager, AFSVA
       and/or field subject matter experts, the Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributed Learning
       (AFIADL), 344 Training Squadron (TRS) Career Development Course technical writers, Air
       Force Occupational Measurement Squadron (AFOMS), AFPC classification analysis section, and
       other organizations as determined by the Services Career Field Manager.
       1.3.2.4. Schedule. The AFCFM in partnership with the AETC TPMs will determine the need to
       hold a U&TW and decide on the objectives. The AFCFM and AETC TPM will prepare and pub-
       lish comprehensive minutes of the U&TW activities and decisions within 30 days following the
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                          3


     U&TW. The minutes will include attachments to provide greater detail and include suspense dates
     for deferred action items.
  1.3.3. Officer.
     1.3.3.1. Chair. Services’ Air Force Career Field Manager or Designated Representative (HQ
     USAF/A1S).
     1.3.3.2. Voting Members. AFSVA Representative, MAJCOM Representatives, AFIT Services
     Department Head, AFPC Functional, and AFPC Education and Training. Members must have sig-
     nificant functional experience in core Services functions and the authority to speak for their
     respective MAJCOMs.
     1.3.3.3. Advisors. Subject Matter Experts (SME), Air Force Occupational Measurement Squad-
     ron (AFOMS), and Air Force Institute of Advance Distributed Learning (AFIADL).
     1.3.3.4. Schedule. The AFCFM determines when to hold a U&TW. The AFCFM will prepare and
     publish comprehensive minutes of the U&TW activities and decisions within 30 days following
     the U&TW. The minutes will include attachments to provide greater detail and include suspense
     dates for deferred action items.
  1.3.4. Civilian.
     1.3.4.1. Chair. Services’ Air Force Career Field Manager or Designated Representative (HQ
     USAF/A1S).
     1.3.4.2. Voting Members. AFSVA/SVXT, MAJCOM Training Managers, and Services Career
     Field Management (AFPC/DPKCD). Members must have significant functional experience in
     core Services functions and the authority to speak for their respective MAJCOMs.
     1.3.4.3. Advisors. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs), Air Force Occupational Measurement Squad-
     ron (AFOMS), AFIT Services Department Head, and AFSVA functional program managers.
     1.3.4.4. Schedule. The AFCFM determines when to hold a U&TW. The AFCFM will prepare and
     publish comprehensive minutes of the U&TW activities and decisions within 30 days following
     the U&TW. The minutes will include attachments to provide greater detail and include suspense
     dates for deferred action items.
4                                                                       AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


                                               Chapter 2

                                 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Air Force Director of Services.
    2.1.1. Serves as the education and training focal point for requirements processes governed by AFPD
    34-1.
    2.1.2. Appoints an overall Air Force CFM for the Services career field and designates Air Staff action
    officers for civilian, enlisted and officer career field issues.
    2.1.3. Establishes policy for Services education and training, allocates resources, and conducts over-
    sight.

2.2. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM).
    2.2.1. Air Force Career Field Managers are appointed by the Air Force Director of Services to ensure
    development, implementation, and maintenance of Career Field Education and Training Plan
    (CFETP) for their assigned Air Force specialties. AFCFMs communicate directly with AFSVA and
    Major Command (MAJCOM) Functional Managers (MFMs), the Air Reserve Component (ARC),
    and Air Education and Training Command Training Pipeline Manager (AETC TPM) to disseminate
    Air Force and career field policies and program requirements.
       2.2.1.1. Career Field Management Responsibilities. Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201
       Volume 5, Air Force Training Program, Career Field Education and Training.
       2.2.1.2. Responsibilities For Managing Training. Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201
       Volume 2, Air Force Training Program, Training Management.
       2.2.1.3. On The Job Training Administration. Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201 Vol-
       ume 3, Air Force Training Program, On the Job Training Administration.
       2.2.1.4. Extension Course Program Responsibilities. Responsibilities are outlined in AFI 36-2201
       Volume 4, Air Force Training Program, Managing Advanced Distributed Learning (ADL).

2.3. Commander, HQ Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA).
    2.3.1. Assesses, develops, executes and/or distributes education and training materials and programs
    based on validated functional requirements, policies, or instructions.
    2.3.2. Maintains current and standardized training materials, and distributes them in a variety of
    mediums.
    2.3.3. Annually publishes the AFSVA education and training catalog and course schedule via the
    AFSVA Education and Training website at https://www-r.afsv.af.mil/.
    2.3.4. Maintains liaison with Air Education and Training Command (AETC), other services, and
    commercial sources to ensure standardization, consistency, and efficiency of training.
    2.3.5. Provides staff assistance to MAJCOM and base personnel on applicable education and training
    programs.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                  5


   2.3.6. Develops and maintains formal assessment and feedback systems for AFSVA education and
   training programs.

2.4. MAJCOM Services Division Chiefs.
   2.4.1. Implement Air Force and MAJCOM education and training policies, procedures, and pro-
   grams.
   2.4.2. Ensure all AETC and AFSVA school quotas are filled.
   2.4.3. Review, analyze, and evaluate unit employee education and training programs.
   2.4.4. Distribute training media and programs to assigned bases.
   2.4.5. Ensure staff visits to individual bases provide technical assistance, evaluation of education and
   training programs, and appropriate training guidance to individual Services supervisors and trainers.
   2.4.6. Develop Qualification and Training Packages (QTPs) for MAJCOM-specific training require-
   ments.

2.5. Squadron Commander or Director.
   2.5.1. Commanders/Directors ensure effective training programs are established and executed. Com-
   manders/Directors who are actively involved in training program management provide a crucial link
   in making sure personnel are qualified in their assigned jobs and are capable of meeting mission
   requirements. They understand training is an investment yielding rich rewards in increased mission
   capability and job satisfaction. Training responsibilities for Commanders/Directors are outlined in
   AFI 36-2201 Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On the Job Training Administration.

2.6. Services Training Manager.
   2.6.1. General
      2.6.1.1. The Unit Training Manager (UTM) is the commander’s key staff member responsible for
      overall management of the training program. This person serves as a training consultant to all unit
      personnel and determines if quality training programs are in effect in all sections. The UTM is
      responsible for ensuring that those selected for training are fully qualified and meet all course pre-
      requisites. Other responsibilities are outlined in the following areas:
      2.6.1.2. AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, Volumes 1 through 6.
      2.6.1.3. Golden Eagle Standards (GES) for Training (available on the AFSVA Education and
      Training website).
      2.6.1.4. Air Force Standard Core Personnel Document (SCPD) 90X08, Education and Training
      Manager.
      2.6.1.5. HQ USAF/A1S, HQ AFSVA, MAJCOM, and local policy letters and directives as appli-
      cable.
   2.6.2. Quota Management.
      2.6.2.1. Headquarters Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA) courses. Headquarters Air
6                                                                          AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


       Force Services Agency, Training and Development Division (HQ AFSVA/SVXT) manages quo-
       tas for all HQ AFSVA courses. The quota process works as follows: In response to an annual call,
       MAJCOMs query their bases to identify requirements. Bases submit requirements to their MAJ-
       COM by course title and student name. MAJCOMs verify those requirements, consolidate them
       and forward them to HQ AFSVA/SVXT. HQ AFSVA/SVXT schedules classes to meet MAJCOM
       training requirements, and allocates quotas based on MAJCOM requirements. MAJCOMs, in
       turn, distribute quotas to their bases. MAJCOMs then provide HQ AFSVA/SVXT the selected stu-
       dents’ names 45 days prior to the class start date. MAJCOMs continue to verify requirements with
       their bases, returning unused quotas to AFSVA for redistribution. HQ AFSVA/SVXT sends a
       class-reporting message with reporting instructions 30 days before class start to MAJCOMs.
       MAJCOMs are responsible to forward reporting messages to their bases. Information concerning
       courses, schedules, and authorized attendees is on the HQ AFSVA web page.
       2.6.2.2. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Services Courses. AFIT allocates cen-
       trally-funded quotas for AFIT courses based on annual Air Force Educational Requirements
       Board (AFERB) results; AFIT also enrolls students to attend courses via unit-funded quotas.
       Information concerning courses, schedules, authorized attendees, and enrollment is on the AFIT
       webpage.
       2.6.2.3. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Services Courses. The 344th Training
       Squadron manages quotas for AETC Services courses. Information concerning courses, sched-
       ules, and authorized attendees is on the 344th Training Squadron web page. A link is available on
       the AFSVA Education and Training webpage.
       2.6.2.4. Services Combat Training (SCT). HQ AFSVA/SVXT manages quotas for the Tyndall
       AFB and Dobbins ARB SCT sites. HQ PACAF manages quotas for PACAF SCT sites and HQ
       USAFE manages quotas for USAFE SCT sites.

2.7. Activity Manager.
    2.7.1. Reviews work center objectives and develops an education and training plan based on the
    requirements of each position and the experiences, education, and training levels of assigned person-
    nel, to include Readiness Home Station Training when appropriate.
    2.7.2. Ensures all new employees are briefed on all pertinent education and training requirements, and
    ensures training is conducted.
    2.7.3. Ensures training is documented appropriately as required by instruction or policy.
    2.7.4. Ensures supervisors train or appoint a trainer to oversee activity-specific training for each indi-
    vidual.

2.8. Supervisor.
    2.8.1. Supervisors have the greatest single impact on mission accomplishment. They share their expe-
    riences and expertise to meet mission requirements and provide a quality training program for the
    trainee. Supervisors must plan, conduct, evaluate, and document training.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                 7


2.9. Trainer.
   2.9.1. Often the trainer and supervisor are the same individual. If necessary, the supervisor may assign
   someone else to act as trainer. Trainers are selected based on their experience and ability to provide
   instruction to trainees.

2.10. Trainee.
   2.10.1. The trainee is the focal point of the AF training program. Trainees must make every effort to
   become qualified to perform in their Air Force Specialty. The success and quality of any trainee
   greatly depends on the relationship between the supervisor, trainer, and trainee.
8                                                                          AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


                                                 Chapter 3

                                        FORCE DEVELOPMENT

3.1. Concept. AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 Feb 06, states, “Force development is
a series of experiences and challenges, combined with education and training opportunities that are
directed at producing Airmen who possess the requisite skills, knowledge, experience and motivation to
lead and execute the full spectrum of Air Force missions.”
    3.1.1. Force Development consists of three tiered levels; tactical, operational, and strategic. At the
    tactical level, personnel master primary duty skills. They develop experiences in applying those skills
    and begin to acquire the knowledge and experience that will produce the competencies essential to
    effective leadership. At the operational level, personnel understand the broader Air Force perspective
    and the integration of diverse people and their capabilities to execute operations. At the strategic level,
    personnel combine highly developed occupational and enduring competencies to apply broad profes-
    sional leadership capabilities.
    3.1.2. Education and Training at the tactical level. Education and training at the tactical level includes
    training in a primary skill and education in the fundamentals of leadership. The following activities
    accomplish tactical education and training: fundamental education, specialty training, continuation
    training, and leadership education.
    3.1.3. Education and Training at the operational level. Education and training at the operational level
    broadens the individual’s understanding of integrating expertise and enhances skills to produce oper-
    ational effects for Air Force missions. The following activities accomplish operational education and
    training: developmental education, professional continuing education programs, advanced academic
    degree (AAD) programs, education with industry (EWI), fellowships, and specialty schools/advanced
    training.
    3.1.4. Education and Training at the strategic level. Education and training at the strategic level
    assists in developing the skills to form accurate frames of reference, make sound decisions, uncover
    underlying connections to deal with more general issues, and engage in creative, innovative thinking
    that recognizes new solutions and new options. Strategic development is commonly presented
    through: operational assignments, institutional education, self-development, mentoring, and exercises
    and wargames.

3.2. Services Force Development. Services Force Development has three distinct objectives. The first is
to link all education and training with assignment experiences to meet Air Force needs. The second is to
connect individual goals with Air Force needs to achieve mutually beneficial success. The third is to
invest the right education, training and experience in the right personnel at the right time to satisfy Air
Force requirements. Deliberate force development expands training and educational opportunities, gives
a more realistic perspective on career success, improves preparation for future assignments, and provides
the right skills to the right people to build a core of interchangeable senior leaders.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                             9


Figure 3.1. Services Force Development Framework Chart.




   3.2.1. Enlisted Development Team (DT). The Services Enlisted DT provides future Air Force Ser-
   vices leaders (3M0 AFSC) with the developmental experience and advanced professional develop-
   ment to prepare them for rewarding professional careers at the strategic, operational, and tactical
   levels of Air Force leadership.
      3.2.1.1. Chair. The Services Chief Enlisted Manager (or formally designated representative)
      chairs the DT.
      3.2.1.2. Voting Members. The following positions are voting members of the Services Enlisted
      DT: MAJCOM and ANG enlisted Functional Managers; HQ AFPC Services Assignments NCO;
      Services Superintendent, 344th Training Squadron; Superintendent, HQ Air Force Services
      Agency (AFSVA).
      3.2.1.3. Advisory Members. The following positions are advisory members to the Services
      Enlisted DT: representatives from AFSVA Food Service, Lodging, Fitness, and Readiness
      Branches; and two at large 3M Chief Master Sergeants selected by the Chair.
      3.2.1.4. Roles and Responsibilities. The Services Enlisted DT performs but is not limited to the
      following roles:
          3.2.1.4.1. Provide guidance on Enlisted Development Plans (EDPs), mentoring, force devel-
          opment assignments, scholarships, special duties, and career path issues.
          3.2.1.4.2. Provide feedback on force development policy and related field issues to Advisory
          Council/Functional Manager.
          3.2.1.4.3. Establish a Career Planning Matrix (CPM) to identify key assignments, competen-
          cies, training, education, and Developmental Identification Assignments (DIA) for Services at
          the tactical, operational and strategic levels.
          3.2.1.4.4. Determine developmental assignments (identify pairing opportunities, determine
          “right time, right person” developmental and educational opportunities).
10                                                                         AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


            3.2.1.4.5. Identify candidates for “right next” developmental assignments.
            3.2.1.4.6. Provide career field requirements analysis to establish realistic parameters/timing
            for FD moves.
            3.2.1.4.7. Validate EDPs, feedback to enlisted personnel, and known 3M requirements.
        3.2.1.5. Meetings. The Services Enlisted DT meets two or three times a year to deliberately
        develop enlisted personnel.
     3.2.2. Officer Development Team (DT). The Services Officer DT provides future Air Force Services
     leaders (34M AFSC) with the developmental experience and advanced professional development to
     prepare them for rewarding professional careers at the strategic, operational, and tactical levels of Air
     Force leadership.
        3.2.2.1. Chair. The HQ USAF Director of Services, Deputy Director of Services, or formally des-
        ignated representative chairs the DT.
        3.2.2.2. Voting Members. The following positions are voting members of the Services Officer
        DT: Designated Officer Career Field Manager (HQ USAF O-6, typically the Deputy Director of
        Services); HQ Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA) Commander; MAJCOM Services Division
        Chiefs (ACC, AETC, AFMC, AFRC, AMC, USAFE, PACAF, AFSPC); HQ AFPC Services
        Assignments Officer; and one of the following to rotate annually--United States Air Force Acad-
        emy Services Division Chief or HQ AFSOC Services Division Chief.
        3.2.2.3. Advisory Members. The following positions are advisory members to the Services
        Officer DT: HQ AFPC non-34M Skill Pairing teams; HQ USAF Services Education and Training
        action officer; others as designated by the Chair.
        3.2.2.4. Meetings. The Services Officer DT meets two or three times a year to deliberately
        develop officers: in the March-April timeframe (to vector assignments and provide updates), the
        July-August timeframe (to select squadron command candidates, Developmental Education
        school candidates, and provide updates), and the October-November timeframe (to identify
        Developmental Assignment candidates).
     3.2.3. Civilian Development Team (DT). The Services Civilian DT provides future Air Force Ser-
     vices leaders (34M and 3M0 AFSCs) with the developmental experience and advanced professional
     development to prepare them for rewarding professional careers at the strategic, operational, and tac-
     tical levels of Air Force leadership.
        3.2.3.1. Chair. The HQ USAF Director of Services, Deputy Director of Services, or formally des-
        ignated representative chairs the DT.
        3.2.3.2. Voting Members. The following positions are voting members of the Services Civilian
        DT: MAJCOM Services Division Chiefs or Deputies, and HQ Air Force Services Agency Deputy.
        3.2.3.3. Advisory Members. Advisory members to the Services Civilian DT are as directed by the
        Chair. Services Career Field Management (AFPC/DPKCD) is a non-voting member and serves as
        executive secretary.
        3.2.3.4. Meetings. The Services Civilian DT meets two or three times a year to deliberately
        develop civilians.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                               11


                                              Chapter 4

                       EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

4.1. Core Requirements.
   4.1.1. Enlisted.
      4.1.1.1. Services Apprentice Course. The Services Apprentice Course trains Air Force enlisted
      personnel entering the 3M0X1 career field. This course covers the Services career field, financial
      management, protection of assets, safety, food service operations, serving line techniques, food
      preparation techniques, baking fundamentals, food preparation, food service automation, sanita-
      tion and personal hygiene, nutrition, lodging operations, lodging automation, readiness, and fit-
      ness and sports.
      4.1.1.2. Services Craftsman Course. This course provides training for Services enlisted personnel
      in the duties and responsibilities of an Air Force Services Craftsman, to include automation, readi-
      ness, customer service, financial management, strategic capital improvement planning, and Ser-
      vices awards and recognition programs.
      4.1.1.3. Core Competencies. Successful completion of the standard core competencies training
      program is mandatory for all personnel assigned as Services activity managers. Category A and B
      activity managers complete an AETC Activity Manager web-based learning program; or the
      AFSVA Category C distributed learning Activity Management Training Core Topics program,
      available through the Unit Training Manager. Completion of either core competency training pro-
      gram is a prerequisite to attending other AFSVA-sponsored functional training programs.
   4.1.2. Officer.
      4.1.2.1. Services Initial Skills Course, Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT). The course con-
      tains three major blocks of instruction: In-Garrison Combat Support, Mortuary Affairs, and Con-
      tingency Combat Support. The In-Garrison Combat Support block provides education on the
      Services squadron mission and organization, Services doctrine, NAF/APF financial management,
      NAF/APF personnel management, training, marketing, customer service and the core areas of
      food service, lodging, fitness, library and readiness. The Mortuary Affairs block prepares Mortu-
      ary Officers for their duties. The Contingency Combat Support block covers Services roles in con-
      tingency operations, to include plans, contracting, security, food, lodging, wartime mortuary, and
      fitness and recreation operations. For the final week of the course, students will deploy, via con-
      tract aircraft, to Tyndall AFB for a full week of "hands-on" Officer Field Education (OFE) in the
      areas of Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) and command, control, and communica-
      tion (Services Control Center operations).
      4.1.2.2. Core Competencies. Officers assigned as a Services activity manager must successfully
      complete the standard core competencies training program. This training program must be com-
      pleted within 6 months of assignment as a Services activity manager. Core competency programs
      include: the AETC distributed learning course for Category A and B activity managers, or the
      AFSVA distributed learning Activity Management Core Topics CD-ROM course for Category C
      activity managers, or the AFIT Initial Skills Course.
      4.1.2.3. Activity Manager. Officers assigned as a Services activity manager must successfully
      complete their activity specific management program within 18 months of assignment.
12                                                                        AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


        4.1.2.4. Flight Chief. Personnel newly assigned as flight chiefs are required to attend the appropri-
        ate AFIT Services Advanced Course for their flight as soon as a quota can be obtained; unless
        their commander waives attendance.
     4.1.3. Civilian.
        4.1.3.1. Core Competencies. Civilian personnel assigned as a Services activity managers or
        assigned as a manager of a support activity such as Resource Management, Marketing, Training,
        and HRO, must successfully complete the standard core competencies training program. This
        training program must be completed within 6 months of assignment as a Services activity man-
        ager. Category A and B activity managers complete the AETC distributed learning course; Cate-
        gory C activity managers complete the AFSVA distributed learning Activity Management
        Training Core Topics CD-ROM course. Completion of either core competencies training program
        mentioned above is a prerequisite to attending other AFSVA sponsored functional training pro-
        grams.
        4.1.3.2. Activity Manager. Civilian personnel assigned as Services activity managers must suc-
        cessfully complete their activity specific management program within 18 months of assignment.
        4.1.3.3. Flight Chief. Personnel newly assigned as flight chiefs are required to attend the appropri-
        ate AFIT Services Advanced Course for their flight as soon as a quota can be obtained, unless
        their Commander waives attendance.

4.2. Readiness Requirements. Services readiness training requirements are outlined in AFI 10-214, Ser-
vices Prime Readiness In Base Services (RIBs) Program.
     4.2.1. Enlisted.
        4.2.1.1. Initial Services Combat Training. Initial Services Combat Training is conducted at the
        Services Apprentice Course.
        4.2.1.2. Home Station Training (HST). Standardized curriculum and course materials for all HST
        packages are developed by HQ AFSVA/SVXT and are available on the Education and Training
        web site. Active duty, ANG, and Air Reserve Component personnel are all required to attend
        Home Station Training once every AEF cycle. HST requirements are documented on AF Form
        623 or in LOGMOD.
        4.2.1.3. Services Combat Training (SCT). HQ AFSVA/SVXT develops standardized curriculum
        and course materials; and ensures SCT sites use the standardized curriculum and materials by
        scheduled on site certification.
     4.2.2. Officer.
        4.2.2.1. Initial Services Combat Training. Initial Services Combat Training is conducted in con-
        junction with AFIT Services Initial Skills Course.
        4.2.2.2. Home Station Training (HST). Standardized curriculum and course materials for all HST
        packages are developed by HQ AFSVA/SVXT and are available on the Education and Training
        web site. Active duty, ANG, and Air Reserve Component Personnel are all required to attend
        Home Station Training once every AEF cycle. HST requirements are documented on AF Form
        623 or in LOGMOD.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                  13


       4.2.2.3. Services Combat Training (SCT). HQ AFSVA/SVXT develops standardized curriculum
       and course materials; and ensures SCT sites use the standardized curriculum and materials by
       scheduled on site certification.
   4.2.3. Civilian
       4.2.3.1. Readiness Training. There are no civilian readiness training requirements.

4.3. Services Training and Education Plan (STEP). The Services Training and Education Plan (STEP)
is a training tool to be used in the work center. STEP is designed to assist trainers and supervisors by sum-
marizing training information required by specific position. The information is broken down into five cat-
egories: Major Duties, Training, Self-Paced or Distance Learning, References, and Useful Links. STEP
provides a foundation for conducting training within a work center.

4.4. Special Experience Identifiers (SEI). Special Experience Identifiers distinguish special skills and
training not otherwise annotated within the military personnel data system (MilPDS). They are estab-
lished when identifying the experience or training is critical to the job and person assignment match, and
no other type of qualifier is appropriate or available. AFMAN 36-2108, attachment 40 outlines guidance
for Special Experience. There is also a Special Experience Identifier “How To” guide available on the
Education and Training page of the Services website.



                                                ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                                DCS, Manpower and Personnel
14                                                                   AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Program
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs
AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and Development
AFPD 36-6, Civilian Career Management
AFPD 36-13, Civilian Supervisor, Management, and Leadership Development
AFPD 36-23, Military Education
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development
AFI 36-601, Civilian Career Program Management
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, Volumes 1-6
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAD—Advanced Academic Degree
ACC—Air Combat Command
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFERB—Air Force Educational Requirements Board
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIADL—Air Force Institute of Advanced Distributed Learning
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFOMS—Air Force Occupational Measurement Squadron
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                  15


AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
APF—Appropriated Fund
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CPM—Career Planning Matrix
DT—Development Team
EDP—Enlisted Development Plan
EWI—Education With Industry
GES—Golden Eagle Standards
HQ AFSVA/SVX—Headquarters Air Force Services Agency, Directorate of Force Management and
Personnel
HQ AFSVA/SVXT—Headquarters Air Force Services Agency, Training and Development Division
HQ USAF/A1S—Headquarters United States Air Force Directorate of Services
HST—Home Station Training
LOGMOD—Logistics Module
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
OFE—Officer Field Education
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
QTP—Qualification and Training Package
RIBS—Readiness In Base Services
SCPD—Standard Core Position Description
SCT—Services Combat Training
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
SME—Subject Matter Expert
STEP—Services Training and Education Plan
TPM—Training Pipeline Manager
U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshop
16                                                                       AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007


USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
UTM—Unit Training Manager

Terms
Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM)—Overall manager and approval authority for all matters
affecting training for the AFSCs they manage, including authority for waiving mandatory requirements.
Air Force Institute for Advanced Distributive Learning (AFIADL)—M a n a g e s m o s t C D C a n d
specialized course manuscripts for the Air Force. These publications are sent to AFIADL for review,
editing, test construction, publication, and administration.
Air Force Specialty (AFS)—A group of positions (with the same title and code) that require common
qualifications.
Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)—A combination of numbers and alpha characters used to identify an
AFS.
Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP)—A CFETP is a comprehensive, multi-purpose
document that encapsulates the entire spectrum of education and training for a career field. It outlines a
logical growth plan that includes training resources and is designed to make career field training
identifiable, to eliminate duplication, and to ensure this training is budget defensible.
Curriculum:—A set of courses constituting an area of specialization. The curriculum for Services
courses will meet the requirements of the CFETP.
Home Station Training (HST)—A set of courses consisting of computer-based training enhancements,
self-study guides, classroom education, hands-on equipment training and duty specific training that are
available at home station to provide deployed commanders with fully qualified team members capable of
accomplishing the wide variety of Services’ deployed responsibilities.
Initial Skills Training—A formal school course that results in the award of a 3-skill level Air Force
specialty code.
MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM)—Managers who provide technical assistance to AFCFMs and
commanders.
On-the-Job Training (OJT)—A delivery method used to certify personnel in both upgrade (skill level
award) and job qualification (duty position certification) training. It is hands-on, over-the-shoulder
training conducted at the duty location. AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program on the Job
Training Administration, outlines specific OJT responsibilities.
Qualification Training (QT)—Actual hands-on task performance training designed to qualify an airman
in a specific duty position. This portion of the dual channel OJT training program occurs both during and
after the upgrade training process. It is designed to provide the performance skills training required to do
the job.
Services Combat Training (SCT)—Readiness training conducted at an approved site covering the full
range of activities demanded in a contingency environment.
Trainer—A trained and qualified person who teaches airmen to perform specific tasks through OJT
methods. Trainers must be recommended by their supervisor, qualified to perform the task being trained,
and have completed the AFTC.
AFI34-254 1 OCTOBER 2007                                                                           17


Unit Training Manager—Unit focal point for all training related questions, needs, requirements, or
assistance.
Upgrade Training (UGT)—Mandatory training leading to the award of a higher level of proficiency.
Utilization and Training Workshop (U&TW)—A forum to determine education and training
requirements by bringing together the expertise to establish the most effective mix of formal and
on-the-job training for each AFS skill level. Also used to create or revise training standards, set
responsibilities for providing training and to ensure the validity and viability of the AFS training.
