BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-223
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                8 MARCH 2007

                                                                             AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                         Supplement
                                                                                    9 SEPTEMBER 2008

                                                                                                   Services

                                                        PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS (PO) PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this publication.


OPR: HQ AFSVA/CDM                                            Certified by: AF/A1S (Mr. Arthur J. Myers)
Supersedes AFI 34-223, 11 August 2003                                                        Pages: 14

                                                  (ACC)
OPR: HQ ACC/A1SRC                                                             Certified by: HQ ACC/A1-2
                                                                               (Colonel Stephen R. Jones)
Supersedes AFI 34-223_ACC SUP 1,                                                                Pages: 4
           17 March 2005

This instruction implements DoDI 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installations (20 Dec 05). It
provides guidance and procedures for establishing and operating POs on Air Force installations. Send
MAJCOM/FOA/DRU draft supplements to HQ Air Force Services Agency, Commander’s Action Group
(AFSVA/CDM), 10100 Reunion Place, Ste 501, San Antonio TX 78216-4138 for approval before publi-
cation. MAJCOM/FOA/DRUs must review and approve supplements proposed by their subordinate
units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Respon-
sibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU publications/forms managers. This instruction applies to all
Air Force organizations and individuals within DoD (active duty military, retired members, dependents,
surviving spouses of the aforementioned and authorized DoD civilians), as well as, the Air Force Reserve
and Air National Guard. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publica-
tion are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, (will become AFMAN 33-363) Management of
Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

(ACC) AFI 34-223, 8 Mar 2007, is supplemented as follows. This supplement recommends Air Combat
Command Mission Support Group commanders annually require all unit commanders certify compliance
with regulatory guidance for their unofficial activities. This supplement does not apply to the Air National
Guard or Air Force Reserve Command units and members. Maintain records created as a result of pre-
scribed processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) available from the Air Force Portal link. Contact supporting records
2                                                       AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ ACC/
A1SRC, 114 Douglas Street Suite 211, Langley AFB VA 23665-2773, using AF Form 847, Recommenda-
tion for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain
of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
 This AFI is totally revised to bring it in line with DoDI 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installa-
tions (20 Dec 05). Reader review of the entire instruction is recommended.
(ACC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Guidance has
remained unchanged and the current changes are made due to revisions made to AFI 34-223 wherein
paragraph numbering changes have occurred which requires revision to the ACC supplement. Addition-
ally, the Commander’s Checklist also contains changes to reflect paragraph numbering changes for cor-
rect reference.

Section A—General

1. Private Organizations (POs). POs are self-sustaining special interest groups, set up by people acting
exclusively outside the scope of any official capacity as officers, employees, or agents of the Federal Gov-
ernment. They operate on Air Force installations with the written consent of the installation commander.
    1.1. POs are not Federal entities and are not to be treated as such. Accordingly, they are not NAF
    instrumentalities (NAFIs) as defined in AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds, nor are they enti-
    tled to the sovereign immunities and privileges given to NAFIs or the Air Force.
    1.2. Personal and professional participation in POs is governed by DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regu-
    lation.

2. Applicability.
    2.1. The following organizations are not considered POs and are governed by DoD Directives
    (DoDDs) and Instructions (DoDIs) as referenced:
       2.1.1. Scouting organizations operating at US military installations located overseas (DoD
       Instruction 1015.9, (e), Professional United States Scouting Organization Operations at United
       States Military Installations Located Overseas).
       2.1.2. American National Red Cross (DoDD 1330.5, American National Red Cross).
       2.1.3. United Seaman’s Service (DoDD 1330.16, United Seaman’s Service (USS)).
       2.1.4. United Service Organizations, Inc. (DoDD 1330.12, United Service Organizations, Inc.).
       2.1.5. Credit Unions (DoDD 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD Installations).
       2.1.6. Banks (DoDD 1000.11, Financial Institutions on DoD Installations).
    2.2. Small unofficial activities (like coffee funds, flower funds, sunshine funds, and other small oper-
    ations) are generally not considered POs. However, if their current assets (which include cash, inven-
    tories, receivables, and investments) exceed a monthly average of $1,000 over a 3-month period, the
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                    3


   activity/organization must become a PO, discontinue on-base operations, or reduce its current assets
   below the $1,000 threshold.
       2.2.1. (Added-ACC) The mission support group commander (MSG/CC) requires all unit com-
       manders annually certify compliance with regulatory guidance for all unofficial activities associ-
       ated with their units.
       2.2.2. (Added-ACC) Unit commanders annually ensure compliance with regulatory guidance for
       their unofficial activities by utilizing Commander’s Checklist at Attachment 2 (Added).

Section B—What People Do

3. The Director of Services (HQ USAF/A1S). AF/A1S issues guidance and provides oversight for POs.

4. HQ Air Force Services Agency, Commander’s Management Support (HQ AFSVA/CDM). H Q
AFSVA/CDM gives operations guidance to POs.

5. Major Command Chief of Services (MAJCOM/A1S), Field Operating Agency, (FOA), Direct
Reporting Unit (DRU). MAJCOM/A1S/FOA/DRUs ensure that base-level Services Squadrons/Divi-
sions follow the procedures outlined in this AFI.

6. Installation Commander:
   6.1. Authorizes the establishment and operation of a PO when he/she determines it will make a posi-
   tive contribution to the quality of life of base personnel. The commander may withdraw the authoriza-
   tion if the PO prejudices or discredits the United States Government, conflicts with Government
   activities, or for any other reason or just cause.
   6.2. Authorizes contractor and subcontractor POs when justified, as long as the interests of the Air
   Force are fully protected in the authorizing documents.
   6.3. Takes action on requests for fundraisers.
   6.4. May delegate the above authorities to the Mission Support Group Commander. The authority to
   approve or disapprove fundraisers may be further delegated to the Services Squadron Commander or
   Division Chief.

7. Services Squadron Commander or Division Chief:
   7.1. Monitors and administers the PO Program. Ensures the membership provisions and the basis
   upon which the organization was permitted to operate on the installation continue to apply. Advises
   the installation commander if changed conditions by the PO warrant further review, documentation,
   and reconsideration for continued permission to operate on the installation.
   7.2. Ensures the Resource Management Flight Chief (RMFC) keeps a file on each PO.
   7.3. Monitors unofficial activities/organizations.

8. Resource Management Flight Chief. Keeps a file on each PO and reviews each PO annually at the
close of the PO’s fiscal year to ensure financial statements, documents, records, and procedures outlined
4                                                        AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


in the PO Guide (https://www-r.afsv.af.mil/_AFSVA/Publications.htm#privateorgs) and this AFI are
in order.

Section C—Establishing, Operating, and Dissolving a PO Activity

9. Setting Up a PO. A PO must submit a written constitution, bylaws, or other similar documents, out-
lined in the PO Guidance Handbook, through the RMFC, Services Squadron Commander or Division
Chief, and Staff Judge Advocate for consideration by the installation commander. No DoD personnel act-
ing in an official capacity may represent a PO by executing or submitting any of the various documents
required for PO approval. The constitution, bylaws, or similar documents must:
    9.1. Address the nature, function, objectives, membership eligibility, and sources of income of the
    PO.
    9.2. Notify all members of their personal financial responsibility for obligations of the PO.
    9.3. Describe the responsibilities of PO officers for asset accountability, liability satisfaction, and
    sound financial and operational management.
    9.4. Provide specific guidance on disposition of residual assets upon dissolution.
NOTE: A PO may dispose of its assets only in the manner outlined in its constitution, bylaws, or similar
documentation. If the proper provisions exist, a PO may give residual assets to the Air Force or a NAFI in
accordance with AFIs 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, and 34-201, Use of Nonappropri-
ated Funds (NAFs). Neither appropriated fund (APF) activities nor NAFIs may claim the assets of, or
make or assume any obligation for, a PO except those that may arise from a valid contract between them.
    9.5. Be updated every two years or when there is a change in the purpose, function, or membership
    eligibility of the PO, whichever comes first.

10. Operating a PO. Installation commanders provide limited supervision over POs. Their control lies
in the power to authorize and withdraw authorization for these organizations to operate on the installation.
They ensure compliance with the requirements of this instruction, but do not control or dictate internal
activities or structure of POs.
    10.1. POs must prominently display the following disclaimer on all print and electronic media men-
    tioning the PO’s name confirming that the PO is not a part of DoD: “This is a private organization. It
    is not a part of the Department of Defense or any of its components and it has no governmental sta-
    tus.” This disclaimer must also be provided in verbal communication and public announcements.
       10.1.1. To prevent the appearance of an official sanction or support by the Department of
       Defense, a PO covered by this instruction shall not use the following in its title or letterhead:
           10.1.1.1. The name or seal of the Department of Defense or the acronym DoD.
           10.1.1.2. The name, abbreviation, or seal of any DoD component or instrumentality.
           10.1.1.3. The seal, insignia, or other identifying device of the local installation.
           10.1.1.4. Any other name, abbreviation, seal, logo, insignia, or the like, used by any DoD
           component to identify any of its programs, locations, or activities.
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                     5


  10.2. POs may not discriminate in hiring practices or membership policies on the basis of age, race,
  religion, color, national origin, disability, ethnic group, or gender. Anyone who suspects unlawful dis-
  crimination by POs should contact the local Equal Opportunity Counselor and follow the procedures
  in AFI 36-1201, Discrimination Complaints.
     10.2.1. POs may organize around a cultural or ethnic focus as long as they do not restrict their
     membership on the basis of culture or ethnicity.
  10.3. POs may not haze or harass (either physically or mentally) as part of their initiation rites.
  10.4. Religiously oriented POs may be authorized to operate on installations if:
     10.4.1. Requests by similar organizations are also approved.
     10.4.2. Authorization is for non-exclusive use of government facilities.
     10.4.3. No sign or insignia or other organizational identification is placed on or inside govern-
     ment facilities except when the organization's activities are in progress.
     10.4.4. Membership is not restricted to members of the religion involved.
     10.4.5. The installation staff chaplain coordinates on the request.
  10.5. POs must be self-sustaining, primarily through dues, contributions, service charges, fees, or
  special assessments of their members. There will be no financial assistance to a PO or unofficial activ-
  ity/organization from a NAFI in the form of contributions, repairs, services, dividends, or donations of
  money or other assets.
     10.5.1. POs must properly plan and adequately control the money aspects of their goals and
     objectives, including cash and other assets.
     10.5.2. Income must not accrue to individual members except through wages and salaries for PO
     employees or other payment for services rendered to the PO or military community. Any income
     will be derived primarily for offsetting expenses of operation, which may include competitive
     awards or charitable contributions. As an exception, installation commanders may authorize
     investment-oriented POs if they comply with all other provisions of this AFI.
  10.6. POs must use budgets and financial statements as financial management tools. Additional
  financial requirements are listed in the Private Organization Guide.
     10.6.1. The budget details financial plans for annual operations. It includes projected activities
     (income and expense) and capital purchases (equipment and property). The budget establishes
     financial objectives to generate sufficient income to offset planned expenses. Comparing actual
     results with the budget helps indicate management performance.
     10.6.2. POs must prepare an income-and-expense statement, either on an accrual or cash basis.
     The income and expense statement reflects monetary events that have occurred during a given
     period.
     10.6.3. POs must also prepare a balance sheet that accounts for total assets, liabilities and net
     worth (equity) of the PO's financial condition on a given date.
  10.7. POs with certain levels of gross annual revenue must undergo audits and financial reviews at
  the PO’s own expense:
6                                                         AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


       10.7.1. Certified Public Accountants (CPAs) perform annual audits of POs with gross annual rev-
       enues of $250,000 or more. Use of a Certified Government Financial Manager is permitted in
       overseas locations when the RMFC documents that a CPA is not available.
       10.7.2. Accountants (CPA not required) perform annual financial reviews of POs with gross
       annual revenues of $100,000, but less than $250,000. Accountants conduct these reviews and pro-
       vide written verification of the accounting data and other relevant information.
       10.7.3. POs that have gross annual revenues of less than $100,000, but more than $5,000, nor-
       mally are not required to conduct an independent audit or financial review. However, such POs
       must provide an annual financial statement, as outlined in the PO Guide, to the RMFC.
       10.7.4. If there are signs of fraud or other improprieties, regardless of the amount of revenue, the
       Services squadron commander or division chief advises the installation commander. The installa-
       tion commander should request an audit from the Air Force Audit Agency.
       10.7.5. The audit (which generally provides more detailed information) and the financial review
       must verify the PO has:
           10.7.5.1. A uniform system of accounting.
           10.7.5.2. Consolidated reports of the accounting system into meaningful summaries.
           10.7.5.3. Identified areas of weakness and plan(s) for corrective action.
       10.7.6. POs must implement internal control procedures that ensure:
           10.7.6.1. Adequate segregation of duties.
           10.7.6.2. Proper procedures for authorizations.
           10.7.6.3. Adequate documents and records.
           10.7.6.4. Physical control over assets and records.
           10.7.6.5. Independent checks on performance.
    10.8. POs and unofficial activities/organizations must not engage in activities that duplicate or com-
    pete with activities of the Army and Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) or Services NAFIs.
    10.9. POs and unofficial activities/organizations will not operate amusement machines, slot
    machines, or any other games of chance (except as authorized in paragraph 10.16., below); nor will
    they engage in frequent or continuous resale activities either directly, through third parties, or in their
    media (e.g., newsletters, handouts, posters, special-order brochures, websites, etc.).
       10.9.1. The installation commander may authorize (may delegate to the Mission Support Group
       Commander, or the Services Squadron Commander or Division Chief) continuous thrift shop sales
       operations and occasional events for fundraising purposes (e.g., bake sales, dances, carnivals, car
       washes, or similar functions) which the PO or unofficial activity/organization conducts directly,
       through a third party, or its media. "Occasional" is defined as not more than two per calendar quar-
       ter. The prohibition against frequent or continuous resale activities does not preclude collective
       purchasing and sharing of purchased items by members of POs or unofficial activities/organiza-
       tions so long as there is no actual resale. See AFI 36-3101, Fundraising within the Air Force, for
       fundraising authority during Combined Federal Campaign.
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                       7


     10.9.2. The occasional sales limitation for funding does not apply to PO sales of Air Force School
     or unit souvenirs or memorabilia to members of the school or unit involved, provided AAFES or
     Services resale activities elect not to provide this service and the PO chartering documentation
     authorizes resale under these circumstances.
     10.9.3. POs and unofficial activities/organizations operating on an Air Force installation are pro-
     hibited from engaging in any conduct which has the effect of advertising for, making referrals to,
     or encouraging use of any commercial business concerns. The only exception to this policy is
     when a PO or unofficial activity/organization conducts an approved fund-raising event through a
     third-party (e.g., the spouses club conducts an art sale as an approved fund-raiser and contracts
     with an art dealer (third party) to provide the artwork to be sold).
  10.10. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may not sell or serve alcoholic beverages.
  10.11. POs must have liability insurance unless the Installation Commander waives the requirement.
  Insurance should be required unless the activities of the PO are such that the risk of liability is negli-
  gible. PO members must be made aware that they are jointly and severally liable for the obligations of
  the PO, and their understanding of the liability must be documented. The absence of liability insur-
  ance places their personal assets immediately at risk in the event of PO liability. Forward all waiver
  requests through the servicing legal office prior to approval. This waiver authority may be delegated
  to the Mission Support Group Commander. No further delegations are authorized. The commander or
  delegees may waive the requirement for continuous liability coverage; however, the approval docu-
  ment must advise the PO that the commander may still require liability insurance for specific events
  that involve a greater risk of injury or damage. Insurance waivers must be reevaluated annually.
  10.12. The PO should consider bonding for its treasurer. The treasurer is in a sensitive position, espe-
  cially if handling and controlling large amounts of cash. POs may make a bonding determination by
  weighing the cost of commercial fidelity insurance protection from a qualified underwriter against the
  potential dollar risk.
  10.13. POs and unofficial activities/organizations must comply with all applicable federal, state,
  local, and foreign laws governing like civilian activities. Some POs may qualify for tax-exempt status.
  The regional Internal Revenue Service office and the state taxing authority provide tax-exempt infor-
  mation.
  10.14. PO officers and members must report any signs of fraud or other improprieties to the Services
  Squadron Commander or Division Chief.
  10.15. PO officer and member and unofficial activities/organization actions must not prejudice or dis-
  credit the United States Government or conflict with governmental activities.
     10.15.1. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may not solicit funds for their organization on
     base.
         10.15.1.1. Services may not co-sponsor events with POs or unofficial activities/organizations
         for the purpose of obtaining commercial sponsorship, contributions, donations, gifts, advertis-
         ing or generating revenue for them.
         10.15.1.2. POs and unofficial activities/organizations are not authorized use of the DoD
         MWR Commercial Sponsorship policy.
8                                                        AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


           10.15.1.3. POs and unofficial activities/organizations may accept gifts and donations. These
           organizations will not solicit gifts or donations on base. Off-base solicitations must clearly
           indicate that they are for a PO or an unofficial activity/organization, and not for the base or any
           official part of the Air Force. Donor/gift recognition may not be made publicly. Recognition of
           the gift or donation can only be made to members of the PO or those present at an event bene-
           fiting from the donation/gift.
               10.15.1.3.1. POs and unofficial activities/organizations are prohibited from actions, which
               make it appear that the installation is endorsing or giving special treatment to the donors/
               givers involved.
       10.15.2. POs may not conduct games of chance, lotteries, raffles, or other gambling-type activi-
       ties except as provided in paragraph 10.16. Unofficial activities/organizations may not conduct
       games of chance, lotteries, raffles, or other gambling-type activities under any circumstances.
    10.16. Those POs which are composed primarily of DoD personnel or their family members may
    conduct fund-raising raffles on an Air Force installation on an occasional, infrequent basis when
    authorized in advance by the installation commander or designee subject to the limitations detailed
    below. Such raffles provide a means of extending needed services or other assistance to members of
    the DOD family, but failure to strictly follow the provisions below could result in the raffles violating
    the general gambling prohibition in DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 30 Aug 93. All
    requests to conduct raffles must be reviewed by the servicing Judge Advocate's office. Raffles must:
       10.16.1. Not violate the law of the city, county, state, or country in which the installation is
       located and comply with any applicable requirements of such laws, e.g., securing required licenses
       or permits, filing application documents and/or reports, and the like.
       10.16.2. Be for the benefit of DoD personnel or their family members. Raffles may not be autho-
       rized to raise money for local or national groups such as a regional or national Heart or Cancer
       Association whose funds would not benefit primarily DoD personnel or their family members.
           10.16.2.1. In evaluating PO raffle fund-raising requests, installation commanders must con-
           sider the proposed use of the proceeds and may approve only those requests which serve a
           charitable, civic, or other community welfare purpose within the DoD community and which
           directly benefit DoD personnel or their family members. For example, commanders may
           approve raffles when the proceeds would be used for new playground equipment at a child
           development center or new furnishings at a youth center; to fund scholarship programs for
           DoD personnel and their family members; to donate money to base scouting organizations; or
           to provide food, clothing, shelter, or other relief to needy DoD personnel or their families.
           10.16.2.2. Raffle requests to raise funds for purely social, recreational, or entertainment pur-
           poses which benefit only individual PO members and/or their family members, such as to
           underwrite the cost of a weekend ski trip, a sight-seeing tour, or a shopping excursion will not
           be approved.
           10.16.2.3. Requests for approval to conduct raffles must identify the purpose for which funds
           are being raised and the intended beneficiaries of the proceeds. They must also identify how
           the PO will ensure the proceeds are used only for that purpose and those beneficiaries.
       10.16.3. Not be officially endorsed or supported except as permitted by sections 3-210 and 3-211
       of the JER.
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                      9


       10.16.4. Not be conducted in the workplace. With installation commander or designee approval,
       they may be conducted at public entrances and in community support facilities such as the lobby
       of the Base Exchange. Raffles on the Pentagon reservation are prohibited.
       10.16.5. Not be conducted by military members or civilian employees during their duty time.
       Military members may not conduct raffles while in uniform at any time. Air Force personnel may
       participate in PO fundraising raffles only in a purely personal, unofficial, volunteer capacity at
       authorized locations and in ways that do not imply official endorsement.

11. Logistical Support. POs must furnish their own equipment, supplies, and other materials. Newly
elected PO officers must consult the RFMC for guidance and training on local base requirements and pro-
cedures because POs generally do not get either APF or NAF support except where specifically identified
in this AFI.
   11.1. POs may be provided places to conduct meetings of reasonable duration and frequency.
       11.1.1. A PO must reimburse for services (to include utilities) when it uses a facility or space on
       an other-than-occasional basis unless a separate directive or instruction authorizes non-reimburs-
       able support. Thrift shops are exempted from the requirement to pay utilities. A PO must reim-
       burse for any additional costs incurred by the Air Force resulting from such uses, e.g., incremental
       increases in maintenance and janitorial expenses.
       11.1.2. The Air Force mandates an approved outgrant when a PO has exclusive use of a facility,
       space, or land area. Any reimbursement for utilities will be determined in accordance with AFI
       32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations. Any reimbursement for space occu-
       pied, maintenance, and other support will be determined in accordance with AFI 32-9003, Grant-
       ing Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property.
   11.2. POs in overseas areas can request additional support such as reimbursable transportation ser-
   vices; commissary; Armed Forces postal services; exchange; recreational activity privileges; reim-
   bursable space-available hospitalization, medical, and dental care; and dependent school service.
   Requests must be forwarded through the installation commander to the MAJCOM/A1S. As part of the
   forwarding recommendation, the installation commander must include a statement acknowledging the
   commander can provide the additional support requested within available resources and without
   degrading the installation’s ability to fulfill its mission. The request must include:
       11.2.1. A cost estimate for the additional support.
       11.2.2. A list of services, programs, and activities the PO provides that warrant additional sup-
       port.
       11.2.3. An acknowledgement by the PO that additional support may be terminated if the PO’s ser-
       vices, programs, and activities change so that they no longer warrant the support.

12. Dissolution of a PO. When A PO decides to dissolve or shut down, it must:
   12.1. Use its funds to satisfy any outstanding debts, liabilities, or obligations.
   12.2. Dispose of the residual balance as decided by the PO membership.
10                                                     AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


     12.3. Notify the Services squadron commander or division chief of the intent to dissolve the PO and
     prepare a time-phased action plan to do so.



                                               ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                               DCS, Manpower and Personnel

                                               (ACC)

                                               JOHN D. W. CORLEY, General, USAF
                                               Commander
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                              11


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction, 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installations, 20 Dec 05
DoD Instruction 1015.9, Professional United States Scouting Organization Operations at United States
Military Installations Located Overseas, 31 Oct 90
DoD 5500-7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), 30 Aug 93, with changes 1 through 6
DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 4, User Charges
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs)
AFI 36-3101, Fundraising within the Air Force
AFMAN 37-123, (will become AFMAN 33-363)
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force

(ACC) References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
Code of Federal Regulations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
AFSVA/CDM—Air Force Services Agency/Commander’s Management Support
APF—Appropriated Funds
CPA—Certified Public Accountant
DoD—Department of Defense
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF/A1S—Air Force Director of Services
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
12                                           AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


MAJCOM/A1S—Major Command/Chief of Services
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
PO—Private Organization
RMFC—Resource Management Flight Chief
USAF—United States Air Force

(ACC) Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
HQ ACC/A1SRC—ACC Services Comptroller
MSG/CC—Mission Support Group Commander
AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                       13


                                      Attachment 2 (Added-ACC)

                COMMANDERS CHECKLIST FOR UNOFFICIAL ACTIVITIES
A2.1. (Added-ACC) Commander’s Checklist. This checklist is used annually to ensure compliance
with regulatory guidance for unofficial activities.

Table A2.1. (Added-ACC) Commander’s Checklist.
                               ACTION                                     YES      NO
1. Does the unofficial activity comply with the limitation on current
monthly assets (cash, inventories, receivables, investments, etc. must
not exceed a monthly average of $1,000 over a 3-month period)? If
not, the activity must become a private organization, discontinue
on-base operations; or reduce its current assets. (AFI 34-223, Para
2.2.)
2. Does the unofficial activity engage in sales/services that duplicate
or compete with Army and Air Force Exchange Service, Services
activities or other on-base non-appropriated fund instrumentalities?
(If yes, they must be discontinued.) (AFI 34-223, Para 10.8.)
3. Does the unofficial activity engage in frequent or continuous
resale activities or operate amusement, slot machines, or any other
games of chance? (If yes, they must be discontinued. Note: This
prohibition does not preclude collective purchasing/sharing of
purchased items consumed by members of the unofficial activity. A
small mark-up of the items is authorized to support unofficial office
purchases such as flowers, plaques, etc.) (AFI 34-223, Para
10.9.-10.9.1.)
4. Are duties associated with Unofficial Activities assigned/detailed
to military or civilian employees? (If yes, they must be discontinued
and the duties/schedules conducted by volunteers.) (5 CFR 2635.702
and 5 CFR 2635.705(b) in the Joint Ethics Regulation and AFI
34-223, Para 1.)
5. Does the unofficial activity operating on Air Force installations
engage in any conduct that has the effect of advertising for, making
referrals to, or encouraging use of any commercial business
concerns? (If yes, this must be discontinued.) (AFI 34-223, Para
10.9.3.)
6. Does the unofficial activity sell or serve alcoholic beverages? (If
yes, it must be discontinued.) (AFI 34-223, Para 10.10.)
7. Does Services co-sponsor events with unofficial activities for the
purpose of obtaining commercial sponsorship, contributions,
donations, gifts, advertising or generating revenue for them? (If yes,
this must be discontinued.) (AFI 34-223, Para 10.15.1.1.)
14                                                     AFI34-223_ACCSUP_I 9 SEPTEMBER 2008


                               ACTION                                  YES        NO
8. Does the unofficial activity solicit commercial sponsorship? (If
yes, it must be discontinued since Services is the only on-base
function authorized to solicit and receive the benefit of commercial
sponsorship donations.) (AFI 34-223, Para 10.15.1.2.)
9. Does the unofficial activity conduct games of chance, lotteries,
raffles, or other gambling-type activities? (If yes, this must be
discontinued.) (AFI 34-223, Para 10.15.2.)
10. Does the MSG/CC require all base unit commanders to certify
compliance annually with regulatory guidance for their unofficial
activities? (AFI 34-223_ACC SUP, Para 2.2.1. (Added))
