BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7020
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            7 FEBRUARY 2001
                                                                           Certified Current 16 April 2014
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                              THE ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION
                                                                                   PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILEVR (Lt Col D. Roe)                          Certified by: HQ USAF/ILEV (Col B. Miller)
Supersedes AFI 32-7020, 19 May 1994                                                         Pages: 28
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-70, Environmental Quality. It
provides guidance and procedures for executing the Air Force Environmental Restoration Program,
referred to as the cleanup program. This AFI implements the Defense Environmental Restoration Pro-
gram (DERP), as outlined in Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction DoDI 4715.7, Environmental Res-
toration Program, 22 April 1996 as supplemented by DoD DERP Management Guidance, 17 March
1998. The following AFIs provide guidance on the environmental restoration program:
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting.
AFI 32-7002, Environmental Information Management System.
AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real Estate Transactions.
AFI 32-7004, Environmental Education Training.
This instruction applies to Air Force operations on active, reserve, and Air National Guard, non-Base
Realignment and Closure (BRAC) installations in the United States, its territories, and possessions. For
cleanup in foreign countries, refer to AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries. The
Air Force’s Environmental Restoration Program (ERP) Management Guidance implements this AFI.
Maintain and dispose of all records in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This change incorporates substantive revisions to all sections of the 19 May 1994 version of AFI 32-7020.
Reformatting and editing have been made to meet the requirements of AFI 33-360, Vol. 1, 31 July 1998,
Communications and Information Publication Management Program. This change incorporates the
International Organization for Standardization 14000 format for an Environmental Management System;
deletes figure 1.1 Air Force Environmental Restoration Program Responsibilities and replaces paragraph
1.2. (Funding Support) with an extensive section on descriptions of Air Force functional programmatic
responsibilities (Responsibilities); inserts a new paragraph 1.3. (Principles) that outlines the primary plan-
ning factors for the program; inserts a new paragraph 1.5. (Permit Exemption) specifying Air Force policy
2                                                                                                AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


on obtaining permits or permit equivalents for on-site Comprehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental response actions; inserts a new paragraph 1.7.
(Contracting from non-DoD Agencies) that describes requirements and procedures for contracting such
actions; inserts a new paragraph 1.8. incorporating policy on natural resources injury; inserts a new para-
graph 1.9. incorporating policy on land use controls; revises Chapter 2 to include paragraphs on Program
Eligibility (2.1.), Program Budget Development and Execution (2.2.), Administrative Record (2.3.), Envi-
ronmental Restoration Program Decision Documents (2.4.) and Legal Agreements (2.5.); adds a new
Chapter 4 specifying key aspects of implementation including MAJCOM Reviews, peer reviews and
regulator meetings.

Chapter 1— POLICY                                                                                                                               4
      1.1.    Program Goal of the Air Force Environmental Restoration Program .......................                                          4
      1.2.    Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................       4
      1.3.    Principles. ..................................................................................................................    8
      1.4.    Legal Aspects. ............................................................................................................       8
      1.5.    Permit Exemption. .....................................................................................................          10
      1.6.    Property Transfer. ......................................................................................................        10
      1.7.    Contracting Support from non-DoD Agencies. .........................................................                             11
      1.8.    Integration of Natural Resource Injury. .....................................................................                    11
      1.9.    Land Use Controls (LUC). .........................................................................................               12

Chapter 2— Planning                                                                                                                            13
      2.1.    Program Eligibility. ...................................................................................................         13
Table 2.1.    ERA Category Summary for ERP Activities. ............................................................                            13
      2.2.    Program Budget Development and Execution. ..........................................................                             14
      2.3.    Administrative Record. ..............................................................................................            15
      2.4.    Environmental Restoration Program Decision Documents. ......................................                                     15
      2.5.    Legal Agreements. .....................................................................................................          16

Chapter 3— IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                                      18
      3.1.    Inventory Management. .............................................................................................              18
      3.2.    Schedule-to-Complete and Cost-to-Complete. ..........................................................                            18
      3.3.    Management Action Plan. ..........................................................................................               18
      3.4.    Stakeholder Involvement and Restoration Advisory Boards. ....................................                                    18
      3.5.    Defense and State Memoranda of Agreement and Cooperative Agree .....................                                             19
      3.6.    Military Construction, Military Family Housing Funded Projects. ...........................                                      19
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                                                                3


Chapter 4— PERFORMANCE EVALUATION                                                                                                        20
    4.1.   Major Command Reviews. ........................................................................................               20
    4.2.   Peer Reviews. .............................................................................................................   20
    4.3.   Regulator Meetings. ...................................................................................................       20

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          21
4                                                                      AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


                                                Chapter 1

                                                POLICY

1.1. Program Goal of the Air Force Environmental Restoration Program . The ERP implements the
goals and responsibilities of the DERP in the Air Force. The goal of the Air Force ERP is to reduce risks
to human health and the environment due to contamination from past Air Force activities in a cost effec-
tive manner and in a manner that fosters community support.
    1.1.1. The scope of the Air Force ERP includes:
       1.1.1.1. Cleanup and restoration of sites contaminated with toxic and hazardous substances, low
       level radioactive materials, petroleum, oils, lubricants and other pollutants and contaminants.
       Releases known to have occurred entirely after 1 January 1984 are ineligible for Air Force Envi-
       ronmental Restoration Account (ERA) funding. ERA eligibility is not determinative of what stat-
       utes and legal requirements apply to any given release. NOTE: Radioactive materials are defined
       as wastes not classified as high level radioactive waste, transuranic waste, spent nuclear fuel, or
       byproduct material as defined in paragraph 11e(2) of the Atomic Energy Act.
       1.1.1.2. Air Force installations in the United States, its territories, and possessions under the man-
       agement and control of active Air Force, Air Force Reserves, or Air National Guard. NOTE: The
       Air Force Base Conversion Agency manages Environmental Restoration issues for closing or
       realigning Air Force installations.
       1.1.1.3. Government-owned, contractor-operated facilities located on real property managed and
       controlled by the Air Force.
       1.1.1.4. Third party sites (TPS): Off-installation areas or locations within the United States and
       its territories, not owned, leased or otherwise possessed by the United States Government, at
       which the Air Force is alleged to be liable for the costs of response actions to clean up releases of
       hazardous substances under the CERCLA and/or other applicable law. Areas or locations for-
       merly owned, operated or otherwise possessed by the United States and under the former jurisdic-
       tion of the DoD, to include the Air Force, at which a component is responsible for response costs
       (also known as Formerly Utilized Defense Sites (FUDS)), are generally referred to the U.S. Army
       Corps of Engineers for resolution. All TPS that are not FUDS, are generally outside of the scope
       of the Air Force ERP and DERP (see paragraphs 1.2.5. and 1.2.6. for Air Force activities with TPS
       responsibility).
       1.1.1.5. Off-installation areas where Air Force contaminants may have migrated from within Air
       Force, Air Force Reserve, or Air National Guard facility boundaries.

1.2. Responsibilities.
    1.2.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and Occupational
    Health (SAF/MIQ) has responsibilities that include, but are not limited to, developing restoration pro-
    gram policies and directions, overseeing the cleanup program, and acting as liaison with Deputy
    Under Secretary of Defense for Environmental Security (DUSD(ES)), the Congress and external
    organizations. SAF/MIQ:
       1.2.1.1. Exercises and delegates statutory executive authority to conduct the AF Environmental
       Restoration Program.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                            5


     1.2.1.2. Represents the Air Force on environmental issues requiring Secretariat attention to the
     Congress, other Federal agencies, state, local and tribal governments.
     1.2.1.3. Develops policy and provides oversight of relations with Congress, other Federal agen-
     cies, state, local and tribal governments.
     1.2.1.4. Develops policy and provides oversight of Air Force stakeholder involvement programs
     and initiatives.
     1.2.1.5. Approves agreements with regulatory agencies as set forth in paragraph 2.5. (Legal
     Agreements).
  1.2.2. The Air Force Office of General Counsel for Installations and Environment (SAF/GCN) is
  responsible for providing legal counsel to SAF/MIQ on restoration matters.
  1.2.3. The Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PAM) is responsible for providing overall pro-
  gram support, policy, and guidance regarding public affairs activities in support of the ERP as speci-
  fied in AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures,
  1 December 1999.
  1.2.4. The Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE) has overall responsibility for the
  execution of the ERP and oversees implementation of policy and guidance, develops budgets, and
  advocates for resources. Under the Chief, Environmental Division (HQ USAF/ILEV), the Environ-
  mental Restoration Branch (HQ USAF/ILEVR):
     1.2.4.1. Develops the Air Force’s restoration goals and measures of merit.
     1.2.4.2. Oversees and monitors ERP execution.
     1.2.4.3. Prepares and distributes updates to AFI 32-7020.
     1.2.4.4. Prepares and distributes the Air Force’s ERP Guidance.
     1.2.4.5. Compiles and submits the Air Force Environmental Restoration Account (ERA) budget.
     1.2.4.6. Advocates for ERA funds.
     1.2.4.7. Promotes initiatives that reduce cleanup time, costs, and risks to human health and the
     environment.
     1.2.4.8. Supports SAF/MIQ in DoD In-Progress Reviews and other briefings.
     1.2.4.9. Represents the Air Force in stakeholder initiatives.
     1.2.4.10. Establishes Air Force-specific, ERA eligibility requirements.
     1.2.4.11. Ensures and maintains the current budget, program management, program execution,
     and site cleanup information.
     1.2.4.12. Ensures environmental data and reports are provided to the Agency for Toxic Sub-
     stances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) upon request.
     1.2.4.13. Oversees the execution of the Defense and State Memorandum of Agreement (DSMOA)
     program for the Air Force.
     1.2.4.14. Maintains the Air Force Restoration Information Management System (AFRIMS).
6                                                                       AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


       1.2.4.15. Reviews and coordinates installation cleanup agreements, Interagency Agreements
       (IAGs), and Federal Facility Agreements (FFAs).
    1.2.5. The HQ Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (HQ AFCEE) and AFCEE Regional
    Environmental Offices (REOs) are responsible for providing technical expertise, contract services,
    and strategic planning to Air Force installations, MAJCOMs, and the Air Staff as requested. HQ
    AFCEE:
       1.2.5.1. Serves as regional point of contact for liaison activities with state and federal agencies for
       the ERP and serves as the primary point of contact for TPS.
       1.2.5.2. Provides TPS technical litigation support, and incorporates TPS budget and funding
       requests through HQ USAF/ILEVR for execution of TPS funding requirements.
       1.2.5.3. Provides technical and contracting staff to assist in the execution of the ERP as a Service
       Center in support of Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and the MAJCOMs.
       1.2.5.4. Provides the MAJCOMs with the cost of doing business through AFCEE to support the
       cost/benefit analysis in their environmental service center selection process.
       1.2.5.5. Develops and promotes deployment of innovative technologies and reports on their use.
       1.2.5.6. Supports strategic and program planning, and negotiations with regulators.
       1.2.5.7. Interfaces with other services as directed by HAF, and in the execution of the responsibil-
       ities of a center of expertise.
       1.2.5.8. Provides technical expertise and support for Peer reviews.
       1.2.5.9. Manages the Environmental Resource Program Information Management System
       (ERPIMS).
       1.2.5.10. Cross-feeds restoration information and knowledge gained through service agent expe-
       rience.
       1.2.5.11. Provides overall program management and execution of DSMOA.
       1.2.5.12. Provides stakeholder involvement and environmental risk communication support for
       MAJCOMs and installations.
    1.2.6. Air Force Legal Services Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division (AFLSA/
    JACE):
       1.2.6.1. Provides legal support to HQ USAF/ILEV, to include policy, instruction, guidance and
       coordination, legal reviews, regulatory negotiations, and legal advice concerning Air Force ERP
       requirements.
       1.2.6.2. Provides legal guidance and support to MAJCOM, HQ AFCEE and
       AFCEE REO equivalents as required, including recommendations for policies and positions on
       Air Force environmental legal matters, as necessary to ensure consistent implementation by the
       MAJCOMs and AFCEE REOs.
       1.2.6.3. Investigates and resolves allegations of Air Force liability at TPSs.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                               7


     1.2.6.4. Coordinates resolutions of alleged Air Force liability or responsibility for TPS with EPA,
     Federal and state agencies, the Department of Justice (DoJ), SAF/GCN, SAF/MIQ, HQ USAF/
     ILEVR, and HQ AFCEE.
     1.2.6.5. Manages litigation and settlements that involve the Air Force ERP and TPS.
     1.2.6.6. Provides support to the DoJ on all Air Force ERP and TPS litigation.
  1.2.7. Air Force Medical Operations Agency, Environmental and Occupational Health Division
  (AFMOA/SGOE):
     1.2.7.1. Provides technical and policy development assistance to SAF/MIQ and AF/ILE.
     1.2.7.2. Provides program support, policy, and guidance regarding human health risk assessment,
     and environmental sampling and monitoring.
     1.2.7.3. Serves as the Air Force’s liaison to the ATSDR.
     1.2.7.4. Provides health risk communications support to MAJCOMs and installations.
  1.2.8. MAJCOMs, Air National Guard, 11th Wing, U.S. Air Force Academy, and HQ AFCEE:
     1.2.8.1. Ensures Air Force restoration policy and guidance is disseminated to, and implemented
     by, subordinate field units.
     1.2.8.2. Develops command-specific guidance as appropriate.
     1.2.8.3. Programs and ensures subordinate units maintain all restoration requirements in the
     AFRIMS.
     1.2.8.4. Validates ERA eligible requirements.
     1.2.8.5. Negotiates, reviews and approves, subject to existing delegations of authority, installa-
     tions IAGs, FFAs and other cleanup agreements or arrangements.
     1.2.8.6. Ensures subordinate units designate in writing an installation Remedial Project Manager
     (RPM) with the responsibility to manage ERP sites at that installation.
     1.2.8.7. Ensures that subordinate units develop and maintain administrative records.
     1.2.8.8. Ensures subordinate units establish and document the rationale for service center selec-
     tion to consider quantitative and qualitative factors and select the least cost and/or highest quality
     service center.
     1.2.8.9. Establishes Memoranda of Agreement with DoD environmental service agencies (e.g.
     HQ AFCEE, USACE, etc.) to delineate MAJCOMs, subordinate units, and service center respon-
     sibilities to include a list of services and associated costs, and the method for calculating overhead
     rates.
     1.2.8.10. Conducts program reviews to HQ USAF/ILEVR upon request.
     1.2.8.11. Oversees subordinate units’ compliance with applicable laws, regulations, policies, and
     guidance for the ERP.
     1.2.8.12. Ensures that ERP project cost estimates are prepared using the Remedial Action Cost
     Engineering and Requirements (RACER).
8                                                                      AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


       1.2.8.13. Ensures subordinate units establish and document the rationale for site specific cost esti-
       mates and their changes.
       1.2.8.14. Ensures that subordinate units support the DSMOA program.
       1.2.8.15. Validates Areas of Concerns (AOCs) that are proposed for inclusion in the ERP.
    1.2.9. Air Force Civil Engineering Services Agency (AFCESA) supports and maintains the RACER
    system.

1.3. Principles. The Air Force ERP mission is to identify, investigate, and clean up contamination asso-
ciated with past Air Force activities as necessary to protect human health and the environment. The Air
Force executes cleanup and completes site close-out using a “risk plus other factors” approach for setting
priorities, through building productive partnerships with regulators, community based decision making,
and implementation of effective and efficient cleanup technologies. NOTE: The Federal Facilities Envi-
ronmental Restoration Dialogue Committee (FFERDC) Final Report (April 1996) was endorsed by SAF/
MIQ on 15 April 1996, and HQ USAF/ILE on 29 July 1996.

1.4. Legal Aspects.
The primary statutes governing restoration activities are CERCLA, DERP and the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA).
    1.4.1. CERCLA, 42 USC Sections 9601 et. seq.: CERCLA and the implementing National Contin-
    gency Plan (NCP), 40 CFR Part 300, primarily govern Air Force ERP activities at National Priorities
    List (NPL) and non-NPL installations and sites. The Air Force has been delegated “lead agency
    authority” to respond to releases or potential releases of hazardous substances and other pollutants and
    contaminants on or from Air Force installations in the United States, and its territories and posses-
    sions. The Air Force’s primary authority to respond to releases of hazardous substances is CERCLA
    Section 104 as delegated to the Air Force in Executive Order 12580. Lead agency means the agency
    having the delegated authority to plan and implement response actions under the NCP.
    1.4.2. DERP, 10 USC Sections 2701 et. seq.: DERP is a complementary but independent legislative
    grant of authority to DoD to respond to all types of toxic and hazardous releases from its facilities.
    DoD authority is broader under DERP than CERCLA but must be carried out consistent with CER-
    CLA Section 120 and extends to:
       1.4.2.1. The identification, investigation, research and development, and cleanup of contamina-
       tion from hazardous substances, pollutants and contaminants which are to be carried out subject to
       and in accordance with CERCLA.
       1.4.2.2. The remediation of other environmental problems that pose an imminent and substantial
       endangerment to the public health, welfare or the environment, such as disposal of unexploded
       ordnance.
       1.4.2.3. The demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and other structures formerly used by or
       under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
    1.4.3. RCRA: Air Force ERP activities may be governed under RCRA for sites identified under an
    Air Force installation’s RCRA treatment, storage, or disposal (TSD) permit or, an interim status cor-
    rective action order. Under an installation RCRA TSD permit or order, sites identified as solid waste
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                            9


  management units (SWMU) may be eligible for ERA funding. 40 CFR 264 and 265 and/or counter-
  part state requirements govern the RCRA Corrective Action Program.
  1.4.4. CERCLA/RCRA Integration.
     1.4.4.1. Both CERCLA and DERP subject the Air Force to the requirements of CERCLA in our
     responses to releases of hazardous substances, contaminants and pollutants (42 USC Section
     9620(a) and 10 USC Section 2701)). Both RCRA and CERCLA also subject us to the require-
     ments of RCRA, to include corrective action provisions in applicable TSD permits or interim sta-
     tus corrective action orders (42 USC Sections 6961 and 9620(i)). Accordingly, for releases of
     RCRA listed or characteristic hazardous waste, both CERCLA response action and RCRA correc-
     tive action requirements may apply. The Air Force seeks to maximize the use of it’s CERCLA and
     DERP lead agency response authority by integrating/incorporating RCRA corrective action
     requirements with our CERCLA responses and authorities, except as provided in paragraph
     1.4.4.3.
     1.4.4.2. The integration of RCRA requirements into the Air Force CERCLA process may be pro-
     vided formally in a new cleanup agreement, consent order or other arrangement. SAF/MIQ,
     through AF/ILE, must approve such negotiations and the final agreement, order or arrangement.
     1.4.4.3. An installation may request SAF/MIQ approval to enter a new cleanup agreement, con-
     sent order or other arrangement whereby we respond to releases of CERCLA hazardous sub-
     stances solely under the authority of RCRA or other appropriate federal and state authority (42
     U.S.C. Section 9620(d)(2)(B)). SAF/MIQ, through AF/ILE, must approve the final agreement,
     order or arrangement.
     1.4.4.4. Responding to releases of contaminants which are not CERCLA hazardous substances,
     such as petroleum products under RCRA Underground Storage Tank (UST) corrective action
     requirements, does not require SAF/MIQ approval as such releases are not subject to CERCLA.
     1.4.4.5. CERCLA/RCRA integration issues are complex and generally should be referred to the
     installation legal office and MAJCOM equivalents.
  1.4.5. Environmental Restoration Under State Response Laws. CERCLA Section 120(a)(4) specifies
  that at our non-NPL installations state removal and remedial action laws, to include enforcement laws,
  shall apply to our CERCLA response actions (42 U.S.C. Section 9620(a)(4)). It is Air Force policy to
  maximize the use of our CERCLA authority and response actions to satisfy state response laws at
  non-NPL facilities. Installations, with prior SAF/MIQ approval, may enter into new cleanup agree-
  ments or other arrangements whereby state response law requirements are formally integrated into our
  CERCLA responses, and SAF/MIQ, through AF/ILE, must approve the final agreement or arrange-
  ment. In limited circumstances, an installation may propose to respond to releases of CERCLA haz-
  ardous substances, at non-NPL facilities, solely under authority of state response laws through a new
  cleanup agreement or other arrangement; however SAF/MIQ approval to enter into such negotiations
  and of the final agreement or arrangement is required (42 U.S.C. Section 9620(d)(2)(B)). It is Air
  Force policy to maximize the exercise and preservation of its CERCLA authorities. Responding
  solely under other legal authorities may prejudice these authorities.
  1.4.6. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The DoJ has stated NEPA does not apply to CER-
  CLA response actions. Air Force policy is that installations are not required to comply with NEPA’s
  requirements when conducting CERCLA response actions.
10                                                                        AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


1.5. Permit Exemption. Under CERCLA Section 121(e)(1) and 40 CFR 300.400(e), on-site CERCLA
response actions are exempt from requirements to obtain federal, state, and local permits for NPL and
non-NPL facilities.
     1.5.1. Scope. The permit exemption applies to on-site response actions conducted under our CER-
     CLA authority. As defined by 40 CFR 300.5 and 300.400(e), on-site refers to the areal (both surface
     areas and the air above the contamination) extent of contamination and all suitable areas in very close
     proximity to the contamination necessary for implementation of the response action. The permit
     exemption applies to all media specific permits that could otherwise be required for response actions,
     such as a Clean Water Act, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit, water appropri-
     ation permits, and Clean Air Act permits.
     1.5.2. Air Force Permit Policy. The Air Force policy is to not renew or obtain new permits or permit
     equivalents for on-site CERCLA response actions. As required under the CERCLA and the NCP,
     installations shall identify and meet the substantive cleanup requirements, which would otherwise be
     identified in and required by such permits under CERCLA, through the Applicable or Relevant and
     Appropriate Requirements (ARARs) identification process. Exception to this policy shall be on a
     case-by-case basis, contingent upon written approval of SAF/MIQ, through AF/ILE.
     1.5.3. Actions Taken Under Other Legal Authority. If the Air Force is conducting responses to CER-
     CLA hazardous substances, pollutants or contaminants, under a legal authority other than CERCLA,
     the permit exemption and Air Force policy do not apply (i.e., “arrangements” under 42 U.S.C. Section
     9620(d)(2)(B)). Similarly, responses to substances that are not CERCLA hazardous substances, pol-
     lutants or contaminants, (and therefore not subject to CERCLA) are not subject to the CERCLA per-
     mit exemption and the Air Force policy. Integrated actions, whereby the Air Force responds both
     under CERCLA and another legal authority, are subject to the CERCLA permit exemption and the Air
     Force permit policy. The Air Force does not obtain permits for CERCLA on-site response actions or
     submit to permit equivalency processes. Accordingly, while an installation has to obtain and renew
     RCRA TSD permits where required, and is subject to interim status corrective action orders where
     applicable, as long as the installation is conducting response actions under our CERCLA authority,
     permits are not required for actual on-site response actions.

1.6. Property Transfer.
     1.6.1. This policy applies to all property transfers to other federal agencies or service components. In
     general, federal agencies that accept accountability of real property excessed by a DoD component
     shall assume responsibility for restoration activities at the property. The losing component is respon-
     sible for proper transfer of all files and records prior to the transfer of the property as coordinated with
     the appropriate records manager at the gaining agency. DoD components will not accept property
     excessed by another federal agency unless the agency certifies that the requirements of CERCLA Sec-
     tion 120(h) have been met and provides supporting reports and documentation. This policy does not
     preclude military services from making separate agreements under unusual or extenuating circum-
     stances. Prior to making such agreements, MAJCOMs involved in real property transfer must first
     obtain written concurrence from SAF/MIQ, through AF/ILE. MAJCOMs shall pay for sustained
     cleanup, study, and management costs through their existing allocation; i.e. MAJCOMs will not
     receive additional funds for maintaining the restoration program for sites after real property transfer.
     Schedules will be developed and included as part of these agreements indicating specific milestones
     for funding and execution responsibilities.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                               11


   1.6.2. Installation transfer within the Air Force. MAJCOMs that gain accountability of a transferring
   Air Force installation shall assume responsibility and issue guidance for the restoration activities at
   the installation. The losing MAJCOM is responsible for providing the gaining MAJCOM all ERP
   reports and a history of response actions taken prior to the transfer of the property. MAJCOMs shall
   agree upon a timeline for the transfer of projects and funding responsibility.
   1.6.3. Installations undergoing BCA transfer should refer to the BRAC Cleanup Plan Guidebook
   (1993).

1.7. Contracting Support from non-DoD Agencies. Contracting support from non-DoD agencies
requires specific justification. Coordinate with servicing procurement offices and legal counsel to deter-
mine current SAF/AQ policy.
   1.7.1. Interagency Orders. The Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535) allows for interagency ordering of
   supplies and services under certain conditions. MAJCOMs and installations must follow current
   acquisition policy guidance when using non-DoD activities to accomplish ERP requirements. MAJ-
   COMs and installations are encouraged to seek guidance and assistance from Air Force contracting
   officers as early as possible in the acquisition planning process.
   1.7.2. Acquisition Policy. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and its DoD Supplement,
   DFARS, require that interagency acquisitions under the Economy Act contain an approved Determi-
   nation and Finding (D&F) prior to funds being transferred to a non-DoD agency. The detailed Air
   Force policy is contained in the Air Force Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Regulation
   (AFFARS) Subpart 5317.5, “Interagency Acquisitions Under the Economy Act.” A D&F is not
   required for the transfer of funds within DoD.

1.8. Integration of Natural Resource Injury. On 2 May 2000, DUSD(ES) issued to the Services an
“Interim Policy on Integration of Natural Resource Injury Responsibilities and Environmental Restora-
tion Activities.” On 18 May 2000, SAF/MIQ adopted this policy and directed its incorporation into Air
Force instructions and guidance documents. This DUSD(ES) policy is hereby incorporated by reference
into this instruction, and is fully applicable as Air Force policy to require the integration of natural
resource injury considerations into the ERP cleanup process at Air Force facilities.
   1.8.1. Under CERCLA, responsible parties are liable for the costs to restore, replace or acquire equiv-
   alent natural resources when such resources are injured, destroyed or lost due to releases of CERCLA
   hazardous substances, to include the reasonable costs of assessing such injury, destruction or loss (42
   USC Section 9607(a)(4)). Lead agencies are further required to attempt to coordinate the assess-
   ments, investigations and planning for CERCLA response actions at their facilities with Federal and
   state trustees of the affected natural resources (42 USC Section 9604(b)(2), 40 CFR Section
   300.430(b)(7)). Designated federal and state trustees are required to act on behalf of the public to
   assess and recover damages to natural resources, and use any sums recovered to restore, replace or
   acquire the equivalent of such natural resources (42 USC Section 9607(f)). A trustee may agree to a
   covenant not to sue for such damages to natural resources if the potentially responsible party agrees to
   take appropriate actions necessary to protect and restore the damaged natural resources (42 USC Sec-
   tion 9622(j)). The Air Force is a designated federal trustee at its installations (40 CFR Section
   300.600(b)(3)).
   1.8.2. Whenever practicable, at sites where we are both a potentially responsible party/lead agent and
   a natural resource trustee, (i.e., Air Force installations and facilities such as GOCOs), we are to iden-
12                                                                      AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


     tify injury to natural resources and redress such injury during the site assessment, investigation, and
     remedy selection and implementation process. The primary method to achieve this integration is the
     ecological risk assessment conducted during the RI/FS phase of the cleanup process. The resulting
     information should then be used to determine which response alternative would best redress past nat-
     ural resource injury, and whether an alternative would itself cause additional injury. Whenever prac-
     ticable and consistent with the CERCLA and NCP remedy selection process, a response action that
     results in the least amount of residual natural resource injury should be selected.
     1.8.3. Other trustees (federal, state and Tribal as applicable) should be consulted and coordinated with
     as early as possible in the remedial evaluation, investigation and selection process. While trustees do
     not have a decision-making role in the selection or implementation of remedies, their early involve-
     ment is crucial in assessing, integrating and minimizing residual natural resource injury.
     1.8.4. The natural resource integration policy and requirements apply to any release of CERCLA haz-
     ardous substances, whether the response/cleanup action is conducted under CERCLA and/or other
     legal authority. Installations are required to address our CERCLA obligations, responsibilities and
     authorities both as a lead agency/responsible party and as a trustee of natural resources.

1.9. Land Use Controls (LUC). On 31 Aug 2000, DUSD(ES) issued "Interim Policy on Land Use Con-
trols Associated with Environmental Restoration Activities." SAF/MIQ adopted this policy on 11 Sep 00.
Both the policy and guidance documents attached to the DUSD(ES) policy are incorporated by reference
into this instruction.
     1.9.1. Memorandum of Agreement/Understanding (MOA/U). Air Force installations, state environ-
     mental regulatory agencies and/or EPA may enter into MOA/Us respecting land use controls/institu-
     tional controls (LUCs/ICs) if the MOA/Us do not significantly deviate from the DoD and Service
     model. This model MOA was originally entered into by the EPA, state of Florida, and the Services.
     All such MOA/Us must be forwarded through the MAJCOM/CEs and MAJCOM/JAs to HQ USAF/
     ILEVR and AFLSA/JACE, respectively, for consistency reviews. HQ USAF/ILEVR and AFLSA/
     JACE will consult with SAF/MIQ and SAF/GCN, as appropriate, for approval to enter into LUC/IC
     MOA/Us. MOA/Us not following the model agreement must be approved by SAF/MIQ and are sub-
     ject to 72 hour DUSD(ES) and Component review.
     1.9.2. MAJCOMs must review any existing LUC/IC policies or guidance and revise, as necessary, to
     ensure consistency with DUSD(ES) and SAF/MIQ policies, guidance, directives and instructions.
     MAJCOM supplementation must be reviewed by SAF/MIQ to ensure consistency with DUSD(ES)
     policy and guidance, and should be staffed to SAF/MIQ through HQ USAF/ILEVR.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                             13


                                               Chapter 2

                                             PLANNING

2.1. Program Eligibility. ERA eligible activities are identified in Table 2.1. The three ERA funding cat-
egories are study, cleanup, and management and manpower.

Table 2.1. ERA Category Summary for ERP Activities.
                              Activity                          Mgt Mpr        Study     Cleanup
 CERCLA Response Activities (See Section 2.1.1.)
 -- PA, SI, RI, FS, ROD/DD                                                        •
 -- IRA, RD, RA, RA-O, LTM                                                                   •
 -- EE/CAs performed in association with the study or cleanup                     •          •
 phase of a site or sites shall be categorized appropriately as
 study or cleanup.
 RCRA Corrective Actions (See Section 2.1.2.)
 -- RFI, CMS                                                                      •
 -- ICM CMD, CMI                                                                             •
 -- PCO                                                                           •          •
 Salaries (civil servants), travel and training                    •
 Third Party Sites                                                                •          •
 Legal support, fines and penalties (See Section 2.5.4.)           •
 Relative risk evaluations                                                        •
 Technology transfer                                                              •          •
 Peer reviews
 -- Conducted through feasibility study                                           •
 -- Conducted after feasibility study                                                        •
 Contract service center SIOH                                      •              •          •
 Equipment, supplies, and computer support                         •
 RAB or TRC support                                                •
 Natural resource trustee requirements                             •              •          •
 Activities in support of ATSDR                                    •              •          •
 Surveying, clearing, and disposing of UXO at closed ranges.
 Transferring, transferred and closed ranges are those ranges
 no longer in use as a range and/or put to a future use
 incompatible with range activity.
 -- UXO-RI                                                                        •
 -- UXO-RA                                                                                   •
 NOTE: • - Denotes ERA program funding eligibility.
   2.1.1. Air Force ERA Eligibility. ERA eligibility for ERP activities is limited to cleaning up contam-
   ination that occurred before 1 January 1984, or contamination associated with a continuing release
   that began before 1 January 1984. Releases known to have occurred entirely after 1 January 1984 are
   not eligible for ERA funds. ERA eligibility is determined by the subordinate units and validated by
   the MAJCOMs.
   2.1.2. RCRA Corrective Action. SWMU investigation and cleanup required by sections 3004(u),
   3004(v), 3008(h), 7003 and 9003(h) of RCRA may be ERA eligible. RCRA corrective actions asso-
   ciated with releases before 1 January 1984, or a sustained release that began before 1 January 1984, as
   associated with a RCRA TSD Permit identified before 30 September 1990, are ERA eligible. RCRA
   Facility Assessments are not ERA eligible. Releases from in-service underground storage tanks (dis-
14                                                                    AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


     covered through integrity testing IAW 40 CFR 280 conducted before 22 December 1993), that other-
     wise satisfy ERA eligibility criteria are ERA eligible.
     2.1.3. TPSs. Funding of settlements of imminent litigation or judgments for TPS liabilities is gener-
     ally from the Judgment Fund, not ERA. Use of ERA funds for other settlements or for the Air Force
     to undertake response actions at such TPS must be authorized in advance by HQ USAF/ILEVR in
     consultation with AFSLA/JACE and SAF/GCN.
     2.1.4. Formerly Used Defense Sites (FUDS). The U.S. Army is the DoD executive agent for the ERP
     at FUDS. Program management responsibilities have been delegated to the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
     neers. Questions and issues regarding FUDS can be addressed to AFLSA/JACE Regional Counsel.
     2.1.5. ERA eligibility is a separate question from which laws and legal requirements apply to any
     given cleanup. ERA eligibility requirements are fiscal and policy constraints established within the
     funding parameters created by Congress in 10 USC Section 2703. They are not determinative of
     which law(s) governs the cleanup. MAJCOM and HAF engineering and legal offices should be con-
     sulted as required.

2.2. Program Budget Development and Execution. The ERP budget is built through project require-
ments submitted through AFRIMS.
     2.2.1. Budget line item requirements extracted from AFRIMS annually includes the budget year
     through budget year plus two. The Budget Estimate Submission (BES) and the President’s Budget
     (PB) information are submitted through an AFRIMS project requirements file.
     2.2.2. MAJCOMs shall minimize to the extent practicable, all costs associated with the ERP to ensure
     the most efficient use of program resources.
     2.2.3. MAJCOMs shall maintain an up-to-date manpower inventory in AFRIMS.
        2.2.3.1. MAJCOMs may use ERA funds to pay federal civil service employee salaries, benefits,
        awards, relocation allowances, moving expenses, and real estate fees of individuals working in
        direct support of the ERP. This applies to installation, MAJCOM, HAF, and Field Operating
        Agencies. ERA funded positions may include planners, engineers, scientists, program analysts,
        attorneys, public affairs personnel, technicians, administrative support, and contract specialists.
        ERA funded personnel must spend a minimum of ninety percent of their time working restoration
        program issues.
        2.2.3.2. Military personnel assigned to non-restoration activities but detailed to ERP work may be
        back filled with ERA funded civilian employees to work non-ERA programs. These positions
        must be identified in the manpower justification report regardless of their assigned duties. ERA
        funded contractors shall not be used to backfill a military authorization.
     2.2.4. ERA is the sole source of Air Force operations and maintenance funding for all ERP pro-
     grammed and validated requirements. ERA funds shall not be used for site preparation or cleanup for
     a construction project (Military Construction, Military Family Housing, Non Appropriated Funds, or
     Defense Logistics Agency) unless the actions independently support the ERP goals from Section 1.1.
     above and have been previously programmed and validated as ERA eligible per Section 2.1. above
     and Table 2.1. All other use of ERA for site preparation or cleanup for a construction project must be
     approved in writing by HQ USAF/ILEVR. Prior year funds used for in-scope changes are not coded
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                              15


   and therefore this restriction does not apply. Written HQ USAF/ILEVR approval is required to fund
   ERA validated requirements with non-ERA funds.
   2.2.5. In the event a MAJCOM’s ERA allocation for a fiscal year is less than the estimated require-
   ment necessary to satisfy all agreement schedules in the budget year, the MAJCOM shall ensure reg-
   ulatory agencies and stakeholders are notified. A stakeholder is any person with a vested interest in
   cleanup decisions for a particular site including community members. Consistent with the principles
   of the FFERDC Final Report, MAJCOMs or installations shall attempt to re-negotiate schedules to
   re-sequence work based on available funds in the budget year. MAJCOMs shall coordinate re-negoti-
   ation of legal agreement schedules with their legal office.
   2.2.6. HQ AFCEE, in coordination with AFLSA/JACE and AFCEE REOs, budgets and executes TPS
   requirements, consistent with these provisions.

2.3. Administrative Record. MAJCOMs shall ensure that an administrative record is maintained for
each NPL and non-NPL installation where ERP activities are completed or are ongoing. MAJCOMs shall
ensure the complete administrative record is maintained as a permanent record. A second copy of the
administrative record shall be maintained in an information repository that is accessible to regulatory
agencies and the general public. NOTE: See 40 CFR 300, Subpart I, and Final Guidance on Administra-
tive Records for Selecting CERCLA Response Actions (3 December 1990, NTIS publication number
PB91-139121, OSWER Directive 9833.3A-I).

2.4. Environmental Restoration Program Decision Documents.
   2.4.1. CERCLA Decision Documents (DDs). All future DDs for all CERCLA response actions at Air
   Force installations, including NPL and non-NPL installations, shall conform in content and format
   with CERCLA, National Contingency Plan (NCP) requirements and EPA guidelines and criteria for
   preparing DDs executed under CERCLA. “No action” decisions made in the RI/FS process must be
   documented in a ROD.
       2.4.1.1. CERCLA Record of Decisions (RODs) at NPL Installations. CERCLA and the NCP
       require EPA co-select remedies at Air Force NPL installations, and in the event of disagreement,
       EPA solely selects remedies. State and appropriate local regulatory agencies, as well as the public,
       must be provided meaningful participation opportunities throughout the remedial action process,
       to include timely review and comment of proposed remedial actions. Installation-level IAGs and
       FFAs should be consulted for other specific requirements.
       2.4.1.2. CERCLA RODs at Non-NPL Installations. CERCLA remedial actions at non-NPL
       installations require a ROD. Unlike NPL RODs, EPA concurrence or approval is not required. As
       required at 42 USC Section 9620(f) and 9621(f), and 10 USC Section 2705(b), the Air Force shall
       provide the opportunity for EPA and state and local agencies, and the public, to review and com-
       ment on CERCLA RODs at non-NPL installations. Installation specific agreements may provide
       additional or different requirements.
       2.4.1.3. CERCLA Removal Action DDs. CERCLA, the NCP and applicable EPA guidelines and
       criteria must be complied with to document removal action decisions at NPL and non-NPL CER-
       CLA installations. The appropriate DD for the removal action depends upon whether it is an
       emergency removal action, time-critical removal action or non-time critical removal action. The
       Air Force shall provide opportunity for EPA, state and local agencies, and the public, to review
16                                                                    AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


        and comment on all Air Force removal actions, except for emergency removals taken because of
        imminent and substantial endangerment to human health or the environment when consultation
        would be impractical. Installation specific agreements may provide different requirements.
        2.4.1.4. CERCLA No Action Decisions in Response Evaluation Phases. CERCLA RODs are not
        required for determinations that no further response action is warranted or necessary during the
        response evaluation phase, up to and including the remedial site inspection phase. Installation
        specific agreements may provide additional, or different, requirements.
        2.4.1.5. Air Force Approval of CERCLA DDs. Air Force authority to select CERCLA response
        actions is delegated from the President, through DoD to the Air Force. Existing limits on redele-
        gation require CERCLA DDs be signed and approved by a General Officer (GO) or Senior Exec-
        utive Service (SES) member having Air Force ERP responsibility. MAJCOM/CC delegations
        must be consulted to determine appropriate signature and approval levels. GO or SES approval
        currently is required for all CERCLA DDs except for no action decisions in the response evalua-
        tion phase, as described in section 2.4.1.4. NOTE: Re-delegation of CERCLA DD and other
        authorities is currently being revised and may change significantly.
        2.4.1.6. Timeliness of Regulatory Review of CERCLA DDs. Installation specific IAGs, FFAs
        and other cleanup agreements should be consulted first for specified regulatory review require-
        ments. If none of the above apply, EPA, state and appropriate local agencies are provided reason-
        able and timely review and comment opportunities in accordance with CERCLA, DERP, and the
        NCP. 40 CFR Part 300, Subpart F, requires such agencies be provided a minimum of ten working
        days to a maximum of fifteen working days to review proposed RODs.
        2.4.1.7. Third Party Site (TPS) CERCLA DDs. TPS DD procedures will be consistent with the
        lead agency’s, usually EPA’s, administrative record requirements.
     2.4.2. DDs Under Other Legal Authorities. If the Air Force elects to respond to or clean up releases
     of CERCLA hazardous substances, pollutants or contaminants solely under a legal authority other
     than CERCLA, a CERCLA DD is not required. Installation specific agreements may provide addi-
     tional or different requirements for DDs. Since releases of petroleum are excluded from CERCLA,
     DDs for petroleum are regulated under RCRA or other state, or local laws.
     2.4.3. Air Force Approval of DDs Under other Legal Authorities. The installation commander or
     installation environmental protection committee chairperson is authorized to sign DDs or similar doc-
     uments required under authorities other than CERCLA. Installation specific agreements may provide
     additional or different requirements.

2.5. Legal Agreements. SAF/MIQ approval is required both before entering negotiations for and execut-
ing any new or modified FFA or cleanup agreements or arrangements at NPL and non-NPL facilities.
There are no other restrictions on entering new or modified FFAs, cleanup agreements or arrangements,
and such agreements will be entered into where legally required, or as may be in the best interest of the
Air Force. Any proposed FFA must be, before approval or execution, forwarded to DUSD(ES) for 72
hour DoD and Component review and comment. All such FFAs, cleanup agreements and arrangements
shall comply with paragraph 1.4. (Legal Aspects).
     2.5.1. Coordination of Agreements. Any agreements for NPL or non-NPL sites envisioning use of
     ERA funds shall contain Air Force language for model agreements to the maximum extent possible.
     MAJCOMs shall coordinate with AFLSA/JACE on all draft agreements. Coordination packages shall
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                             17


  include a cover memo highlighting any deviations, and the justification therefore, and an analysis of
  any provisions that may set a precedent for the Air Force or DoD.
  2.5.2. Public Comment. Upon completion of an agreement and incorporation of public comments,
  MAJCOMs shall provide copies of the signed final agreement and a summary of the public comments
  and responses to HQ USAF/ILEVR.
  2.5.3. Dispute Resolutions. Should a dispute between regulators and an installation arise, the dispute
  resolution process designated in a FFA will apply for NPL installations. For non-NPL installations,
  the dispute resolution process stated in the DSMOA applies unless a FFA or other cleanup agreement
  has been entered that contains an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. For both processes
  attempt to resolve disputes at the lowest level between the installation RPM and the regulatory coun-
  terpart. MAJCOMs shall facilitate resolution of issues raised and provide HQ USAF/ILEVR with a
  summary of all issues raised and resolved through the dispute resolution process. If elevation of a dis-
  pute reaches SAF/MIQ, the MAJCOM shall provide additional information to HQ USAF/ILEVR as
  required.
  2.5.4. Fines, Penalties, and Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs). Fines, penalties and SEPs
  directly associated with ERP activities may be eligible for ERA funding. The law currently requires
  specific authorization by Congress before any ERA funds may be used for the payment of a fine, pen-
  alty or SEP (See, e.g., 10 USC Section 2703 (e)). Other Operations & Maintenance (O&M) funding
  accounts shall not be used.
  2.5.5. Formal TPS agreements, to include Consent Decrees and other litigation settlement agree-
  ments, are not addressed by this section or instruction. Such agreements require DoJ and SAF/MIQ
  (or his delegate) approval. AFLSA/JACE manages and coordinates such agreements, in consultation
  with SAF/GCN and AFCEE REOs.
18                                                                     AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


                                                Chapter 3

                                          IMPLEMENTATION

3.1. Inventory Management. The inventory management model is the Air Force’s site management tool
that ties together site status, type of work being executed at the site (study or cleanup), and site relative
risk. This management tool is generated automatically by AFRIMS. The inventory management model
provides a baseline for progress measurement and highlights impediments in the restoration process.
Installation level data shall be kept up-to-date to reflect day-to-day program changes and MAJCOM
requirements. MAJCOM data shall be submitted to HQ USAF/ILEVR as specified by Air Staff guidance.

3.2. Schedule-to-Complete and Cost-to-Complete. The Air Force's plan for ERP completion is identi-
fied through the schedule-to-complete (STC) and cost-to-complete (CTC). The CTC is the basis for esti-
mating environmental liability and all CTC estimates must comply with DoD Financial Management
Regulations (FMR) 7000.14-R, Volume 4, Chapter 14. The STC and CTC apply to all ERP sites and
AOCs. Installations are required to prepare, implement, and maintain in AFRIMS, all information
required to generate schedule and cost-to-complete reports for each site to take sites to site closure (SC).
The site-specific schedule and cost-to-complete becomes their execution plan. Installations will maintain
RACER cost estimate record with associated changes and justification for the changes for each ERP site.
MAJCOMs are required to consolidate installation schedules and ensure requirements are executed
within MAJCOM budget targets through the Future Years Defense Plan. MAJCOMs are required to con-
solidate the site-specific schedule and cost-to-complete.
     3.2.1. The requirements for CTC estimates are delineated in DoD FMR 7000.14-R, Volume 4, Chap-
     ter 14. These requirements include estimating costs on a current-cost basis, adjusting long-term esti-
     mates annually to maintain a current-cost basis, and not constraining costs based on availability of
     funds. In addition, CTC estimates must be based on currently available technology. The regulation
     requires verification and validation of cost-estimating tools and documentation of data sources and
     methods of estimation and of management review.
     3.2.2. CTC is defined in the DoD Management Guidance for the Defense Environmental Restoration
     Program (March 1998). This guidance states that CTC estimates will include the cost of completing
     all remaining studies, restoration, remedial action operation (RA-O) (including operation and mainte-
     nance of remedial systems), long-term monitoring (LTM), and SC, as well as deletion from the NPL,
     where appropriate. The guidance states that CTC estimates will, to the extent possible, reflect
     site-specific considerations and realistic assumptions about cleanup levels and the technology applied
     and that estimates will be adjusted to reflect new information.

3.3. Management Action Plan. A Management Action Plan (MAP) is an annually updated document
for managing an installation’s ERP. The MAP will outline the total multi-year, integrated approach to
achieving installation ERP. The function of the MAP is to identify and monitor requirements, schedules,
and project funding requirements. It is the basis for input into program planning, budget development and
execution decisions. The MAP shall fulfill the requirements as outlined in the DoD DERP Management
Guidance.

3.4. Stakeholder Involvement and Restoration Advisory Boards.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                                  19


   3.4.1. The Air Force will establish stakeholder involvement programs for installation restoration
   activities. Plans for involving all stakeholders will be developed using information gathered from
   stakeholders and will provide meaningful involvement in planning and executing the restoration pro-
   gram.
   3.4.2. Wherever possible and practical, the Air Force will support the establishment of restoration
   advisory boards (RABs) (DERP, 10 U.S.C. 2705(c) and (d)). The policy for RABs is contained in HQ
   USAF/ILEV letter (17 January 1996) at http://www.dtic.mil/envirodod/envdocs.html. RABs are
   one important part of the stakeholder involvement required to foster community support.

3.5. Defense and State Memoranda of Agreement and Cooperative Agree ments. The Air Force
reimburses eligible expenses to participating state and territorial regulatory agencies through the Defense
and State Memoranda of Agreement (DSMOA) and Cooperative Agreements (CA) process. The U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers is the executive agent for the DoD and negotiates DSMOAs and CAs with the
states and territories. The Air Force is responsible for validating projected state level of efforts to support
an installation’s ERP.

3.6. Military Construction, Military Family Housing Funded Projects. ERA funds cannot be used in
support of ongoing Military Construction (MILCON), or Military Family Housing (MFH) projects where
contamination is found during construction. This situation is considered a “differing site condition” and
part of the MILCON, and MFH project costs. Where ERP response actions are warranted and otherwise
satisfy ERA eligibility such that circumstances driving the timing of the DERP response action are inde-
pendent of the MILCON, or MFH project schedule, ERA funding may be used to address those actions
deemed necessary to support ERP goals from Section 1.1. above. ERA funds may not be used to cleanup
or prepare a site for a future MILCON or MFH project unless the aforementioned circumstances exist.
Any other type of project that requests ERA funds for accelerated cleanup at a construction site, will be
addressed on a case by case basis.
20                                                                      AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


                                                 Chapter 4

                                    PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

4.1. Major Command Reviews. Major commands shall provide quarterly reviews of their ERP to the
HQ USAF/ILEVR using AFRIMS. The time, content and format of these reviews will be determined by
HQ USAF/ILEVR.

4.2. Peer Reviews. Unless waived by the HQ USAF/ILEVR, peer reviews of proposed interim or final
remedial or removal action alternatives is required prior to formal submission of a decision document to a
regulatory agency or the public.
     4.2.1. Peer reviews or waivers are required for projects if the total construction capital cost of the
     remedial system (remedial design (RD) and remedial action-construction (RA-C)) is greater than
     $500,000, or the annual operation and maintenance (remedial action-operation or long-term monitor-
     ing) cost is greater than $100,000.
     4.2.2. MAJCOMs shall develop implementing guidance for conducting peer reviews or an applicable
     waiver process.
     4.2.3. Records that justify the technical and economic basis for all peer review waivers shall be estab-
     lished and maintained by the MAJCOM.

4.3. Regulator Meetings. As directed by HQ USAF/ILEVR, the MAJCOMs and AFCEE REOs shall
conduct regional partnering meetings with EPA Regions and states to communicate cleanup goals and
develop strategies for achieving efficient, accelerated installation completion.



                                                 MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt General, USAF
                                                 DCS/Installations & Logistics
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                        21


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
DoDI 4715.7, Environmental Restoration Program, April 22, 1996
DoD, DERP Management Guidance, March 17, 1998
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting
AFI 32-7002, Environmental Information Management System
AFI 32-7066, Environmental Baseline Surveys in Real Estate Transactions
AFI 32-7004, Environmental Education Training
AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries
AFI 33-360, Volume 1, Communications and Information Publication Management Program
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
FFERDC, Final Report, April 15, 1996
CERCLA
DERP, 10 USC Sections 2701 et. seq.
RCRA
Executive Order 12580, Superfund Implementation, January 23, 1987
BRAC, Cleanup Plan Guidebook, 1993
Code of Federal Regulations
AFFARS Subpart 5317.5, Interagency acquisitions Under the Economy Act
DUSD(ES), Interim Policy on Integration of Natural Resource Injury Responsibilities and Environmental
Restoration Activities, May 18, 2000
DUSD(ES), Interim Policy on Land Use Controls Associated with Environmental Restoration Activities,
September 11, 2000
40 CFR 300, Subpart I, Final Guidance on Administrative Records for Selection CERCLA Response
Actions, December 3, 1990
DoD, Volume 1, Chapter 14, Financial Management Regulations 7000.14-R
HQ USAF/ILEV, RAB Policy Letter, January 17, 1996

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEE—Air Force center for environmental excellence
22                                                           AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


AFCESA—Air Force civil engineering services agency
AFFARS—Air Force federal acquisition regulation supplement
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLSA/JACE—Air Force Legal Services Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMOA/SGOE—Air Force Medical Operations Agency, Environmental and Occupational Health
Division
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force restoration information management system
AOC—Area of concern
ARARS—Applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements
ATSDR—Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
BES—Budget estimate submittal
BRAC—Base realignment and closure
CA—Cooperative agreement
CERCLA—Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
CFR—Code of federal regulations
CMI—Corrective measures implementation
CMS—Corrective measures study
CTC—Cost to complete
D & F—Determination and finding
DERP—Defense environmental restoration program
DD—Decision document
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoJ—Department of Justice
DPG—Defense planning guidance
DSMOA—Defense and state memorandum of agreement
DUSD(ES)—Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Environmental Security
ERA—Environmental restoration account
ERP—Environmental restoration program
ERPIMS—Environmental resource program and information management system
FAR—Federal acquisition regulation
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                             23


FFA—Federal facility agreement
FFERDC—Federal Facilities Environmental Restoration Dialogue Committee
FS—Feasibility study
FUDS—Formerly used defense sites
GO—General officer
GOCO—Government owned contractor operated
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ USAF/ILE—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer
HQ USAF/ILEV—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Environmental Division
HQ USAF/ILEVR—Headquarters Air Force Civil Engineer Environmental Restoration Branch
IAG—Interagency Agreement
IC—Installation completion
IR—Information repository
IRA—Interim remedial action
LTM—Long term monitoring
LUC—Land use controls
LUC/IC—Land use controls/institutional controls
MAJCOM—Major command
MAP—Management action plan
MFH—Military family housing
MILCON—Military construction
MOA/U—Memorandum of agreement/understanding
NCP—National contingency plan
NEPA—National environmental policy act
NFRAP—No further response action planned
NPL—National priorities list
PA—Preliminary assessment
PB—President’s budget
RA—Remedial action
RAB—Restoration advisory board
RA-C—Remedial action construction
RACER—Remedial action cost engineering and requirements
24                                                                  AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


RA-O—Remedial action operations
RC—Response complete
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RD—Remedial design
REO—Regional environmental office
RFA—Resource conservation and recovery act facility assessment
RFI—Resource conservation and recovery act facility investigation
RI—Remedial investigation
RIP—Remedy in place
ROD—Record of Decision
RPM—Remedial project manager
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/GCN—Air Force Office of General Counsel for Installations and Environment
SAF/MIQ—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety, and Occupational
Health
SAF/PAM—Air Force Office of Public Affairs
SC—Site closeout
SEP—Supplemental environmental projects
SES—Senior executive service
SI—Site investigation
STC—Schedule to complete
SWMU—Solid waste management unit
TPS—Third party sites
TSD—Treatment, storage, or disposal
USACE—United States Army corps of engineers
USC—United States Code

Terms
Administrative Record—Contains documents used to support the final decision for selection of a
response action.
Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR)—The ATSDR conducts public health
activities at NPL and petitioned sites. CERCLA requires that ATSDR complete a preliminary Public
Health Assessment (PHA) within one year of a site's proposed listing on the NPL. Installation level
environmental restoration activities are responsible for providing environmental data and/or reports to
ATSDR upon request through the base Bioenvironmental Engineer (BEE) to support the development of
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                               25


ATSDR public health documents. Further explanation of ATSDR's public health activities is outlined in
AFI 48-136, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Program.
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS)—Provides direction on Air Force
implementation of the FAR.
Air Force Restoration Information Management System (AFRIMS)—The software tool used to
assist with the integrated planning, management and storage of environmental restoration data.
Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements (ARARs)—Substantive cleanup require-
ments and standards that must be met by CERCLA response actions. ARARs include cleanup standards,
standards of control, and other substantive environmental protection criteria for hazardous substances, as
specified by federal and state law and regulations.
Area of Concern (AOC)—A potential or suspected area of contamination based upon limited historical
information. (Programming AOC work in AFRIMS is limited to preliminary assessments (PA), site
inspections (SI) or AOC removal actions (AOC-RA). An AOC must be converted to a site in AFRIMS
before work other than PA, SI or AOC-RA can be programmed.)
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA)—Afederal
statute that establishes a comprehensive framework to identify, investigate, and clean up releases of
hazardous substances into the environment. It provides the statutory authority for cleanup of hazardous
substances that could endanger public health, public welfare, or the environment (CERCLA, at 42 U.S.C.
Sections 9601 et. seq.).
Defense Environmental Restoration Program (DERP)—A program for conducting environmental
restoration activities at facilities under DoD jurisdiction. This law establishes DoD and Component
Environmental Restoration Accounts (ERA) to fund DERP activities (DERP at 10 U.S.C. Sections 2701
et. seq.).
Defense Planning Guidance (DPG)—This document, issued by the Secretary of Defense, provides firm
guidance in the form of goals, priorities, and objectives, including fiscal constraints, for the development
of the Program Objective Memorandums by the Military Departments and Defense agencies. Also Called
DPG.
Determination and Finding (D&F)—A statement defining the justification for a contracting choice.
The format and content is defined by the Contracting Officer involved. The D & F is usually signed by
the installation wing commander.
Environmental Resources Program Information Management System (ERPIMS)—A t e c h n i c a l
information system that stores analytical data from operation and monitoring activities. ERPIMS is used
to crossfeed information in the Air Force.
Environmental Restoration Account (ERA)—Funding for environmental restoration activities comes
from a special transfer account that used to be called the Defense Environmental Restoration Account
(DERA), and was centrally managed by DUSD(ES). In FY97, a separate Environmental Restoration
Account (ERA) was established for each branch of the service.
Environmental Restoration Program (ERP)—Program designed to clean up contamination associated
with DoD facilities. Includes identification, investigation, and cleanup of hazardous substances,
pollutants and contaminants as defined by CERCLA. The ERP is also known as the Installation
Restoration Program (IRP).
26                                                                   AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


Feasibility Study (FS)—A step in the CERCLA environmental restoration process. The objectives of
the FS are to identify alternatives for remediation and to select and describe a RA that satisfies the
ARARs and other CERCLA requirements for responding to releases of hazardous substances.
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)—The FAR was established to codify uniform policies for
acquisition of supplies and services by executive agencies. The official FAR appears in the Code of
Federal Regulations at 48 CFR Chapter 1.
Federal Facility Agreement (FFA) (may include Interagency Agreements at Federal facilities)—A
legal agreement between DoD and EPA concerning the cleanup of sites on the NPL. This agreement is
intended to establish roles, responsibilities, and schedules and to improve communications among all
parties.
Federal Facilities Environmental Restoration Dialogue Committee (FFERDC)—A n             advisory
committee federally chartered under the U.S. EPA. FFERDC was formed to foster cooperation and trust
between regulators and the regulated community and to develop policy recommendations to improve the
federal facility cleanup decision making process..
Information Repository—An installation’s repository for copies of ERP items that are made available to
the public, including brochures or fact sheets, press releases, documents in the administrative record,
information on the IRP, and the applicable laws. The repository must be available to the public during
CERCLA response actions and should be located at or near the site of the response action.
Interagency Agreement (IAG)—In general a formal document in which two or more federal agencies
agree to cooperate. For any installation listed on the NPL, the Component must enter into a CERCLA
IAG within 180 days of the required EPA review of the remedial investigation/feasibility study (RI/FS)
(usually referred to as a FFA).
Interim Remedial Action (IRA)—An interim measure that may be implemented at any time in the
restoration process designed to abate contamination until the final remedial action can be implemented.
Installation Completion (IC)—A milestone indicating that all environmental restoration sites at a
particular installation have progressed to Remedy-in-Place (RIP) phase or beyond.
Long-Term Monitoring (LTM)—Physical and/or electronic sampling and analysis to demonstrate that a
particular final RA has worked or to show a continuing low concentration of contaminants that does not
require RA. LTM is reserved for monitoring once a site has reached RC, and should not be used to refer
to monitoring after RIP (this includes sites for which the selected remedy is natural attenuation).
National Contingency Plan (NCP)—The National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution
Contingency Plan, commonly referred to as the NCP, 40 CFR Part 300, is a set of regulations setting forth
the procedures that lead agencies must follow when implementing CERCLA and similar response
authorities under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
National Priorities List (NPL)—Formal list of the nation’s worst hazardous waste sites, as established
by CERCLA. NPL sites are priorities for response actions under CERCLA, and for federal facilities on
the NPL, the federal agency must enter a FFA/IAG with EPA.
Preliminary Assessment (PA)—The PA is a limited-scope investigation designed to distinguish between
sites that pose little or no threat to human health and the environment and sites that require further
investigation. The PA is typically based on installation records searches, visual site inspections, and
interviews.
AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001                                                                             27


Record of Decision (ROD)—The document containing the final decision and statutory determinations of
the lead agency concerning selection of the RA at a site or a group of sites. This also includes any
preliminary phase of an RA, such as an IRA, which would require an interim ROD.
Relative Risk—A means of sequencing potentially contaminated sites into high, medium, and low
groups.
Remedial Action (RA)—CERCLA phase in which the permanent or final selected cleanup technology
and/or action are constructed, installed, implemented, and/or operated until confirmatory sampling and
analysis indicate that cleanup levels, and/or performance standards, have been reached.
Remedial Action Construction (RA-C)—This phase is equivalent to the steps from the beginning of the
final RA until construction is complete.
Remedial Action Cost Engineering and Requirements (RACER) System—T h e A i r F o r c e c o s t
estimating tool for environmental restoration activities.
Remedial Action Operations (RA-O)—This is the period when a remedy is being operated but cleanup
goals have not been reached (including the monitoring of natural attenuation prior to achieving cleanup
goals). Not all remedies require RA-O.
Remedial Design (RD)—CERCLA phase during which construction parameters and equipment
specifications for a selected remedial action cleanup technology are defined on the basis of the unique
characteristics of the site.
Remedial Investigation (RI)—CERCLA process for determining the extent of hazardous substance
contamination and risk to human health and the environment. The RI provides site-specific information
for the FS.
Remedial Project Manager (RPM)—The person assigned to manage remedial or other response actions
at sites in the ERP. The RPM is responsible for coordinating, directing, and reviewing ERP work;
ensuring compliance with the NCP; and recommending decisions on actions.
Remedy-in-Place (RIP)—A milestone corresponding to when the construction of the final remedy for a
site is in place and functional.
Removal Action—Part of the CERCLA response process for, and often the first accelerated response to,
an actual or threatened contaminant release. A Removal Action can employ any means necessary to
abate, minimize, stabilize, mitigate, or eliminate the release or threat of release.
Restoration Advisory Board (RAB)—An advisory group for the environmental restoration process that
includes members of the public, the installation, and regulatory agencies. The purpose of a RAB is to gain
effective input from stakeholders on cleanup activities and to increase installation responsiveness to
community environmental restoration concerns.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)—RCRA was enacted in 1976 to address the issue
of how to safely manage and dispose of the huge volumes of municipal and industrial waste generated
nationwide. Specifically, the RCRA program regulates solid waste recycling and disposal; federal
procurement of products containing recycled materials; waste minimization; hazardous waste generators
and transporters; hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal facilities (TSDFs); and underground
storage tanks (USTs) (RCRA, at 42 U.S.C. Sections 6901 et. seq.).
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Corrective Action—The RCRA cleanup program designed
28                                                                     AFI32-7020 7 FEBRUARY 2001


to ensure the cleanup of hazardous wastes and constituents releases associated with RCRA-regulated
facilities. The program is enforced principally through the statutory authorities established by the
Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 and is substantively equivalent to CERCLA.
Response Action—The response(s) under CERCLA to the release, or threat of release(s), of hazardous
substance(s) which are risks, or potential risks, to human health and the environment. Response actions
include removal and remedial actions, and enforcement activities related thereto.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Corrective Measures Implementation (CMI)—T h e
RCRA Corrective Action phase in which the selected cleanup technology is constructed, installed,
implemented, and/or operated until confirmatory sampling and analysis indicate that cleanup levels have
been reached. Equivalent to a CERCLA RA.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Corrective Measures Study (CMS)—The RCRA Correc-
tive Action phase in which alternative cleanup technologies are evaluated in relation to specific site
characteristics, such as contaminants, soil conditions, and hydrogeologic conditions. Equivalent to a
CERCLA FS.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Facility Assessment (RFA)—Initial RCRA process for
determining whether corrective action is warranted for a RCRA past practice or for defining what
additional data must be gathered to make this determination. Equivalent to a CERCLA PA.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Facility Investigation (RFI)—R C R A p r o c e s s               for
determining the extent of hazardous waste contamination. Equivalent to a CERCLA RI.
Response Complete (RC)—Corresponds to the milestone where a restoration site is finished with all
restoration activities except LTM.
Site Closeout (SC)—Written regulatory concurrence, where applicable, that all response actions are
complete at a restoration site.
Site Inspection (SI)—A CERCLA process preceding the RI for acquiring the necessary data for
evaluating the existence of environmental contamination at identified potential sites.
Third Party Sites (TPSs)—Locations, other than Air Force Real Property, within the United States and
its territories, allegedly contaminated by hazardous substances from Air Force (or Air National Guard)
activities. Such contamination is the basis for claims against the Air Force (or Air National Guard) and
others for response actions, costs, or contributions for costs.
Treatment, Storage, or Disposal (TSD)—Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, owners
and /or operators of specified TSD activities and facilities must obtain permits as set forth in 40 CFR Part
264. Such permits must contain corrective action requirements.
