BY ORDER OF THE                                                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2631
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                          27 FEBRUARY 1995

                                                                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                           RESERVE OFFICER FOREIGN EXCHANGE
                                                                                                    PROGRAM


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/REPP (Capt Shoenhard)                                                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/RE
                                                                                                          (Brig Gen John A. Bradley)
                                                                                                                              Pages: 9
                                                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 1215.15, Reserve Officers Foreign
Exchange Program, December 29, 1986, with Change 1. It establishes the United States Air Force
(USAF) Reserve Officer Foreign Exchange Program (hereafter referred to as "the Program") under which
certain officers are temporarily exchanged between the US Air Force Reserve Component forces and mil-
itary forces of other nations. Only US Air Force Reserve Component officers of the Air National Guard
and Air Force Reserve (hereafter referred to as "the Guard" and/or "the Reserve"), not serving on
extended active duty, are eligible to participate as exchange officers under the Program. This instruction
does not apply to any personnel foreign exchange programs between Active Component organizations of
the US Air Force and other nations. The United States and certain foreign nations have pledged military
cooperation, to include cooperation by Reserve Component forces. Selected Guard and Reserve officers
must therefore familiarize themselves with the structure, organization, equipment, and operational doc-
trine of the military services of other nations, and gain practical experience in cooperation with foreign
military personnel. The Program achieves these goals through short-term reciprocal exchanges of
selected Guard and Reserve officers and military reserve officers of other nations.
Send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publi-
cation, through channels, to HQ USAF/RE, 1150 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1150.
This document applies to the Air National Guard.
       1.    Program Concept: ......................................................................................................         2
       2.    Exclusions. .................................................................................................................   2
       3.    Responsibility and Control: .......................................................................................             3
       4.    Criteria for Selection. .................................................................................................       3
       5.    Criteria for Establishing a Reserve Officer Exchange. ..............................................                            4
       6.    Exchange Reserve Officer Command and Supervisory Responsibility ....................                                            4
2                                                                                          AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995

       7.     Status of Exchange Reserve Officers. ........................................................................              4
       8.     Use of Exchange Reserve Officers During Hostilities. .............................................                         4
       9.     Disclosing US Classified Military Information: ........................................................                    4
       10.    Quarters, Rations, Commissary, Exchange, Medical and Dental Services: ..............                                       5
       11.    Financial Responsibilities: .........................................................................................      5
       12.    Claims Settlement. .....................................................................................................   6
       13.    Disciplining Exchange Reserve Officers. ..................................................................                 6
       14.    Wear of the Uniform. .................................................................................................     6
       15.    Dependent Travel. ......................................................................................................   6
       16.    Duty Hours, Leave and Passes, Scheduling of Exchanges. .......................................                             6
       17.    Flying Status and Flying Facilities. ...........................................................................           7

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND
             TERMS                                                                                                                       8



1. Program Concept:
    1.1. The Program is a reciprocal exchange of non-extended active duty Guard and Reserve officers
    and military reserve officers of selected foreign nations, as agreed to by parent services and govern-
    ments. The period of exchange will be 2-to-4 weeks in length and exchanges need not run on a con-
    current basis. The primary objective of the exchange will be to enhance the participants’ abilities to
    perform assigned mobilization duties.
    1.2. A Guard or Reserve officer exchanged will be assigned to a counterpart position in the host
    nation's Air Force and a foreign reserve officer will be assigned to a counterpart position in the conti-
    nental United States- (CONUS) based Guard or Reserve. When a Guard or Reserve officer to be
    exchanged has no qualified and available counterpart in the host nation's Air Force (or none exists in
    the Guard or Reserve for a foreign officer), an exchange of comparable officers may be considered.
    Comparable officers are similar in rank and skills, if not in duties. If no comparable officers are avail-
    able, a nonreciprocal ("one-way") exchange may be considered.
    1.3. Assignment of Guard and Reserve officers to a position in a host nation's ground or sea-service,
    or assignment of foreign ground or sea-service officers to CONUS-based Guard or Reserve units will
    be considered if no Air Force counterpart positions are available, and if the purpose of the exchange is
    to enhance mutual understanding of combined operations.

2. Exclusions. All categories of foreign personnel exchange between active components of the US Air
Force and foreign nations are excluded under this instruction. The following categories of Guard and
Reserve officers are also ineligible if, at the time of the exchange, the officer:
    2.1. Will be serving on extended active duty under Title 10 or Title 32, United States Code.
AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995                                                                             3

   2.2. Is not assigned to a training Category A unit or B Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA)
   position, having completed at least 12 months of satisfactory participation in this position.
   2.3. Does not have at least 12 months retainability in a training Category A unit or Category B IMA
   position.

3. Responsibility and Control:
   3.1. No commitment to exchange Guard and Reserve officers will be made without full and final
   approval of an applicable memorandum of understanding (MOU) by ASD/RA. Program Coordina-
   tors will submit proposed MOUs, or amendments to existing MOUs, to SAF/MIR. SAF/MIR will
   coordinate all MOU issues with ASD/RA. SAF/MIR, as Program Administrator, will monitor the
   overall program, screen, and make final selection of Guard and Reserve officers proposed for
   exchange.
   3.2. The Director, Air National Guard, and the Chief, Air Force Reserve, will each designate a pro-
   gram coordinator with the following responsibilities:
       3.2.1. In accordance with the Program Concept, identify those units or organizations with coun-
       terpart positions suitable for exchange with military services of other nations.
       3.2.2. Widely disseminate information about the Program within each Reserve Component to
       ensure maximum participation by qualified officers.
       3.2.3. Identify officers most likely to benefit; select best qualified applicants as candidates for
       exchange.
       3.2.4. Develop any proposed changes to MOUs as required. Submit all proposed changes on
       MOUs to SAF/MIR for service approval.
       3.2.5. During all periods of exchange, monitor foreign Exchange Reserve Officers hosted by the
       Guard and Reserve, and Guard or Reserve officers hosted by foreign services. Provide guidance
       or assistance, as required. Report to SAF/MIR immediately any serious irregularity concerning an
       exchange reserve officer.
       3.2.6. Obtain performance feedback from supervisors of Exchange Reserve Officers and
       end-of-tour reports from all participating exchange officers (both Guard and Reserve and foreign)
       for purpose of fine-tuning the Program. Consolidate and forward end-of-tour reports to SAF/MIR
       forward performance feedback reporting on Guard and Reserve officers through their immediate
       chain of command. Forward performance feedback on foreign officers to their parent service
       upon request.
       3.2.7. Prepare and submit a final report on the Exchange Reserve Officer Program to SAF/MIR
       no later than 1 November each year. The report will be a wrapup of operations for the previous
       fiscal year, to include cost data to operate the program and any recommendations for the program
       improvement.

4. Criteria for Selection. Guard and Reserve candidates for exchange will be highly competent in their
military specialty, well-informed on both the Active and Reserve Components of the US Air Force, posi-
tive, diplomatic and professional in appearance. Fluency in a language of the host nation is desirable and
may be required under terms of some MOUs.
4                                                                       AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995

5. Criteria for Establishing a Reserve Officer Exchange. Program Coordinators will consider the fol-
lowing criteria in evaluating requests to establish or revalidate exchange positions:
    5.1. Possible politico-military advantages to other nations and national security interests of the
    United States.
    5.2. Potential usefulness of exchange officers within the Guard or Reserve and the foreign military
    service.
    5.3. Foreign disclosure limitations, AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Gov-
    ernments and International Organizations.
    5.4. Financial costs in selecting officers for exchange duty, preparing foreign officers for duty with
    the Guard or Reserve (costs of orientation, training, transportation, etc.), and manpower costs for pro-
    gram administration.

6. Exchange Reserve Officer Command and Supervisory Responsibility . Subject to any limitation
in the host or parent nation’s laws, Exchange Reserve Officers exercise supervisory responsibilities simi-
lar to those exercised by an officer of the host service employed in a similar position. They receive the
same rights and privileges afforded host air force officers of equivalent grade and rank, to the extent
authorized by the host nation’s laws. Exchange Reserve Officers will not serve in unit command posi-
tions, exercise disciplinary powers over host air force personnel, or administer discipline to host nation
civilian employees unless mutually agreed to. Exchange Reserve Officers will not serve in positions
affording uncontrolled access to military correspondence or documentation. They are not authorized
pecuniary or other responsibilities that host nation laws or directives would prevent host nation officers
from assuming.

7. Status of Exchange Reserve Officers. The legal status of an Exchange Reserve Officer from a North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) member country that is a party to the NATO Status of Forces
Agreement (SOFA) is governed by that agreement. In such cases, the MOU should include provision
confirming application of the NATO SOFA. The legal status of Exchange Reserve Officers in the United
States from nations not party to the NATO SOFA should be covered in the MOU by providing reciprocal
privileges for Exchange Reserve Officer to the extent authorized by host nation law (e.g. exemption from
host nation customs duties and income taxes).

8. Use of Exchange Reserve Officers During Hostilities. Exchange Reserve Officers will not partici-
pate in, nor directly or indirectly support, combat operations of the host government. In event of involve-
ment of the host service’s parent government in hostilities, or preparation for imminent hostilities,
Exchange Reserve Officers will terminate their duties until further instructions are received from their
parent government. In no case will the host government allow an Exchange Reserve Officer to be
assigned to duty in areas of hostilities, imminent hostilities, or any other situation where the officer’s pres-
ence could jeopardize the interests of either government. Exchange Reserve Officers will also not per-
form any type of armed alert or guard duty.

9. Disclosing US Classified Military Information:
    9.1. The host service commander or supervisor of the Exchange Reserve Officer will determine the
    level of security access required by the officer, if any. Access to classified information will be kept to
    the minimum required to accomplish the job. If access to US classified military information is
AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995                                                                              5

   required, US Air Force disclosure policy is stipulated in AFI 16-201, certain directive and instructions
   issued by headquarters US Air Force, and appropriate disclosure delegations to major commands.
   Commanders and supervisors contemplating disclosure of classified information to an Exchange
   Reserve Officer must be thoroughly familiar with all applicable security requirements.
   9.2. US security clearances are not granted to foreign Exchange Reserve Officers, however tempo-
   rary access may be granted upon advance presentation by the parent government of an appropriate
   individual security clearance. Access to NOFORN (No foreign dissemination-type caveated material)
   is prohibited unless the material is specifically marked as releasable to the foreign officer’s nation.
   Exchange Reserve Officers must comply with DoD Regulation 5200.1-R/AFI 31-401, Managing the
   Information Security Program, for requirements in safeguarding US classified military information.
   Address any security-related questions to SAF/MIR.
   9.3. The Program Coordinator will inform the Guard or Reserve officer of any security requirements
   -.with the host service, and if required, ensure that the officer’s individual security clearance is
   received by the host government without delay. The Exchange Reserve Officer at all times will com-
   ply with the security laws, publications and procedures of the host government and military service.

10. Quarters, Rations, Commissary, Exchange, Medical and Dental Services:
   10.1. The host government will provide quarters and rations to Exchange Reserve Officers on the
   same basis and to the same extent as provided for its own officers. The officer is responsible for pay-
   ing charges the host government makes for quarters, rations and other services. Guard and Reserve
   exchange officers will be reimbursed to the extent permitted by law and policy for the cost of host
   country quarters provided on a rental basis.
   10.2. The host service will grant Exchange Reserve Officers access to military medical and dental
   service to the same extent they provide such services to their own officers, subject to any limits
   required by law or regulation.
   10.3. Host services will grant Exchange Reserve Officers access to government-operated commissar-
   ies, exchanges, clubs and recreational facilities to the same extent they provide such services to their
   own officers, subject to any limits required by law or regulations.

11. Financial Responsibilities:
   11.1. To the extent authorized by law, the parent service is responsible during periods of exchange for
   the following:
       11.1.1. Basic pay and cash allowances; per diem and round-trip travel costs between point-of-ori-
       gin and location of assignment of the Exchange Reserve Officer.
       11.1.2. Appropriate compensation for loss of, or damages to, the uniform or other personal equip-
       ment of the Exchange Reserve Officer.
       11.1.3. Cost of shipping remains and/or funeral expenses in event of death of the Exchange
       Reserve Officer.
       11.1.4. Expenditures in connection with any special duty performed on the parent government’s
       or service’s behalf.
6                                                                     AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995

       11.1.5. Cost of medical or dental services provided to the Exchange Reserve Officer to the extent
       host government laws and regulations require payment the officer has not made.
    11.2. To the extent authorized by its laws, the host service is responsible during the period of
    exchange for providing transportation or the cost of the transportation when temporary duty (TDY)
    travel is directed by the host service. The host government may amend or supersede policy concern-
    ing this provision as agreed to in the MOU.

12. Claims Settlement. The host service will not present a claim for damage to government property of
the host service or government against the Exchange Reserve Officer or the parent service or government.
Other claims (other than contractual claims) arising out of acts or omissions of an Exchange Reserve
Officer, within or outside the performance of official duty, may be submitted to the parent service for set-
tlement according to the laws and regulations of the parent nation. Nothing in this instruction, however,
will affect any right a claimant may have under host nation law to file a claim in the host nation’s courts
or administrative bodies.

13. Disciplining Exchange Reserve Officers. Exchange Reserve Officers will comply with the host ser-
vice regulations, orders, instructions, and customs insofar as they apply and are consistent with the parent
government’s laws and service regulations. An officer who commits an offense against the laws or regu-
lations of either the parent or host government may be withdrawn from the Reserve Officer Exchange
Program with a view toward further administrative or disciplinary action by the parent service. The host
service must not take disciplinary action against exchange personnel, unless otherwise provided in an
applicable SOFA or similar agreement. However, Exchange Reserve Officers are subject to the criminal
laws of the host nation and may be prosecuted by the civil authorities of the host nation for any violation
of such laws. Consistent with their respective laws and regulations, the host services should cooperate
with the parent service in carrying out of administrative or disciplinary action against the offender.

14. Wear of the Uniform. The Exchange Reserve Officer must comply with the parent service uniform
regulations. The uniform for any occasion is that which most nearly conforms to the order of dress of the
host service unit in which the officer is serving. Local commanding officers will not issue to Exchange
Reserve Officers instructions that they cannot comply with by reason of difference in dress regulations.
To help ensure that the Guard or Reserve Officer is properly uniformed during exchange periods, the Pro-
gram Coordinator will inform the officer if special uniform requirements apply (mess dress, utility, flight
suit, etc.) or if duty is likely to occur under extreme weather conditions of heat, cold, wet, etc. Guard and
Reserve officers will comply with AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel standards
throughout the period of exchange. For security or political reasons, the program Coordinator or desig-
nated authority may authorize Exchange Reserve Officers temporary wear of civilian clothes. Civilian
clothing allowance is not authorized during such periods.

15. Dependent Travel. Dependents are not authorized to accompany Exchange Reserve Officers during
periods of exchange. Any dependents electing to accompany the officer do so at their own expense and
risk.

16. Duty Hours, Leave and Passes, Scheduling of Exchanges. Exchange Reserve Officers will work
the duty hours of the host service and will not be granted leave during exchange periods. Passes may be
granted according to legal entitlements and parent service regulations or instructions. To maximize inter-
action time with host personnel, periods of exchange should not include more than one host service holi-
AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995                                                                               7

day if holidays result in lost on-duty time for the exchange officer. If the exchange period does include
either a host service holiday or a parent service holiday, the Exchange Reserve Officer will observe host
service holiday schedules, and may also observe parent service holiday schedules if agreed to by the host
service supervisor.

17. Flying Status and Flying Facilities. When flying duty is required during exchange periods, Guard
and Reserve officers who possess current aeronautical ratings, and are qualified to perform in their rated
specialty, will perform flying duty according to the host service's or government’s directives. Rated, cur-
rent, foreign Exchange Reserve Officers assigned to a counterpart flying job in the CONUS-based Guard
or Reserve unit, will be on flying status and permitted use of all available flying facilities allowed by US
Air Force, Air National Guard, and or Air Force Reserve instructions.



                                          JOHN A. BRADLEY, Brig General, USAF
                                          Deputy to the Chief of Air Force Reserve
8                                                                  AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995

                                            Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
Title 10, United States Code
Title 32, United States Code
DoD Directive 1215.15, Reserve Officer Foreign Exchange Program, with Change 1
DoD Regulation 5200.l-R/AFI 31-401, Managing the Information Security Program
AFI 16-201, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organiza-
tions

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFR—Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ASD/RA—The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NOFORN—No Foreign Dissemination
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
SAF/MIR—The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Reserve Affairs)
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Exchange Reserve Officer—A Guard or Reserve officer temporarily attached to a foreign military
service, or a foreign reserve officer temporarily attached to a continental United States-based Guard or
Reserve unit or headquarters under this Program.
Host Government—The government responsible for hosting an Exchange Reserve Officer.
Host Reserve Component—The Guard or Reserve organization hosting an Exchange Reserve Officer.
Host Service—The military service hosting an Exchange Reserve Officer.
AFI36-2631 27 FEBRUARY 1995                                                                           9

Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)—An agreement between the United States Department of
Defense and the ministry of defense of a foreign state establishing an exchange program for individual
reserve officers. The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs (ASD/RA) is responsible for
generating all MOUs relating to the program.
Parent Government—The government to which an Exchange Reserve Officer’s military service
belongs.
Parent Service—The military service to which the Exchange Reserve Officer belongs.
Parent Reserve Component—The US Air Force Reserve Component (Guard or Reserve) to which the
Exchange Reserve Officer belongs.
Reserve Officer Foreign Exchange Program Coordinators—( h e r e a f t e r r e f e r r e d t o a s t h e
"Coordinator(s)")--Two officers--one designated by the Director, Air National Guard, and one
designated by the Chief, Air Force Reserve --- who coordinate the Program within their respective US Air
Force Reserve Components.
Reserve Officer Foreign Exchange Program Administrator (hereafter re—f e r r e d t o a s t h e
"Administrator")--A designated officer within the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force (Reserve Affairs)(SAF/MIR), who determines program policy, administers the program, and serves
as program office of responsibility or action officer.
US Air Force Reserve Components—The Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve
(AFR).
