BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-204
1ST SPECIAL OPERATIONS WING (AFSOC)
                                                                                      HURLBURT FIELD
                                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                              28 JULY 2008

                                                                                                    Security

                                                                        AIR FORCE MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                                             TRAFFIC SUPERVISION

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 1 SOSFS/S-5L                                                               Certified by: 1 SOSFS/CC
                                                                                (Major Keith P. Williams)
Supersedes AFI31-204_                                                                            Pages: 29
           HURLBURTFIELDSUP1,
           31 July 2004

This Supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-204, 14
July 2000. This supplement is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974 under Title 10, U.S.C. 8013; Title 44,
U.S.C. 3101.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This supplement has been revised in its entirety and must be completely reviewed. This supplement
has been updated to reflect the new guidance within a reorganization of the 1st Special Operation
Wing and partner units at Hurlburt Field.
1.1. Program Management. The provisions of this instruction apply to all persons who operate a motor
vehicle on Hurlburt Field, to include Commando Village and the Soundside area. This supplement is puni-
tive in nature and persons who violate provisions of this publication could be subject to judicial, non-judi-
cial or administrative action.
1.3. Delegation of Authority. The authority to suspend or revoke base driving privileges has been dele-
gated to the 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group Commander (1 SOMSG/CC).
2.1.1.1. All privately owned motor vehicles operated on Hurlburt Field will have proof of state vehicle
registration. In addition, a current and valid state license plate must be properly displayed. Properly dis-
played is defined as the license plate affixed to the rear bumper of the vehicle and illuminated by a white
or clear light.
2.1.1.4. All privately owned motor vehicles operated on Hurlburt Field shall have proof of vehicle insur-
ance.
2                                                 AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


2.3. Any person stopped by a law enforcement officer and refuses to submit to a field sobriety test or
refuses to provide a breath or blood sample for alcohol testing will have their on-base driving privilege
revoked for one year.
2.5. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges. Personnel suspended for traffic violations will be
suspended via the 1 SOMSG/CC signed Notice of Suspension/Revocation of Base Driving Privileges let-
ter.
2.5.1.3.3. Operating a motor vehicle with a BAC or BrAC 0.08 percent blood alcohol by volume or
higher.
2.7.2.1. The following rules apply when driving privileges for Hurlburt Field have been suspended or
revoked for six months or more. Air Force civilians may request a hearing for any suspension regardless
of the length of suspension.
2.7.2.1.1. (Added) If an individual annotates their decision on the suspension/revocation memorandum to
apply for a administrative hearing, they have 10 calendar days to provide a memorandum to 1 SOSFS/
S-5CR requesting a hearing, which will be forwarded to 1 SOMSG/CC. If they do not provide the memo-
randum in the appropriate time frame they will lose the right for a hearing and be suspended/revoked
automatically (10 days after issuance of the memorandum). If the individual declines a hearing, suspen-
sion begins when the memorandum states. For incidents listed in Attachment 3 (Added), paragraphs
A3.47.1., A3.47.1.1., A3.47.1.2. and A3.47.2.2. suspension or revocation will begin immediately upon
receiving the suspension/revocation memorandum.
2.7.2.1.2. (Added) The individual has 10 calendar days to request an administrative hearing before the
preliminary suspension or revocation becomes permanent.
2.7.2.1.3. (Added) Requested administrative hearings will take place within 10 days, and a final decision
must be reached within 10 days after the hearing by the 1 SOMSG/CC. Hearings for Air Force civilians
will be held in person with the 1 SOMSG/CC and a union representative may be present, if requested by
the Air Force civilian.
2.7.2.1.4. (Added) When an official report or finding determines lack of guilt (not guilty), charges are dis-
missed or once the state license is no longer suspended, the individual will submit a request letter to 1
SOSFS/S-5CR who will then submit a package to 1 SOMSG/CC to reinstate the individual's base driving
privileges. The individual must provide written documentation of proof that the incident has been cor-
rected.
2.7.2.1.5. (Added) The individual granted limited driving privileges will carry a copy of the memoran-
dum granting such at all times while operating a motor vehicle, throughout the original suspension period.
2.11.2. Personnel apprehended, detained, or arrested for driving under the influence must participate in
and complete an alcohol/substance abuse and/or remedial driving program (whichever is applicable) as
specified in the suspension/revocation letters issued to the individual prior to privileges being reinstated.
Proof of the course will be required upon application for reinstatement. This requirement is applicable for
military personnel only.
3.5.1. All individuals requesting an AF Form 75 will present a valid driver’s license, current registration
and current proof of liability insurance for the vehicle in question. The individual receiving an AF Form
75 will destroy it when it is expired or no longer needed.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                    3


3.5.1.1. (Added) Failure to present required information will result in the vehicle being denied access to
Hurlburt Field.
3.5.1.2. (Added) Anyone accepting a pass acknowledges consent to search any vehicle they operate while
on Hurlburt Field. The recipient of the pass will put their initials/signature on the back after consent to
search is read and understood by the bearer.
4.2.1. Attachment 3 (Added) to this supplement contains the 1st Special Operations Wing Com-
mander's “Rules of the Road" for Hurlburt Field. For the purpose of this directive, the term “Hurlburt
Field” is equally applicable to all areas under the jurisdiction and control of Hurlburt Field including the
Commando Village housing area and the Soundside.
4.2.3.3. The wearing of headphones and other listening devices is prohibited while jogging, walking,
bicycling, rollerblading, or skateboarding on Hurlburt Field roads and streets. Headphones and listening
devices may be worn while using the running track behind the Aderholt Fitness Center and the jogging
path that originates adjacent to the Health and Wellness Center.
4.4. Speed-measuring Devices. Radar and laser will be the standard methods used for measuring speed.
4.5.1.2. Security Forces personnel will investigate all accidents where government and/or private prop-
erty damage exceeds $10,000.
4.5.1.3. (Added) Security Forces are responsible for responding to minor accidents. If patrols are not
available; individuals involved in minor accidents may exchange information on-scene, or they may go to
the Security Forces Control Center, building 90603, where the next available patrol will gather all perti-
nent information for a blotter entry.
4.5.1.4. (Added) If drivers require a copy of the police report they may obtain a copy from Security
Forces Reports and Analysis section 3-duty days after the accident.
4.5.2. Security Forces do not investigate off-installation accidents.
4.6.1. (Added) Security Forces notifies the 1 SOW/WOC, 1 SOW/SE, and the unit commanders of indi-
viduals involved in motor vehicle accidents. 1 SOW/JA will be notified of all accidents that involve per-
sonnel injury or where government and/or private property damage exceeds $10,000.
4.7.1. (Added) The CSF has determined all Federal and State law Enforcement Agencies may be afforded
accident and incident data reports. All other requests will be processed through the 1 SOW/JA.
4.7.2. Security Forces patrols who prepare traffic accident investigation reports will indicate if a seat
restraint was used at the time of the accident, and where applicable, if air bags deployed.
4.8.2. (Added) Reserved Parking. Attachment 4 (Added) to this supplement contains the 1st Special
Operations Wing Commander's “Reserved Parking Policy” for Hurlburt Field. For the purpose of this
directive, the term “Hurlburt Field” is equally applicable to all areas under the jurisdiction and control of
Hurlburt Field including the Commando Village and Soundside housing areas.
4.9.6. (Added) Ticket Rebuttal Process. The ticket rebuttal authority for Hurlburt Field personnel will be
the 1 SOSFS/CC. Route all DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, rebuttals through 1 SOSFS/
S-5CR. If a person is not satisfied with the decision of the 1 SOSFS/CC, they may appeal in writing to 1
SOMSG/CC for review and final determination. (See Attachment 7 (Added)).
4.10.4. Security Forces personnel will receive refresher training on Standards and Procedures for Pro-
cessing Intoxicated Drivers annually at a minimum.
4                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


4.14.3. Security Forces will use the state approved device as the standard chemical-testing device of per-
sons suspected of “driving while under the influence of alcohol”. Only those security forces personnel
certified by the State of Florida are authorized to administer the test.

Table 5.1. Suspension/Revocation of Driving Privileges
Assessment: 1       Two-year revocation is mandatory on determination of facts by installation
commander.
Violation: Driving while driver’s license or installation driving privileges are under suspension or
revocation.


Assessment: 2 One-year revocation is mandatory on determination of facts by installation Commander.
Violation: Refusal to submit to or failure to complete chemical tests (implied consent).


Assessment: 3. One-year revocation is mandatory on conviction.
Violation:
1. Manslaughter (or negligent homicide by vehicle) resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle.
2. Driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor
0.08% or greater.
3. Driving a motor vehicle while under the influence of any narcotic or while under the influence of any
other drug (including alcohol) to the degree rendered incapable of safe vehicle operation.
4. Use of a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony.
5. Fleeing the scene of an accident involving death or personal injury (hit and run).
6. Perjury or making a false statement or affidavit under oath to responsible officials relating to the
ownership or operation of motor vehicles.
7. Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle belonging to another, when the act does not amount to a felony.


Assessment: 4. Suspension for a period of six months or less or revocation for a period not to exceed
one year is discretionary.
Violation:
1. Mental or physical impairment (not including alcohol or other drug use) to the degree rendered
incompetent to drive. (operator assessed points).
2. Commission of an offense in another state which, if committed on the installation, would establish
grounds for suspension or revocation.
3. Permitting an unlawful or fraudulent use of an official driver’s license.
4. Conviction of fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer.
5. Conviction of racing on the highway.
6. Excessive parking and other non-moving violations.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                   5



Assessment: 5. (Added-AFSOC) Suspension for a period of not less than 30 days but not greater than 6
months is mandatory.
Violation: Second noncompliance with motorcycle driving privileges requirements.


Assessment: 6 (Added) Suspension of 7 days for first offense and 4 points assessed, 30 days for
second offense within one year and 4 points assessed, and one (1) year for third offense within one year
and 4 points assessed.
Violation: Failure of operator or occupants to use available restraint system devices while moving
(operator assessed points).


Assessment: 7 (Added) Suspension for a period of 6 months.
Violation: Three parking violations within a 90-day period.


Assessment: 8 (Added) Suspension for a period of 30 days.
Violation: Personnel cited by the security forces for speeding 15 mph or more over the posted speed
limit.
5.2. The Traffic Point System. Nonmoving traffic violations will be processed the same as moving vio-
lations except that points are not assessed, except for violations listed in Table 5.1. Nonmoving violations
include, but are not limited to, parking violations. The following standards/actions will be used for sus-
pension of driving privileges when an individual develops a pattern of parking violations within a 90-day
period:
5.2.1. (Added) First and second offense. Forward to unit commander, first sergeant or supervisor for
administrative action. Commander or first sergeant is required to take appropriate corrective action and
record that action on DD Form 1408.
5.2.2. (Added) Third offense. Forward to unit commander or first sergeant for administrative action.
Driving privileges will be suspended for 6 months IAW AFI 31-204, paragraph 2.5.1.1.
5.4.9. (Added) Three points will be assessed for moving violations identified in Attachment 3 (Added),
Hurlburt Field Rules of the Road, these violations are not listed in AFI 31-204, Table 5.2. Point Assess-
ment for Moving Violations.
6.4. Procedures for Impoundment. Abandoned Vehicles. 1 SOSFS/S-2I is the OPR for removal of
abandoned vehicles.
6.4.1.1. DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice. Security Forces patrols will issue a DD Form 2504
on all vehicles suspected of being abandoned. Document this action with an entry in the Security Forces
blotter.
6.4.1.2. DD Form 2505, Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization, will be completed not earlier
than 3 days after the posting of the DD Form 2504. A civilian wrecker service will be contacted to remove
the vehicle from the installation at the owner’s expense. Document this action with an entry in the Secu-
rity Forces blotter.
6                                                  AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


                                          Attachment 3 (Added)

                                         RULES OF THE ROAD
A3.1. Use and Applicability. This attachment contains the 1st Special Operations Wing (1 SOW) Com-
mander's uniform traffic control codes; regulates the movement of all vehicles, pedestrians, and other traf-
fic upon the streets and elsewhere throughout Hurlburt Field, Florida. It is unlawful for any person to do
any act forbidden, or fail to perform any act required, by these rules, and said rules shall apply to all per-
sons while upon this installation. Except as otherwise specified herein, persons subject to the UCMJ who
violate any portion of the “Rules of the Road” may be punished under the provisions of Article 92, UCMJ.
Persons not subject to the UCMJ shall, as the 1 SOW Commander determines, be referred to local civilian
authorities or shall be subject to administrative action.
A3.2. Base Traffic Code. The base traffic code will be the sole basis of traffic enforcement on Hurlburt
Field. Florida Statutes will be utilized only for infractions not covered by this instruction. Citations issued
using Florida Statutes will reference the statute by number and title in the remarks section of the DD Form
1408.
A3.3. Obedience to Personnel Involved in Traffic Enforcement. No person shall willfully fail or refuse to
promptly comply with any lawful order or direction of any security forces, safety representative, or other
personnel designated by 1 SOW/CC to supervise and/or enforce compliance with traffic safety rules.
A3.4. Obedience to Traffic Signs and Markings. The driver of any vehicle shall obey all official traffic
signs, markings, or other traffic control devices, unless otherwise directed by Security Forces or other per-
sons performing traffic control functions.
A3.4.1. No person shall drive any vehicle from a roadway to another roadway to avoid obeying a traffic
control device.
A3.5. Personnel arriving from overseas installations with license plates issued by a foreign government
or an overseas military installation must apply for permanent state registration within 10 days of vehicle
arrival.
A3.5.1. Vendors, delivery drivers, cable and telephone company personnel driving a vehicle with a per-
manently affixed company logo will be required to possess their company picture identification to gain
access to the base. If their company identification does not have a picture, another photo identification
such as the driver’s license will be required. A bill of lading showing the destination on base will be
required. Any vendors or delivery services not meeting the above requirements will be verified by phone
and issued a pass.
A3.6. Driver’s License or US Government Operator’s Permit Required. It is prohibited for anyone to
operate any motor vehicle without a valid state driver's license or US government operator's permit, as
appropriate, in the driver’s possession.
A3.7. Using Identification and Registration of Another Individual. No person shall permit and no person
shall borrow or in any manner use another's operators permit, registration media, vehicle pass, or other
required identification associated with motor vehicle registration or operation.
A3.8. Open Alcoholic Beverages. Alcoholic beverages will not be consumed while operating a vehicle
on Hurlburt Field. Furthermore, open alcoholic beverages are not allowed in passenger area of vehicles.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                     7


A3.9. Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings. No person shall place, maintain, or display
upon any roadway or parking area, any sign, signal marking, or device which attempts to direct the move-
ment or parking of traffic without the prior approval of the Chief, Security Forces.
A3.9.1. No vehicle may enter the installation displaying signs, signals, or ornamentation that would be
perceived as blatantly obscene, offensive or is prejudicial to good order and discipline.
A3.9.2. No vehicle may enter the installation displaying colored (other than standard parking lights, turn
signals, etc.) lights visible from the front or rear of vehicle.
A3.10. Passing on the Left. Passing is not allowed except when required to pass a vehicle moving exces-
sively slow. Even in this case, passing is allowed only when the left side of the road is clearly visible and
is free of oncoming traffic. The driver shall give an appropriate signal, shall pass at a safe distance and
shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. The driver
of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle or other non-motorized vehicle must pass at a safe distance of not less
than 3 feet between the vehicle and the bicycle or other non-motorized vehicle. No vehicle shall pass
another vehicle when approaching within 100 feet of or crossing any intersection.
A3.11. Driving Within Traffic Lanes. A vehicle driver shall observe and operate within the marked traffic
lanes and shall not change lanes, turn, stop or park until such movement can be made safely. On any road
way not marked by traffic lanes, drivers shall stay right of the roadway center and be cautious of vehicles
crossing left of center while passing parked vehicles.
A3.12. Following Too Closely. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle closer than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle and the weather and road con-
ditions.
A3.13. Right of Way at Intersections. When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle
on the right. This rule is modified only at intersections which give preferential right of way, indicated by
a clearly understood and standard stop or yield sign.
A3.14. Due Caution at a Yield Right of Way Sign. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall
slow down to a speed reasonable for existing conditions and shall be able to stop safely if required at a
clearly marked stop line before entering a crosswalk or intersection.
A3.15. Right of Way When Entering a Roadway. The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a roadway
from an alley, building, driveway, or parking area shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching
on the roadway.
A3.16. Right of Way to Emergency Vehicles. Upon the immediate approach of an emergency vehicle
making use of an audible or visual signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right of way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the right edge or curb of the
roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the emergency vehicle
has passed. This paragraph does not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty
to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the roadway.
A3.16.1. When an authorized emergency vehicle making use of any visual signals is parked or a wrecker
displaying amber rotating or flashing lights is performing a recovery or loading on the roadside, the driver
of every motor vehicle, as soon as it is safe shall:
8                                                   AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.16.1.1. Vacate the lane closest to the emergency vehicle or wrecker when driving on a roadway with
two lanes traveling in the direction of the emergency vehicle or wrecker, except when otherwise directed
by a law enforcement officer.
A3.16.1.2. Slow to a speed that is 20 miles per hour (MPH) less than the posted speed limit when the
posted speed limit is 25 MPH or greater; or travel at 5 MPH when the posted speed limit is 20 MPH or
less, when driving on a two-lane road, except when otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer.
A3.16.2. Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) will not operate on Hurlburt Field utilizing emergency lights
(i.e. volunteer firemen) or sirens without the prior approval of the CSF. Emergency lights will not be
installed/mounted in POVs until their use has been approved. Personnel requiring emergency lights will
remove them from view while on the installation.
A3.17. Pedestrian’s Right of Way in Crosswalks. The driver of a vehicle shall slow down or stop, as
appropriate, to yield to a pedestrian approaching or within a crosswalk. No pedestrian shall suddenly
leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is
impossible or unsafe for the driver to yield.
A3.18. Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than
within a marked crosswalk shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. No pedestrian
shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless required to remain within a marked crosswalk.
A3.19. Drivers to Exercise Due Care Toward Pedestrians. Every driver shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exer-
cise proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused or incapacitated person upon
a roadway.
A3.20. Pedestrians on Roadways. Where sidewalks are provided, pedestrians must not walk along or
upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a
roadway shall, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic
approaching from the opposite direction.
A3.21. Pedestrian’s Right of Way on Sidewalks. The driver of any vehicle departing from or entering an
alley, building, or driveway or parking area shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian approaching on
any sidewalk extending across such alley, building, driveway, or parking area.
A3.22. Prohibited Turn on Designated Roadways. U-turns are prohibited on any designated roadway.
(Exceptions: Emergency response vehicles, i.e., Security Forces, fire department, ambulance).
A3.23. Improper Starting of a Parked/Stopped Vehicle. No person shall place a vehicle into motion unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No vehicle shall be placed into motion with
an unnecessary or unsafe display of speed or acceleration.
A3.24. Unsafe Turning Movements/Required Signals. No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course
or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
No person shall turn any vehicle without first giving a turn signal. Such signal shall be given continuously
100 feet before turning. No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giv-
ing an appropriate signal to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such signal.
A3.25. Obstruction to Driver’s View or Driving Mechanism. No person shall drive a vehicle when the
driver’s view to the front or sides of the vehicle is obstructed. In no case will the driver place a vehicle into
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                   9


motion unless and until they have ensured all weather deposits or other obstructions have been removed
from all front, rear, and side windows to provide clear visibility in all directions.
A3.26. Opening and Closing Vehicle Doors. No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side
of moving traffic unless and until it is reasonable and safe to do so and can be done without interfering
with the movement of traffic. No one shall leave a door open on the side of moving traffic for a period of
time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers who are immediately present.
A3.27. Traffic Laws Apply to Persons Riding Bicycles:
A3.27.1. Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway of Hurlburt Field shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle.
A3.27.2. Every person riding a bicycle must wear protective headgear.
A3.27.3. The parent of any child and any adult, while in charge of any child, shall not authorize or know-
ingly permit any child to violate any of the provisions of this directive.
A3.27.4. The use of headphones or other listening devices while bicycling is prohibited, while operating
on Hurlburt Field streets or roadways.
A3.27.5. Every bicycle, when in use during the hours of darkness, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from at least 500 feet and a red reflector on the rear visible
from at least 100 feet.
A3.27.6. Bicycles will use the jogging path adjacent to Independence Ave to eliminate potential traffic
congestion.
A3.28. Visibility Requirements for Headlamps, tail lamps, brake lights, turn signals and reflectors. Every
motor vehicle operated during the hours of darkness shall have at least one headlamp on each side of the
vehicle and shall emit a light from each lamp, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions for
1,000 feet. Headlamps shall be located at a height of not more than 54 inches and not less than 24 inches.
An object, material, or covering that alters the headlamp’s light color may not be placed, displayed,
installed, affixed, or applied over a headlamp.
A3.28.1. Every motor vehicle operated during the hours of darkness shall have at least two operational
taillamps mounted on the rear of the vehicle, which when lighted, shall emit a red light plainly visible
from a distance of 1,000 feet to the rear. An object, material, or covering that alters the taillamp’s light
color may not be placed, displayed, installed, affixed, or applied over a taillamp.
A3.28.2. Front clearance lamps and reflectors mounted on the front or on the side near the front of a vehi-
cle shall display or reflect an amber color. Rear clearance lamps and reflectors mounted on the rear or on
the sides near the rear of a vehicle shall display or reflect a red color.
A3.28.3. All lighting devices and reflectors mounted on the rear of any vehicle shall display or reflect a
red color, except the stop light or other signal device, which may be red, amber or yellow. The light emit-
ted by a backup lamp shall be white or amber.
A3.28.4. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with electric turn signals which shall indicate an inten-
tion to turn by flashing lights showing to the front and rear of the vehicle. The lamps showing to the front
shall, when signaling, emit white or amber light. The lamps showing to the rear shall, when signaling,
emit a red or amber light.
10                                                  AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.28.5. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of the vehicle
which shall display a red or amber light, visible from a distance of not less than 300 feet to the rear in nor-
mal sunlight. An object, material, or covering that alters the stop lamp’s visibility from 300 feet to the rear
in normal sunlight may not be placed, displayed, installed, affixed or applied over the stop lamp.
A3.29. Operation of Unsafe Vehicles. No person shall drive or move any motor vehicle, trailer,
semi-trailer, or combination thereof, unless the equipment on the vehicle is in good working order and the
vehicle is in safe mechanical condition.
A3.30. Inspection by Enforcement Personnel. Any Security Forces member on duty and whose duty
includes traffic enforcement may, at any time, require the driver to stop and submit the vehicle to an
inspection, if there is probable cause to believe a vehicle is unsafe or not equipped as required, or its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair.
A3.31. Abandoned Vehicle/Trailer. A vehicle/trailer shall be considered abandoned if it is left unattended
on any portion of Hurlburt Field for a period of 3 days and/or displays signs of neglect (i.e. flat tires, spare
parts, etc.).
A3.32. Approaching Convoys. Motorists approaching oncoming convoys escorted by a Security Forces
or other emergency vehicle exhibiting an emergency light or other warning device will pull to the right of
the roadway and come to a complete stop until the last vehicle in the convoy has passed. Motorists follow-
ing the convoy from the rear are prohibited from passing and will follow the last vehicle in the convoy at
a distance of not less than 100 feet.
A3.33. Maintenance of Brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working order.
A3.34. Mufflers, Prevention of Noise.
A3.34.1. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in operating
condition to prevent excessive or unusual noise. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar
device.
A3.34.2. The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as
to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
A3.35. Projecting Loads on Passenger Vehicles. No passenger vehicle shall carry any load extending
beyond the fenders on the left side of the vehicle or extending more than 6 inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side.
A3.36. Loads on Vehicles:
A3.36.1. Vehicles must be so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, shifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping there from, except that sand may be dropped for securing traction or water
may be sprinkled in cleaning the roadway.
A3.36.2. No person shall operate any vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering is securely
fastened so as to prevent it from becoming loose or in any manner a hazard to the users of the roadway.
A3.37. Base Entry/Exit Points. The driver of every vehicle shall reduce speed upon approaching any
entry control point and come to a complete stop. Drivers shall not proceed onto the installation until the
Security Forces member has clearly indicated by words or appropriate hand signals that the vehicle is
cleared to proceed.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                     11


A3.38. Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited. Except when necessary or in compliance with law or
the directions of the Security Forces or official traffic control device, no person shall stop, stand, or park
a vehicle:
A3.38.1. Within a marked triangular space at the end of marked parking spaces in parking lots, or within
any other area, which is clearly marked or lined out for non-parking, nor in any other area not clearly des-
ignated for parking.
A3.38.2. On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street.
A3.38.3. On the sidewalk.
A3.38.4. Within 30 feet of an intersection.
A3.38.5. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk.
A3.38.6. Upon any seeded or grassed area.
A3.38.7. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
A3.38.8. Within 30 feet of any traffic control sign or other traffic control device unless such area is
clearly marked or posted for parking.
A3.38.9. In excess of any posted or clearly marked time limit.
A3.38.10. In any manner obstructing a driveway.
A3.38.11. In any parking space legally reserved for another.
A3.38.12. In any manner to obstruct a fire lane, parked vehicle, or to interfere with the normal flow of
traffic. It is a violation for any person to interfere with vehicles which are entering, exiting, or traversing
a parking lot. It is specifically prohibited to stop within a travel lane of any parking lot for the purpose of
waiting for a parking space, except momentarily to permit another vehicle to depart a parking space and
then only when the operator of the departing vehicle is physically present and is clearly in the process of
vacating the parking area.
A3.38.13. To occupy more than one designated parking space.
A3.39. Additional Parking Regulations:
A3.39.1. Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a 2-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the
right wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway.
A3.39.2. The ignition key shall not be left in the ignition when the vehicle is unattended on Hurlburt
Field. (Exception: According to Hurlburt Field Instruction 13-202, Flightline Driving, vehicles on the
flightline must have the key in the ignition at all times).
A3.39.3. Abandoned vehicles are defined as any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
derelict motor vehicle parked more than 3 days within the confines of Hurlburt Field; any vehicle parked
for more than 3 days on a public street, roadway or public parking area, (i.e., BX, commissary, hobby
shop, dormitories, or base housing, etc.), or any vehicle for which the owner cannot be identified or has
permanently departed the immediate vicinity of Hurlburt Field. These vehicles will be considered aban-
doned by the owner until determined otherwise and shall be towed at owner’s expense.
A3.39.4. Vehicles shall not be backed into an angled parking space or pull through, resulting in the front
of the vehicle being immediately adjacent the roadway.
12                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.40. Backing Instructions:
A3.40.1. No vehicle shall be backed until the driver has ensured that he/she has safe clearance and the
right of way in all directions.
A3.40.2. No vehicle shall be backed into angled parking spaces. Exception: Emergency response vehicles
may back into parking spaces as required.
A3.40.3. No vehicle shall be backed when it interferes with or creates a hazard to pedestrians or other
traffic.
A3.40.4. No vehicle shall be backed into or through an intersection.
A3.40.5. No vehicle shall be backed a distance greater than the absolute minimum needed.
A3.41. Basic Speed Rule. No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and pru-
dent under existing road and weather conditions. Every person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards
exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic.
A3.42. Minimal Speed Rule. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or
when in compliance with directives for the vehicle or with any lawful order affecting the movement of the
vehicle.
A3.43. Maximum Speed Limits:
A3.43.1. Except when special hazards exist requiring lower speed the following limits shall be the maxi-
mum lawful speeds, and no person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
A3.43.1.1. Unless otherwise posted or specified herein, the maximum speed on Hurlburt Field is 25 miles
per hour (mph).
A3.43.1.2. 15 mph in housing areas; 5 mph in housing areas when children present/at play.
A3.43.1.3. 10 mph in any parking lot.
A3.43.1.4. Flightline speed limits refer to Hurlburt Field Instruction 13-202.
A3.43.1.5. Troop Movement/Formations. Drivers encountering troop movements or formations occupy-
ing the roadway will reduce their speed to 10 mph. Drivers in a lane of travel occupied by a formation
shall approach slowly, stopping if needed, and await a passing signal from the formation leader.
A3.43.2. Military dependents, civilian employees, and civilian personnel driving on Hurlburt Field will
be cited with a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Citation, for traffic violations and will be subject
to administrative action such as revocation of driving privileges on Hurlburt Field.
A3.44. Establishment of Base Speed Limits. The Base Traffic Engineering Working Group, with the
approval of the 1 SOW/CC, shall determine the minimum or maximum safe speed for vehicles on Hurl-
burt Field. The accepted traffic engineering practices include road surface characteristics, shoulder condi-
tion, grade, alignment, sight distance, 85th percentile speed, pace speed, roadside development, culture,
roadside friction, safe speed for curves or hazardous locations, parking practices, pedestrian activity, and
reported accident experience for a recent 12-month period.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                       13


A3.45. Prohibitions and Acceleration. The driver of any vehicle shall not increase speed of vehicle with
any unnecessary or unsafe display of speed or acceleration.
A3.46. Racing. No person shall participate in any manner of race, speed competition or contest, exhibi-
tion of speed or acceleration contest.
A3.47. Driving Under the Influence (DUI). No one shall operate, or be in physical control of a vehicle on
Hurlburt Field while under the influence of alcohol, chemical substance or controlled chemical sub-
stances. The individual is presumed to be under the influence when affected to the extent that the person’s
normal faculties are impaired. The term DUI shall be used for impairment of faculties by either alcohol,
chemical substances, or controlled chemical substances.
A3.47.1. An individual is driving under the influence as provided by this paragraph if there is a
blood-alcohol level of 0.08 or more grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood; or a breath-alcohol level
of 0.08 grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath; or, the presence of any controlled substance in the blood.
A3.47.1.1. An individual is presumed to be driving while impaired if there is a blood alcohol level of 0.05
– 0.07 grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood; or a breath-alcohol level of 0.05 – 0.07 grams of alco-
hol per 210 liters of breath; and, is either observed recklessly or carelessly driving; or fails a field sobriety
test.
A3.47.1.2. An individual under the age of 21 is presumed to be driving with an unlawful alcohol level if
there is a blood alcohol level of any amount; or a breath-alcohol level of any amount.
A3.47.2. Presumption of Impairment. A military member who displays impairment, or who a Security
Forces member has reasonable cause to presume impairment shall submit to impairment testing which
may include; a field sobriety test, a blood alcohol test, a breath-alcohol test or a urine chemical test as
required.
A3.47.2.1. A military member who clearly is impaired, but displays a low or negative breath-alcohol
level shall be asked to submit to either a blood or urine test for chemical substances upon the request of
the detaining Security Forces member, unit commander, or local civilian police.
A3.47.2.2. Refusal to submit to impairment testing shall result in detainment and notification of unit/
wing commander for commander directed or probable cause testing as appropriate, for military members.
Civilian personnel shall be detained and released to a civilian law enforcement agency.
A3.47.3. Punishments and Suspensions.
A3.47.3.1. Military violators may be punished under Article 92 (failure to obey), Article 111 (drunken or
reckless operation of a vehicle, 0.08 or above), Article 112a (influence of controlled substances), or 134
(general article) of the UCMJ.
A3.47.3.2. Military dependents, military civil employees and contractors, and civilians (visitors) will be
prosecuted by local civilian law enforcement authorities under Florida Criminal Law, Chapter 316, State
Uniform Traffic Code and Chapter 322, Drivers Licenses.
A3.47.3.3. Military personnel, family members of military personnel, military retirees, and DoD civilian
employees found to be driving under the influence of alcohol as outlined in paragraphs A3.47.1. or
A3.47.1.1. will have on base driving privileges suspended immediately, for a minimum of one year. Pro-
cedures, as outlined in AFI 31-204, paragraph 2.7, shall be followed regarding all suspensions.
14                                                 AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.47.3.4. Persons under the age of 21 found to be driving with an unlawful alcohol level as outlined in
paragraph A3.47.1.2. will immediately have their base driving privileges suspended. Procedures, as out-
lined in AFI 31-204, paragraph 2.7, shall be followed regarding all suspensions. Revocation actions under
these circumstances will be for a period of one year.
A3.47.3.5. All individuals refusing impairment testing will have their base driving privileges immedi-
ately suspended for a minimum period of 1 year.
A3.47.3.6. Civilians (visitors) who are identified as driving under the influence on Hurlburt Field may be
considered for barment from the installation.
A3.47.3.7. Civilians (visitors) under the age of 21 who are identified as driving with an unlawful alcohol
level on Hurlburt Field will be considered for barment from the installation.
A3.48. Reckless Driving. No person shall drive a motor vehicle in any reckless manner. Reckless driving
is defined as operating or driving a vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or prop-
erty. Recklessness is not determined solely by reason of an injury or the invasion of the rights of another,
or by proof alone of excessive speed or erratic operation. Reckless means that the driver’s manner of oper-
ation of control of the vehicle was, under all circumstances, of such a heedless nature that made it actually
or imminently dangerous to vehicle occupants or safety of others.
A3.49. Careless Driving. Any person operating a vehicle shall drive in a careful and prudent manner hav-
ing regard for the width, grade, curves, corners, view obstructions, pedestrians and other traffic, and all
other attendant circumstances, not to endanger life, limb, or property of any person. Failure to do so con-
stitutes careless driving.
A3.50. Fleeing or Attempting to Elude the Security Forces. No driver shall willfully fail or refuse to bring
their vehicle to a prompt and complete stop, or otherwise flee or attempt to elude Security Forces when
given a visual or audible signal to bring the vehicle to a stop. The signal given by the Security Forces may
be hand, voice, emergency light or siren.
A3.51. Impoundment of Vehicles. Any Security Forces member on duty and whose duties include
enforcement of traffic safety is hereby authorized to drive, tow, remove, or cause to be removed to the
base impoundment lot or other place of safety, any vehicle found under the following conditions. All
attempts will be made to contact the vehicle owner to have the vehicle moved prior to initiating impound-
ment actions. An inventory of all vehicle contents must be accomplished and receipted for on an AF Form
52. The S-2 section will be notified of all impoundment actions, they will notify a civilian tow company
to have the vehicle removed. The S-2 section will handle disposition of impounded vehicles.
A3.51.1. When a vehicle is illegally left parked or standing unattended upon any roadway of Hurlburt
Field, in a position or under circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic or otherwise cre-
ate the danger of an accident.
A3.51.2. When a report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken without owner consent.
A3.51.3. When the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are intoxicated, in custody, or otherwise
unable or unwilling to provide for its custody or removal.
A3.51.4. When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is apprehended for an alleged offense,
which would preclude the release of said offender on his or her own recognizance.
A3.51.5. When probable cause exists to suspect that the vehicle has been or is being at that time used as
an instrument of a crime or contains evidence of a criminal offense.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                       15


A3.51.6. When a vehicle has been deemed a force protection hazard due to its proximity to a structure,
resource or area and attempts to locate the owner in a timely manner have met with negative results.
A3.52. Clinging to Vehicles. No person riding upon any motorcycle, moped, bicycle, skateboard, coaster,
roller skates, rollerblades, sled or toy vehicle shall attach it or him/herself to any other vehicle on the road-
way or parking lots.
A3.53. Meeting a Bus Which is Stopped. The operator of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction any bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers, will
come to a complete stop. The operator of a vehicle will not proceed until the bus resumes motion or is sig-
naled by the bus driver to proceed.
A3.54. Overtaking or Passing on the Right is Permitted:
A3.54.1. When the vehicle to be passed is making or is about to make a left turn.
A3.54.2. Upon a one way street where the roadway is of sufficient width and is clearly lined for two or
more lanes of moving vehicles.
A3.55. Overtaking or Passing on the Right is Prohibited. In the event conditions in paragraph A3.54. are
not met, under no circumstances shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main trav-
eled portion of the roadway.
A3.56. Requirement to Report All Traffic Accidents. All motor vehicle accidents, regardless of the extent
of damage or injury to any vehicle, property or person, shall be reported immediately to the Security
Forces. At no time will such report be made any later than 72 hours after the accident, unless personal
injury precludes it.
A3.57. Persons Required to Remain at the Scene. Any person involved in an accident shall immediately
stop and, except as necessary to secure aid for any injured or to summon the Security Forces, shall remain
at the scene until released by the investigating security forces.
A3.58. Moving Accident Vehicles Prohibited. Except where immediate action is required to assure the
safety of approaching traffic, any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident shall not be moved from
the point of impact or from the place where it came to rest following the accident until the investigating
Security Forces have authorized the vehicle to be moved.
A3.58.1. Exception. Vehicle involved in minor vehicle accidents may be driven to the SFCC to accom-
plish a report when a Security Forces patrol is not available to respond.
A3.59. Unattended Motor Vehicle. No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, removing the key from the ignition, and effectively
setting the brake. When the vehicle is standing unattended on any grade the front wheels shall be turned
to the curb or side of the roadway.
A3.60. Littering. Littering is prohibited on all areas of Hurlburt Field.
A3.61. Required Equipment. Every four-wheeled motor vehicle on Hurlburt Field must be equipped with
the operational items listed below. Exceptions to these items will be factory-constructed vehicles that
meet the Florida safety requirements for off street vehicles.
A3.61.1. Fenders over each tire; bumpers, front and rear.
A3.61.2. Hood, horn, and directional signals.
16                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.61.3. Front and rear lights as outlined in paragraph A3.28. - A3.28.3.
A3.61.4. Windshield wipers in good working condition.
A3.61.5. Doors (number as appearing on manufacturer's model) and operational handles inside and out-
side of doors.
A3.61.6. Rear view mirror.
A3.61.7. Brakes and emergency brakes.
A3.61.8. Windshield in the upright position.
A3.62. Defective Tires. Any tire maintaining 1/32 inch or less depth of tread, any tire having non-uniform
bulges, non-uniform fit of the tire to the rim, or any tire exposing steel belts will be deemed defective.
A3.63. Maintenance Prohibited. Except for emergency repairs such as flat tire changes or minor adjust-
ments, maintenance will not be performed on privately owned vehicles except in authorized areas of the
Base Auto Hobby Shop or Base Service Station. Base housing and dorm parking lots are not authorized
maintenance areas.
A3.64. Towing Requirements. When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the tow bar or other connec-
tion shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed and the tow bar or other connection shall not
exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to another. When one vehicle is towing another vehicle and the connec-
tion consists of a chain, rope, or cable, a white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square will be dis-
played on the device.
A3.65. Soliciting Rides. Standing on any roadway or adjacent to any roadway for the purpose of solicit-
ing a ride (hitchhiking) is prohibited. Exception: Marked locations for the “Share-A-Ride” program.
A3.66. Obstruction of Roads, Streets, and Parking Areas. It is unlawful for any person or persons to will-
fully obstruct or impede the free, convenient, and normal use of any road, street, or parking area.
A3.67. Parking Restrictions of boats, jet skis, trailers, campers, and motor homes:
A3.67.1. Except while being loaded or unloaded, the parking of boats, jet skis, trailers, campers, or motor
homes, except as hereinafter authorized, is prohibited upon any street, parking lot, grassed or seeded area.
Boats, jet skis, trailers, campers, or motor homes may be parked upon the driveway of family housing or
dormitory parking areas for no more than 36 hours before and after planned recreational vehicle activities.
Personnel residing in VOQ/VAQ or TLF may temporarily park boats, jet skis, trailers, campers, or motor
homes in parking lots adjacent to their quarters, provided they do not interfere with the normal flow of
traffic.
A3.67.2. The fenced in areas located in the Pine Shadows and Commando Village housing areas are des-
ignated for boats, trailers, campers, or motor homes of assigned base housing/dormitory residents. How-
ever, no person shall place any equipment in these areas until it has been approved and properly registered
with the Housing Office (1 SOCES/CEH), building 90371.
A3.67.3. Upon final removal of the stored boat, trailer, camper, or motor home, owners must report to the
Housing Office and terminate registration.
A3.68. Restrictions of on base sale of vehicles, boats, jet skis, trailers, campers, and motor homes. The
overt display of “For Sale” signs in or on any vehicle is prohibited when parked on the installation specif-
ically for the purpose of displaying the vehicle.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                      17


A3.68.1. Individuals who wish to display privately owned motor vehicles (boats, jet skis, trailers, camp-
ers, motor homes, etc) for the purpose of sale shall use the Services Resale Lot adjacent to Auto Hobby
Shop. Contact 1 SOSVS at 884-6674 to complete required paperwork before placing a vehicle on this lot.
Base housing, dorm parking lots and installation parking lots shall not be used to park and display these
vehicles.
A3.68.2. Individuals who wish to sell privately owned motor vehicles used for daily transportation may
display “For Sale” signs in base housing, dorm parking lots and installation parking lots. In this situation,
the vehicle must not be displayed in a manner that increases its visibility, (i.e. side of the road or a parking
space adjacent to the road). These signs must not obstruct the driver’s view in accordance with paragraph
A3.26. of this code.
A3.68.3. Security Forces members will monitor base housing, dorm parking lots and installation parking
lots and will cite violations of this code. The owner will be immediately contacted to move the vehicle.
A3.69. Using Government Vehicles. It is prohibited for any person to use a government vehicle to tow,
push, or in any manner to move or transport a private vehicle.
A3.69.1. Exception. Government tow vehicles used for impounding or seizing vehicles by appropriate
authority (i.e. SF, AFOSI).
A3.70. Drivers Must Ensure Clearance. Every driver shall, prior to placing a vehicle into motion and
while in motion, exercise due care toward other vehicles, pedestrians, buildings, or any other structure or
object to ensure that he has safe and sufficient clearance to avoid striking any vehicle, pedestrian, building
or any other structure or object located upon or adjacent to the roadway.
A3.71. Rules for Motorcycles:
A3.71.1. Operators must possess a motorcycle operator’s license, restricted license, or learner's permit.
A3.71.1.1. The term motorcycle, as referenced in this supplement, shall encompass all two and three
wheeled motor driven conveyances to include motorcycles, motor scooters, mopeds, motorcycles with
sidecars and motorcycle trikes.
A3.71.1.2. No person under 15 years of age shall operate a motorcycle.
A3.71.2. All military personnel who operate a motorcycle (on-off duty, on or off the installation, and
regardless of whether the motorcycle is registered on a DoD installation) must successfully complete a
Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) approved course.
A3.71.2.1. All Air Force civilian personnel who operate a motorcycle in the performance of their duties
(on or off the installation) must successfully complete an MSF approved course prior to operation of a
motorcycle.
A3.71.2.2. Retirees, contractors, dependants and all other non-Air Force civilian personnel who operate
a motorcycle while on the installation are highly encouraged, but not required, to attend an MSF approved
course. The installation safety office will coordinate training on a space available basis.
A3.71.2.3. Complete training after inprocessing, purchasing or completing temporary registration of a
motorcycle, within 30 days as weather and course schedule permits. Attending a local course is not
required if the rider has previously completed an approved MSF course. An MSF card is the only accepted
proof of course completion.
18                                                 AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.71.3. Every person operating a motorcycle upon a roadway of Hurlburt Field shall be granted all of
the rights and privileges and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other vehi-
cle under this directive.
A3.71.4. A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only on the permanent and regular seat (as equipped
by manufacturer) attached and the operator shall not carry any other person unless such motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person.
A3.71.5. A person shall ride a motorcycle sitting astride the seat, facing forward, with one leg on each
side of the vehicle.
A3.71.6. No person shall operate a motorcycle while carrying any package, bundle, or article, which pre-
vents keeping both hands on the handlebars.
A3.71.7. The operator of a motorcycle shall not overtake and pass in the same lane occupied by the vehi-
cle being overtaken.
A3.71.8. Motorcycle safety equipment:
A3.71.8.1. No person shall operate or ride a motorcycle unless they are wearing protective headgear
which complies with standards established by USAF directives. The chinstrap must be securely and
snugly fastened when the vehicle is in motion.
NOTE: Helmets must meet, as a minimum, Department of Transportation (DOT), Snell Memorial Foun-
dation or American National Standards Institute requirements.
A3.71.8.2. No person shall operate a motorcycle unless they are wearing an eye protective device. Gog-
gles, wrap around glasses, or a full-face shield (properly attached to helmet) designed to meet or exceed
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance will be
worn. A windshield does not constitute proper eye protection.
A3.71.8.3. Motorcycle operators and passengers will wear a brightly colored outer upper garment during
the day and a reflective upper garment during the night. Outer upper garment shall be visible and not cov-
ered. Wearing a backpack is authorized if it has brightly colored/reflective properties.
A3.71.8.4. Motorcycle operators and passengers shall wear long sleeved shirt or jacket, long trousers, and
full-fingered gloves. Gloves should be sturdy, non-slip type to permit a firm grip on the controls.
A3.71.8.5. Motorcycles operators and passengers shall wear sturdy over the ankle footwear that affords
protection for the feet and ankles (durable athletic shoes that cover the ankles may be worn). Sandals, low
quarter sneakers, and similar footwear will not be used.
A3.71.8.6. Motorcycles will have the headlamp activated at all times.
A3.71.9. Off road driving, to include trail riding, is prohibited on all portions of Hurlburt Field including
the property encompassing the Commando Village housing area. Exception: GOV operators in execution
of assigned duties.
A3.71.10. Motorcycles shall be equipped with a rear view mirror on each side of the handlebars.
A3.71.11. Mopeds and motor scooters shall not be operated on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles. Motorized scooters that are not authorized to be registered by the state of Flor-
ida may not be operated upon base property, including the Commando Village housing area.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                   19


A3.72. Vehicles Operated on the Airfield. All privately owned vehicles operated on the airfield (runways,
taxiway, and parking aprons) shall be registered with Airfield Management and shall be subject to the pro-
visions of this directive. Additionally, all vehicles operated on the airfield shall be subject to the provi-
sions of HFI 13-202, Flightline Driving.
A3.73. Mandatory Use of Motor Vehicle Safety Belts. All personnel operating or riding in any passenger
compartment in any motor vehicle on Hurlburt Field must wear safety belts. All trucks equipped with pas-
senger seats installed in the cargo area will have restraining devices installed and when occupied, the
restraints will be used. Every operator of a motor vehicle while transporting a child in a motor vehicle
operated on the roadways of Hurlburt Field shall, if the child is 4 years of age or younger and not exceed-
ing 50 pounds in weight, provide for the protection of the child by properly using a crash-tested, federally
approved child restraint device. For children aged through 3 years, such restraint device must be a sepa-
rate carrier or a manufacturer’s integrated child seat. For children aged 4 through 5 years and exceeding
50 pounds in weight an integrated child seat, or seat belts may be used.
A3.73.1. For mission purposes, personnel may ride in the bed of a GOV pick-up truck. Occupants must
be seated on the bed of the truck, not on wheel wells, side rails of bed or leaning against tailgate. Riding
in the bed of a POV pick-up truck is prohibited.
A3.74. Vehicles Turning Left. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley or driveway, shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
A3.75. Display of License Plates. Every vehicle, at all times while driven, stopped, or parked on Hurlburt
Field, shall be licensed in the name of the owner in accordance with the laws of the state of issuance. The
state license plate will be securely fastened to the vehicle outside the main body of the vehicle in such a
manner as to prevent the plates from swinging, with all letters, numerals, printing, writing, and other iden-
tification marks plainly visible and legible at all times 100 feet from the rear or front. The state license
plate must be current. Nothing shall be placed upon the face of a Florida plate except as permitted by law
or by rule or regulation of a governmental agency.
A3.75.1. Displaying of License Plates Motorcycles. At no time will the license plate be mounted in a
manner whereas the rear tire or fender obstructs the view of the license plate from a distance of 100 feet.
Nothing shall be placed upon the face of a Florida plate except as permitted by law or by rule or regulation
of a governmental agency.
A3.76. No Passing Zones. No passing is allowed where signs or markings are in place to define a no pass-
ing zone.
A3.77. Low Beam Headlights Required. Every vehicle operated on Hurlburt Field shall display low beam
headlights under the following conditions:
A3.77.1. At anytime from sunset to sunrise.
A3.77.2. Anytime when rain, smoke, fog, insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions
reduces visibility to a degree whereby persons or vehicles are not clearly discernible at a distance of 1,000
feet ahead.
A3.77.3. The use of high beam lights, to include rally or fog lights, will not be used when approaching
another vehicle at 1,000 feet or less or when following a vehicle at 500 feet or less.
20                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


A3.77.4. Parking lights, if equipped to do so, will be used when entering any guarded entry point to
include all base entry points.
A3.78. Traffic Regulation to Assist Mobility Impaired Person. When a pedestrian is in the process of
crossing a public street and the pedestrian is mobility impaired (using walker, a crutch, an orthopedic cane
or a wheel chair) the driver of every vehicle approaching the intersection will bring his vehicle to a full
stop before arriving at the intersection to avoid injuring the pedestrian.
A3.79. Parking. Parking spaces will be used for intended purpose. Vehicles will exit into the flow of traf-
fic without crossing a parking space.
A3.80. Operation of Golf Carts. Golf carts/EZ-Go/Mule carts and others of this type will follow this traf-
fic code when being operated on public streets. In addition, the following requirements apply:
A3.80.1. Mandatory equipment:
A3.80.1.1. Lights: Head, tail, brake and turn signals.
A3.80.1.2. Slow moving vehicle sign: Mounted on rear of roof or tailgate.
A3.80.1.3. Windshield (wiper optional).
A3.80.1.4. Rear view mirror.
A3.80.1.5. Preset engine governor.
A3.80.1.6. Occupant restraint devices.
A3.80.2. Use of EZ-Go/Mule type vehicles:
A3.80.2.1. For Official Use Only.
A3.80.2.2. Operator must have a valid driver's license.
A3.80.2.3. No more than two (2) occupants. (No riders in cargo area).
A3.80.2.4. These vehicles will use the jogging path adjacent to Independence Road to eliminate potential
traffic congestion problems.
A3.80.2.5. EZ-Go vehicles are strictly prohibited from being used on Highway 98, to include adjacent
shoulders and median strip.
A3.80.2.6. The same restrictions as other general-purpose vehicles when used on the flightline.
A3.80.2.7. The operator will not adjust the governor and any other speed-controlling feature.
A3.80.2.8. Vehicles of this type will not be driven on public roadways in inclement weather (i.e., rain,
fog).
A3.81. Operation of Radios or Other Mechanical Sound Equipment in Vehicles. It is unlawful for anyone
to operate a motor vehicle on Hurlburt Field in which the sound produced by a radio/CD/tape player or
other mechanical sound making devices is amplified so that the sound is audible farther than 25 feet from
the vehicle. This does not apply to emergency equipment.
A3.82. Wearing of Headsets/Cell Phone Use. No person shall operate a motor vehicle, skate, jog, walk,
or bicycle on any public roadway while wearing a headset, headphone, or other listening device, other
than a hearing aid or instrument for the improvement of defective hearing. Furthermore, no person shall
use cell phones while the vehicle is in operation, except when using a hands-free device or hands-free
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                   21


operating mode. Land Mobile Radios (LMR) are primarily listening devices and are not restricted. Cell
phones and other devices, used only in push-to-talk (walkie-talkie, direct connection) mode are consid-
ered LMR if required and issued for the performance of official duties.
A3.83. Restriction on Sun Screening Material; Side Windows, Windshields and Windows Behind Driv-
ers. No vehicle shall be operated on Hurlburt Field when the side wings and side windows on either side
forward of or adjacent to the operator's seat are composed of, covered by, or treated with any sun screen-
ing material or other product or covering which has the effect of making the window nontransparent or
which would alter the windows color, increase reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, except as
expressly permitted herein. A sun screening material may be applied to such windows if, when tested on
1/8 inch clear glass, the material has a total solar reflectance of visible light of not more than 25 percent
as measured on the non-film side and light transmittance of at least 28 percent in the visible range.
A3.84. Double-Parking. Double parking will not be allowed on Hurlburt Field. No vehicle will park
behind another, thus blocking the vehicle from leaving a parking space.
A3.85. “Radar” Detectors. The use of radar detectors or other devices used to detect, indicate, or notify a
vehicle operator that official speed measuring devices are operating is prohibited on Hurlburt Field.
A3.86. Derelict Vehicles. No person will be allowed to maintain a derelict vehicle on Hurlburt Field. A
derelict vehicle is defined as a vehicle which:
A3.86.1. Is not maintained in operational condition; the vehicle must be drivable.
A3.86.2. Has been involved in an accident causing major damage to the vehicle.
A3.86.3. Is undergoing major repairs in an unauthorized location. (See paragraph A3.63.).
A3.86.4. Does not meet minimum safety standards for operation. Security Forces will place a DD Form
2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, on the derelict vehicle. The owner must then remove the vehicle from
Hurlburt Field or relocate it to the storage lot at the Hurlburt Field Auto Hobby Shop within 72 hours. If
the vehicle is not moved within 72 hours, the vehicle is subject to impoundment by Security Forces at the
owner’s expense.
A3.87. Unattended Children in Motor Vehicles. Children under 10 years of age will not be left unattended
in motor vehicles.
A3.88. Vehicle Movement During Retreat. Upon hearing the playing of Retreat over the public address
system, vehicle operators will come to a complete stop until Retreat has been completed.
22                                               AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


                                         Attachment 4 (Added)

                       HURLBURT FIELD RESERVED PARKING POLICY
A4.1. Use and Applicability. This attachment contains the 1st Special Operations Wing (1 SOW) Com-
mander's reserved parking policy. It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to perform
any act required, by these rules, and said rules shall apply to all persons while upon this installation.
Except as otherwise specified herein, persons subject to the UCMJ who violate any portion of the “Hurl-
burt Field Reserved Parking Policy” may be punished under the provisions of Article 92, UCMJ. Persons
not subject to the UCMJ shall, as the 1 SOW Commander determines, be referred to US Magistrate Court
or shall be subject to administrative action.
A4.2. Handicapped Parking. Will comply with the Federal Register/Vol. 56, No. 144/Friday, July 26,
1991/Rules and Regulations.
A4.3. Visitor/Customer Parking. Will be provided at all facilities with a customer service function, lim-
ited to visitors/customers only and number of spaces will be determined by the senior unit commander
with connection to the parking lot (total reserved parking should not exceed 20% of available spaces).
A4.4. Government Vehicle (GMV) Parking. The following GMVs are authorized a reserved parking
space:
A4.4.1. Security Forces, Fire Department and Medical Group emergency vehicles.
A4.4.2. Wing, Group, and Squadron Commander assigned GMVs.
A4.5. Distinguished Visitor. Each squadron is authorized to use “Distinguished Visitor” temporary
reserved parking curb covers when receiving visitors in the grade O-6 and above. The following individ-
uals are authorized permanent distinguished visitors parking at the following locations:
A4.5.1. HQ AFSOC/CC, HQ AFSOC/CV, 1 SOW/CC at Soundside.
A4.5.2. 1 SOW/CC, 1 SOW/CV, 1 SOMDG/CC, 1 SOMSG, 1 SOMXG/CC and 1 SOG/CC at Wing
Headquarters.
A4.5.3. Four “Any Group/CC” and 1 SOW/CV at Soundside.
A4.5.4. HQ AFSOC/CCC and 1 SOW/CCC at Soundside.
A4.6. Individual Reserved Parking.
A4.6.1. Limited to one space each for:
A4.6.1.1. Wing CC/CV/CCC and Group CC/CD/CEM.
A4.6.1.2. Squadron and Detachment CC and CCF.
A4.6.2. Each Group Commander is authorized special designation reserved parking spaces to issue at his/
her discretion to subordinate units in the amount of one per squadron.
A4.6.3. The HQ AFSOC/CC will determine the reserved parking requirements for Building 1.
A4.6.4. Reserved Parking Signs. All reserved parking positions will be assigned a reserved plus number
(i.e., Reserved 138). No signs shall state actual title or position. 1 SOCES is sole organization to assign
reserved parking numbers.
A4.7. Special Recognition Parking. Special recognition reserved parking will be limited to:
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                                                                   23


A4.7.1. Hurlburt “Honor Guard” located at the BX/Commissary.
A4.7.2. Two each Hurlburt “Quarterly Award Winner” located at Soundside.
A4.7.3. Two each “General Officer”, “Colonel”, and “Chief Master Sergeant” spaces located at Sound-
side, BX/Commissary, and golf course.
A4.7.4. One each “2Lt/AB” space located at JR Rockers and Soundside.
A4.7.5. Union officials performing union business are authorized to park their POV in GOV reserved
spaces. These vehicles must display a placard on the dash.
A4.8. Enforcement:
A4.8.1. Requests for additional reserved parking will be considered/approved by the 1 SOMSG/CC.
A4.8.1.1. Requirement must be mission essential.
A4.8.1.2. Request must be in writing to the 1 SOMSG/CC through and endorsed by the requesting unit’s
Group Commander or equivalent, the 1 SOCES/CC and the 1 SOSFS/CC.
A4.8.2. The 1 SOCES is the only organization authorized to install, remove, or fabricate reserved parking
signs.
A4.8.3. Any agency found installing, removing, or fabricating reserved parking signs will lose their
reserved parking privileges for up to 1 year as determined by the 1 SOMSG/CC.
A4.8.3.1. It is each Commander’s responsibility to ensure that his or her subordinate units comply with
this policy.
A4.9. Parking for TDY personnel. Personnel who are TDY for more than 48 hours who need to leave
their vehicle on Hurlburt Field must use one of the following designated areas: across from the Photo Lab
on Cruz Avenue, in the lot on the south end of Tully Street across from the Base Theater, or in the lot adja-
cent to the Red Horse compound. Current state license plates must be displayed even though the owner is
TDY.
A4.10. The Hurlburt Field reserved parking policy and all assigned reserve parking will be reviewed
annually by 1 SOMSG/CC, a representative from each group and wing level tenant unit, 1 SOCES, 1
SOSFS, and 1 SOW/FP.
24                                               AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


                                        Attachment 5 (Added)

 REQUEST REINSTATEMENT OF LIMITED BASE DRIVING PRIVILEGES (GOV ONLY)
                              FORMAT
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC


1 SOMSG/CC


FROM: UNIT (A1C Smith, Samantha L.)


SUBJECT: Reinstatement of Limited Base Driving Privileges (GOV Only)


I respectively request that my privilege to operate a government owned vehicle on Hurlburt Field, Florida
be reinstated. The operation of a GOV will be for official use only (If you have attended Drug and Alco-
hol Awareness Seminar or the Driver Improvement Program, include course taken and date attended,
along with a copy of the certificate from the appropriate course). Your recommended approval is highly
appreciated.




SAMANTHA L. SMITH, A1C, USAF
000-00-0000


1st Ind, UNIT/CC


TO: 1 SOSFS/CC


Recommend A1C Smith’s base GOV driving privileges be reinstated.




XXXX X. XXXXX, rank, USAF
Commander, Unit


2nd Ind to 1 SOMSG/CC


Recommend Approval/Disapproval.
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                   25




XXXX X. XXXXX, rank, USAF
Chief, Security Forces



3rd Ind
Approved/Disapproved.




XXXX X. XXXXX, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group
26                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


                                         Attachment 6 (Added)

                           REQUEST FOR REINSTATEMENT FORMAT
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC


1 SOMSG/CC


FROM: UNIT (A1C Smith)


SUBJECT: Reinstatement of Base Driving Privileges


I respectively request that my privilege to operate a privately owned vehicle on Hurlburt Field, Florida be
reinstated. (If you have attended Drug and Alcohol Awareness Seminar or the Driver Improvement Pro-
gram, include course taken and date attended, along with a copy of the certificate from the appropriate
course). Your recommended approval is highly appreciated.




SAMANTHA L. SMITH, A1C, USAF
000-00-0000


1st Ind, UNIT/CC


TO: 1 SOSFS/CC


Recommend A1C Smith’s base driving privileges be reinstated.


(See Attachments).




XXX X. XXXX, rank, USAF
Commander, Unit
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                   27


2nd Ind to 1 SOMSG/CC


Recommend Approval/Disapproval.




XXXX X. XXXXX, rank, USAF
Chief, Security Forces


3rd Ind


Approved/Disapproved.




XXXX X. XXXXX, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 1st Special Operations Mission Support Group
28                                                AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008


                                         Attachment 7 (Added)

                          REBUTTAL OF TRAFFIC CITATION FORMAT
MEMORANDUM FOR Individual’s Unit Commander, First Sergeant, or Agency Chief
FROM: Individual Who Received Traffic Ticket
SUBJECT: Rebuttal of Traffic Ticket


A7.1. When a violator receives a ticket and feels the ticket was unjustly issued, the violator can rebut the
ticket. The violator must draft a memorandum specifically citing evidence that disproves the validity of
the ticket within 30 days. The memorandum and the original copy of the ticket in question (pink copy)
will be forwarded to the 1 SOSFS/S-5CR for processing.


A7.2. The 1 SOSFS/S-5CR will not review or forward ticket rebuttals without a memorandum letter
endorsed by the violator’s first sergeant, section commander, unit commander, or equivalent for base
civilian employees. They must either concur or non-concur with the rebuttal.


A7.3. The 1 SOSFS/S-5CR reviews the rebuttal package and will forward the original ticket, to the 1
SOSFS Commander with any additional evidence such as drivers’ history and of any previous violations.
The 1 SOSFS/CC decides to either to rescind or process the DD FM 1408.


A7.4. Please note the letter must be written in this format. If you have further questions, please contact 1
SOSFS/S-5CR at 884-5134.



SAMANTHA L. SMITH, A1C, USAF
000-00-0000

1st Ind, Unit/CC


MEMORANDUM FOR 1 SOSFS/S-5CR


Concur/Nonconcur.




XXX X. XXXX, rank, USAF
Commander, Unit
AFI31-204_HURLBURTFIELDSUP 28 JULY 2008                           29



2nd Ind, 1 SOSFS/CC


Approve/Disapprove


XXXX X. XXXXX, rank, USAF
Chief, Security Forces



                                MARSHALL B. WEBB, Colonel, USAF
                                Commander
