BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-321
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 3 AUGUST 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                                        AUTHENTICATION OF
                                                                        AIR FORCE RECORDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6PPF                                                            Certified by: SAF/A6PP
                                                                              (Mr. Albert Bodnar)
Supersedes:    AFI33-321, 27 July 2006                                                    Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management.
It provides a definition for Air Force records and provides authentication instructions. This
publication applies to all Air Force organizations, civilian and military personnel, Air National
Guard (ANG), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and contractor personnel, regardless of the
information media transmitted or received. This publication sets forth policies for personnel to
observe the prohibition in paragraph 5.2. Failure to observe paragraph 5.2 by military personnel
is a violation of Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) and may also subject
them to administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil
sanctions for violations of related laws involving the willful and unlawful destruction of federal
records. In addition to criminal and civil sanctions under applicable laws, civilian employees are
subject to administrative discipline for violating paragraph 5.2, while contractor personnel are
subject to action under the terms of their contract or otherwise by their employer for violation of
paragraph 5.2. Send recommended changes or comments to Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force
Records Office (SAF/A6PPF), 1401 Wilson Blvd, Suite 600, Rosslyn VA 22209 through
appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                                   AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
defines records, authentication authority, methods to authenticate records, and misuse of
authentication authority or methods.
1. Purpose. Records serve a vital role in documenting the Air Force mission and provide
evidence and accountability of our organization, function, policy, and procedures to the public,
congress, and the Department of Defense (DoD). This publication defines what establishes an
individual’s authority to authenticate records and prescribes the accepted methodologies for
authenticating Air Force records.
2. Records Defined.
     2.1. Definition. Records include all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable
     materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
     made or received by an agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in
     connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for
     preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization,
     functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or
     because of the informational value of data in them. Library and museum material made or
     acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents
     preserved only for convenience of reference and stocks of publications and of processed
     documents are not included. Records are further defined in AFMAN 33-363, Management
     of Records.
        2.1.1. Final records are those that have been signed, officially released, and shall not be
        altered, see AFMAN 33-363.
        2.1.2. Records may have a permanent or temporary value to an organization.
            2.1.2.1. Permanent records are those that have been determined by the Archivist of
            the United States to have enduring value as documentary evidence of the organization
            and functions of the Air Force. Permanent records are accessioned to the National
            Archives for preservation in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
            Schedule (RDS). Life cycles of records are annotated in the Air Force RDS
            maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
            2.1.2.2. Temporary records are those determined by the Archivist of the United
            States to have insufficient value to warrant preservation. Temporary records are
            disposable after a fixed period of time in accordance with the Air Force RDS. Life
            cycles of records are annotated in the Air Force RDS maintained in AFRIMS.
        2.1.3. Records are media neutral, meaning that records can be electronic, paper, film, etc.
        Electronic media is the choice for use, storage, and management of Air Force records.
        Paper records should only be created to meet a historical and/or legal requirement.
        2.1.4. Examples of different types of records include books, papers, photographs,
        machine-readable materials, e-mail, data in Information Technology (IT) systems, web
        pages, letters, memorandums, completed forms, statistical and narrative reports, graphics,
        photographs, negatives, audio and video recordings, microfilm, microfiche, maps,
        architectural, engineering, and other drawings.
AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                          3


3. Authentication Methods for Air Force Records.
   3.1. Authentication. Refers to the process used to make certain the identity of a person or
   the integrity of the specified record information. A record is authenticated when it contains
   an official signature indicating the document is genuine and official. A signature may be
   written, stamped, or electronic. Use one of the following methods to authenticate records
   issued in the conduct of Air Force business:
      3.1.1. Written Signature. Sign the appropriate paper-based signature block using black
      or dark blue ink. Do not sign for another person; official directives or statutes require the
      personal signature of designated persons on many types of Air Force records.
      3.1.2. Signature Facsimile. A signature facsimile is an authorized copy of an individual’s
      signature. Do not use signature facsimile to authenticate unless the records requiring
      signature are so numerous for that organization that the act of written authentication
      becomes a time-consuming task.
          3.1.2.1. You may use a signature facsimile on administrative records, such as form or
          transmittal memorandums, see AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications.
          3.1.2.2. Physically safeguard signature facsimile equipment such as those used to
          authorize the expenditure of government funds or the binding of the Air Force or the
          government to a course of action.
      3.1.3. Electronic Signing Technologies. Refers to methods used to verify the identity of
      the signer and the authenticity of the data contained in the record. Electronic signatures
      may be accomplished by several different technologies; personal identification numbers
      (PIN), digital signatures, smart cards and biometrics are all approved methods of
      electronic signing for authenticating e-records. Information in an official Government e-
      mail header is a form of authentic electronic signature. Above any electronic signature
      block, enter “//SIGNED//” or a facsimile. This form of signing will be determined
      authentic for documenting e-mail and/or subject matter expert coordination when
      released from a Government e-mail account and when a legal requirement does not exist
      for either a physical or digital signature. However, a digital signature may be required on
      a corresponding form intended to document the same intent. In that case, the user must
      contact the supporting legal office for signature requirements governed by Federal
      statutes. That office can also advise on a case-by-case basis which venue (physical,
      digital, electronic signature) would be most appropriate. The most important commonly
      used methods are as follows:
          3.1.3.1. Typed Notation. A method of signing an electronic document that (a)
          identify and authenticate a particular person as the source of the electronic document;
          and (b) indicate such person’s approval of the information contained in the electronic
          document. The electronic signature may be embedded in the content of the record, or
          it may be stored separately. Formatting examples may be found in AFI 33-119, Air
          Force Messaging. (This form of signing will be determined authentic for
          documenting e-mail) and/or subject matter expert coordination when released from a
          Government e-mail account and when a legal requirement does not exist for either
          physical or digital signature. Typed notations may or may not be tightly linked to a
 4                                                                   AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011


            form or document, whereas digital signatures are difficult or impossible to unlink
            from a document.
            3.1.3.2. Digital Signatures. A method of authenticating records by producing a
            digital signature bound to both the record and the signer’s identity using
            cryptographic keys, operations, and protocols. Digital signatures serve to both verify
            a signer’s identity and provide integrity for the data contained in the record.
                3.1.3.2.1. A digital signature is produced by a user’s computer using a PKI
                certificate (typically via a CAC), the record, and various cryptographic operations
                and protocols. Digital signatures can be produced only by someone with access to
                the private signing key. A digital signature is verified by a user’s computer using
                a public verification key (publically available via trusted sources), the digital
                signature, the record, and various cryptographic operations and protocols. Digital
                signatures can be verified by anyone with access to the public verification key.
                The Air Force shall only rely on DoD Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) issued
                certificates according to AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management.
                External PKIs are approved for use by the ASD(NII)/DoD CIO. The process for
                recommending approval for external PKIs is outlined in the DoD External PKI
                Interoperability Plan. Additional guidance can be found at the Records
                Management Guidance for PKI Digital Signature Authenticated and Secured
                Transaction Records, http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/policy/pki.html.
                3.1.3.2.2. Forms managers must be consulted in advance to analyze any data
                collection tools that project officers have determined feasible and reliable for
                digital signature, vice physical signature. Additional guidance can be found in
                AFI33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
     3.2. Authentication of Electronically Signing Permanent Records. For permanent
     records, organizations must ensure that the printed name of the electronic signer, as well as
     the date when the signature was executed, be included as part of any human readable form
     (such as electronic display or printout) of the electronic record. This is required so that the
     name of the signer will be preserved as part of the record. (See Records Management
     Guidance      for    Agencies     Implementing       Electronic    Signature     Technologies,
     http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/policy/electronic-signature-technology.html).
     3.3. Reproducing the Record That Has the Official Signature. Unless stated otherwise in
     the applicable statute or official directive, copies of a record bearing an official signature
     have the same authority as the original.
     3.4. Security. Protect classified and sensitive but unclassified (SBU) information in
     accordance with AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance; the 33-200 series publications; AFI 31-
     401, Information Security Program Management; DoD 5400.7-R_ AFMAN 33-302,
     Freedom of Information Act Program; and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
4. Authentication Authority.
     4.1. Authority. An individual's right to authenticate records is granted by statute, directive,
     instruction, delegated authority, duty assignment, or specific position. In other words, it is
     the capacity in which a person acts, not grade that determines the right to authenticate
     records.
AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                        5


      4.1.1. Command Capacity. The responsibility of a commander or civilian director to
      authenticate Air Force records, and the extent to which he or she may designate others to
      authenticate records, follows the principles of command and staff and the principle of
      delegation of duties contained in AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of
      Command.
          4.1.1.1. A commander or civilian director continues to discharge command functions
          when temporarily absent from the place of duty (temporary duty, etc.). During
          absences, designated representatives continue to perform designated duties, see AFI
          51-604.
      4.1.2. Non-command Capacity. When a statute or other directive does not require the
      commander's or directors’ personal signature, the deputy or vice commander is
      authorized to authenticate records without using the authority line. Any other
      subordinate, including the staff director of any headquarters below HQ USAF, who
      authenticates a record on behalf of a commander, must use the authority line “FOR THE
      COMMANDER” (or comparable official title) to indicate that he or she is acting as the
      Commander’s authorized agent. Use of the authority line on any communication to a
      person or agency outside the Department of Defense is unauthorized, see AFMAN 33-
      326.
      4.1.3. Staff and Administrative Capacity. Staff and administrative personnel can
      authenticate a record without the authority line when it reflects their own opinion,
      position, or administrative action on matters within their assigned staff or administrative
      functions, see AFMAN 33-326. They must use the authority line for records representing
      the coordinated position of the headquarters staff or for records providing instructions or
      authorizations.
      4.1.4. Professional Capacity. Some staff officers and civilian equivalents--including
      doctors, chaplains, and judge advocates--sign documents in the performance of their
      official duties that require no authority line or further authentication. Examples include
      birth, death, marriage certificates, and records of certain adverse actions.
5. Misuse of Authentication Authority or Methods.
   5.1. Legal Documents and Proceedings. This AFI does not apply to authentication of
   official Air Force records for admission into evidence connected with legal proceedings.
   Evidentiary authentication is governed by Military Rules of Evidence 901 and AFI 51-301,
   Civil Litigation. Additionally, consult the servicing Legal Office prior to using any type of
   electronic signature in any disciplinary document since such procedure may be both improper
   and invalid.
   5.2. Destroying and Falsifying Records. Personnel may only destroy records in
   accordance with the disposition instructions in the RDS located in AFRIMS. Willful and
   unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, obliteration, falsification, or destruction of an
   Air Force record may result in criminal penalties or disciplinary actions in accordance with
   Title 18 U.S.C. Part 1, Chapter 101, § 2071 Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation of
   Records.
      5.2.1. Title 18 U.S.C. section 2071 prohibits, among other things, the willful and
      unlawful destruction and falsification of Air Force records. Personnel may only lawfully
6                                                               AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011


    destroy Air Force scheduled records in accordance with the disposition instructions in
    RDS, located in AFRIMS. Unscheduled records may not be destroyed until a NARA
    approved disposition has been identified.
    5.2.2. The willful and unlawful destruction or falsification of Air Force records by
    military personnel is a violation of Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
    (UCMJ) and may also subject military personnel to administrative disciplinary action
    without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
    laws.
    5.2.3. The willful and unlawful destruction or falsification of Air Force records by
    civilian employees may subject them, in addition to applicable criminal or civil sanctions
    for violation of related laws, to administrative disciplinary action.
    5.2.4. The willful and unlawful destruction or falsification of Air Force records by
    contractor personnel may subject them, in addition to applicable criminal or civil
    sanctions for violation of related laws, to action by their employer, or otherwise in
    accordance with the terms of the applicable Air Force contract.




                                          WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                          Chief Information Officer
AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                      7


                                            Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 105-277, Government Paperwork Elimination Act of 1998
Title 18 U.S.C. Part 1, Chapter 101, § 2071 Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation of Records
Title 44 U.S.C. Chapter 31, § 3301 Records Management by Federal Agencies
DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance, 19 April 2007
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management., Incorporating through Change 2,
15 October 2010
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 January 2005
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, 1 July 2002
AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command, Incorporating through Change 1,
4 April 2006
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, 15 October 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Military Rules of Evidence 901
Records Management Guidance for PKI Digital Signature Authenticated and Secured
Transaction Records, March 11, 2005, http://www.archives.gov/records-
mgmt/policy/pki.html
Electronic Signature in Global and National Commerce Act, 30 June 2001
Records Management Guidance for Agencies Implementing Electronic Signature Technologies,
http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/policy/electronic-signature-technology.html
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 8                                                                 AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011


AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IT—Information Technology
PK—Public Key
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
PIN—Personal Identification Number
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Asymmetric Cryptosystem—A cryptographic system based on public/private key pair
encryption and decryption. The basis of asymmetric encryption is the requirement for a pair of
two keys; when one key encrypts, the other must be used to decrypt. The foundation of the
public/private key pair is one key cannot be derived from the other.
Authority Line—The authority line informs readers that the person who signed the document
acted for the commander, civilian equivalent, the command section, or the headquarters. If
it is used, type in uppercase, two line—spaces below the last line of the text and 4.5 inches
from the left edge of the page or three spaces to the right of the page center. Use the words “FOR
THE COMMANDER” unless the head of the organization has another title like commander in
chief, superintendent, or commandant.
Authentication—The process used to ascertain the identity of a person or the integrity of
specific record information. A record is authenticated when it contains an official signature
indicating the document is genuine and official. A signature may be written, stamped, electronic
or digital.
Digital Signature—A transformation of a message or document using an asymmetric
cryptosystem such that a person having the initial message or document and a signer’s public key
can accurately determine if the transformation was created using the private key that corresponds
to the signer’s public key, and if the initial message or document was altered since the
transformation was made.
Electronic Signature—A method of signing an electronic message that identifies and
authenticates a particular person as the source of the electronic message; and indicates such
person’s approval of the information contained in the electronic message (Government
Paperwork Elimination Act of 1998, section 1709(1)).
Records—Include all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an
agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction
of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate
successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations,
or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of data in them.
AFI33-321 3 AUGUST 2011                                                                     9


Library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition
purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience of reference, and stocks of
publications and of processed documents are not included.
Signature Facsimile—An authorized duplication of an original signature that has the same
authority as the original signature.
