BY ORDER OF THE                                                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2401
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                            10 MARCH 2006

                                                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                             CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED
                                                                                         EVALUATION REPORTS



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DPPPEP (MSgt Stacey Rooks)                                                              Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPP
                                                                                                       (Col Steven F. Maurmann)
Supersedes AFI 36-2401, 20 February 2004.                                                                               Pages: 36
                                                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction applies to active duty Air Force and participating Reserve and Air National Guard mem-
bers. It shows how to correct airman and officer evaluation reports after they are made a matter of record.
It carries out Air Force Policy Directive 36-24, Military Evaluations, and applies to Officer and Enlisted
Performance Reports, Promotion Recommendation Forms, and Retention Recommendation Forms. It is
also an administrative remedy prescribed by Air Force Instruction 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correc-
tion of Military Records. This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information pro-
tected by the Privacy Act of 1974 and authorized by Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 8013.
Systems of Record Notice F035 AF MP D, OPR/EPR Appeal Case Files, applies. The prescribed form
contains a Privacy Act Statement. Process supplements that affect any military personnel function as
shown in AFI 37-160, volume 1, table 3.2, The Air Force Publications and Forms Management Pro-
grams--Developing and Processing Publications. Coordinate supplements with Headquarters Air Force
Personnel Center (HQ AFPC/DPPPAE).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2006-1 (Attachment 5). This update removes MPF respon-
sibilities from the appeal process with the exception of complying with Board results. Also, this update
transfers the authority to HQ ARPC/CC for non-EAD officer ERAB appeals. See the last attachment of
the publication, IC 2006-1, for the complete IC. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.
      1.      Program Elements. .....................................................................................................   3
      2.      Military Personnel Flight (MPF) Instructions. ..........................................................                  4
      3.      Applicant Instructions. ...............................................................................................   6
      4.      Wartime Provisions. ..................................................................................................    7
      5.      Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools. ......                                          7
2                                                                                           AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 1.   How to Submit Requests For Correction. .................................................................                 8
Table 2.   Correcting Minor Errors on Evaluation Reports. ......................................................                    9
Table 3.   Correcting AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation. ..........................................                            11
Table 4.   Correcting and Disposing of Documents. ..................................................................               12
Table 5.   How to complete an AF IMT 948, Application for Correction/Removal
           of Evaluation Reports. ..............................................................................................   14

Attachment 1— APPEAL GUIDANCE FOR APPLICANTS
             (LOCAL REPRODUCTION AUTHORIZED)                                                                                       16

Attachment 2— DELETED.                                                                                                             24

Attachment 3— IC 2004-1 TO AFI 36-2401, CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED
             EVALUATION REPORTS                                                                                                    25

Attachment 4— SAMPLE, AF IMT 948, APPLICATION FOR CORRECTION/REMOVAL
             OF EVALUATION REPORTS                                                                                                 26

Attachment 5— IC 2006-1 TO AFI 36-2401, CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED
             EVALUATION REPORTS                                                                                                    27
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                               3


1. Program Elements.
   1.1. Who Establishes the Board. The Commander, Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC/CC, estab-
   lishes an Evaluation Reports Appeal Board (ERAB) to assess requests to correct evaluation reports
   and to correct substantiated errors or injustices on active duty or extended active duty (EAD) person-
   nel. The Commander, Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC/CC), establishes the (ERAB) to assess
   requests to correct evaluation reports and to correct substantiated errors or injustices on Non-EAD
   personnel.
      1.1.1. HQ AFPC/CC appoints the AFPC Executive Director, commissioned officers in the grade
      of Lt Col and above, and senior NCOs in the rank of SMSgt and CMSgt (to consider enlisted
      appeals) to the Board. Each Board will consist of a three-person panel composed of two board
      members and a board president. A board member or president who was, or is, an evaluator for an
      applicant cannot consider that person's appeal.
      1.1.2. The Commander, HQ Air Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC/CC) appoints commis-
      sioned officers in the grade of Lt Col and above, and senior NCOs (to consider enlisted appeals) to
      the Board. Each Board will consist of a three-person panel composed of two board members and a
      board president. A board member or president who was, or is, an evaluator for an applicant cannot
      consider that person's appeal.
      1.1.3. The Board works under the assumption that evaluation reports are accurate and objective.
      The applicant asking for reevaluation must therefore provide strong evidence to overcome the
      report's presumed validity.
   1.2. How the Board Will Operate:
      1.2.1. Board Members. Review applications and make independent recommendations to the
      Board President.
      1.2.2. The Board President:
          1.2.2.1. Considers the members' recommendations and decides the appeal.
          1.2.2.2. Acts for the full Board on applications which involve administrative and technical
          corrections, or require waiving the time limit for an appeal.
      1.2.3. The Board:
          1.2.3.1. Does not permit personal appearances. Neither applicants nor their representatives
          can appear before the Board.
          1.2.3.2. Handles all appeals confidentially and does not normally disclose information to out-
          side agencies.
          1.2.3.3. Refers cases for action to appropriate agencies or individuals, such as Air Force
          Office of Special Investigations, unit commander, and so on, if documents or statements do not
          appear to be authentic. The Manual for Courts Martial specifies penalties for creating false or
          forged official statements and documents. Civilian Air Force employees may be punished
          under federal law.
          1.2.3.4. Reviews cases based on information supplied in the application. The Board is not an
          investigative body and does not obtain additional documentation in support of an application.
4                                                                       AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


           If the Board decides to consider information to which the applicant has not had access, it will
           notify the applicant and allow him or her time to comment on the information.
           1.2.3.5. Directs corrections to reports. The Board can modify a report in ways that differ from
           the applicant's requested changes.
    1.3. Prohibited Requests. The Board will not consider nor approve requests to:
       1.3.1. Void a report when the error or injustice can be corrected administratively.
       1.3.2. Void a report while keeping attachments to that report.
       1.3.3. Void an evaluator's section while keeping comments or ratings of subsequent evaluators.
       1.3.4. Void an evaluator's comments but keep the ratings (or vice versa).
       1.3.5. Delete required information or add unauthorized information to a report.
       1.3.6. Change (except for deletions) an evaluator's ratings or comments if the evaluator does not
       support the change. When an evaluator supports changing ratings, all subsequent evaluators
       (including the commander on Enlisted Performance Reports, and the Management Level Review
       Board President on Promotion Recommendation Forms) must also agree to the changes (see
       Attachment 1).
       1.3.7. Reaccomplish a report without the applicant furnishing the new report.
    1.4. Appeals based on Promotion/Career Opportunity. Although not prohibited, ERAB requests based
    solely on a willingness by evaluators to change reports after non-selection for promotion will not be
    favorably considered unless proven the report was erroneous or unjust based on content (see para-
    graph A1.5.1.).
    1.5. Who Administers the Appeal Process. The Evaluation Reports Appeal Section (HQ AFPC/
    DPPPEP) manages the appeals process and executes Board decisions. Following the Board’s decision,
    DPPPEP destroys all working papers, memoranda, worksheets, recommendations, and notes between
    the board members or between the Board and DPPPEP which pertain to the case. The Board does not
    create nor maintain formal records of proceedings.

2. Military Personnel Flight (MPF) Instructions.
    2.1. The MPF:
       2.1.1. DELETED.
       2.1.2. DELETED.
       2.1.3. DELETED.
       2.1.4. The MPF is responsible for directing applicants to HQ AFPC/DPPPEP’s WEB Site
       www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/Evaluations on the provisions within this chapter.
           2.1.4.1. The MPF Customer Service Element will provide copies of the contested reports to
           the applicant for inclusion into his/her appeal package.
           2.1.4.2. DELETED.
           2.1.4.3. DELETED.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                 5


     2.1.5. DELETED.
     2.1.6. DELETED.
     2.1.7. DELETED.
         2.1.7.1. DELETED.
         2.1.7.2. DELETED.
         2.1.7.3. DELETED.
         2.1.7.4. DELETED.
     2.1.8. DELETED.
         2.1.8.1. DELETED.
         2.1.8.2. DELETED.
             2.1.8.2.1. DELETED.
             2.1.8.2.2. DELETED.
         2.1.8.3. DELETED.
         2.1.8.4. DELETED.
  2.2. Corrections Not Initiated by the Ratee.
     2.2.1. When someone other than the ratee finds an error in an evaluation report, he or she may ini-
     tiate corrective action. If the error is a minor administrative one, the MPF corrects the report under
     the provisions of Table 2. If the error cannot be corrected under Table 2., then the person discov-
     ering the error applies for correction according to Table 1., Rule 5 using AF IMT 948. The ratee
     may apply on his or her own behalf according to Table 1., Rules 1-4 (as applicable). If someone
     other than the ratee submits the AF IMT 948, he or she must notify the ratee of the error and coun-
     sel him or her regarding the proposed course of action.
     2.2.2. If the ratee signs an application, the Board assumes the ratee agrees with the correction
     unless he or she indicates otherwise. If the ratee disagrees, he or she must explain why the correc-
     tion should not be approved and suggest an alternative.
     2.2.3. If the ratee is unavailable to sign the application, send a copy of the appeal to the member
     with a memorandum explaining the error, and ask the member to provide written comments within
     10 days from the date received. To ensure the member has had an opportunity to review the
     appeal, have him or her acknowledge receipt on the notification memorandum or use certified
     mail to document the date of receipt. Reasonable requests for an extension of the time limit should
     be approved.
         2.2.3.1. When the member provides written comments, attach the applicant's response and a
         copy of the memorandum to the application and forward it to the Board.
         2.2.3.2. If the member fails to respond, annotate the remarks section of the application with,
         "Comments from the ratee were requested but not received." Attach a copy of the memoran-
         dum and either the member’s acknowledgment or the certified mail receipt and forward the
         application to the Board.
6                                                                        AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


3. Applicant Instructions.
    3.1. Applying for Correction. You can file an appeal to correct or remove an evaluation report from
    your record if you believe the report is incorrect or unjust.
       3.1.1. You must:
           3.1.1.1. Clearly and concisely state what you want.
           3.1.1.2. Make sure that no rule in this instruction prohibits your request (review paragraph 1.3.
           for a list of the types of requests the Board cannot approve and will not consider).
           3.1.1.3. Supply clear evidence to support your application (review Attachment 1 to this
           instruction):
               3.1.1.3.1. Supporting statements must have dates and signatures. They must contain infor-
               mation specifically related to the period of time and issues involved in your application.
               When information is not firsthand, make sure the author identifies the source (see Attach-
               ment 1, paragraph A1.2.).
               3.1.1.3.2. Documents must be originals or certified copies (MPF must certify evaluation
               reports IAW AFI 36-2406). Use originals whenever possible. If you must use a copy, make
               sure it is legible.
           3.1.1.4. Use AF IMT 948, (see Attachment 4) and attach the supporting documents to it.
    3.2. DELETED.
    3.3. Meeting Time Limits:
       3.3.1. DELETED.
       3.3.2. Time Limits. Normal processing time for appeal applications is 4-6 weeks. If you must
       resolve an appeal before a specific date or event, such as a pending promotion or special selection
       board, you must submit your application so that the appeal is finalized before the cutoff for the
       specific date or event. For example: Special Selection Boards (SSB) and supplemental promotion
       boards are generally closed out 30 to 45 days prior to the convening date. In these instances, the
       appeal must be received in HQ AFPC/DPPPEP or HQ ARPC/DPBR no later than 90 days before
       the convening date of that particular SSB or Supplemental Board, to ensure processing completion
       before the board cutoff. Applicants should request prompt handling by printing "EXPEDITE FOR
       THE (event)" in red ink across the top margin of the AF IMT 948.
    3.4. Using Classified, Privacy Act, and Restricted Release Information:
       3.4.1. Do not include classified information in the body of an appeal. You may, if necessary,
       include classified information in attachments. The applicant ensures classified attachments are
       submitted in accordance with security directives establishing control and mailing rules.
       3.4.2. If you submit documents on someone else (for example, EPRs on other individuals, AF
       Forms 2096, Classification/On-The-Job Training Action, PCS orders, travel vouchers, etc., on
       supervisors or coworkers), make sure you do not violate the Privacy Act. Any appeals that contain
       such documents must include written permission from the concerned individual to use the docu-
       ments in your appeal case.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                    7


       3.4.3. If you feel that information in a restricted release file is essential to your case, you may ask
       the releasing agency to forward the information directly to HQ AFPC/DPPPAE. When submitting
       your request to the releasing agency, you must waive, in writing, the right to review the informa-
       tion. Include a copy of this waiver with the appeal application. When the Board has decided the
       appeal, HQ AFPC/DPPPAE destroys the restricted file or returns it to the releasing agency.
   3.5. Requesting Special Selection Board (SSB) or Supplemental Promotion Consideration:
       3.5.1. Active duty officers can, in conjunction with their appeal, request SSB consideration for
       promotion, Regular Air Force appointment, In-Resident Professional Military Education, Selec-
       tive Early Retirement, or Reduction-in-Force separation Boards. You should review AFI 36-2501,
       Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, chapter 6, for additional information on SSBs.
       3.5.2. Active duty enlisted personnel may request supplemental promotion consideration in con-
       junction with the appeal application. You should indicate such a request on your appeal applica-
       tion; however, you must have your squadron commander’s concurrence when submitting this
       request. The commander must complete the indorsement on the AF IMT 948 indicating his/her
       concurrence/nonconcurrence.
   3.6. Resubmitting an Appeal:
       3.6.1. You can resubmit an appeal only if you have substantial new evidence which the Board did
       not initially consider.
           3.6.1.1. Do not resubmit an application when the only documentation added to the case is a
           statement which simply rebuts the Board’s previous decision. The Board does not view a
           rebuttal statement as new evidence and will decline to reconsider the case. Statements from
           members of the rating chain which respond directly to questions or concerns posed in the pre-
           vious decision memorandum are acceptable new evidence.
           3.6.1.2. Include all previous documentation with the new application.
       3.6.2. You can apply to the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR) for
       correction if you are not satisfied with an ERAB decision.

4. Wartime Provisions. During a major war or limited engagement, HQ AFPC/CC can suspend this
instruction. On returning to peacetime status, HQ AFPC/CC will direct the reinstatement, in whole or in
part, of this instruction.

5. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools. DDDD
   5.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   5.2. Records. Records are created by this publication.
   5.3. Forms Prescribed.
       5.3.1. Adopted Forms. AF Form 2096, Classification on the Job Training Action.
       5.3.2. Prescribed Forms. AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
       Reports.
8                                                                                          AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 1. How to Submit Requests For Correction.
        A                             B                       C                                        D
    R
    U
    L
    E If you are                      and                     then submit the request                  to
    1   the ratee and serving on      the desired action is   on AF IMT 948 in three complete          HQ AFPC/DPPPEP, 550 C
        active duty (AD) or           allowed under this      copies including supporting              Street West Suite 8 (Bldg
        extended active duty          instruction (see        documents                                499), Randolph AFB TX
        (EAD)                         paragraph 1.3.)         (see note 1)                             78150-4709.
    2   the ratee and a                                       on AF IMT 948 in three complete          HQ ARPC/DPBR, 6760
        participating USAF                                    copies including supporting              East Irvington #2000,
        Reserve or Air National                               documents                                Denver CO 80280-2000.
        Guard airman or officer                               (see note 1)
        not serving on EAD
    3   the ratee and are retired;    you desire to appeal    on DD Form 149, Application for          Air Force Review Boards
        are a non-participating                               Correction of Military Record Under      Office (SAF/MRBR), 550 C
        reservist; or have been                               the Provisions of Title 10, U.S. Code,   Street West Suite 40 (Bldg
        discharged, separated,                                Section 1552, according to AFI           499), Randolph AFB TX
        dismissed, or dropped                                 36-2603, preferably in two complete      78150-4742.
        from rolls                                            copies including supporting
                                                              documents
    4   the ratee and the desired
        action is not allowed
        under this instruction (see
        paragraph 1.3.)
    5   not the ratee and have        the desired action is   In accordance with paragraph 2.2. and the office shown in rules 1
        found an error in an          allowed under this      rules 1 or 2 (as applicable)          or 2 (as applicable).
        evaluation report             instruction (see
                                      paragraph 1.3.)


NOTES:
                1. Table 2. lists errors that are correctable without formal application.
                2. DELETED.
                3. DELETED.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                                        9


Table 2. Correcting Minor Errors on Evaluation Reports.
 R   SECTION I: Minor Errors
 U   Do not make corrections using this table if any doubt exists about the appropriateness of the request. Instead, submit a
 L   formal application according to Table 1. with the questionable circumstances fully outlined. The MPF (or CSS in the
 E   absence of a MPF) who knows of an error that is correctable under this table should initiate corrective action. If the
     request is to correct an error in:
 1 Ratee identification data (name, grade, Social Security Number (SSN), component, or organizational element) or the
   identification data of an evaluator who signed the report (name, grade, SSN, duty title, organizational element, date of
   signature, or final evaluator's position). (See notes 1 and 2.) Go to Section II.
 2 Ratee's duty Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), duty title, or level of duty. (See notes 3 and 7.) Go to Section II.
 3 The "from" or "thru" date of the report, the number of days of supervision, or the reason for report. (See notes 4 and 5.)
   Go to Section II.
 4 The marking of a concur or non-concur box or to add a missing rating. (See note 6.) Go to Section II.
 5 Spelling, punctuation or heading in evaluator's comments. (See notes 8 and 9.) Go to Section II.
 6 The ratee's name or grade in an evaluator's comments. (See note 8.) Go to Section II.
I SECTION II: Appropriate Offices
T Depending on the ratee's grade, submit the request by any convenient means (generally via memorandum or message)
E TO TT to the appropriate office listed below which may approve or deny the corrective action.
M
 A TSgts and below (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations. (See notes 10 and 12.)
 B MSgt selectees through SMSgts (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations to the Performance Report Management Section (HQ
   A (HQ AFPC/DPPBR3). (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 C CMSgts selectees and CMSgts (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations to AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 D 2nd Lts through Lt Cols (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations and the MAJCOM or similar activity having custody of the
   comm command selection record to the Performance Report Management Section (HQ AFPC/DPPBR3). (See notes
   10, 11 and 12.)
 E Col selectees and Cols (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations and the MAJCOM or similar activity having custody of the
   comm command selection record to AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 F All general officers and brigadier general selectees: To AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10 and 12.)
G All non-EAD ANG or USAFR officers, and USAFR airmen, colonels and below: Through MPF to HQ ARPC/DPBR.
  (See n (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)


NOTES:
             1. Submit an application according to Table 1. to change or add signatures, signature dates
                on referral reports and documents, and to substitute a re-accomplished report. Changes to
                the final evaluator's position (section VIII, AF IMT 911, Senior Enlisted Performance
                Report, MSgt thru CMSgt) will be made only when MPF/Evaluations determines conclu-
                sively that an error exists. Do not correct TIG eligibility (Section IX) as an administrative
                correction.
             2. If an SSB, supplemental promotion board, or the AFBCMR has changed an individual’s
                grade due to retroactive promotion resulting from a review, submit a request according to
                Table 1. In these cases, the report will be annotated with a statement that reads “Member
                promoted to ** with a retroactive effective date prior to the date this report was rendered.”
10                                                                 AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


     3. You can change the report when approved documentation existed on or before the close
        out date of the report and a Central Selection Board has not considered the report. If
        approved documentation did not exist, was subsequently approved, or the contested report
        has been considered by a Central Selection Board, submit a request according to Table 1.
     4. If a correction to either the period of the report or the number of days of supervision would
        invalidate the requirement for that or any other report on file, you must submit a request
        according to Table 1.
     5. If changing the close date of an enlisted report would result in the ratee receiving a supple-
        mental promotion consideration, you must submit a request according to Table 1.
     6. CAUTION: Take extreme care when adding missing ratings or correcting concur/noncon-
        cur boxes. Submit an application, according to Table 1., anytime the rater’s rating or rat-
        ings are missing, or when an endorser’s rating or ratings are missing and the nonconcur
        box is also marked, or neither box is marked. You can correct an unmarked or mismarked
        concur or nonconcur box when, after reviewing the evaluator’s comments and rating, no
        question exists as to which box should have been marked. If a rating is also missing or
        doubt exists, submit an application according to Table 1.
     7. Submit a formal application according to Table 1. to request changes to the impact on
        mission accomplishment, unit mission description or the job description.
     8. Do not change references such as airman or sergeant to reflect the person’s actual grade.
     9. Do not change words (other than misspellings), phrases, sentence structure, or grammar
        under this table.
     10. If the request is invalid, incomplete or questionable, return it through any previous pro-
         cessing levels to the correction initiator with appropriate instructions. The initiator must
         identify all required changes because changing a report’s closing date can change the
         number of days of supervision, the reason for report, the signature dates, or the "from"
         date of the subsequent report.
     11. Offices that agree with the requested action correct their copy of the report before for-
         warding the request to the next required level. The original report holder may reverse
         these corrections.
     12. If the request is valid, correct and annotate the original report according to Table 4. The
         person certifying the correction must be a SSgt, GS-4 or above. You need not provide cop-
         ies of the corrected original report to other record holders.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                              11


Table 3. Correcting AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation.
 R   A                       B                      C                D
 U   If you wish to          and the error is       then request the and forward the request
 L   correct an error in     verified by, and       correction by    for correction to
 E   (see note 1)            supporting
                             documents come
                             from
 1   Sections I, III (item the senior rater, MPF    message         o r HQ AFPC/DPPPAE,
     1), V, VI, VIII, or X; or the management       datafax             550 C Street West, Suite
     o r s p e l l i n g o r level                                      8, Randolph AFB, TX
     punctuation in the                                                 78150-4710.
     comments (see notes
     2 and 3)
 2   Sections II or III the senior rater            an application
     (item 2)                                       under Table 1.
                                                    (see note 4)
 3   Sections IV or IX      the senior rater and
                            the president of the
                            Management Level
                            Review       Board
                            (MLR) (see note 5
                            and Attachment 1,
                            paragraph A1.6.)

NOTES:
         1. When you have sent a Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF) to HQ AFPC, but it is not
            yet a matter of record (has not been filed in the Officer Selection Folder) contact the Eval-
            uations Operations Branch (HQ AFPC/DPPPEB) for instructions.
         2. You can change the duty title under this rule when the approved documentation existed on
            or before the date the PRF was prepared. If approved documentation did not exist, or was
            approved after the PRF preparation date, submit a formal application under rule 2.
         3. Do not change phrases, sentence structure, or grammar under this rule.
         4. If a promotion board has not considered the PRF, you can datafax the application to HQ
            AFPC/DPPPAE.
         5. If a promotion board has not yet considered the PRF, the management level can confirm
            coordination with the MLR president and his or her recommendation by message or
            datafax.
12                                                                      AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 4. Correcting and Disposing of Documents.
R    A                  B              C                         D                   E
U    If the action is a that           then the agency           who                 and
L    correction                        authorized to make
E                                      the correction is
1    directed by the c h a n g e s a n HQ AFPC/DPPPAE            corrects       or
                                                                               distributes
     ERAB         and evaluation       or ARPC/DSMO              initiates     copies of the
     ratee is in grade report                                    correction of the
                                                                               corrected report,
     E-7 or higher                                               report (see notes
                                                                               AF Form 77,
                                                                 2 and 3)      Supplemental
2                       voids     an                             prepares an AFEvaluation
                        evaluation                               Form 77 (see  Sheet, or other
                        report                                   note 4)       documents to
                                                                               records custodi-
3                        attaches       a                        annotates the ans             with
                         memorandum                              document (see a p p r o p r i a t e
                         of mitigation                           note 5)       instructions (see
                         or an AF Form                                         note 7).
                         77 to a report
4    directed by the c h a n g e s a n MPF Evaluations           corrects the
     ERAB         and evaluation          Element (See note 1)   report (see notes
     ratee is in grade report                                    2 and 3)
     E6 or below
5                        voids        an                         prepares an AF
                         evaluation                              Form 77 (see
                         report                                  note 4)
6                        attaches       a                        annotates the
                         memorandum                              document (see
                         of mitigation                           note 5)
                         or an AF Form
                         77 to a report
7    directed by the is indicated in HQ AFPC/DPPPAE              corrects       or
     Air       F o r c e the Secretary or ARPC/DSMO.             initiates
     Board         for of the Air                                correction of the
     Correction of F o r c e                                     report         as
     Military            Memorandum                              directed by the
     Records                                                     AFBCMR (see
     (AFBCMR)                                                    note 6)
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                          13


NOTES:
         1. Do not correct or remove evaluation reports until either HQ AFPC/DPPPAE or ARPC/
            DSMO provides written instructions.
         2. On the bottom, reverse margin, type “CC” (for corrected copy), followed by the date,
            authenticator's organization, office symbol, and signature. (Example: CC, 1 Jun 97, HQ
            AFPC/DPPPAE...) Align authenticator data in margin to allow adequate space for
            punched holes. The person signing the annotation must be a SSgt, GS-4, or above.
         3. For reports being reaccomplished, you can annotate the signature blocks of evaluators not
            reasonably available ORIGINAL SIGNED. If used, the comments and ratings of the eval-
            uators must be copied verbatim from the original report.
         4. For voided reports (excluding imbedded training reports and PRFs), prepare an AF Form
            77 with the statement: "Not rated for the above period. Report was removed by Order of
            the Chief of Staff, USAF." If voiding reports for two or more consecutive reporting peri-
            ods, you can prepare one AF Form 77, but you must show the close date of each report.
            For imbedded training reports, prepare an AF Form 77 with the statement: "A training
            report for the above period was removed by Order of the Chief of Staff, USAF." For a
            PRF, enter the statement: "AF Form 709, Promotion Recommendation, for promotion
            board (specify the promotion board, for example, 0589A) was removed by Order of the
            Chief of Staff, USAF." Use a similar statement for voided retention forms.
         5. Annotate documents with ACCEPTED FOR FILE--ATTACH TO (closing date) REPORT
            followed by the authenticator's data listed in note 2.
         6. Unless otherwise directed by the AFBCMR, annotate reports according to note 2. For
            voided reports, prepare an AF Form 77 according to note 4 except show the report was
            removed "By Order of The Secretary of The Air Force."
         7. Return original documents to the applicant. Supporting documents in an AFBCMR appli-
            cation are retained by that board. You can write to the AFBCMR for copies of these docu-
            ments.
14                                                                       AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 5. How to complete an AF IMT 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
Reports.
Item Number and Title               Instructions


1 through 6 - IDENTIFICATION DATA   Enter data pertaining to the ratee of the
                                    contested report. (If an appeal was previously
                                    submitted under another name, i.e., changed
                                    due to marriage, divorce, etc., indicate the
                                    previous name in item 10.)


7 - EMAIL ADDRESS                   Enter a working email address to contact you
                                    in case of an issue.


8 - TYPE OF REPORT(S) BEING         List all reports being appealed by type of
APPEALED AND THE THRU DATE          report (i.e., EPR, OPR, Training Report, LOE,
                                    PRF, etc.). Identify EPR/OPR/Training
                                    Reports/LOEs by their THRU (close-out)
                                    date; PRFs by the BOARD ID (Section VII on
                                    the IMT).


9 - SSB/SUPPLEMENTAL PROMOTION      Applies only to Active Duty, Extended Active
CONSIDERATION FOR OFFICERS AND      Duty, Reserve, and Air National Guard
ACTIVE DUTY ENLISTED PERSONNEL      officers, and active duty enlisted personnel.
                                    For Reserve and Air National Guard enlisted
                                    personnel, check the “N/A” block. Special
                                    Selection Board consideration applies to
                                    Central Promotion Boards; Regular AF
                                    Boards; In-Resident Central DE Boards;
                                    SERB and RIF Boards. Clearly identify the
                                    Board for which you desire reconsideration.
                                    For example, “promotion to Major, CY94A”,
                                    “RegAF augmentation, CY 95”, or “SMSgt,
                                    96E8”.


10 - COMMANDER’S CERTIFICATION      Required for Enlisted members who are
                                    seeking supplemental promotion
                                    consideration.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                       15


Item Number and Title                     Instructions


11 - ACTION REQUESTED                     Clearly identify the action desired for each
                                          report being appealed. For example, “Void
                                          Report;” “Change DAFSC to reflect...”; “Add
                                          Senior Rater Deputy Endorsement.” If a new
                                          report is to be substituted, ask for substitution,
                                          not to void the original report (e.g., “Substitute
                                          attached report containing Senior Rater
                                          endorsement for report currently on file”).
                                          Make sure the action you are requesting is not
                                          prohibited by paragraph 1.3. For enlisted
                                          members, indicate if you are also requesting
                                          supplemental promotion consideration; you
                                          must have the commander complete Section
                                          15 of the application.


12 - REASONS TO SUPPORT REQUESTED Completely describe the error or injustice. For
ACTION                            ease of consideration, list each allegation that
                                  applies to your application sequentially. Then,
                                  as needed, fully address each allegation. If
                                  you need more space, continue on plain bond
                                  paper. If your statement is extremely lengthy,
                                  you may enter “See Statement at Attachment
                                  ___” and attach your full statement.


13 – LIST OF ATTACHMENTS                  List all attachments in chronological order and
                                          identify each. For example:
                                          1. TDY Travel Voucher 12 Mar 95
                                          2. Contested EPR C/O 14 May 95
                                          3. Substitute 14 May 95 EPR
                                          4. Statement MSgt Smith 13 Sep 95
                                          If you need more room, continue on plain
                                          bond paper. If you have numerous
                                          attachments, use tabs to make the case easier
                                          to review.


14 - SIGNATURE/DATE                      Applicant will sign and date application. In
                                         cases where application is submitted by
                                         someone other than the ratee, refer to para 2.2.




                                                  ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                                  DCS/Personnel
16                                                                        AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


                                                Attachment 1

                               APPEAL GUIDANCE FOR APPLICANTS
                              (LOCAL REPRODUCTION AUTHORIZED)

A1.1. Overview. If you intend to file an appeal, you should read this attachment. Military Personnel
Flight (MPF) appeals counselors must be familiar with the contents of this attachment. In this attachment,
"evaluation report" encompasses all versions of enlisted and officer performance reports, promotion rec-
ommendation forms, and forms used by selective early retirement and reduction-in-force separation
boards. Complying with the following guidelines will not guarantee you a favorable decision; however,
not complying can cause the board to delay its decision, return your application without action, or not
have sufficient information to reach a fair and equitable decision. Contact the MPF for advice.

A1.2. Documenting Your Appeal. You must provide convincing documentation for your appeal. The
willingness of evaluators to change a report is not enough. You must offer clear evidence that the original
evaluation was unjust or wrong. Quality, not quantity of documentation is the issue. If the reason you are
including a particular item of evidence is not obvious, explain why you have attached it to the application
or what it proves. Do not bother to submit general documents (letters of appreciation, character reference
statements, nonspecific inspection reports, etc.). If your application has many attachments, use tabs to
separate them. (Both the original and copy of the package sent to the ERAB should be tabbed.) Before
submitting your appeal, review the documents you have attached and make sure they are:
     A1.2.1. Credible - does the support come from a person who is credible; was in a position to have
     firsthand knowledge of the situation and provide a reasoned evaluation? (Or are they former or subse-
     quent supervisors, peers, friends, onetime customers, etc.?) If you are submitting a document, does it
     prove what it is supposed to? For example, shift schedules, OJT records, and feedback notices do not
     prove when supervision began.
     A1.2.2. Relevant - to the time and issue. Evaluation reports assess performance over a very specific
     period of time and your support must relate to that period. Does your documentation stick to the issues
     (i.e., the basis for your appeal)? For example, if you are appealing based on a “personality conflict,”
     general character references, job recommendations, or letters of appreciation would do little to sup-
     port the alleged “conflict” and usually are not relevant.
     A1.2.3. Believable - from a common sense standpoint. Look at your evidence dispassionately and
     ask, “Can I buy this?”

A1.3. Statements . The most effective evidence consists of statements from the evaluators who signed
the report or from other individuals in the rating chain when the report was signed. Such statements
should:
     A1.3.1. Cite important facts or circumstances that were unknown when the evaluators signed the
     report.
     A1.3.2. Detail the error or injustice.
     A1.3.3. Explain how and when it was discovered.
     A1.3.4. Include the correct information.
     A1.3.5. Relate to the contested reporting period.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                17


   A1.3.6. Address the allegations and substantially challenge or disprove comments or ratings in the
   report.
   A1.3.7. Contacting Retirees. To contact a retired person, place your memorandum in a stamped enve-
   lope.
       A1.3.7.1. Address the envelope partially by writing your name and return address, and the retired
       person's name.
       A1.3.7.2. Enclose the partially addressed envelope in a separate envelope to the Worldwide Loca-
       tor (HQ AFPC/MSIMDL, 550 C St. West, Suite 50, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4752).
       A1.3.7.3. Include the retired person's grade, full name, and social security number, if known.
       A1.3.7.4. Include a note explaining about the appeal and asking the Locator to forward your
       memorandum.

A1.4. DELETED.
   A1.4.1. Failing to understand the appeals process.
   A1.4.2. Being discouraged from appealing by superiors, peers, or counselors.
   A1.4.3. Failing to understand how serious an impact a report could have on your career in later years.
   A1.4.4. Not reviewing your records during the intervening years.

A1.5. Common Appeal Reasons and Related Documentation Requirements. Some common reasons
for appealing and types of documentation are outlined below. Complying with these guidelines will not
ensure approval of a request.
   A1.5.1. Impact on Promotion or Career Opportunity. A report is not erroneous or unfair because the
   applicant believes it contributed to a non-selection for promotion or may impact future promotion or
   career opportunities. The Board recognizes that non-selection for promotion is, for many, a traumatic
   event, and the desire to overturn that non-selection is powerful motivation to appeal. However, the
   Board is careful to keep the promotion and evaluation issues separated, and to focus on the evaluation
   report only. The simple willingness by evaluators to upgrade, rewrite, or void a report is not a valid
   basis for doing so. For example, requests to add optional statements (such as PME, job/command
   "push" recommendation, or stratification) to an evaluation report or PRF will normally not form the
   basis for a successful appeal. As these statements are not mandatory for inclusion, their omission does
   not make the report inaccurate. You must prove the report is erroneous or unjust based on its content.
   A1.5.2. Ratings and Comments Inconsistent with Prior or Subsequent Evaluations. Ratings are not
   erroneous or unjust because they are inconsistent with other ratings you have received. A report eval-
   uates performance during a specific period and reflects your performance, conduct, and potential at
   that time, in that position. An ability to function well in one position at a given time may change in
   another job at another time. Sometimes an individual can stay in the same job and a change in super-
   visors will produce a change in performance standards which, depending on how well the individual
   adapts, could cause a marked change in the next report. The Board will not approve requests to void
   reports simply because they are inconsistent with other evaluation reports.
   A1.5.3. Comments Inconsistent with Assigned Ratings. Retrospective views of facts and circum-
   stances, months or even years after the report was written, will usually not overcome the Board's pre-
18                                                                           AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


     sumption that the initial assessment remains valid. You are unlikely to convince the Board simply by
     comparing an evaluator's comments and ratings.
     A1.5.4. Deflationary Rating Programs. Evaluators must accurately assess personnel and control infla-
     tion. Therefore, to appeal on this basis, you must clearly establish that the evaluator did not use the Air
     Force evaluation policy in effect at the time and, as a result, you were not rated fairly in comparison to
     your peers evaluated at the same time.
     A1.5.5. Personality Conflict. In worker-supervisor relationships, some disagreements are likely to
     occur since a worker must abide by a supervisor's policies and decisions. Personnel who do not per-
     form at expected standards or require close supervision may believe that an evaluator is personally
     biased; however, the conflict generated by this personal attention is usually professional rather than
     personal. To convince the Board that an evaluator was unfavorably biased, you must cite specific
     examples of the conflict or bias. Provide firsthand evidence that clearly shows how the conflict pre-
     vented the evaluator from preparing a fair and accurate report. If other evaluators support an appeal
     because they were unaware of a conflict at the time, they should provide specific information (and cite
     their sources) which leads them to believe the report is not an objective assessment.
     A1.5.6. Coercion by Superiors. The Board seriously and carefully evaluates any allegation of coer-
     cion by superiors. The Air Force requires endorsers, reviewers, and commanders to review evaluation
     reports for quality and to control inflationary tendencies. These officials must reject poorly prepared
     reports and downgrade or reject inflated reports. Evaluators who change their evaluations after talking
     with a superior have not necessarily been coerced. Clear evidence must exist proving that the superior
     violated the evaluator's rating rights. Supporting statements must identify the person who did the
     coercing, list the specific threats that were made, and identify any witnesses who can corroborate the
     incident.
     A1.5.7. Undue Emphasis on Isolated Incidents. Although you may feel that evaluators have over
     stressed an isolated incident or a short period of substandard performance or conduct, the evaluators
     are obliged to consider such incidents, their significance, and the frequency with which they occurred
     in assessing performance and potential. Only the evaluators know how much an incident influenced
     the report; therefore, the opinions of individuals outside the rating chain are not relevant. Retrospec-
     tive statements from evaluators prepared several months (or even years) after the incident or following
     a period of improved performance do not carry as much weight as assessments made when the facts
     and circumstances were fresh in their minds. To convince the Board, evaluators must provide specific
     information about the incident and why they now believe it was overly emphasized.
     A1.5.8. Lack of Counseling or Feedback. Only members in the rating chain can confirm if counseling
     was provided. While current Air Force policy requires performance feedback for personnel, a direct
     correlation between information provided during feedback sessions and the assessments on evaluation
     reports does not necessarily exist. For example, if after a positive feedback session, an evaluator dis-
     covers serious problems, he or she must record the problems in the evaluation report even when it dis-
     agrees with the previous feedback. There may be occasions when feedback was not provided during a
     reporting period. Lack of counseling or feedback, by itself, is not sufficient to challenge the accuracy
     or justness of a report. Evaluators must confirm they did not provide counseling or feedback, and that
     this directly resulted in an unfair evaluation. You must also supply specific information about the
     unfair evaluation so the Board can make a reasoned judgment on the appeal. Finally, every airman
     knows the existing standards for indebtedness, weight, fitness, etc. Lack of counseling in these areas
     provides no valid basis for voiding a report.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                 19


  A1.5.9. Alleged Discrimination or Unfair Treatment. Air Force members must report any form of dis-
  crimination to their supervisors or commander. If you file a complaint late in a reporting period or
  after a report closes, it may appear that you complained to create doubts about the report's fairness and
  accuracy. If you believe that you have been the victim of discrimination, your best evidence is an offi-
  cial equal opportunity and treatment (EOT) investigation, reviewed and validated by appropriate offi-
  cials. As an alternative, you may use statements from officials in the rating chain or other credible
  sources who have firsthand knowledge of the discrimination. You must prove that an evaluator was
  biased and that the bias affected the person's objectivity to the point a fair, accurate report was impos-
  sible.
  A1.5.10. Evaluation Completed on Wrong Form. The Board does not void a report because it was
  completed on the wrong form. The report will either be reaccomplished or superimposed on the cor-
  rect form.
  A1.5.11. Administrative Issues. The Board does not normally void reports because of administrative
  errors. To convince the Board, you must prove that the report would have been substantially different
  without the error. Normal procedure is to correct the administrative error rather than void the report.
  A1.5.12. Evaluation Inconsistent with Awards or Decorations Covering the Same Reporting Period.
  Citations are not specific enough to offset the comments and ratings in a report. Awards and decora-
  tions are usually submitted by members of the rating chain who are fully aware of the contested report.
  Therefore, an approved award or decoration alone does not challenge the accuracy of a report.
  A1.5.13. Personal Opinions and Unsupported Allegations. Do not make statements you cannot sup-
  port with evidence. Your personal opinions will not convince the Board to approve your application.
  Unsubstantiated conjecture about the motives of your evaluators, or how or why your report turned
  out as it did, do not contribute to your case. You must provide factual, specific, and substantiated
  information that is from credible officials and is based on firsthand observation or knowledge.
  A1.5.14. Mismarked Ratings. The instructions governing the Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Sys-
  tems clearly require evaluators (and no one else) to mark reports, and prohibit them from signing
  blank or unmarked forms. You will need statements from all evaluators who signed the report. These
  statements must fully explain how the error occurred and why the evaluators did not notice the error
  when they signed the report. Sometimes the typist or administrative section is blamed for such errors,
  in which case a statement from them can help. If the unit has a policy which requires raters to sign
  blank forms, or prohibits them from marking their ratings, a statement from the unit commander (or
  other person that imposed and enforced the policy) will be needed. The Board usually directs the
  report be corrected or reaccomplished rather than voided.
  A1.5.15. Evaluation Report Not Indorsed by Mandatory Indorser. A report not indorsed at the
  required level is normally corrected instead of voided. Identify the proper mandatory indorser and
  obtain the omitted indorsement. You can have the report reaccomplished or have the indorsement
  placed in the correct section of a blank form and signed. Include statements from the evaluators
  explaining the error.
  A1.5.16. Lack of Observation. Applications based on the fact that you and your evaluators were geo-
  graphically separated, working on a different shift, or your evaluators were new to the job, require
  conclusive documentation showing they had no valid basis on which to assess performance. Many
  individuals have to perform duties without the benefit of direct daily supervision; therefore, separation
20                                                                          AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


     alone is not a good argument. Finally, indorsing officials have to be in the rating chain only on or after
     the report's close-out.
     A1.5.17. Report Not Written by Designated Rater. The Air Force does not require the designated rater
     to be your immediate supervisor. Inaccurate designations and failures to change raters can occur when
     personnel are reassigned, work centers reorganized, functional areas or units realigned, etc. To prove
     your case, you will need statements from both the individuals who signed the report and from the indi-
     viduals who believe they should have written the report. They should cite the from and thru dates of
     their supervision and explain what happened. The “erroneous” evaluator must clearly explain why he
     or she wrote and signed the report when they were not the rater. Likewise the “correct” evaluator must
     explain why he or she did not write the report even though they were supposed to. Also helpful is a
     statement from the unit commander, if possible, providing specific information.
     A1.5.18. Insufficient Supervision. To appeal based on insufficient supervision, you need:
        A1.5.18.1. Computer-generated products or other documents that substantiate when supervision
        began and ended.
        A1.5.18.2. A statement from the rater listing the from and thru dates of supervision and the from
        and thru dates of absences of 30 or more consecutive days during the rating period.
        A1.5.18.3. Copies of paid travel vouchers or a statement from the Accounting and Finance Office
        listing from and thru dates of travel during the reporting period. For absences due to hospitaliza-
        tion, leave, or on-quarters status, include a leave and earning statement from the Accounting and
        Finance Office or a statement from the Hospital Registrar showing the from and thru dates of
        absences.
        A1.5.18.4. Understand that OJT records, feedback notices, and performance feedback worksheets
        do not document the date supervision began. They document only that an OJT entry was made, a
        feedback notice produced, or a feedback session took place.
        A1.5.18.5. Proof of absences of 30 or more consecutive days during a rating period. You cannot
        deduct: TDY time if you and your evaluator served together; periods of loan to another section or
        organization when there is no change of rater and TDY orders are not published; or, when TDY is
        part of normal duties (for example flight crew members often perform TDY to do their job). If a
        valid absence was not deducted from the period of supervision and you worked for the evaluator
        after the report's closing date, the Board normally directs adjusting the report's close-out date.
        A1.5.18.6. Often, evaluators feel that 60 or 120 days is not a sufficient time to evaluate a ratee.
        However, Air Force standards establish that normally 120 (and in certain situations, as little as 60)
        days are adequate to be able to provide a valid assessment. This standard applies Air Force-wide
        and appeals based on the rater’s belief that the 120 days are not enough time are not approved.
     A1.5.19. Memorandum of Mitigation. You can get a memorandum of mitigation to attach to a report
     from an evaluator who signed the original report or from someone in the rating chain at the time of the
     original evaluation. The memorandum must present information that was not known at the time of the
     report's preparation and must explain the comments or ratings. You cannot use a memorandum of mit-
     igation simply to add information to a report when there was not enough space on the original report
     to include it. The memorandum must be no more than a single, typed page. It must not discuss promo-
     tion status or potential or any other subject or material if this information was not allowed in the orig-
     inal report. Do not emphasize comments by using bold type, underlines, unusual fonts, etc.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                21


   A1.5.20. Lack of Training. You will require supporting statements from rating chain officials who
   can give specific information about the training problem and its impact on the evaluation report. Since
   failing to provide training and failing to document training are different problems, OJT records,
   reviews of OJT records, and OJT inspection reports do not prove training was not conducted, only that
   training was not documented.
   A1.5.21. Forged Signature. Allegations of a forged signature on a report must be confirmed by a nota-
   rized statement from the actual evaluator or by the results of an investigation.
   A1.5.22. Reaccomplishing an Evaluation Report. If you are requesting a report be reaccomplished,
   you must furnish a substitute report in your appeal case (see paragraph 1.3.7.). The substitute report
   must:
      A1.5.22.1. Be signed by the evaluators who signed the original report (this includes the com-
      mander on EPRs). Only for extremely compelling reasons may the original evaluators be removed
      from the substitute. Simple PCS or retirement are usually not sufficient reasons.
      A1.5.22.2. Be on the correct form not only for your grade, but also for the time the original report
      was written. For example, if you are reaccomplishing a Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF)
      for a CY 93 Board, the Aug 88 version of the AF Form 709 must be used, not the Jun 95 edition of
      the form. Similarly, if you are reaccomplishing an EPR which has a close-out date of Jan 95, the
      substitute must be on the Jan 93 edition of the AF Form 910/911, not the Jun 95 version.

A1.6. Special Information on Appealing AF Form 709, Promotion Recommenda tion (PRF). (See
Table 3.)
   A1.6.1. General Information. A material error in the PRF itself; substantive changes to the record of
   performance used to assess your performance-based potential; or, a material error in the PRF prepara-
   tion process, may justify changes to your PRF. Normally, comments and recommendations are
   required from the senior rater who signed the PRF and the Management Level Review (MLR) presi-
   dent who reviewed it. If the senior rater is deceased or retired and not available, the MLR president
   who originally reviewed the PRF can act instead. When the senior rater is available but the original
   MLR president is deceased or retired and not available, the current MLR president can act in his or her
   place. (Note: An evaluator is considered not available when they are incapacitated or, after reasonable
   efforts, cannot be located or contacted. You should include in your application documentation that
   shows when and how you attempted to contact an evaluator, such as certified mail receipts, and so
   forth. An evaluator will not be substituted or bypassed simply because they will not support an appli-
   cation, or because you do not believe you will have time to locate or contact them prior to a specific
   date or event.)
      A1.6.1.1. Substantive additions, deletions, changes, or corrections to an officer's record of perfor-
      mance include voiding a referral or negative report; adding a previously missing OPR or Training
      Report; removing a negative indorsement or adding a positive one; replacing a report with a sub-
      stantially different one, and so on. The change must, in effect, remove negative information from
      an officer’s record or add positive information which was not previously known. A simple admin-
      istrative change to an evaluation report rarely meets this criteria.
      A1.6.1.2. Senior raters and MLR presidents who provide comments and recommendations must
      carefully consider what, if any, impact the correction or change may have had on the final PRF
      content, rating, or the preparation process. They will need to explain the change to the record of
22                                                                         AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


        performance, its impact on the PRF, and how the requested PRF action relates to the changed
        record of performance. Appeals based on errors in the preparation process must also be fully
        explained and substantiated. Senior raters must weigh the impact of the processing error on the
        PRF and explain how the error justifies the requested PRF change.
        A1.6.1.3. The management level that initially processed the PRF can best route PRF appeals to
        the appropriate MLR president. Since management levels may have different procedures for pro-
        cessing PRF appeals, contact the appropriate one for instructions. If the management level no
        longer exists, contact HQ AFPC/DPPPAE for instructions.
     A1.6.2. PRF Appeal Requirements: It is impossible to list exact instructions for each type of appeal;
     so, if necessary, contact HQ AFPC/DPPPAE for guidance on appeals not covered in this instruction.
     The following list describes minimum required documentation for the Board to reach a fair and equi-
     table decision on your appeal:
        A1.6.2.1. Voiding a PRF. You must provide substantial evidence proving the PRF does not con-
        tain a valid promotion potential assessment, and that it is not possible to correct the form.
        A1.6.2.2. Changing Section IV (Promotion Recommendation) requires the concurrence of both
        the senior rater and MLR president. Section IV of the PRF should “provide key performance fac-
        tors from the officer’s entire career.” Obviously, the space on the form is limited and it is not usu-
        ally possible to describe every achievement in an officer’s career. The senior rater bears the
        responsibility of selecting what to include in the PRF, and what to leave out; which portions of the
        officer’s career to concentrate on, and which portions to have supported by the record. While he or
        she may request inputs from subordinate commanders, to do so is not mandatory. To change Sec-
        tion IV, the senior rater will need to demonstrate there was a material error in the PRF; a material
        error in the record of performance which substantially impacted the content of the PRF; or, a mate-
        rial error in the process by which the PRF was crafted. In all instances, the requested change to
        Section IV must be related to the documented error. Appeals to rewrite Section IV simply to
        include different, but previously known or documented accomplishments will not be approved.
        A1.6.2.3. Changing the overall recommendation (Section IX) to a "promote" rating requires the
        concurrence of both the senior rater and MLR president. The senior rater provides detailed infor-
        mation about the circumstances surrounding the requested change and the rationale for the correc-
        tion. The MLR president reviews the request and recommends for or against the change. The
        senior rater and MLR president should not support a requested change to the PRF unless a material
        error exists.
        A1.6.2.4. Changing the overall recommendation (Section IX) to a "definitely promote" (DP) rat-
        ing must be fully justified and requires the concurrence of both the senior rater and MLR presi-
        dent. In the promotion process, DP ratings are strictly controlled, and awarded after a competitive
        review of the senior rater’s pool of eligibles identifies the top officers. The MLR validates the
        senior rater’s decision and conducts a similar competitive review in awarding carry-over or aggre-
        gate DPs. In determining whether to seek award of a DP via an appeal, senior raters and MLR
        presidents must, as much as possible, replicate the original competitive process. Senior raters and
        MLRs needing assistance in identifying their original pool of eligibles should contact HQ AFPC/
        DPPPE, 550 C Street West, Suite 7, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4709 to obtain a Master Eligibility
        List (MEL) and copies of records of performance which may be needed for the board in question.
        The senior rater details the circumstances surrounding the requested change, the rationale for the
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                23


      correction, and the method (an earned DP allocation, aggregation or carry-over) by which the DP
      rating would have been awarded originally. As with other PRF appeals, there must be a material
      error in the PRF, record of performance, or process, and it must be shown how that error resulted
      in an erroneous rating. In addition:
          A1.6.2.4.1. When the senior rater identifies an "earned DP allocation," he or she certifies that
          the applicant's corrected record would have been awarded a DP rating in competition with the
          senior rater’s original pool of eligibles. After reviewing the circumstances of the appeal and
          the applicant's record, the MLR president recommends whether the DP rating should be con-
          firmed.
          A1.6.2.4.2. If the senior rater believes a DP rating would have been awarded under aggrega-
          tion or carry-over, the MLR president reviews the request, the circumstances surrounding the
          error, and its impact on the strength of the applicant’s record. The MLR president, after a com-
          petitive review, determines if the corrected record would have been sufficiently strong to have
          earned a DP at the original MLR, and makes the appropriate recommendation.
   A1.6.3. Changing PRFs Reviewed by a USAF Student Evaluation Board or a USAF Evaluation
   Board for Officers in Competitive Categories Other Than Line of the Air Force. The same require-
   ments listed above apply except after meeting the senior rater's requirement, forward the appeal to HQ
   AFPC/DPPPE for processing. HQ AFPC/DPPPE serves as the Management Level for these boards
   and will secure a recommendation from the MLR president.
   A1.6.4. Board Review. The Board is extremely careful in considering appeals of PRFs. The decision
   whether or not to grant or deny the appeal rests with the Board, which has the independent responsi-
   bility to make the determination. Senior rater, MLR president, and other inputs and/or recommenda-
   tions are factors which the Board will consider in making its determination. It is not bound by any of
   the recommendations. The Board determines the weight it will give to all such inputs.

A1.7. Special Information on Appealing AF Form 3538, Retention Recommen dation (RRF).
   A1.7.1. The Board carefully evaluates RRF appeals and obtaining the support outlined below does
   not guarantee approval, but is the minimum required for the Board to reach a fair and equitable deci-
   sion.
   A1.7.2. Voiding an RRF. Evidence requirements are similar to evidence requirements for voiding
   other report types. You must provide substantiating evidence that the form contains an unjust or inac-
   curate assessment of your potential for continued service.
   A1.7.3. To change the narrative comments, or the retention recommendation, you must have the sup-
   port of the evaluators who signed the form. The first evaluator is generally the primary person to sub-
   stantiate the form is inaccurate. He or she details the circumstances surrounding the error and explains
   why it should be corrected. The second evaluator reviews the circumstances and provides a recom-
   mendation. On occasion, the same person may be responsible for the first and second evaluators' por-
   tions of the form. If major changes are needed, fill out a new form and attach it to the request for
   correction.
24                  AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


     Attachment 2

     DELETED.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                  25


                                              Attachment 3

                             IC 2004-1 TO AFI 36-2401,
              CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORTS
20 FEBRUARY 2004
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2004-1 (Attachment 3). This update changes paragraph
1.4. and adds paragraph 1.5. Paragraph 1.4. addresses submitting requests to change a report based on
non-selection of promotion/career opportunity. The change also adds an example of such requests to para-
graph A1.5.1. See the last attachment of the publication, IC 2004-1, for the complete IC. A bar ( | ) indi-
cates revision from the previous edition.
OPR: HQ AFPC/DPPPEP (SSgt Michelle Simpson)
Supersedes: AFI 36-2401, 1 December 1997
Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPP (Col Steven Maurmann)
1.4. Appeals based on Promotion/Career Opportunity. Although not prohibited, ERAB requests based
solely on a willingness by evaluators to change reports after non-selection for promotion will not be
favorably considered unless proven the report was erroneous or unjust based on content (see paragraph
A1.5.1.).
1.5. Who Administers the Appeal Process. The Evaluation Reports Appeal Section (HQ AFPC/DPPPEP)
manages the appeals process and executes Board decisions. Following the Board’s decision, DPPPEP
destroys all working papers, memoranda, worksheets, recommendations, and notes between the board
members or between the Board and DPPPEP which pertain to the case. The Board does not create nor
maintain formal records of proceedings.
5. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools.
5.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
5.2. Records. Records are created by this publication.
5.3. Forms Prescribed.
5.3.1. Adopted Forms. AF Form 2096, Classification on the Job Training Action.
5.3.2. Prescribed Forms. AF Form 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation Reports.
A1.5.1. Impact on Promotion or Career Opportunity. A report is not erroneous or unfair because the appli-
cant believes it contributed to a non-selection for promotion or may impact future promotion or career
opportunities. The Board recognizes that non-selection for promotion is, for many, a traumatic event, and
the desire to overturn that non-selection is powerful motivation to appeal. However, the Board is careful
to keep the promotion and evaluation issues separated, and to focus on the evaluation report only. The
simple willingness by evaluators to upgrade, rewrite, or void a report is not a valid basis for doing so. For
example, requests to add optional statements (such as PME, job/command "push" recommendation, or
stratification) to an evaluation report or PRF will normally not form the basis for a successful appeal. As
these statements are not mandatory for inclusion, their omission does not make the report inaccurate. You
must prove the report is erroneous or unjust based on its content.
26                                           AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


                            Attachment 4

                         SAMPLE, AF IMT 948,
     APPLICATION FOR CORRECTION/REMOVAL OF EVALUATION REPORTS
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                             27


                                             Attachment 5

                            IC 2006-1 TO AFI 36-2401,
             CORRECTING OFFICER AND ENLISTED EVALUATION REPORTS


10 MARCH 2006


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS


This change incorporates interim change (IC) 2006-1 (Attachment 5). This update removes MPF respon-
sibilities from the appeal process with the exception of complying with Board results. Also, this update
transfers the authority to HQ ARPC/CC for non-EAD officer ERAB appeals. See the last attachment of
the publication, IC 2006-1, for the complete IC. A bar (|) indicates revision from the previous edition.


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPPPEP (MSgt Stacey Rooks)
Supersedes: AFI 36-2401, 20 February 2004.
Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPP (Col Steven F. Maurmann)


ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
DCS/Personnel


1.1. Who Establishes the Board. The Commander, Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC/CC, estab-
lishes an Evaluation Reports Appeal Board (ERAB) to assess requests to correct evaluation reports and to
correct substantiated errors or injustices on active duty or extended active duty (EAD) personnel. The
Commander, Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC/CC), establishes the (ERAB) to assess requests to cor-
rect evaluation reports and to correct substantiated errors or injustices on Non-EAD personnel.


1.1.2. The Commander, HQ Air Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC/CC) appoints commissioned offic-
ers in the grade of Lt Col and above, and senior NCOs (to consider enlisted appeals) to the Board. Each
Board will consist of a three-person panel composed of two board members and a board president. A
board member or president who was, or is, an evaluator for an applicant cannot consider that person's
appeal.


2.1.1. DELETED.


2.1.2. DELETED.
28                                                                     AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


2.1.3. DELETED.


2.1.4. The MPF is responsible for directing applicants to HQ AFPC/DPPPEP’s WEB Site www.afpc.ran-
dolph.af.mil/Evaluations on the provisions within this chapter.


2.1.4.1. The MPF Customer Service Element will provide copies of the contested reports to the applicant
for inclusion into his/her appeal package.


2.1.4.2. DELETED.


2.1.4.3. DELETED.


2.1.5. DELETED.


2.1.6. DELETED.


2.1.7. DELETED.


2.1.7.1. DELETED.


2.1.7.2. DELETED.


2.1.7.3. DELETED.


2.1.7.4. DELETED.


2.1.8. DELETED.


2.1.8.1. DELETED.


2.1.8.2. DELETED.


2.1.8.2.1. DELETED.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                  29



2.1.8.2.2. DELETED.


2.1.8.3. DELETED.


2.1.8.4. DELETED.


2.2.1. When someone other than the ratee finds an error in an evaluation report, he or she may initiate cor-
rective action. If the error is a minor administrative one, the MPF corrects the report under the provisions
of Table 2. If the error cannot be corrected under Table 2., then the person discovering the error applies
for correction according to Table 1., Rule 5 using AF IMT 948. The ratee may apply on his or her own
behalf according to Table 1., Rules 1-4 (as applicable). If someone other than the ratee submits the AF
IMT 948, he or she must notify the ratee of the error and counsel him or her regarding the proposed course
of action.


2.2.2. If the ratee signs an application, the Board assumes the ratee agrees with the correction unless he or
she indicates otherwise. If the ratee disagrees, he or she must explain why the correction should not be
approved and suggest an alternative.


2.2.3. If the ratee is unavailable to sign the application, send a copy of the appeal to the member with a
memorandum explaining the error, and ask the member to provide written comments within 10 days from
the date received. To ensure the member has had an opportunity to review the appeal, have him or her
acknowledge receipt on the notification memorandum or use certified mail to document the date of
receipt. Reasonable requests for an extension of the time limit should be approved.


2.2.3.1. When the member provides written comments, attach the applicant's response and a copy of the
memorandum to the application and forward it to the Board.


2.2.3.2. If the member fails to respond, annotate the remarks section of the application with, "Comments
from the ratee were requested but not received." Attach a copy of the memorandum and either the mem-
ber’s acknowledgment or the certified mail receipt and forward the application to the Board.


3.1.1.3.2. Documents must be originals or certified copies (MPF must certify evaluation reports IAW AFI
36-2406). Use originals whenever possible. If you must use a copy, make sure it is legible.


3.1.1.4. Use AF IMT 948, (see Attachment 4) and attach the supporting documents to it.
30                                                                         AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


3.2. DELETED.


3.3.1. DELETED.


3.3.2. Time Limits. Normal processing time for appeal applications is 4-6 weeks. If you must resolve an
appeal before a specific date or event, such as a pending promotion or special selection board, you must
submit your application so that the appeal is finalized before the cutoff for the specific date or event. For
example: Special Selection Boards (SSB) and supplemental promotion boards are generally closed out 30
to 45 days prior to the convening date. In these instances, the appeal must be received in HQ AFPC/
DPPPEP or HQ ARPC/DPBR no later than 90 days before the convening date of that particular SSB or
Supplemental Board, to ensure processing completion before the board cutoff. Applicants should request
prompt handling by printing "EXPEDITE FOR THE (event)" in red ink across the top margin of the AF
IMT 948.


3.5.2. Active duty enlisted personnel may request supplemental promotion consideration in conjunction
with the appeal application. You should indicate such a request on your appeal application; however, you
must have your squadron commander’s concurrence when submitting this request. The commander must
complete the indorsement on the AF IMT 948 indicating his/her concurrence/nonconcurrence.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                                    31


Table 1. How to Submit Requests For Correction.


     A                             B                       C                                        D
 R
 U
 L
 E If you are                      and                     then submit the request                  to
 1   the ratee and serving on      the desired action is   on AF IMT 948 in three complete          HQ AFPC/DPPPEP, 550 C
     active duty (AD) or           allowed under this      copies including supporting              Street West Suite 8 (Bldg
     extended active duty          instruction (see        documents                                499), Randolph AFB TX
     (EAD)                         paragraph 1.3.)         (see note 1)                             78150-4709.
 2   the ratee and a                                       on AF IMT 948 in three complete          HQ ARPC/DPBR, 6760
     participating USAF                                    copies including supporting              East Irvington #2000,
     Reserve or Air National                               documents                                Denver CO 80280-2000.
     Guard airman or officer                               (see note 1)
     not serving on EAD
 3   the ratee and are retired;    you desire to appeal    on DD Form 149, Application for          Air Force Review Boards
     are a non-participating                               Correction of Military Record Under      Office (SAF/MRBR), 550 C
     reservist; or have been                               the Provisions of Title 10, U.S. Code,   Street West Suite 40 (Bldg
     discharged, separated,                                Section 1552, according to AFI           499), Randolph AFB TX
     dismissed, or dropped                                 36-2603, preferably in two complete      78150-4742.
     from rolls                                            copies including supporting
                                                           documents
 4   the ratee and the desired
     action is not allowed
     under this instruction (see
     paragraph 1.3.)
 5   not the ratee and have        the desired action is   In accordance with paragraph 2.2. and the office shown in rules 1
     found an error in an          allowed under this      rules 1 or 2 (as applicable)          or 2 (as applicable).
     evaluation report             instruction (see
                                   paragraph 1.3.)


NOTES:
  1. Table 2 lists errors that are correctable without formal application.
     2. DELETED.
     3. DELETED.
32                                                                                     AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 2. Correcting Minor Errors on Evaluation Reports.


 R   SECTION I: Minor Errors
 U   Do not make corrections using this table if any doubt exists about the appropriateness of the request. Instead, submit a
 L   formal application according to Table 1. with the questionable circumstances fully outlined. The MPF (or CSS in the
 E   absence of a MPF) who knows of an error that is correctable under this table should initiate corrective action. If the
     request is to correct an error in:
 1 Ratee identification data (name, grade, Social Security Number (SSN), component, or organizational element) or the
   identification data of an evaluator who signed the report (name, grade, SSN, duty title, organizational element, date of
   signature, or final evaluator's position). (See notes 1 and 2.) Go to Section II.
 2 Ratee's duty Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), duty title, or level of duty. (See notes 3 and 7.) Go to Section II.
 3 The "from" or "thru" date of the report, the number of days of supervision, or the reason for report. (See notes 4 and 5.)
   Go to Section II.
 4 The marking of a concur or non-concur box or to add a missing rating. (See note 6.) Go to Section II.
 5 Spelling, punctuation or heading in evaluator's comments. (See notes 8 and 9.) Go to Section II.
 6 The ratee's name or grade in an evaluator's comments. (See note 8.) Go to Section II.
I SECTION II: Appropriate Offices
T Depending on the ratee's grade, submit the request by any convenient means (generally via memorandum or message)
E TO TT to the appropriate office listed below which may approve or deny the corrective action.
M
 A TSgts and below (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations. (See notes 10 and 12.)
 B MSgt selectees through SMSgts (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations to the Performance Report Management Section (HQ
   A (HQ AFPC/DPPBR3). (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 C CMSgts selectees and CMSgts (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations to AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 D 2nd Lts through Lt Cols (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations and the MAJCOM or similar activity having custody of the
   comm command selection record to the Performance Report Management Section (HQ AFPC/DPPBR3). (See notes
   10, 11 and 12.)
 E Col selectees and Cols (AD or EAD): MPF Evaluations and the MAJCOM or similar activity having custody of the
   comm command selection record to AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)
 F All general officers and brigadier general selectees: To AFSLMO/SUR. (See notes 10 and 12.)
 G All non-EAD ANG or USAFR officers, and USAFR airmen, colonels and below: Through MPF to HQ ARPC/DPBR.
   (See n (See notes 10, 11 and 12.)


NOTES:
  1. Submit an application according to Table 1. to change or add signatures, signature dates on refer-
     ral reports and documents, and to substitute a re-accomplished report. Changes to the final evalu-
     ator's position (section VIII, AF IMT 911, Senior Enlisted Performance Report, MSgt thru
     CMSgt) will be made only when MPF/Evaluations determines conclusively that an error exists.
     Do not correct TIG eligibility (Section IX) as an administrative correction.
     2. If an SSB, supplemental promotion board, or the AFBCMR has changed an individual’s grade
        due to retroactive promotion resulting from a review, submit a request according to Table 1. In
        these cases, the report will be annotated with a statement that reads “Member promoted to ** with
        a retroactive effective date prior to the date this report was rendered.”
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                  33


  3. You can change the report when approved documentation existed on or before the close out date
     of the report and a Central Selection Board has not considered the report. If approved documenta-
     tion did not exist, was subsequently approved, or the contested report has been considered by a
     Central Selection Board, submit a request according to Table 1.
  4. If a correction to either the period of the report or the number of days of supervision would inval-
     idate the requirement for that or any other report on file, you must submit a request according to
     Table 1.
  5. If changing the close date of an enlisted report would result in the ratee receiving a supplemental
     promotion consideration, you must submit a request according to Table 1.
  6. CAUTION: Take extreme care when adding missing ratings or correcting concur/nonconcur
     boxes. Submit an application, according to Table 1., anytime the rater’s rating or ratings are miss-
     ing, or when an endorser’s rating or ratings are missing and the nonconcur box is also marked, or
     neither box is marked. You can correct an unmarked or mismarked concur or nonconcur box
     when, after reviewing the evaluator’s comments and rating, no question exists as to which box
     should have been marked. If a rating is also missing or doubt exists, submit an application accord-
     ing to Table 1.
  7. Submit a formal application according to Table 1. to request changes to the impact on mission
     accomplishment, unit mission description or the job description.
  8. Do not change references such as airman or sergeant to reflect the person’s actual grade.
  9. Do not change words (other than misspellings), phrases, sentence structure, or grammar under this
     table.
  10. If the request is invalid, incomplete or questionable, return it through any previous processing lev-
      els to the correction initiator with appropriate instructions. The initiator must identify all required
      changes because changing a report’s closing date can change the number of days of supervision,
      the reason for report, the signature dates, or the "from" date of the subsequent report.
  11. Offices that agree with the requested action correct their copy of the report before forwarding the
      request to the next required level. The original report holder may reverse these corrections.
  12. If the request is valid, correct and annotate the original report according to Table 4. The person
      certifying the correction must be a SSgt, GS-4 or above. You need not provide copies of the cor-
      rected original report to other record holders.
34                                                                       AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006


Table 5. How to complete an AF IMT 948, Application for Correction/Removal of Evaluation
Reports.

Item Number and Title               Instructions


1 through 6 - IDENTIFICATION DATA   Enter data pertaining to the ratee of the
                                    contested report. (If an appeal was previously
                                    submitted under another name, i.e., changed
                                    due to marriage, divorce, etc., indicate the
                                    previous name in item 10.)


7 - EMAIL ADDRESS                   Enter a working email address to contact you
                                    in case of an issue.


8 - TYPE OF REPORT(S) BEING         List all reports being appealed by type of
APPEALED AND THE THRU DATE          report (i.e., EPR, OPR, Training Report, LOE,
                                    PRF, etc.). Identify EPR/OPR/Training
                                    Reports/LOEs by their THRU (close-out)
                                    date; PRFs by the BOARD ID (Section VII on
                                    the IMT).


9 - SSB/SUPPLEMENTAL PROMOTION      Applies only to Active Duty, Extended Active
CONSIDERATION FOR OFFICERS AND      Duty, Reserve, and Air National Guard
ACTIVE DUTY ENLISTED PERSONNEL      officers, and active duty enlisted personnel.
                                    For Reserve and Air National Guard enlisted
                                    personnel, check the “N/A” block. Special
                                    Selection Board consideration applies to
                                    Central Promotion Boards; Regular AF
                                    Boards; In-Resident Central DE Boards;
                                    SERB and RIF Boards. Clearly identify the
                                    Board for which you desire reconsideration.
                                    For example, “promotion to Major, CY94A”,
                                    “RegAF augmentation, CY 95”, or “SMSgt,
                                    96E8”.


10 - COMMANDER’S CERTIFICATION      Required for Enlisted members who are
                                    seeking supplemental promotion
                                    consideration.
AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006                                                                       35


Item Number and Title                     Instructions


11 - ACTION REQUESTED                     Clearly identify the action desired for each
                                          report being appealed. For example, “Void
                                          Report;” “Change DAFSC to reflect...”; “Add
                                          Senior Rater Deputy Endorsement.” If a new
                                          report is to be substituted, ask for substitution,
                                          not to void the original report (e.g., “Substitute
                                          attached report containing Senior Rater
                                          endorsement for report currently on file”).
                                          Make sure the action you are requesting is not
                                          prohibited by paragraph 1.3. For enlisted
                                          members, indicate if you are also requesting
                                          supplemental promotion consideration; you
                                          must have the commander complete Section
                                          15 of the application.


12 - REASONS TO SUPPORT REQUESTED Completely describe the error or injustice. For
ACTION                            ease of consideration, list each allegation that
                                  applies to your application sequentially. Then,
                                  as needed, fully address each allegation. If
                                  you need more space, continue on plain bond
                                  paper. If your statement is extremely lengthy,
                                  you may enter “See Statement at Attachment
                                  ___” and attach your full statement.


13 – LIST OF ATTACHMENTS                  List all attachments in chronological order and
                                          identify each. For example:
                                          1. TDY Travel Voucher 12 Mar 95
                                          2. Contested EPR C/O 14 May 95
                                          3. Substitute 14 May 95 EPR
                                          4. Statement MSgt Smith 13 Sep 95
                                          If you need more room, continue on plain
                                          bond paper. If you have numerous
                                          attachments, use tabs to make the case easier
                                          to review.


14 - SIGNATURE/DATE                      Applicant will sign and date application. In
                                         cases where application is submitted by
                                         someone other than the ratee, refer to para 2.2.


A1.4. DELETED.


Attachment 2
DELETED.
36                                              AFI36-2401 10 MARCH 2006



Attachment 4
SAMPLE, AF IMT 948, APPLICATION FOR CORRECTION/REMOVAL OF EVALUATION
REPORTS
