BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   AF INSTRUCTION 36-1203
6TH AIR REFUELING WING
                                                                                              MACDILL
                                                                                            Supplement 1
                                                                                         21 APRIL 1998
                                                                     Certified Current 17 December 2012
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                          ADMINISTRATIVE GRIEVANCE SYSTEM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available in electronic format on the local server.        I f you lack access,
contact your Base Publishing Office.


OPR: 6 MSS/DPCE (J. Jett)                                  Certified by: 6 ARW/CC (Brig Gen Soligan)
                                                                                              Pages: 2
                                                                     Distribution: F; X - HQ AMC/DPC

AFI 36-1203, 1 May 1996, is supplemented as follows:
3.1. (Added) The deciding official for formal grievances shall be the group commander of the organiza-
tion to which the employee is assigned unless that commander has been involved in or had direct interest
in the matter being grieved. In this event, the grievance will be referred to the next higher organization
level in the employee’s chain of command at which point it will not be referred higher. In tenant organi-
zations, except for the unified commands, the deciding official is the organizational commander. In the
unified commands, the commander making the decision will be at the directorate/functional level.
3.2. (Added) Formal grievances regarding matters outside the authority of the chain of command within
tenant organizations will be filed with the 6" Support Group Commander.
11.4.1. (Added) The employee may request review of a formal grievance decision by the Air Force Civil-
ian Appellate Review Office (AFCARO) when that decision:
11.4.1.1. (Added) Rejected, canceled, or otherwise terminated the grievance without a decision on its
merits.
11.4.1.2. (Added) Did not grant the relief sought when the grievance involved a suspension without pay,
an allegation of harassment or reprisal for having filed a grievance under this instruction, or an alleged
commission of a prohibited personnel practice.
11.4.1.3. (Added) Involves suspensions without pay or for removal, reduction in grade or pay, or fur-
lough for 30 days or less of a Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System employee.
11.4.2. (Added) The request for revi ew must be submitted to the Civilian Personnel Flight, in writing,
within 15 calendar days after the date of receipt of the contested decision, and must fully and cle arly
explain the reasons for disagreeing with that decision.
11.4.3. (Added) Within 10 calendar days after receipt of the employee’s request for review of the griev-
ance decision, the Civilian Personnel Flight will forward the request for review and the original grievance
2                                                     AFI36-1203_MACDILLSUP1 21 APRIL 1998

file to AFCARO. A copy of the letter transmitting the file will be provided the employee and representa-
tive, if any.
11.6. Costs associated with the appointment of a fact finder or investigator from Department of Defense
Office of Complaint Investigations will be home by the or ganization where the grieving employee is
assigned.



                                        JAMES N. SOLIGAN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                        Commander
