BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2603
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                5 MARCH 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                               AIR FORCE BOARD FOR CORRECTION OF
                                                                MILITARY RECORDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFRBA/BCMR                                        Certified by: SAF/MR (Daniel Ginsberg)
                                                                                    Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AFI 36-2603, 1 March 1996


This Instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It sets up procedures only
for correction of military records to remedy error or injustice and does not address matters
related to the Air Force Discharge Review Board. It tells how to apply for correction of military
records and how the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR, or the
Board) considers applications. It applies to all current and former members of the Regular Air
Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard and anyone with an Air Force military record
and/or proper interest in the correction of an Air Force military record. It defines the Board's
authority to act on applications. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           This Instruction may not be
supplemented.

This Instruction directs collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 1034 and 1552. System of Records notice F036 SAFCB A,
Military Records Processed by the Air Force Correction Board, applies. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                                  AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include updating of the higher headquarters publications implemented by this Instruction,
expanding the definition of applicant to include former spouse, adds authority for the AFBCMR
Executive Director or his/her designee to screen requests for reconsideration, refer requests to the

Board, and return reconsideration requests not containing new evidence to applicants. It
incorporates the limitations on ex-parte communication found in the United States Code. Adds
authority for the Executive Director under limited circumstances to return submissions to an

applicant without referral to the Board. Deletes section pertaining to cases filed under Section
507, Public Law 103-160.
1. Setup of the Board.
1.1. The AFBCMR operates within the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force according to 10
U. S.C. § 1552. The Board consists of civilians in the executive part of the Department of the
Air Force who are appointed and serve at the pleasure of the Secretary of the Air Force. Three
members constitute a quorum of the Board.
2. Board Responsibilities.
     2.1. Considering Applications. The Board considers all individual applications properly
     brought before it. In appropriate cases, it directs correction of military records to remove an
     error or injustice, or recommends such correction.
     2.2. Recommending Action. When an applicant alleges reprisal under 10 U.S.C. §1034, or
     AFPD 90-3, Inspector General, Complaints Resolution Program, the Board may recommend
     to the Secretary of the Air Force that disciplinary or administrative action be taken against
     those responsible for the reprisal.
     2.3. Deciding Cases. The Board normally decides cases on the evidence of the record. It is
     not an investigative body. However, the Board may, in its discretion, hold a hearing or call
     for additional evidence or opinions in any case.
3. Application Procedures.
     3.1. Who May Apply:
        3.1.1. In most cases, the applicant is a member or former member of the Air Force, since
        the request is personal to the applicant and relates to his or her military records. An
        applicant with a proper interest may request correction of another person's military
        records when that person is incapable of acting on his or her own behalf, is missing, or is
        deceased. Depending on the circumstances, a child, spouse, parent or other close relative,
        an heir, or a legal representative (such as a guardian or executor) of the member or
        former member may be able to show a proper interest. Applicants will send proof of
        proper interest with the application when requesting correction of another person's
        military records. An application may be returned when proper interest has not been
        shown.
AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


  3.1.2. A member, former member, employee or former employee, dependent, and current
  or former spouse may apply to correct a document or other record of any other military
  matter that affects them (this does not include records pertaining to civilian employment
  matters). Applicants will send proof of the effect of the document or record upon them with
  the application when requesting a correction under this provision.
  3.2. Getting Forms. Applicants may get a DD Form 149, Application for Correction of
  Military Record Under the Provisions of 10 U.S.C., §1552, and Air Force Pamphlet 36-2607,
  Applicants' Guide to the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records (AFBCMR),
  from:
     3.2.1. Any Air Force Military Personnel Flight (MPF) or publications distribution office.
     3.2.2. Most veterans' service organization.
     3.2.3. The Air Force Review Boards Office, SAF/MRBR, 550 C Street West, Suite 40,
     Randolph AFB TX 78150-4742.
     3.2.4. The AFBCMR, 1535 Command Drive, EE Wing 3rd Floor, Andrews AFB MD
     20331-7002.
  3.2.5. Via the Air Force e-Publishing website, www.e-publishing.af.mil.
  3.3. Preparation. Before applying, applicants should:
     3.3.1. Review Air Force Pamphlet 36-2607.
     3.3.2. Discuss their concerns with MPF, finance office, or other appropriate officials.
     Errors can often be corrected administratively without resort to the Board.
     3.3.3. Exhaust all other available administrative remedies (otherwise the Board may
     return the request without considering it).
  3.4. Submitting the Application. Applicants should complete all applicable sections of the
  DD Form 149, including at least:
     3.4.1. The name under which the member served.
     3.4.2. The member's social security number or Air Force service number.
     3.4.3. The applicant's current mailing address.
     3.4.4. The specific records correction being requested.
     3.4.5. Proof of proper interest if requesting correction of another person's records.
     3.4.6. The applicant’s original signature, applicants should mail the original signed DD
     Form 149 and any supporting documents to the Air Force address on the back of the
     form.
  3.5. Meeting Time Limits. Ordinarily, applicants must file an application within 3 years
  after the error or injustice was discovered, or, with due diligence, should have been
  discovered. In accordance with federal law, time on active duty is not included in the 3-year
  period. An application filed later is untimely and may be denied by the Board on that basis.
     3.5.1. The Board may excuse untimely filing in the interest of justice.
 4                                                                   AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012


        3.5.2. If the application is filed late, applicants should explain why it would be in the
        interest of justice for the Board to waive the time limits.
     3.6. Stay of Other Proceedings. Applying to the AFBCMR does not stay other proceedings.
     3.7. Counsel Representation.     Applicants may be represented by counsel, at their own
     expense.
        3.7.1. The term "counsel" includes members in good standing of the bar of any state,
        accredited representatives of veterans' organizations recognized under 38 U.S.C. §3402,
        and other persons determined by the Executive Director of the Board to be competent to
        represent the interests of the applicant.
        3.7.2. See DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection and AFI 90-301, Inspector
        General Complaints Resolution,, for special provisions for counsel in cases processed
        under 10 U.S.C. §1034.
     3.8. Page Limitations on Briefs. Briefs in support of applications:
        3.8.1. May not exceed 25 double-spaced typewritten pages.
        3.8.2. Must be typed on one side of a page only with not more than 12 characters per
        inch.
        3.8.3. Must be assembled in a manner that permits easy reproduction.
        3.8.4. Responses to advisory opinions must not exceed 10 double-spaced typewritten
        pages and meet the other requirements for briefs.
        3.8.5. These limitations do not apply to supporting documentary evidence.
        3.8.6. In complex cases and upon request, the Executive Director of the Board may
        waive these limitations.
     3.9. Withdrawing Applications. Applicants may withdraw an application at any time before
     the Board's decision. Withdrawal does not stay the 3-year time limit.
     3.10. Authority to Reject Applications. The Executive Director may return an application
     without action, if, after consultation with legal counsel, he or she determines that the
     application is clearly frivolous, or the remedy that is requested is beyond the authority of the
     Board. This authority may not be delegated.
4. Board Actions.
     4.1. Board Information Sources. The applicant has the burden of providing sufficient
     evidence of material error or injustice. However, the Board:
        4.1.1. May get additional information and advisory opinions on an application from any
        Air Force organization or official.
        4.1.2. May ask the applicant to furnish additional information regarding matters before
        the Board.
     4.2. Applicants will be given an opportunity to review and comment on advisory opinions
     and additional information obtained by the Board. They will also be provided with a copy of
     correspondence to or from the Air Force Review Boards Agency with an entity outside the
     Air Force Review Boards Agency in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. §1556.
AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012                                                                       5


  4.3. Consideration by the Board. A panel consisting of at least three board members
  considers each application. One panel member serves as its chair. The panel's actions and
  decisions constitute the actions and decisions of the Board. The panel may decide the case in
  executive session or authorize a hearing. When a hearing is authorized, the procedures in
  paragraph 4.4. apply.
  4.4. Board Deliberations. Normally only members of the Board and Board staff will be
  present during deliberations. The panel chair may permit observers for training purposes or
  otherwise in furtherance of the functions of the Board.
  4.5. Board Hearings. The Board in its sole discretion determines whether to grant a hearing.
  Applicants do not have a right to a hearing before the Board.
     4.5.1. The Executive Director will notify the applicant or counsel, if any, of the time and
     place of the hearing. Written notice will be mailed not less than 30 days in advance of
     the hearing unless the notice period is waived by the applicant. The applicant will
     respond not later than 15 days before the hearing date, accepting or declining the offer of
     a hearing and, if accepting, provide information pertaining to counsel and witnesses. The
     Board will decide the case in executive session if the applicant declines the hearing or
     fails to appear.
     4.5.2. When granted a hearing, the applicant may appear before the Board with or
     without counsel and may present witnesses. It is the applicant's responsibility to notify
     witnesses, arrange for their attendance at the hearing, and pay any associated costs.
     4.5.3. The panel chair conducts the hearing, maintains order, and ensures the applicant
     receives a full and fair opportunity to be heard. Formal rules of evidence do not apply,
     but the panel observes reasonable bounds of competency, relevancy, and materiality.
     Witnesses other than the applicant will not be present except when testifying. Witnesses
     will testify under oath or affirmation. A recorder will record the proceedings verbatim.
     The chair will normally limit hearings to 2 hours but may allow more time if necessary to
     ensure a full and fair hearing.
     4.5.4. Additional provisions apply to cases processed under 10 U.S.C. §1034.           See
     DoDD 7050.06 and AFI 90-301.
  4.6. The Board will not deny or recommend denial of an application on the sole ground that
  the issue already has been decided by the Secretary of the Air Force, Secretary of Defense, or
  the President of the United States in another proceeding.
  4.7. Board Decisions. The panel's majority vote constitutes the action of the Board. The
  Board will make determinations on the following issues in writing:
     4.7.1. Whether the provisions of the 10 U.S.C. §1034 apply to the application. This
     determination is needed only when the applicant invokes the protection, or when the
     question of its applicability is otherwise raised by the evidence.
     4.7.2. Whether the application was timely filed and, if not, whether the applicant has
     demonstrated that it would be in the interest of justice to excuse the untimely filing.
     When the Board determines that an application is not timely, and does not excuse its
     untimeliness, the application will be denied on that basis.
6                                                                 AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012


       4.7.3. Whether the applicant has exhausted all available and effective administrative
       remedies. If the applicant has not, the application will be denied on that basis.
       4.7.4. Whether the applicant has demonstrated the existence of a material error or
       injustice that can be remedied effectively through correction of the applicant's military
       record and, if so, what corrections are needed to provide full and effective relief.
       4.7.5. In Military Whistleblowers Protection Act cases only, whether to recommend to
       the Secretary of the Air Force that disciplinary or administrative action be taken against
       any Air Force official whom the Board finds to have committed an act of reprisal against
       the applicant. Any determination on this issue will not be made a part of the Board's
       record of proceedings and will not be given to the applicant, but will be provided directly
       to the Secretary of the Air Force under separate cover (paragraph 2.2).
    4.8. Record of Proceedings. The Board staff will prepare a record of proceedings following
    deliberations which will include:
       4.8.1. The name and vote of each Board member.
       4.8.2. The application.
       4.8.3. Briefs and written arguments.
       4.8.4. Documentary evidence.
       4.8.5. A hearing transcript if a hearing was held.
       4.8.6. Advisory opinions and the applicant's related comments.
       4.8.7. The findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the Board.
       4.8.8. Minority reports, if any.
       4.8.9. Other information necessary to show a true and complete history of the
       proceedings.
    4.9. Minority Reports. A dissenting panel member may prepare a minority report which
    may address any aspect of the case.
    4.10. Separate Communications. The Board may send comments or recommendations to the
    Secretary of the Air Force as to administrative or disciplinary action against individuals
    found to have committed acts of reprisal prohibited by the Military Whistleblowers
    Protection Act and on other matters arising from an application not directly related to the
    requested correction of military records. Such comments and recommendations will be
    separately communicated and will not be included in the record of proceedings or given to
    the applicant or counsel.
    4.11. Final Action by the Board. The Board acts for the Secretary of the Air Force and its
    decision is final when it:
       4.11.1. Denies any application (except under 10 U.S.C. §1034).
       4.11.2. Grants any application in whole or part when the relief was recommended by the
       official preparing the advisory opinion, was unanimously agreed to by the panel, does not
       affect an appointment or promotion requiring confirmation by the Senate, and does not
AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012                                                                         7


       affect a matter for which the Secretary of the Air Force or his or her delegee has withheld
       decision authority or required notification before final decision.
       4.11.3. The Board sends the record of proceedings on all other applications to the
       Secretary of the Air Force or his or her designee for final decision.
   4.12. The Board may identify DoD or Air Force policies, instructions, guidance or practices
   that are leading to, or likely to lead to unsound business decisions, unfair results, waste of
   government funds or public criticism. The Board will forward such observations directly to
   the appropriate offices of the Secretariat and/or Air Staff for review and evaluation. Such
   observations will not be included in the record of proceedings.
5. Decision of the Secretary of the Air Force. The Secretary may direct such action as he or
she deems appropriate on each case, including returning the case to the Board for further
consideration. Cases returned to the Board for further reconsideration will be accompanied by a
brief statement of the reasons for such action. If the Secretary does not accept the Board's
recommendation, the Secretary’s decision will be in writing and will include a brief statement of
the grounds for his/her final decision .
   5.1. Decisions in Cases Under the Military Whistleblowers Protection Act. The Secretary
   will issue decisions on such cases within 180 days after receipt of the case and will, unless
   the full relief requested is granted, inform applicants of their right to request review of the
   decision by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef). Applicants will also be informed:
       5.1.1. Of the name and address of the official to whom the request for review must be
       submitted.
       5.1.2. That the request for review must be submitted within 90 days after receipt of the
       decision by the Secretary of the Air Force.
       5.1.3. That the request for review must be in writing and include the applicant's name,
       address, and telephone number; a copy of the application to the AFBCMR and the final
       decision of the Secretary of the Air Force; and a statement of the specific reasons the
       applicant is not satisfied with the decision of the Secretary of the Air Force.
       5.1.4. That the request must be based on the Board record; requests for review based on
       factual allegations or evidence not previously presented to the Board will not be
       considered under this paragraph but may be the basis for reconsideration by the Board
       under paragraph 6.
   5.2. In cases under paragraph 5.1 which involve additional issues not cognizable under that
   paragraph, the additional issues may be considered separately by the Board under paragraphs
   3 and 4. The special time limit in paragraph 5.1 does not apply to the decision concerning
   these additional issues.
   5.3. Decisions in High Profile or Sensitive Cases. Prior to taking final action on a BCMR
   application that has generated, or is likely to generate, significant public or Congressional
   interest, the Secretarial designee will provide the case record of proceedings through
   Secretarial channels to HQ USAF Command Section so that the Secretary can determine
   whether to decide the case personally or take other action the Secretary deems appropriate.
6. Reconsideration of Applications. The Board may reconsider an application if the applicant
submits newly discovered relevant evidence that was not reasonably available when the
 8                                                                  AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012


application was previously considered. The Executive Director or Team Chiefs will screen each
request for reconsideration to determine whether it contains new evidence. New arguments
about, or analysis of, evidence already considered, and additional statements which are
cumulative to those already in the record of proceedings will not be considered new evidence.
     6.1. If the request contains new evidence, the Executive Director or his/her designee will
     refer it to a panel of the Board for a decision. The Board will decide the relevance and
     weight of any new evidence, whether it was reasonably available to the applicant when the
     application was previously considered, and whether it was submitted in a timely manner.
     The Board may deny reconsideration if the request does not meet the criteria for
     reconsideration. Otherwise, the Board will reconsider the application and decide the case
     either on timeliness or merit as appropriate.
     6.2. If the request does not contain new evidence, the Executive Director or his/her designee
     will return it to the applicant without referral to the Board
7. Action After Final Decision.
     7.1. Action by the Executive Director. The Executive Director or his/her designee will
     inform the applicant or counsel, if any, of the final decision on the application. If any
     requested relief was denied, the Executive Director will advise the applicant of
     reconsideration procedures and, for cases processed under 10 U.S.C. §1034, reviewed by the
     SecDef. The Executive Director will send decisions requiring corrective action to the Chief
     of Staff, US Air Force, for necessary action.
     7.2. Settlement of Claims. The Air Force is authorized, under 10 U.S.C. §1552, to pay
     claims for amounts due to applicants as a result of correction of military records. This
     authority is derived via SECDEF direction as delineated in DoDD 7050.06.
        7.2.1. The Executive Director will furnish the Defense Finance and Accounting Service
        (DFAS) with AFBCMR decisions potentially affecting monetary entitlement or benefits.
        DFAS will treat such decisions as claims for payment by or on behalf of the applicant.
        7.2.2. DFAS settles claims on the basis of the corrected military record. Computation of
        the amount due, if any, is a function of DFAS. Applicants may be required to furnish
        additional information to DFAS to establish their status as proper parties to the claim and
        to aid in deciding amounts due.
        7.2.3. Earnings received from civilian employment during any period for which active
        duty pay and allowances are payable will be deducted from the settlement. Amounts
        found due will be offset by the amount of any existing indebtedness to the government in
        compliance with the Debt Collection Act of 1982, the Debt Collection Improvement Act
        of 1996, and Public Law 97-365.
     7.3. Public Access to Decisions. After deletion of personal information, AFBCMR
     decisions will be made available for review and copying at an electronic public reading
     room.
8. Miscellaneous Provisions.
     8.1. At the request of the Board, all Air Force activities and officials will furnish the Board
     with:
AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012                                                                       9


     8.1.1. All available military records pertinent to an application.
     8.1.2. An advisory opinion concerning an application. The advisory opinion will include
     an analysis of the facts of the case and of the applicant's contentions, a statement of
     whether or not the requested relief can be done administratively, and a recommendation
     on the timeliness and merit of the request. Regardless of the recommendation, the
     advisory opinion will include instructions on specific corrective action to be taken if the
     Board grants the application.
  8.2. Access to Records. Applicants will have access to all records considered by the Board,
  except those classified or privileged. To the extent practicable, applicants will be provided
  unclassified or nonprivileged summaries or extracts of such records considered by the Board.
  8.3. Payment of Expenses. The Air Force has no authority to pay expenses of any kind
  incurred by or on behalf of an applicant in connection with a correction of military records
  under 10 U.S.C. §1034 or §1552.




                                           DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
 10                                                             AFI36-2603 5 MARCH 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-24, Military Evaluations, 11 June 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPAM 36-2607, Applicants Guide to the Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
(AFBCMR), 3 Nov 1994
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 15 May 2008
DoDD 1332.41, Boards for Correction of Military Records and Discharge Review Boards, 8
March 2004
DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection, 23 July 2007
Adopted Forms
DD Form 149, Application for Correction of Military Records, Jun 2010
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFBCMR—Air Force Board for Correction of Military Records
AFPC— Air Force Personnel Center
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SECDEF— – Secretary of Defense
