BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-104
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                8 MARCH 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                                               SERVICES MARKETING AND
                                                                    PUBLICITY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVK                                                         Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                             (Brigadier General Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:   AFI 34-104, 25 July 1994                                                Pages: 12


This instruction provides guidance and procedures for developing an effective Force Support
marketing program. It also describes the role and relationship of marketing in the planning and
administration of programs and describes the responsibilities of the marketing director. Finally,
it explains how to identify markets, develop strategies to satisfy consumer needs, and
communicate the right message to customers and potential customers. This instruction applies to
all Air Force personnel to include Air Force Reserve (AFRC) units. This instruction is only
applicable to the Air National Guard upon mobilization. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functionals’ chain of command. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication establishes changes to the advertising policy including buying and selling
advertising space. This allows Force Support Squadrons (FSS) to operate in a more businesslike
manner by increasing financial support from both advertising and commercial sponsorship and in
communicating with our customers. This publication applies to the Morale, Welfare, and
Recreation (MWR) elements of the FSS.
 2                                                                       AFI34-104 8 March 2012



                                             Chapter 1

                          OBJECTIVES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Overview. The Marketing and Publicity Program exists to support the MWR elements of
FSS programs managed by commanders/directors, flight chiefs, and activity managers by
ensuring they adopt sound customer-driven marketing practices. The primary goal of this
program is to support MWR elements of FSS programs by recognizing the needs and
expectations of customers and potential customers, tailor marketing programs to meet these
needs, and communicate the right message to the right market. MWR activities are those
outlined in DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Program. MWR
activities include (but are not limited to) fitness, sports, libraries, child development, youth, arts
and crafts, auto hobby, recreation equipment checkout, outdoor recreation, clubs, bowling, golf,
aero club, and other membership programs.
1.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     1.2.1. Air Force Director of Services (AF/A1S): Oversees Air Force Services, establishes
     policy, and coordinates with AFSVA.
     1.2.2. Air Force Services Agency (AFSVA/CC):
        1.2.2.1. Implements policy and ensures compliance with the desired marketing direction
        through instructions, guidance, and plans.
        1.2.2.2. Establishes the overall direction of marketing, provides program oversight,
        directs corrective actions, and advocates central marketing programs.
        1.2.2.3. Conducts Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) per request of Major Commands
        (MAJCOMs).
        1.2.2.4. Develops and implements customer-driven central marketing programs and
        promotions with input from MAJCOM counterparts.
        1.2.2.5. Provides training for MAJCOM and installation marketing managers.
        1.2.2.6. Provides marketing overview training to activity managers.
        1.2.2.7. Provides centralized marketing research.
     1.2.3. Major Command Chief of Services (MAJCOM/A1S).
        1.2.3.1. Disseminates and implements marketing policy and central programs at
        installations.
        1.2.3.2. Develops, coordinates, and supervises installation-level implementation of
        customer-driven MAJCOM marketing programs.
        1.2.3.3. Conducts SAVs to installations.
        1.2.3.4. Works with AFSVA on program and promotion development.
        1.2.3.5. Provides oversight of installation-level sponsorship.
        1.2.3.6. Assists installations with market research and planning.
AFI34-104 8 March 2012                                                                          3


      1.2.3.7. Conducts focus groups and other market research, as needed.
   1.2.4. FSS CC/Director:
      1.2.4.1. Develops, coordinates, and oversees installation-level implementation of
      marketing programs.
      1.2.4.2. Approves marketing goals and objectives for the squadron.
      1.2.4.3. Oversees the implementation of marketing campaigns and programs with FSS
      flights and activities.
      1.2.4.4. Oversees installation-level commercial sponsorship initiatives.
      1.2.4.5. Assists the FSS Marketing Manager with conducting research initiatives at the
      installation.
      1.2.4.6. Advises MAJCOM/A1S on customer needs and market research findings and
      recommendations.
   1.2.5. FSS Marketing Manager:
      1.2.5.1. Executes policy and central programs.
      1.2.5.2. Develops, implements, and analyzes market research to determine customer
      needs to support planning actions of activity managers for MWR elements of the unit.
      1.2.5.3. Advises the FSS commander/director or flight chief on developing marketing
      goals, objectives, and strategies.
      1.2.5.4. Advises activity managers on marketing and promotional strategies by
      identifying target markets and effective ways of reaching those markets.
      1.2.5.5. Determines the effectiveness of current initiatives by using current research tools
      and methodologies.
      1.2.5.6. Determines appropriate media mix for promotion and advertising of activities.
      1.2.5.7. Provides marketing reviews of activities to help improve activities and
      programs.
      1.2.5.8. Coordinates the implementation of marketing campaigns and programs with the
      FSS commander/director, flight chiefs, and activity managers.
      1.2.5.9. Plans and implements marketing, promotional, and publicity campaigns for
      flight, division, and squadron-wide events.
 4                                                                    AFI34-104 8 March 2012


                                           Chapter 2

                                    MARKET RESEARCH

2.1. Market Research. The FSS operating environment requires all managers to have accurate,
reliable, and timely market information to anticipate customer needs and respond to changes in
consumer demand.
     2.1.1. The Air Force uses various market research tools and methodologies as the basis for
     acquiring market information. AFSVA provides market analysis tools and information to
     installations.
     2.1.2. Research Distribution and Training.              The marketing manager briefs
     commanders/directors, flight chiefs, and program managers on marketing research matters
     and trains personnel to use and interpret the market research data. This includes the use of
     survey tools, software, and other related survey items.
     2.1.3. Using Data. Marketing personnel and program managers use market data to provide
     descriptive information about their specific market(s).
     2.1.4. The marketing director aids program managers by supplementing AFSVA provided
     data with local surveys or focus groups that target specific activity issues. These issues
     usually involve operational improvements for programs such as quality, value, program
     accessibility, etc. Supplemental surveys and focus groups in these areas can provide insight
     and solutions to activity problems perceived by the customer.
     2.1.5. Marketing’s Role in Research. Marketing personnel develop, implement, and analyze
     market research to support the planning actions of MWR activity managers, flight chiefs, and
     commander/director.
     2.1.6. The marketing director develops and secures approval (if necessary) for surveys in
     accordance with AFI 36-2601, Air Force Survey Program, to support the research
     requirements of the unit during the annual budget planning process. Using marketing
     standards as a guideline, squadron marketing personnel carry out these research requirements
     in support of programs:
        2.1.6.1. Conduct customer satisfaction surveys.
        2.1.6.2. Assist activity managers in performing an assessment of competitive activities
        within the installation's trade area.
        2.1.6.3. Analyze the effectiveness of marketing and promotional programs and
        recommend improvements.
        2.1.6.4. Evaluate or audit programs against established goals and objectives to determine
        the efficacy and viability of those programs.
AFI34-104 8 March 2012                                                                         5


                                           Chapter 3

                   INSTALLATION-LEVEL MARKETING PLANNING

3.1. Installation-Level Marketing Planning. Determines both short and long-term marketing
goals and identifies the steps to accomplish them. Marketing planning will encourage systematic
thinking and enhance the coordination of program, flight, and squadron efforts to help ensure the
operational success of the activity or program.
3.2. The FSS commander/director, flight chiefs, and the marketing manager coordinate;
marketing planning to develop the overall strategy and marketing objectives for the coming
fiscal year.
3.3. The marketing manager: Works with program managers to prepare the marketing plan
using the recommended AF format. Refer to the AFSVA Marketing Download Central site
https://mil.afsv.net/MKT/05downloads.htm for guidelines and updates.
3.4. Program managers: Work with marketing managers to develop annual promotional
campaigns and incorporate these into a program promotional plan/budget. Annual program
promotional plans set the schedule for promotional events and publicity programs directed at
specific markets. Marketing operations are intended to support Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities (NAFIs) and both nonappropriated funds (NAFs) and Appopriated Fund (APF)
dollars must be budgeted for and recorded accordingly.
 6                                                                      AFI34-104 8 March 2012


                                            Chapter 4

                                        ADVERTISING

4.1. Advertising. The marketing manager determines and implements the appropriate media
mix to support FSS activities including use of the web as allowed by local policy and guidance
and in accordance with AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use.
4.2. Advertising Necessity. Advertising informs customers and potential customers,
encourages trial use, and develops repeat use of programs and activities. AF organizations also
use advertising to foster a positive perception and a feeling of goodwill. All advertising must
reflect favorably on the AF, Department of Defense (DoD), and the federal government.
4.3. Selling Advertising Space. Air Force NAFIs may sell space for commercial advertising in
accordance with guidelines and procedures in AFI 34-108, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship
Program and Sale of NAFI Advertising Procedures.
4.4. Buying Advertising Space. Activities may purchase advertising to promote MWR
elements of FSS programs and activities that are offered on a regular basis in U.S. Armed Forces
newspapers and civilian publications distributed primarily on a military installation. These
restrictions apply:
     4.4.1. Do not advertise in civilian general circulation newspapers, magazines, or on
     commercial radio or television.
     4.4.2. Do not advertise tobacco products or alcoholic beverages.
4.5. Recurring activities: (e.g., golf courses, bowling centers, etc.) that have been authorized
to open to the public at specific installations are authorized to advertise in civilian media using
NAF funds. In order to minimize the appearance of direct competition with local businesses,
advertisements in civilian media notifying the general public that designated MWR programs are
open to the public will not contain information regarding usage fees or other charges. This
information may be provided upon request to anyone who inquires by email or telephone.
Coordinate advertising activities closely with the public affairs office and comply with AFMAN
64-302, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting.
4.6. Activities: May also purchase advertising in appropriate commercial civilian media to
promote MWR activities such as music concerts, athletic programs, volksmarches, competitive
runs, and American historical or traditional military events which have been opened for
participation to the general public as authorized in AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use
Eligibility. These specific guidelines apply:
     4.6.1. The events to be advertised in commercial civilian media must not compete with
     similar events offered in the local civilian community. Such open events must be
     coordinated in advance with the local public affairs office.
     4.6.2. The events must increase interaction between the military and civilian communities,
     enhance community relations, and not be offered on a regular weekly or monthly basis.
     4.6.3. Only APFs or in-kind advertising and/or funds designated for advertising under the
     commercial sponsorship policy may be used to acquire advertising for these events. Do not
     use NAFs to advertise these events.
AFI34-104 8 March 2012                                                                           7


4.7. Direct Mail. Activities may use direct mail (excluding mail-order catalogs) to advertise
FSS programs, activities, goods, and services provided:
   4.7.1. Direct mail pieces are sent only to eligible FSS customers who have voluntarily signed
   up to receive direct mail information.
   4.7.2. NAFs are used to cover direct mail costs (including postage) when advertising the sale
   of merchandise and services.
4.8. Advertising in Other Media.
   4.8.1. Marketing managers and program managers, follow these guidelines when
   advertising:
       4.8.1.1. Purchase or arrange for advertising produced especially for distribution on the
       installation or targeted to eligible FSS customers.
       4.8.1.2. Produce or prepare advertising media directed at local customers and potential
       customers. Examples of advertising media vehicles you use to convey your message
       include such things as flyers, posters and newspaper inserts.
       4.8.1.3. Accept voluntarily initiated media from suppliers and other non-DoD sources.
       4.8.1.4. Do not distribute advertising through formal base channels such as the Base
       Information Transfer System (BITS).
4.9. FSSs: May purchase, prepare, or produce premiums for distribution to eligible FSS
customers and potential customers. FSSs may also accept premiums (except tobacco and
alcohol), which suppliers voluntarily offer, if the value of the items for any one individual or
DoD family is less than $20 retail.
4.10. Activities: May advertise in free newsletter-type publications produced by a commercial
publisher. Publications distributed to eligible FSS customers must meet these conditions:
   4.10.1. The installation public affairs officer approves the distribution and coordinates on the
   information in the publication before it is released to the publisher.
   4.10.2. A commercial publisher prints the publication.
   4.10.3. There is no contractual agreement which gives any exclusive rights to provide the
   publication.
   4.10.4. The publisher delivers the publication to the installation for casual pickup by
   interested customers and potential customers.
   4.10.5. The publication contains a prominently displayed disclaimer stating that the Air
   Force and the federal government do not endorse, sponsor, or fund any advertised
   commercial vendors, goods, or services in the publication.
 8                                                                  AFI34-104 8 March 2012


                                           Chapter 5

                                 ACTIVITY PUBLICATIONS

5.1. Activities: May advertise in club calendars, monthly bulletins, and commercial newspapers
and publications (such as the installation newspaper) that publishers produce specifically for
installations, United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard.
5.2. These restrictions apply:
     5.2.1. Advertisements appearing in commercial media must include the statement ―Open
     only to authorized patrons,‖ unless it is a members only event in which case the
     advertisements must include the statement ―Open only to club members.‖
     5.2.2. Activities may not place promotional advertisements in civilian general circulation
     newspapers and magazines or on commercial radio and television.
5.3. The marketing manager. Periodically evaluates club calendars and monthly bulletins to
assess their effectiveness in reaching and communicating messages to targeted markets.
5.4. Overseas activities. May advertise in the DoD media including newspapers, radio, and
television. Installation commanders may also approve advertising in media prepared by a
civilian firm for the benefit of the military community. All advertisements in these media must
include the statement, ―Open only to authorized patrons,‖ unless it is a member’s only event in
which case the advertisements must include the statement ―Open only to club members.‖ U.S.
Armed Forces installation or
AFI34-104 8 March 2012                                                                         9


                                           Chapter 6

                                        PROMOTION

6.1. Promotional Materials. Promotional materials strengthen advertising, publicity, and other
marketing efforts. Marketing may purchase or produce promotional items for institutional
advertising and to promote programs and activities to eligible customers.
   6.1.1. Coupons. FSS activities may participate in coupon-redemption programs offered to
   the general public or to the military community. The Resource Management Office must
   approve any participation in private-sector, national, or local coupon-redemption programs.
   Control coupon redemption in accordance with AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated
   Fund Assets.
   6.1.2. Sales Promotion. FSS may use merchandising and sales promotion methods to
   stimulate customer interest in FSS activities, programs, goods, or services. Sales promotion
   techniques include point-of-sale displays, markdowns, premiums, or special-offer coupons
   and in-house sales programs and contests.
   6.1.3. Inserts. The marketing manager may arrange with the installation public affairs
   officer to include an insert in the government approved or contracted newspaper promoting
   FSS programs and activities. This insert may contain commercial advertising sold by the
   contracted publisher if this condition is part of the contract. It must prominently display a
   disclaimer stating: "Paid Ad. No Federal Endorsement of Advertiser(s) Intended."
6.2. Publicity. The marketing manager may publicize events and other general interest FSS
activities and programs to eligible and potential customers in any media with the coordination of
the installation public affairs officer. U.S. Armed Forces installation or activity media and
Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS) may carry news stories, announcements,
and listings of FSS activities. Publicity concerning commercially-sponsored events of MWR
elements of the FSS program routinely includes the name of the commercial sponsor with other
story facts and appropriate disclaimers.
 10                                                             AFI34-104 8 March 2012


                                        Chapter 7

                            COMMERCIAL SPONSORSHIP

7.1. Commercial Sponsorship Overview. Commercial sponsorship is a method of offsetting
costs and supporting a high level of service in a reduced budget environment. For specific
guidelines and procedures on acquiring commercial sponsors for MWR events, consult AFI 34-
108.
   7.1.1. The marketing manager ensures that FSS considers commercial sponsorship as an
   additional source of support to enhance MWR events.
   7.1.2. Marketing personnel create interest and support for the commercial sponsorship
   program FSS squadron commanders/directors, flight chiefs, and program managers for MWR
   programs and events.
   7.1.3. The FSS commander/director designates a marketing staff member to solicit and
   manage commercial sponsorship ventures for MWR programs and events.




                                         DARRELL D. JONES
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         DCS, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
AFI34-104 8 March 2012                                                                11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds, 7 January 1994
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets, 27 August 2004
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
AFI 34-108, Commercial Sponsorship Program and Sale of Advertising, 12 October 2011
AFI 36-2601, Air Force Survey Program, 12 May 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting Procedures, 3 November 2000
DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs, 6 July 2009
UFC 3-120-01, Air Force Sign Standard, 6 February 2003
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—–Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF—–Air Force
AFI—–Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—–Air Force Manual
AFPD—–Air Force Policy Directive
AFRTS—Armed Forces Radio and Television Service
AFSVA—–Air Force Services Agency
APF—–Appropriated Fund
BITS—–Base Information Transfer System
DoD—–Department of Defense
FSS—Force Support Squadron
HQ—–Headquarters
MAJCOM—–Major Command
MWR—–Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—–Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—–Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
 12                                                                  AFI34-104 8 March 2012


OPR—–Office of Primary Responsibility
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SVP—–Directorate of Programs
USAF—–United States Air Force

Terms
Advertising— Any paid form of non-personal presentation and promotion of ideas, goods, or
services by an identified organization. AF organizations convey messages to authorized patrons
using media such as magazines and newspapers; outdoor signs and posters; direct mail;
promotional novelties (matchbooks, calendars, key chains); programs and menus; electronic
media such as email, websites, digital signage, etc.; circulars, flyers, and other media.
Organizations use advertising for diverse purposes, ranging from promoting an organization's
name over the long term to presenting information about a particular service, program, or event.
