BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-324
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  6 MARCH 2013

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                             THE AIR FORCE INFORMATION
                                                               COLLECTIONS AND REPORTS
                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PPF                                                            Certified by: SAF/A6PP
                                                                       (Col Charles Baumgardner)
                                                                                         Pages: 14
Supersedes:    AFI33-324, 1 June 2000


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Air Force
Information Management; Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 8910.01,
Information Collection and Reporting, and DoD 8910.1-M, DoD Procedures for Management of
Information Requirements. It establishes procedures and assigns responsibilities for managing
and controlling information collections and reporting requirements according to Public Law 104-
13, the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. This instruction also gives guidelines and procedures
for licensing internal information collections and reports, requesting information from the public,
and reporting projected public information collections to Congress (see Title 5, Code of Federal
Regulations [CFR] Part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, current edition).
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
affects this publication. This instruction applies to all Air Force active duty military, civilians,
and contractors in the performance of their duties to an Air Force contract, the Air Force
Reserve, Air National Guard, and Civil Air Patrol when performing functions for the Air Force.
Send recommended changes or comments to Secretary of the Air Force Information Access
Policy & Compliance Branch (SAF/A6PPF), 1800 AF Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1800;
through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air
Force      Records       Information     Management       System      (AFRIMS)        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. Changes
include new guidance related to internal information collections and updated office symbols
throughout this instruction. This instruction rescinds the use of AF Form 130, Application for a
Report Control Symbol (RCS).
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                         3



                                           Chapter 1

                      PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Purpose. The Information Collections and Reports Management Program:
   1.1.1. Reduces costly, ineffective, and redundant information collections and reporting
   requirements.
   1.1.2. Establishes procedures for information collecting and reporting of internal and public
   requirements.
   1.1.3. Implements portions of Chapter 35 of Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction
   Act of 1995 to:
       1.1.3.1. Minimize the Federal paperwork burden on the public, small businesses, and
       state and local governments.
       1.1.3.2. Minimize the Federal Government's costs for collecting, maintaining, using, and
       disseminating information.
       1.1.3.3. Maximize the usefulness of information collected, maintained, and disseminated
       by the Federal Government.
       1.1.3.4. Coordinate, integrate, and where practical, create uniform Federal information
       policies and practices.
       1.1.3.5. Make sufficient information available to all commanders and management
       personnel to achieve mission effectiveness.
1.2. Scope. This instruction covers procedures that apply to new, existing and revised
information collection requests, whether they are recurring or a one-time report. Refer to it for
guidelines on all types of data and information collecting and reporting.
   1.2.1. Managers must control and minimize the burden associated with the collection and
   reporting of information. Apply the guidelines in this instruction when:
       1.2.1.1. Establishing and maintaining policies, plans, and objectives.
       1.2.1.2. Reviewing program proposals.
       1.2.1.3. Allocating resources.
       1.2.1.4. Reviewing actual performance against program goals.
       1.2.1.5. Satisfying statutory, congressional, and other imposed interagency information
       requirements.
       1.2.1.6. Collecting information from the public (public reporting).
       1.2.1.7. Collecting information from within the DoD.
       1.2.1.8. Collecting information from other Federal agencies.
1.3. Functional Responsibilities. Headquarters Air Force (HAF), major commands
(MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), direct reporting units (DRU), and all activities
 4                                                                    AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


generating an information requirement have responsibilities in the Information Collections and
Reports Management Program.
     1.3.1. The Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6)
     oversees the Information Collections and Reports Management Program through the Air
     Force Information Management Control Officer (IMCO). The IMCO:
        1.3.1.1. Manages the Air Force Information Collections and Reports Management
        Program.
        1.3.1.2. Serves as technical advisor to the Air Force.
        1.3.1.3. Acts as liaison between the Air Force MAJCOMs, other DoD and Federal
        agencies.
        1.3.1.4. Reviews all requests for internal and public information collections.
        1.3.1.5. Submits the following to DoD:
            1.3.1.5.1. Requests for approval of internal and public collections.
            1.3.1.5.2. Public collection Federal Register Notices (FRN).
            1.3.1.5.3. Information Collection Budget (ICB).
        1.3.1.6. Reviews and coordinates on all departmental publications and forms.
     1.3.2. Commanders and Directors will implement this instruction. HAF, MAJCOM, DRU,
     and FOA appoints an Information Collections and Reports Manager and sends an
     appointment letter to airforceicr@pentagon.af.mil to include the name, functional address
     symbol, e-mail address, and telephone number of the newly assigned Information Collections
     and Reports Manager.
     1.3.3. All Information Collections and Reports Managers:
        1.3.3.1. Give personnel guidelines and training.
        1.3.3.2. Conduct periodic program reviews.
        1.3.3.3. Review and coordinate on all of their agency publications and forms (new or
        revised) for compliance with this instruction.
        1.3.3.4. Review all requests for internal and public collections.
        1.3.3.5. Forward internal and public collections to airforceicr@pentagon.af.mil.
        1.3.3.6. Act as technical advisors and liaisons to the Air Force IMCO.
        1.3.3.7. Submit the annual ICB to SAF/A6PPF through their chain-of-command.
     1.3.4. All organizations generating information collections and reporting requirements need
     to submit requests for information that are:
        1.3.4.1. Concise, valid, accurate, and essential to the mission.
        1.3.4.2. Licensed in accordance with this program.
1.4. Noncompliance Provision. All Air Force organizations that are tasked to submit
information will:
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                      5


  1.4.1. Only respond to exempt or licensed information requirements.
  1.4.2. Notify the agency and Information Collections and Reports Manager making a request
  for a reporting requirement without an approved control number that they need either a RCS
  and/or an Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number.
  1.4.3. Not collect the required information until the appropriate agency furnishes a control
  number. Note: If the requesting agency does not license the requirement, they must
  withdraw their request.
 6                                                                     AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


                                             Chapter 2

                      DOD INTERNAL INFORMATION COLLECTION

2.1. DoD Internal Information Collections. This chapter provides the necessary information
for the Air Force to develop, review, revise, obtain approval and cancel their DoD internal
information collections. It also specifies the responsibilities of the Air Force for responding to
internal collections imposed on the DoD by other Federal Agencies.
     2.1.1. A DoD internal information collection is one in which the Air Force needs to collect
     information from one or more DoD Components. Information is collected from current DoD
     employees (military and civilian).
     2.1.2. DoD internal information collections shall be approved by the DoD Internal
     Information Collections Officer (IICO) in the Washington Headquarters Services/Executive
     Services Directorate (WHS/ESD) Information Management Division. If approved, the
     collection will be assigned a report control symbol (RCS) and an expiration date.
2.2. Responding to an Information Collection. The Air Force when responding to
information collections from other DoD Components and/or Federal agencies shall:
     2.2.1. Reply to written requests for cost estimates concerning their existing or proposed
     information collections.
     2.2.2. Respond to approved information collections.
     2.2.3. Refrain from responding to unapproved information collections and inform the Air
     Force IMCO or DoD IICO of the solicitation.
2.3. Reports or Information Collections That Require a Control Symbol. Status, summary,
or statistical information that is compiled and transmitted from one organizational component to
another for management purposes requires licensing with a RCS. According to DoDI 8910.01,
“Information collection requirements that have not been properly approved and symbolized shall
not be honored.”
     2.3.1. Sometimes an office of primary responsibility (OPR) needs to query a reporting
     activity for additional information contained in an already established RCS report. These
     requests do not constitute a new reporting requirement.
     2.3.2. An RCS assigned to a reporting requirement does not apply to the submission of
     additional information not contained in the original report and required by intermediate
     headquarters. The intermediate headquarters is required to license the requirement for
     additional information by issuing an organizational RCS number. An additional RCS is not
     required when the request of information transmitted to intermediate headquarters does not
     exceed the scope of the original report.
     2.3.3. Regardless of how the information is submitted, whether by paper report,
     electronically, or through directed insertion of data into an electronically accessible database,
     an RCS is still required.
2.4. Information Collections and Reports Managers’ Procedures for New and Revised
Report Control Symbols Reports. For each new or revised information requirement,
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                       7


Information Collections and Reports Managers shall refer to DoD 8910.1-M for specific
procedures on DoD internal information collections.
2.5. Licensing Reporting Requirements in Automated Systems.
   2.5.1. An organization developing an automated system must coordinate with the
   Information Collections and Reports Manager to ensure all reporting requirements are
   properly licensed. Coordinate with the Air Force IMCO if it is an Air Force-wide system.
   The OPR for the system should consider what would happen to all reports uploaded from one
   organizational component to another or generated on paper, tape, computer-output microfilm,
   or as output of an electronic database.
   2.5.2. The Information Collections and Reports Manager or the Air Force IMCO will work
   with the OPR to determine what data submissions require a control symbol. NOTE: All
   output products that collect information for a licensed report must display the appropriate
   control symbol.
2.6. Emergency Collections. On an individual case-by-case basis, special one-time high
priority, or time-urgent collections may be approved and symbolized without being subjected to
an in-depth review and analysis, provided a statement of urgency is included with the DD Form
2936, Request for Approval of DoD Internal Information Collection, and signed at an appropriate
level commensurate with the estimated cost of providing the information. An expiration date of
short duration will be assigned until the additional required documentation is completed and
submitted to the DoD IICO.
2.7. Discontinuing and Superseding a Report Control Symbol Reporting
Requirement. Originating organizations that want to discontinue or supersede a RCS reporting
requirement must:
   2.7.1. Send written notification to the reporting activities if they have superseded or
   discontinued a RCS report.
   2.7.2. Update the publication that prescribes the RCS report by issuing a revision or an
   interim change to reflect the current status of the reporting requirement. Include this
   information in the “Summary of Revisions” once the publication is rewritten.
   2.7.3. Submit a copy of the written notification and a draft of the revised publication or
   interim change to the component Information Collections and Reports Manager or the Air
   Force IMCO.
   2.7.4. Coordinate with servicing records manager to effect disposition of any accumulated
   records and coordinate on requirement to change any report specific records disposition.
 8                                                                  AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


                                           Chapter 3

                          PUBLIC INFORMATION COLLECTION

3.1. Publication Information Collections. This chapter provides guidance on The Paperwork
Reduction Act and seeking OMB approval to collect information from the public. The Air Force
shall not collect information from the public without first obtaining OMB approval. A public
information collection is the collection of information from ten or more members of the public
on an annual basis.
3.2. How The Paperwork Reduction Act Bears on Collecting Information from the
Public. Public Law 104-13 and its implementing regulation, Title 5 CFR Part 1320, cover the
policy for collecting information from the public. The Paperwork Reduction Act attempts to
minimize the Federal paperwork burden on the public.
3.3. The Scope of The Paperwork Reduction Act. The Paperwork Reduction Act applies to all
executive departments, military departments, government corporations, government-controlled
corporations, and other establishments in the Executive Branch of the Federal Government. All
of the Federal Government's independent regulatory agencies must adhere to it.
3.4. Agencies Exempt From Licensing Public Information Collections. The Paperwork
Reduction Act exempts the following agencies from licensing public information collections:
     3.4.1. The Federal Election Commission.
     3.4.2. All Congressional and Judicial Agencies.
     3.4.3. The General Accounting Office (GAO).
     3.4.4. Governments of the District of Columbia and territories and possessions of the United
     States.
     3.4.5. Government-owned contractor-operated (GOCO) facilities and production operations.
3.5. The Annual Information Collection Budget.
     3.5.1. MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA Information Collections and Reports Managers shall
     respond to the annual data call for projected ICBs.
     3.5.2. Submit responses to SAF/A6PPF, ATTN: Air Force IMCO, 1800 AF Pentagon,
     Washington DC, 20330-1800 or airforceicr@pentagon.af.mil.
3.6. New and Revised Public Information Collections. The Information Collections and
Reports Managers shall ensure that organizations requesting information from the public submit
new, revised, and extended requests for OMB approval.
3.7. Expired Public Information Collections. The OMB licenses a public information
collection for three years, according to The Paperwork Reduction Act. All public information
collections carry an expiration date. Note: An expired public information collection is an illegal
collection of information and you must discontinue it until given proper approval.
3.8. Office of Management and Budget Approval Application Procedures. Information
Collections and Reports Managers shall refer to DoD 8910.1-M for specific procedures on public
information collections.
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                         9


   3.8.1. The organization that generates the public information collection must request
   approval and licensing from OMB through proper channels.
   3.8.2. OPRs submit required documentation (see paragraphs 3.8.2.1. through 3.8.2.3.) to
   their MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA Information Collection and Reports Managers. Sample
   documentation               can                 be               found               at
   http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/collections/index.htm or DoD 8910.1-M.
       3.8.2.1. OMB Form 83-I, Paperwork Reduction Act Submission.
       3.8.2.2. Supporting Statement.
       3.8.2.3. Supporting Documentation.
          3.8.2.3.1. Federal Register Notices.
          3.8.2.3.2. The title page and pertinent sections of any regulatory and statutory
          authorities that authorize the collection.
          3.8.2.3.3. The instrument of collection in final draft version. If the instrument of
          collection is a form, the agency’s forms management office prepares the final draft
          according to procedures in AFI 33-360. If the instrument of collection is a system,
          screen shots of the questions shall be submitted.
          3.8.2.3.4. Instructions that accompany the instrument of collection.
          3.8.2.3.5. Paperwork Reduction Act Submission Coordination Summary Sheet.
3.9. Processing Time. Allow at least 120 days to process a request for OMB approval.
3.10. Emergency Processing. The DoD/CIO shall approve emergency requests for the
processing of a collection of information under the following circumstances:
   3.10.1. When the collection of information is needed prior to the expiration of time periods
   established in The Paperwork Reduction Act and is essential to the mission of the agency.
   3.10.2. When the agency cannot reasonably comply with normal clearance procedures under
   The Paperwork Reduction Act, because: (1) Public harm is reasonably likely to result if
   normal clearance procedures are followed; (2) An unanticipated event has occurred; or (3)
   The use of normal clearance procedures is reasonably likely to cause a statutory or court-
   ordered deadline to be missed.
   3.10.3. Public harm would be prevented, if for example, strategies to combat a public health
   epidemic depend on information in a survey that needs to be fielded immediately. An
   example of an unanticipated event would be a natural disaster that has led to the need to
   provide benefits quickly to the victims. The use of emergency clearance procedures is
   warranted if a new statute is passed that requires implementation of an information collection
   within clearly shorter time frames called for in The Paperwork Reduction Act and specify the
   time period within which OMB should approve or disapprove of the collection (Title 5 CFR
   Part 1320.13). Control numbers assigned to collections of information approved under the
   "emergency processing" procedures are not valid for more than 180 days from the date the
   agency requested approval.
3.11. Request for Extension. Organizations having primary responsibility for a currently
licensed public information collection may request a 90-day extension in emergency situations.
 10                                                           AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


This request is submitted using OMB Form 83-E, Paperwork Reduction Act Emergency
Extension, when additional time is needed to prepare the request for an OMB review for a
collection that is expiring.
3.12. Canceling an Office of Management and Budget-Approved Information Collection.
   3.12.1. The MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA Information Collections and Reports Managers
   sends a cancellation notification to SAF/A6PPF, ATTN: Air Force IMCO, 1800 AF
   Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1000 or airforceicr@pentagon.af.mil.
   3.12.2. The Air Force IMCO then sends the request for cancellation to the DoD Clearance
   Officer, who informs the OMB desk officer.
3.13. Exemptions to Information Collection Requirements. Specific items not considered to
be information can be found in Title 5 CFR Part 1320 and DoD 8910.1-M.




                                         MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt. General, USAF
                                         Chief, Information Dominance and
                                         Chief Information Officer
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                      11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1320, Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,
current edition
DoDI 8910.01, Information Collection and Reporting, 6 March 2007
DoD 8910.1-M, Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information
Requirements, 30 June1998
AFPD 33-3, Air Force Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management , 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
OMB Form 83-I, Paperwork Reduction Act Submission
OMB Form 83-E, Paperwork Reduction Act Emergency Extension
DD Form 2936, Request for Approval of DoD Internal Information Collections
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A6PPF—Information Access Policy and Compliance Branch
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ESD—Executive Services Directorate
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRN—Federal Register Notice
GAO—Government Accounting Office
GOCO—Government-Owned Contractor-Operated
 12                                                                  AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ICB—Information Collection Budget
IICO—Internal Information Collections Officer
IMCO—Information Management Control Officer
MAJCOM—Major Command
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RCS—Report Control Symbol
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
WHS—Washington Headquarters Services

Terms
Current Federal Employees and Military Personnel—Current employees of the Federal
Government and military personnel, IF, the collection of information is addressed to them in
their capacity as individual private citizens (e.g., they file income tax returns, census forms, or
other survey, or administrative forms in the same manner as persons not currently employed by
the Federal Government or serving in the Armed Forces). EXCEPTION: Current employees of
the Federal Government, military personnel, military reservists, and members of the National
Guard are not considered members of the public when they are asked to provide information that
falls within the scope of their employment and when asked for information about their duty
status.
Federal Agency—A department, independent agency, commission, or establishment of the
Executive Branch.
Information Collection Budget (ICB)—The Federal Government’s projected burden on the
public for new requirements to collect information. It is the estimated response time (direct and
indirect) for the public to collect, record, and submit information to the Federal Government.
Each year the OMB issues a “budget call” for the Federal Government’s ICB.
Internal Information Collection/Reporting Requirement—Data or information collected by
one or more organizational components and transmitted to other organizational components for
management purposes. The collections required for management purposes pertain to policy;
planning, controlling, and evaluating operations and performance; making administrative
determinations; and preparing other reports. It is status, summary, or statistical information in
both electronic and manual information systems.
License—Pertaining to an Air Force approval information collection/report process. Air Force
information collections or reports are licensed once the Air Force Information Manager Control
Officer or OMB approves the information collection. A license is good for 3 years.

Public Burden or Burden Hours—The total time, effort, or financial resources required to
respond to a collection of information, including the time it takes to read or hear instructions; to
develop, modify, construct, or assemble any materials or equipment; to conduct tests,
AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013                                                                         13


inspections, polls, observations, or the like necessary to obtain the information; to organize the
information into the requested format; to review its accuracy and the appropriateness of its
manner of presentation; and to maintain, disclose, or report the information.
Public Information Collections—Those collections that require responses from the public. The
Paperwork Reduction Act defines a collection of information to be: “The obtaining or soliciting
of facts or opinions by an agency through the use of written report forms, application forms,
schedules, questionnaires, reporting or record keeping requirements, or other similar methods
calling for either: (1) Answers to identical questions posed to, or identical reporting or record
keeping requirements imposed on, ten or more persons, other than agencies, instrumentalities, or
employees of the United States; or (2) Answers to questions posed to agencies, instrumentalities,
or employees of the United States which are to be used for general statistical purposes.” This
includes information collections that are mandatory, voluntary, or required to obtain a
benefit.

Public or Person—(as defined in 5 CFR 1320) Members of the public, or the term “person,”
include individuals, partnerships, associations, corporations (including government-owned
contractor-operated [GOCO] facilities), business trusts, legal representatives, organized group of
individuals, state, territory, or local government. As to particular categories of “person,” OMB
has determined: (1) Retired Federal Employees and Military Personnel on Inactive Status: The
definition of “person” includes retired and other former Federal civilian employees. It includes
retired and inactive military personnel, reservists and members of the National Guard unless you
require information about their duty status. (The FY 1986 Defense Authorization Act, Section
804, states that the Secretary of Defense may conduct surveys of members of the Armed Forces
serving on active duty, families of such members, and retired members of the Armed Forces to
determine the effectiveness of existing Federal programs relating to military families and the
need for new programs. In this context, consider them to be employees of the United States and
not members of the public.) (2) Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC): ROTC cadets are
considered employees of the United States for purposes of 44 United States Code (U.S.C.) 3502,
Public Printing and Documents, “Coordination of Federal Information Policy,” when providing
information to instructors during classroom and other training activities. ROTC cadets under
contract may be asked to provide further information, as employees of the United States,
provided that the information they give remains entirely within the scope of their employment.
(NOTE: For surveys of Air Force personnel see AFI 38-501, Air Force Survey Program. Unless
exempt, they may require licensing.)
Public Protection Clause—Regardless of any other provision of law, no person can be
penalized for failure to comply with any collection of information that does not display a
currently valid OMB control number; or, in the case of information required by law or to obtain a
benefit that is submitted to nine or fewer persons, fail to state that it is not subject to OMB
review under The Act. If an agency has imposed a collection of information as a means to satisfy
or prove a condition for receiving a benefit, or to prevent a penalty, and the information
collection does not display a currently valid OMB control number, the agency won’t treat a
person’s failure to comply as grounds for withholding the benefit or imposing the penalty. The
agency shall instead permit respondents to prove or satisfy the legal conditions in any other
reasonable manner (5 CFR 1320.4).
 14                                                               AFI33-324 6 MARCH 2013


Report Control Symbol (RCS)—A standard agency designation (control number) for a report
consisting of letters or numbers indicating that the report has been reviewed and approved
according to DoD and Air Force directed procedures.
Similar Methods—(as specified in the definition of “Public Information Collections” in this
glossary) “Similar methods” includes contracts, agreements, policy statements, plans, rules or
regulations, planning requirements, circulars, directives, instructions, bulletins, requests for
proposals or other procurement requirements, telegraphic or telephonic requests, and standard
questionnaires used to monitor compliance with agency requirements.
