BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-703
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           18 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                   CIVILIAN CONDUCT AND
                                                                          RESPONSIBILITY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PC                                               Certified by: AF/A1P (Mr. John Park)
                                                                                      Pages: 16
Supersedes:   AFI 36-703, 1 August 1999


This publication implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It
provides guidance and procedures on civilian employee standards of conduct and individual
responsibility throughout the Air Force (AF). It applies to Title 5 civilian employees, Title 10,
Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) employees, and Defense Intelligence
Senior Executive Service (DISES) and Senior Leader (DISL) employees. It applies to Air Force
Reserve and Air National Guard; however, it does not apply to Title 32 Air National Guard
Technicians. Where appropriate this Instruction references the civilian standards of conduct
specified in DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER). In the event of a conflict between
this Instruction and the JER, the guidance of the JER is controlling.

This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) listed above for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR listed
above using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Requests for waivers must be
submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS)
 2                                                           AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: updates reference from Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) to Civilian Personnel Section
(CPS) throughout; transfers Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) from AFPC/DPIE to
AF/A1PC; revises sections to paragraphs renumbered throughout; adds AFPC in Para. 2.2. and
judge advocate responsibilities in Para. 2.5.; adds guidance on nepotism in Para. 4.4.3.3.; adds
violence in the workplace guidance in chapter 5; adds guidance on supervisor and managers
conduct and responsibility in chapter 6; adds guidance on misuse of government-owned
computers in para.7.6. and vehicles in para7.7.; adds guidance for reporting fraud waste and
abuse in Para. 7.9.; removes all reference to AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief,
throughout.
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       3



                                            Chapter 1

                                          OVERVIEW

1.1. Maintaining a productive work environment in which management and employees comply
with standards of conduct and responsibilities is essential to the effective functioning of the Air
Force and accomplishment of its national security mission.
1.2. Air Force Policy Directive 36-7 establishes policy for Labor-Management Relations,
civilian conduct, discipline and adverse actions, and agency grievance procedures. This
Instruction provides guidance to implement that policy and directs that civilian management
officials, supervisors, and employees will perform official duties lawfully and comply with
ethical standards of conduct. An employee's violation of any provision in this Instruction may be
cause for disciplinary action, which may be in addition to any penalty prescribed by law.
1.3. The Air Force will ensure civilian conduct and responsibilities are communicated and
prescribed without unlawful discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex (including
pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability, genetic information, or prior EEO
activity.
 4                                                             AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                         AUTHORITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
(SAF/MR). Serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight
for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs,
and budgets addressing civilian conduct and responsibility.
2.2. Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services
(AF/A1). Develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural
guidance for the management of the Administrative Grievance System.
2.3. Force Management Directorate, Civilian Force Policy Division (AF/A1PC). Develops
policy for civilian standards of conduct for areas not covered in the JER, and provides policy
guidance on provisions of this Instruction. Monitors programs and assesses implementation to
ensure compliance with this Instruction.
2.4. Air Force Personnel Center Integration Division (AFPC/DPI). The Air Force Personnel
Center, Directorate of Civilian Force Integration, provides current operational oversight,
instructions, and training to Major Commands and Civilian Personnel Sections (CPSs) regarding
provisions of this Instruction.
2.5. Major Commands (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and Forward
Operating Agencies, and Combatant Commands. Provide guidance and support to employees
and subordinate Civilian Personnel Sections. Monitor and track programs for compliance with
this instruction. Inform AF/A1PC of status of investigations, grievances, or cases filed with third
parties.
2.6. Civilian Personnel (CPS). Civilian Personnel Sections advise and train managers and
employees on provisions of this Instruction. Provide employees procedural guidance on
administrative actions consistent with this Instruction. Provide supervisors and managers with
employee management relations advisory services. Ensure local training for all civilian personnel
specialists, attorneys, and management officials, also covers civilian conduct and responsibilities.
Provide a copy of this Instruction, or provide a current web link, to new employees.
2.7. Judge Advocate (JA). Advise and train management officials and employees on
compliance with provisions of the JER.
2.8. Installation Commanders, Managers and Supervisors. Establish workplace policies and
procedures consistent with the JER and this Instruction. Ensure employees are kept informed of
standards of conduct and responsibilities. Provide direction for adhering to standards. Set an
example for appropriate workplace conduct consistent with this Instruction. Take timely and
appropriate action in accordance with this instruction and related guidelines to ensure employee
standards meet the spirit and intent of Air Force policy on proper conduct.
2.9. Employees. Perform official duties lawfully and comply with prescribed standards of
conduct in all official matters.
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                           5


                                             Chapter 3

                                  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

3.1. Furnishing Testimony. Employees may be requested to provide testimony or information
to the Air Force, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Merit Systems Protection Board, Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, Office of Personnel Management, and other government
agencies on official matters. If an employee believes he or she may be subject to disciplinary or
adverse action, he or she may request a representative.
   3.1.1. Refusal to reply to questions during an investigation may be the basis for disciplinary
   action. The employee must be warned that a failure to provide answers may subject them to
   discipline, including the possibility of removal in appropriate cases, and that any statements
   cannot be used against them in a criminal prosecution. Employees who lie, or otherwise
   affirmatively mislead an investigation, may be subject to discipline, including removal, when
   appropriate.
   3.1.2. Under no circumstances should an employee be questioned by management officials
   concerning a suspected criminal offense without the prior approval of the servicing legal
   office. Employees may be questioned by proper law enforcement officials, such as Office of
   Special Investigation agents or Federal Bureau of Investigation agents. The servicing legal
   office is responsible for ensuring that any information or allegation relating to a possible
   violation of Federal criminal laws is reported to the office of the United States Attorney for
   the district in which the crime allegedly occurred before the employee is questioned. The
   United States Attorney’s Office must approve, in advance, all requests to compel the
   testimony of employees suspected of criminal offenses during administrative hearings or
   investigations. An employee is entitled to request and have a union representative present if
   the employee believes disciplinary action may occur.
   3.1.3. Local Judge Advocates (JA) and CPS should be contacted prior to questioning
   employees to ensure compliance with local contractual requirements, if any, regarding
   statutory rights to union representation. Air National Guard supervisors should contact their
   state JA and the Chief Counsel, National Guard Bureau, Litigation and Employment Law
   Division for guidance.
3.2. Participating in Public or Civic Activities. Employees may participate in political
demonstrations, petitions, speeches, private organizations, and similar activities in their private
capacity when not in a duty status as the exercise of their constitutional rights of speech,
peaceable assembly, and petition to Congress. However, if an employee’s participation in such
activities interferes with the mission of the armed forces or interferes with the duty performance
of the employee, other employees or military members, the employee may be subjected to
disciplinary action. Employees may also be subject to disciplinary action, including removal, if
convicted of inciting or taking part in a riot, civil disorder, or any group activity that results in
damage to property or injury to people. Refer to AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions,
for guidance on actions that may be taken when off duty misconduct interferes with employees’
ability to fulfill their job responsibilities or when their actions create an adverse effect on the Air
Force.
 6                                                                AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


3.3. Indebtedness. Consistent with the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the
Executive Branch found in Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 2635, employees shall
satisfy, in good faith, their just financial obligations, especially those such as Federal, State, or
local taxes that are imposed by law. A just financial obligation includes any financial obligation
acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgment by a court. In good faith means an honest
intention to fulfill any just financial obligation in a timely manner. In the event of a dispute
between an employee and an alleged creditor, the Air Force does not determine the validity or
amount of the disputed debt or collect debts on the alleged creditor’s behalf. However, where
the validity of a private debt is established by court order or admitted, a failure to satisfy an
obligation can result in disciplinary action (See AFI 36-704).
     3.3.1. The CPS should establish procedures for responding to indebtedness complaints from
     creditors. A creditor is a person or company to whom a debt is owed. These procedures
     should not apply to debt collectors, persons or companies who regularly collect or attempt to
     collect debts owed to another. Requests from creditors should include information about
     previous direct attempts to collect the debt from the employee, and proof that the employee
     has been informed of his/her responsibility. The creditor is entitled to a courteous response
     that clearly states “the Air Force does not collect or determine the validity of debts”. It must
     neither admit or imply an admission of an employee’s liability, nor report any action taken
     against an employee as a result of the complaint.
     3.3.2. When an Air Force employee with a debt has been reassigned to another Air Force
     activity and a creditor seeks locator assistance, the losing CPS must either furnish the current
     duty address to the requestor, or send the correspondence to the gaining CPS. In cases where
     a government agency seeks an address for law enforcement purposes (i.e., a child support
     enforcement agency, attempting to enforce a child support order), the CPS may provide the
     last known mailing address of a current or former employee. However, in no instance will the
     CPS or the Air Force act as an intermediary in private matters that concern current or former
     employees.
3.4. Employee Work. All employees are expected to:
     3.4.1. Discharge assigned duties conscientiously and effectively.
     3.4.2. Be present for duty unless authorized to be absent.
     3.4.3. Follow Air Force Instructions and comply in a timely manner with proper instructions
     or orders.
     3.4.4. Confer with line management (starting with immediate supervisor) to discuss
     matters/concerns, obtain information, or solve problems that relate to the job.
        3.4.4.1. This does not limit the right of employees to contact the Equal Opportunity (EO)
        Office without first going through supervisors regarding matters of equal employment
        opportunity, consistent with AFPD 36-27, Equal Opportunity (EO). This also does not
        limit the right of employees to contact the Inspector General (IG) to report fraud, waste,
        and abuse, or to the CPS or union representative to file grievances or complaints, without
        first going through supervisors.
     3.4.5. Comply with safety and health standards set for the job environment.
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       7


   3.4.6. Shall not knowingly make unauthorized commitments or promises of any kind
   purporting to bind the Government.
   3.4.7. Treat other employees and stakeholders with respect and consideration. Maintain high
   standards of honesty, responsibility, and accountability as well as adhere to the Air Force
   Core Values of “Integrity First, Service Before Self, and Excellence in All We Do.”
3.5. Canvassing, Soliciting, and Peddling. Canvassing, soliciting, or peddling among
employees during working hours or in federal facilities is not allowed except for officially
approved events, e.g. Combined Federal Campaign. However, this does not preclude office
collections for fellow workers or passive activities such as “For Sale” notices on unit bulletin
boards. This restriction does not apply to conducting labor organization membership drives
during lunch periods or after duty hours. For other restrictions that involve commercial
solicitation and sales to subordinates, refer to the legal office.
3.6. Gambling. Gambling is prohibited on federally owned or leased property or while in a
duty status regardless of location. Gambling includes participation in “office pools” and the joint
purchase of lottery tickets by employees. Refer to the JER for specific exemptions regarding law
enforcement activities, private legal wagers conducted entirely within assigned government
quarters, and case-by-case exemptions approved by the Secretary of the Air Force. (JER, Para 2-
302a(2))
3.7. Outside Employment. All Air Force (AF) civilian employees must report outside business
activity or compensated outside employment to their supervisors. This is in addition to the
requirement that certain AF personnel (financial disclosure filers) must receive prior supervisory
approval to engage in business activity or compensated outside employment with prohibited
sources IAW 5 CFR 3601.107. AF financial disclosure filers must request approval of outside
activities using AF Form 3902, Application and Approval for Off-Duty Employment. Approval
shall be granted unless a determination is made that the business activity or compensated outside
employment is expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or regulation or that the outside
employment or business activity might detract from readiness or pose a security risk. Approval
to participate in outside employment or business activity will be documented by supervisors on
the Supervisor’s Employee Brief. Consistent with the requirements of the JER, Para 2-206,
employees required to file financial disclosure report, OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial
Disclosure Report or Office of Government Ethics (OGE) Form 278, Public Financial Disclosure
Report, and those serving as procurement officials are subject to additional restrictions regarding
outside employment and business activities. Employees should address specific questions to
their local ethics counselor at their servicing legal office.
3.8. Misuse of Government Property. Employees may not use government equipment,
personnel, or other resources for personal benefit or benefit of friends or relatives unless
specifically authorized. This includes resources such as computers, copiers, facsimile machines,
office supplies, telephones, email, or vehicles. Government property is for official use and
limited authorized personal use only. Limited personal use must be of reasonable duration and
frequency that have been approved by the supervisor and do not adversely affect performance of
official duties, overburden systems or reflect adversely on the Air Force or the DoD IAW 5 CFR
2635.702. Misuse of Air Force resources is misconduct, which may result in corrective
disciplinary action IAW AFI 36-704.
 8                                                               AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


                                             Chapter 4

                       DRESS, APPEARANCE, AND RELATIONSHIPS

4.1. Professional Public Image. Employees are expected to comply with reasonable dress and
grooming standards based on comfort, productivity, health, safety, and type of position occupied.
Due to the diversity of work functions and locations, appropriate dress standards may vary
significantly.
4.2. Civilian Dress. Employee attire will be in good repair, and should not be considered
offensive, disruptive, or unsafe. Commanders or civilian equivalents may establish and publish
civilian dress standards. Such standards should be consistent with the provisions of paragraph
4.1, above. Management disagreement with styles, modes of dress, and grooming currently in
fashion is not an adequate criterion for making such a determination.
4.3. Civilian Uniform Wear. Military grooming and appearance standards do not apply to
civilian employees. However, employees who wear standard uniforms, such as those prescribed
in AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, or medical or food service personnel furnished
uniforms under Table of Allowances 016, may be expected to comply with grooming and
appearance standards for employees in similar occupations employed by other Federal, state, or
municipal governments. Air Reserve Technicians will adhere to the requirements as those
prescribed in AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, when
wearing the military uniform in civilian status.
4.4. Relationships. While personal relationships between Air Force employees or between Air
Force employees and military members are normally matters of individual choice and judgment,
they become matters of official concern when they violate existing law or impede the efficiency
of the service.
     4.4.1. Professional relationships are those that contribute to the effective operation of the Air
     Force, thus promoting the efficiency of the service. The Air Force encourages personnel to
     communicate freely with their superiors regarding their careers, performance, duties, and
     missions. Such communications enhance morale, further the Air Force mission, and preserve
     the proper respect between employees, supervisors and managers. Participation by
     employees of all grades in organizational activities and unit-sponsored events enhances
     morale and unit cohesion.
     4.4.2. Unprofessional relationships are those, whether pursued on or off-duty, which detract
     from the authority of supervisors and managers or result in, or reasonably create the
     appearance of, favoritism, misuse of office or position, or the abandonment of organizational
     goals, and adversely affect the efficiency of the service. Unprofessional relationships can
     exist between civilian employees, military officers, enlisted members and contractors.
     4.4.3. Guidelines for Avoiding Unprofessional Relationships. Romantic and other familiar
     relationships present a high risk for being or developing into unprofessional relationships.
     While some personal relationships are not in and of themselves unprofessional, they may be
     or become unprofessional when other facts or circumstances are taken into consideration.
        4.4.3.1. Relationships within the Organization. Overly familiar relationships between
        individuals where one person exercises supervisory authority over the other can easily be
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     9


     or become unprofessional. The danger of abuse of authority and perception of favoritism
     is always present. The ability of a supervisor or manager to influence, directly or
     indirectly, assignments, promotions, training opportunities, awards, and other
     employment opportunities places both the supervisor or manager and the subordinate in a
     vulnerable position.
     4.4.3.2. Dating and Close Friendships. Dating and courtship between a supervisor or
     manager and an employee under their supervision invariably raises the perception of
     favoritism. Such relationships can adversely affect morale and impede the efficiency of
     the service.
     4.4.3.3. Nepotism. Air Force employees may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or
     advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to an Air Force
     civilian position or a position over which he or she exercises jurisdiction or control any
     individual who is a relative of the employee. An individual may not be appointed,
     employed, promoted, or advanced in or to an Air Force civilian position if such
     appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by an
     employee, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the Air Force activity, who
     is a relative of the individual. “Relative” means an individual who is related to the
     employee as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin,
     nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
     brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother,
     stepsister, half-brother, or half-sister IAW 5 CFR 3110. Additionally, relatives may not
     directly supervise each other.
     4.4.3.4. Other Relationships. Other relationships, not specifically addressed above and
     depending on the circumstances, can lead to actual or perceived favoritism or preferential
     treatment and must be avoided. (See JER, Para 5-409) Examples of such activities, but is
     not all inclusive, are soliciting or making solicited sales to personnel who are junior in
     grade or position and joint business ventures between supervisors and employees under
     their supervision.
  4.4.4. Individual Responsibility to Maintain Professional Relationships. All Air Force
  employees share the responsibility for maintaining professional relationships. However,
  supervisors and managers in personal relationships bear primary responsibility for
  maintaining the professionalism of that relationship. Supervisors and managers are in
  leadership positions which require the maturity and judgment to avoid relationships which
  impede the efficiency of the service or adversely affect mission performance.
  4.4.5. Actions in Response to Unprofessional Relationships. When unprofessional
  relationships impede the efficiency of the service or adversely affect the mission, appropriate
  corrective action should be taken IAW AFI 36-704.
  4.4.6. Employees should avoid direct-reporting relationships with spouse and relatives as to
  avoid the appearance of favoritism or a conflict of interest.
 10                                                           AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


                                              Chapter 5

                             VIOLENCE IN THE WORKPLACE

5.1. Violence in the Workplace. The Air Force is committed to working with employees to
maintain a work environment free from violence, threats of violence, harassment, intimidation,
and other disruptive behavior. All employees are responsible for promoting a safe work
environment.
   5.1.1. Workplace violence can be any act of physical violence or threat of physical violence,
   including harassment, intimidation, or other threatening, disruptive behavior.
   5.1.2. Workplace violence can affect or involve employees, visitors, contractors, and other
   non-Federal employees.
   5.1.3. Workplace violence can be inflicted by an abusive employee, manager, supervisor, co-
   worker, customer, family member, or even total stranger.
   5.1.4. Whatever the cause or whoever the perpetrator, workplace violence is not to be
   accepted or tolerated.
5.2. Commanders. Develop local workplace violence awareness and response plans, and
ensure employees are aware of plans. Members of the planning group should include
representatives from management, employee relations, employee assistance program managers,
legal counsel, law enforcement, and security, safety, health unit, medical department, equal
employment opportunity, public affairs, and other appropriate offices and organizations.
5.3. Supervisors. Supervisors play a key role in recognizing potentially violent situations and
attempting to mitigate them. Supervisors are expected to manage work centers in a manner that
promotes good order supported by workplace violence awareness and response plans.
   5.3.1. When a supervisor becomes aware of a situation or behavior indicating potential
   violence they must assess the situation and, in consultation with Security Forces, the Civilian
   Personnel Section, the legal office, and base medical staff, as appropriate, take steps to
   reduce the risk of violence. Supervisors must:
       5.3.1.1. Inform employees of workplace violence policies, plans and procedures.
       5.3.1.2. Ensure employees know specific procedures for dealing with workplace threats
       and emergencies, and how to contact police, fire, and other safety and security officials.
       5.3.1.3. Respond to potential threats and refer situations to entities such as law
       enforcement, medical services, protective services, and human resources staff as
       necessary.
       5.3.1.4. Take all threats seriously.
       5.3.1.5. Inform Commander of potential or actual workplace violence.
5.4. Employees. Employees contribute to maintaining a safe work place through observation
and by reporting potential concerns to their supervisor or other available authority in their work
location. Employees need to:
   5.4.1. Be familiar with guidance regarding workplace violence.
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     11


   5.4.2. Be responsible for securing their own workplace.
   5.4.3. Be responsible for questioning and/or reporting strangers/unauthorized personnel to
   supervisory authority.
   5.4.4. Be aware of any threats, physical or verbal, and report such to supervisory authority.
   5.4.5. Be familiar with local procedures for dealing with workplace threats and emergencies.
   5.4.6. Not confront individuals who are a threat.
   5.4.7. Take all threats seriously.
5.5. Awareness of surroundings is key to taking responsive action. A workplace response
plan should address key situations that can give rise to violence or potential violence. Violence,
threats, harassment, intimidation, and other disruptive behavior will not be tolerated in the
workplace; all reports of incidents will be taken seriously and will be dealt with appropriately.
Those who engage in such behavior may be:
   5.5.1. Immediately removed from the premises.
   5.5.2. Denied re-entry pending completion of an appropriate investigation.
   5.5.3. Subject to removal from federal service, criminal prosecution, or both.
 12                                                          AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


                                          Chapter 6

      SUPERVISOR AND MANAGEMENT OFFICIALS OF CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES

6.1. Supervisor and Manager Official Conduct. The Air Force depends on a large civilian
workforce to successfully accomplish its missions. Supervisors and management officials are
expected to judiciously and timely accomplish duties in managing civilian employees.
Supervisors failing to comply with Air Force standards of conduct and responsibilities adversely
reflect upon the integrity of the management process, and may be reassigned to non-supervisory
positions under 5 CFR 752 for the efficiency of the service. Follow procedures established in
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions.
6.2. Supervisor and Management Official Responsibility. Supervisors shall:
   6.2.1. Comply with civilian personnel laws, regulations, and negotiated labor agreements.
   6.2.2. Treat employees with respect and consideration and motivate employees to improve.
   6.2.3. Create a work environment free from harassment.
   6.2.4. Comply with attendance, leave, and overtime approval procedures.
   6.2.5. Complete civilian personnel management actions without unnecessary delay.
   6.2.6. Constructively counsel and correct employee performance and conduct.
   6.2.7. Attend required supervisory training and implement same.
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       13


                                            Chapter 7

                                   RELATED DIRECTIVES

7.1. Privacy. AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy Act Program. Employees who have access to
systems of records, or who are involved in developing, operating, or maintaining personnel
record systems must be informed of and comply with all requirements to protect individual
privacy.
7.2. Discipline. AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, prescribes guidance and
procedures to use in considering corrective conduct or disciplinary action for violations of this
Instruction or other prescribed standards of conduct.
7.3. Drug and Alcohol Abuse. AFI 44-107, Air Force Civilian Drug Demand Reduction
Program, and AFI 44-121, Alcohol & Drug Abuse & Treatment Program now contain the format
for the program that addresses civilian substance abuse prevention and control. The program’s
purpose is to foster and maintain standards of conduct and performance. Civilian employees of
the Air Force must refrain from using illegal drugs whether on or off duty. Use of illegal drugs
is inconsistent with the high standards of performance necessary to accomplish the Air Force
mission.
7.4. Ethical Conduct. The JER characterizes standards of ethical conduct and ethics guidance
including direction in the areas of financial and employment disclosure systems, post-
employment rules, gifts and gratuities and outside activities. Civilian employees should become
familiar with the provisions of the Regulation to be sure their official activities and personal
relationships with outside organizations and outside employment comply with its standards.
Employees with questions concerning the Regulation should seek guidance from an appropriate
ethics counselor.
7.5. Use of Government-Issued Credit Card. AFI 64-117 Air Force Government-Wide Travel
Card (GTC) Program governs the use of credit cards issued for use in conjunction with official
travel. This AFI directs each cardholder to pay all valid charges when billed. It also states the
card is to be used only for cash advances prior to or during travel and/or for expenses incident to
and incurred during official travel with the Government. Use of the card for personal purchases
will subject the holder to disciplinary action as these types of purchase are not authorized and are
a violation of the credit card contract.
7.6. Use of Government-Owned Computers. AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and
Guidance for Information Systems prescribes controls and requirements for use of government
provided hardware and software. Government computers are for official use and limited
authorized personal use only. Limited personal use must be of reasonable duration and frequency
that have been approved by the supervisor and do not adversely affect performance of official
duties, overburden systems or reflect adversely on the Air Force or the DOD. Unauthorized use
and other violations of Air Force information systems policies may result in immediate
suspension of access to unclassified and classified systems and disciplinary action.
7.7. Use of Government Vehicles. AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, prescribes controls and
requirements for use of government vehicles. All civilian employees need to take appropriate
measures to prevent misuse, abuse, or willful acts/omissions that could cause damage to
 14                                                           AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


government vehicles. Directing personnel to violate official use restrictions is an unlawful order
and should be reported to command or other appropriate agencies.
7.8. Discrimination and Sexual Harassment. AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity, Program
Military and Civilian, states the Air Force will conduct its affairs free from unlawful
discrimination and harassment. There will be zero tolerance for discrimination or sexual
harassment.
7.9. Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA). AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints, provides
instructions for reporting FWA. Any individual aware of FWA or lack of controls that could
permit resources to be wasted or diverted should report the situation through appropriate
channels. Keep in mind there are some practices and procedures where money is expended
because of regulatory guidelines or specifications. Employees may choose to remain anonymous;
however, they will not be contacted regarding the complaint resolution outcome.
7.10. Other Provisions on Employee Conduct. All restrictions on employee conduct cannot
be specified in an AFI. Therefore, supervisors, managers, and employees who have specific
questions regarding standards of conduct which are not covered in this AFI or the publications
referenced above, should consult the commander, civilian personnel section, or the staff judge
advocate for assistance.




                                             SAMUEL D. COX, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014                                                             15


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 USC, Chapter 73, Suitability, Security, and Conduct
5 CFR, Part 735, Employee Responsibilities and Conduct
5 CFR, Part 2635, Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch
DoD Directive 5400.11, Department of Defense Privacy Program, May 8, 2007
DoD 5500.07-R, The Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), August 30, 1993
HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), December
15, 2008
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, December 15, 2008
AFPD 36-27, Equal Opportunity (EO), May 22, 2009
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, January 29, 2004
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, July 22, 1994
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, April 29, 1994
AFI 36-2706, Equal Opportunity, Program Military and Civilian, October 5, 2010
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, August 2, 2006
AFI 44-107, Air Force Civilian Drug Demand Reduction Program, April 7, 2010
AFI 44-121, Alcohol & Drug Abuse & Treatment Program, September 26, 2001
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program, January 31, 2006
AFMAN 37-104, Managing Information To Support The Air Force Mission, June 1, 1995
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, August 23, 2011
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
 16                                   AFI36-703 18 FEBRUARY 2014


CPS—Civilian Personnel Section
DoD—Department of Defense
EO—Equal Opportunity
FBI—Federal Bureau of Investigation
GPC—Government-wide Purchase Card
IG—Inspector General
JA—Judge Advocate
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
OGE—Office of Government Ethics
OSI—Office of Special Investigation
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
