BY ORDER OF THE
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-4001
                                                                     2 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                       AIR FORCE LANGUAGE, REGIONAL
                                                       EXPERTISE & CULTURE PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1DV-LREC                                     Certified by: AF/A1 (Mr. Robert E. Corsi )
                                                                                      Pages: 34


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-40, Air
Force Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture Program, and provides guidance for
administering the Air Force Language, Regional Expertise, and Culture (LREC) Program. In
collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National
Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1)
develops policy for Air Force Language, Regional Expertise and Culture Program. This
publication may be supplemented at any level; all MAJCOM level supplements must be
approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and
approval. This AFI, therefore, applies to the Total Force and establishes the roles and
responsibilities for overseeing Air Force LREC programs. Requests for waivers must be
submitted to the Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services,
Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D) for consideration and approval. (see paragraphs
2.4.3.13. and 2.4.4.7.)

The authority to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication is identified with a Tier
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, table on waiver authorities, for a description of the
authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of
command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternatively, to the Publication
OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Air Force
Language, Regional Expertise and Culture Office (AF/A1DV-LREC), 1500 West Perimeter
Road, Suite 4730 Andrews AFB, MD 20762, or email to organizational address:
 2                                                           AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


usaf.pentagon.af-a1.mbx.af-a1dv-lrc-workflow@mail.mil using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication requires field activities to issue
implementing instructions; all field supplements or instructions that implement this instruction
must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination
prior to certification and approval.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                                                                      3



Chapter 1—LANGUAGE, REGIONAL EXPERTISE AND CULTURE (LREC)
            PROGRAM                                                                                                                               4
     1.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................          4
     1.2.    Overview. ...............................................................................................................            4

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                              5
     2.1.    Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) Retains ultimate responsibility for all
             guidance related to the Department of the Air Force. ............................................                                    5
     2.2.    Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR                                                          5
     2.3.    Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs (SAF/IA) (T-0)
             .................................................................................................................................    5
     2.4.    Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) (T-0) ..........                                                     6
     2.5.    Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)
             (AF/A2) (T-0) ........................................................................................................              13
     2.6.    Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) (T-0) .                                                      14
     2.7.    Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support,
             Office of The Civil Engineer, Installation Management and Operations Branch
             Asset Management Division (AF/A7CAI) (T-0): ..................................................                                      15
     2.8.    The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (L2)
             (AF/A9) (T-0) ........................................................................................................              15
     2.9.    Air Education and Training Command (AETC) (T-0) ..........................................                                          16
     2.10.   Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) ......................................................................                            21
     2.11.   The Air Force (Surgeon General) (AF/SG) (T-0) ..................................................                                    22
     2.12.   Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) (T-0) .....................................                                       22
     2.13.   United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) (T-0) ...............................................                                       23
     2.14.   MAJCOM/FOA/Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) (except AFSOC and AFRC) (T-0)
             .................................................................................................................................   23
     2.15.   Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) (T-0) .....................................                                            24
     2.16.   USAF Expeditionary Center (USAF EC) (T-0) .....................................................                                     25
     2.17.   Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) (T-0) .........................................................                                    25
     2.18.   National Guard Bureau (NGB) (T-0) .....................................................................                             26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                   28
 4                                                           AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014



                                           Chapter 1

     LANGUAGE, REGIONAL EXPERTISE AND CULTURE (LREC) PROGRAM

1.1. Purpose. This AFI details the roles and responsibilities of the Air Force LREC Program
established by AFPD 36-40. AFPD 36-40 establishes roles and responsibilities for AF/A1D as
the Secretary of the Air Force’s designated Senior Language Authority (SLA) and as the LREC
Cross Functional Authority (CFA). In AFPD 36-40, the Secretary of the Air Force delegated
Executive Agent (EA) responsibilities for the Defense Language Institute English Language
Center (DLIELC), which implements the Defense English Language Program (DELP) to
AF/A1D. In AFPD 36-40 the Secretary of the Air Force also designates Air Education and
Training Command (AETC) as the Lead Command (LC) for the execution of the DELP and Air
Force LREC Training Programs. This instruction details the roles and responsibilities of A1D in
both of these roles and the roles of the Air Force LREC program office. This AFI details the
roles of the major stakeholder organizations and guides the Air Force implementation of the
Chief of Staff, United States Air Force (CSAF) Culture, Region, and Language Flight Plan,
dated May 2009. (T-0)
1.2. Overview. The mission of the Air Force LREC program is to deliberately develop, sustain
and utilize Airmen and US and international military partners with critical LREC skills and
competencies to meet the operational and Building Partnership needs of the Total Force and joint
community in today's dynamic, global environment. The program ensures Airmen are able to
understand and interact with potential allies, partners, neutrals and adversaries. These skills of
understanding and expertise provide the best military advice to commanders at all levels. This
includes maximizing the synergies possible with coalition partners across the full spectrum of
military operations from peacetime shaping of the operational environment to Humanitarian
Assistance/Disaster Response operations and coalition warfare operations.             These are
characterized by building partnerships and partner capacities via Security Force Assistance,
Security Cooperation, Security Assistance, Internal Defense and Development/Security Sector
Assistance and "by-with-and-through" Irregular Warfare Requirements Foreign Internal Defense,
Unconventional Warfare, Stability Operations, Counter-Insurgency, and Counter Terror, to
combined exercises and planning events. In all activities where Airmen-to-airmen relationships
are the key to enhancing USAF global vigilance, global reach, and global power, it is recognized
that Airmen are the fundamental "weapons system", and that the Air Force’s greatest strength is
its Total Force. The Air Force LREC Program is creating language, regional expertise and
cultural competence to enable relationships which will allow the USAF to prevail in its mission
of prompt and sustained offensive and defensive air operations.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   5


                                          Chapter 2

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) Retains ultimate responsibility for all guidance
related to the Department of the Air Force. The SECAF provides oversight for the DELP and
the Foreign Language LREC programs through AF/A1 in accordance with (IAW) AFPD 36-40.
EA for DLIELC and AF Senior Language Authority for the Language, Regional Expertise and
Culture Program have been delegated to AF/A1D, in accordance with Headquarters Air Force
(HAF) Missions Directive (MD) 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower,
Personnel and Services and AFI 16-105, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training.
As the Air Force SLA, AF/A1D represents Air Force foreign language in AF, DoD and other
government venues. AF/A1DV-LREC functions as the LREC Program Office for the Air Force.
(T-0)
2.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR ) (T-
0)
   2.2.1. Serves as the agent of the SECAF, providing guidance for all matters pertaining to the
   formulation, review, and execution of plans, guidance, programs, and budgets addressing Air
   Force LREC program.
   2.2.2. Provides accurate Air Force LREC program reports to the Office of the Secretary of
   Defense (OSD) IAW HAF MD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower, and
   Reserve Affairs.
   2.2.3. Ensures proper management and resourcing of the DELP to meet security cooperation
   English Language Training (ELT) resident and non-resident requirements and the Air Force
   LREC Program to meet steady-state mission requirements.
   2.2.4. Nominates candidates, in coordination with the DLIELC EA, to the Office of the
   Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (OUSD (P&R)) (normally holding
   the rank of colonel, pay grade 0-6) to serve as the Commandant of DLIELC. The
   commandant of DLIELC will be a member of the US Air Force and tour of duty will
   normally be a minimum of three years. The commandant will report through command lines
   to the EA. Leadership and resource management ability are primary considerations IAW
   AFJI 14-107, Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program. These traits are
   more valuable than experience in language training and education or experience as Attaché
   or member of a security assistance group.
2.3. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs (SAF/IA) (T-0)
   2.3.1. Oversees force development and sustainment requirements for LREC professionals in
   the International Affairs Specialist, Regional Affairs Strategist (RAS)/Political-Military
   Affairs Strategist career field, in coordination with AF/A1DV-LREC, Air Force Personnel
   Center (AFPC), and the LC.
   2.3.2. Provides Air Force Service Program Manager support to the DELP and security
   cooperation guidance to AF/A1DV-LREC, AETC/IA, and other Air Force LREC
   stakeholders on the DELP, DLIELC, and all international affairs issues.
 6                                                           AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.3.3. Appoints a representative to attend the Air Force LREC Governance Panel and serve
     as a member of the Air Force LREC Executive Steering Committee (ESC) as the SAF/IA
     champion.
     2.3.4. Provides LREC program review to the ESC annually. The program review should
     include, but is not limited to, force development and management, sustainment, and
     utilization.
     2.3.5. Compiles promotion data for the previous Fiscal Years (FY) for 16FX/16PX
     secondary Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC) and reports the results annually to AF/A1DV-
     LREC for forwarding to OUSD(P&R) IAW Department of Defense (DoD) Directive
     5124.02, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
     2.3.6. Defines LREC requirements within SAF/IA programs and ensures owning
     organizations properly document requirements on the Unit Manning Document (UMD).
     2.3.7. Establishes guidance and procedures to build security cooperation LREC professionals
     based on requirements. The goal is to possess an Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR)
     proficiency level 3/3/3 in language and level 4 (Advanced Professional Competence) in
     Intercultural Communication, as well as a DoD Regional Proficiency skill level of Level 3:
     Professional IAW CJCSI 3210.06, for officers in the 16FX/16PX secondary AFSCs.
        2.3.7.1. Identifies/selects a SAF/IA LREC Program Manager (PM) in writing to
        AF/A1DV-LREC and notifies AF/A1DV-LREC of changes to the position within five
        working days. The PM will ensure career patterns as well as training and education plans
        support and sustain the DoD ILR language proficiency goals.
        2.3.7.2. Coordinates with LC on professional-level development and sustainment of
        security cooperation for LREC-enabled Airmen.
        2.3.7.3. Ensures SAF/IA force development, sustainment, and utilization programs for
        security cooperation professionals are synchronized with the Air Force General Purpose
        Force (GPF) LREC Program to enable maximum efficiency in force development and
        utilization of LREC Total Force Airmen and resources.
        2.3.7.4. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC and the LC on development of LREC
        education, training, experience, and sustainment programs.
        2.3.7.5. Implements LREC performance metrics to measure and continuously improve
        Air Force assignment fill rates to fulfill RAS, Security Cooperation Officers (SCO),
        Military Personnel Exchange Program , Attaché, and other Foreign Personnel Exchange
        Program positions.
        2.3.7.6. Defines LREC force development and sustainment requirements for RAS
        officers and ensures these requirements are articulated to AF/A1DV-LREC, LC,
        development teams and career field managers to facilitate deliberate and integrated force
        development processes.
2.4. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) (T-0)
     2.4.1. Designates the EA for DLIELC and the DELP.
     2.4.2. Designates one general officer or SES civilian as the Air Force SLA.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  7


     2.4.2.1. Ensures that the Air Force SLA has direct access to senior leadership and
     understands the totality of Air Force LREC program.
     2.4.2.2. Maintains capability to track LREC skills, education and experience of Air Force
     military and civilian personnel to facilitate functional and operational force management.
  2.4.3. Air Force Senior Language Authority (Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower,
  Personnel and Services, Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D)) (T-0)
     2.4.3.1. The Air Force SLA serves as the Air Force representative on the Defense
     Language Steering Committee (DLSC) IAW DoDD 5160.41E, Defense Language
     Program.
     2.4.3.2. Serves as the Chair of the Air Force LREC ESC
     2.4.3.3. Establishes and represents the official Air Force LREC position both internally
     to the Air Force and externally across the DoD and to other government and commercial
     agencies.
     2.4.3.4. Appoints a deputy SLA to attend or chair meetings in the absence of the AF
     SLA.
     2.4.3.5. Establishes Air Force LREC governance panel as the primary policy advisory
     group to the Air Force SLA and ESC in developing, executing and assessing AF LREC
     policies and programs to meet operational requirements. The panel focuses on synergy,
     effectiveness and efficiencies of the LREC programs and provides a forum for training
     providers to share resources, information and best practices.
     2.4.3.6. Establishes Air Force LREC governance panel leads as appropriate for panel
     meetings.
        2.4.3.6.1. Conducts periodic panel meetings to resolve or up-channel LREC issues to
        the ESC.
        2.4.3.6.2. Partners with the LC and key stakeholders to synchronize Total Force
        LREC guidance and programs with DoD initiatives and directives, Air Force
        doctrine, strategy, guidance, and planning guidance.
     2.4.3.7. Ensures the Air Force Expeditionary Force (AEF) tasking structure is optimized
     to highlight and deploy LREC-enabled and professional, Total Force, Airmen and
     civilians.
     2.4.3.8. Informs appropriate stakeholders of pertinent Air Force LREC issues as
     necessary to support steady-state mission requirements. Coordinates with the LC and
     appropriate HAF and Major Command (MAJCOM) staff to inform or address.
     2.4.3.9. Oversees the development, sustainment and execution of the LREC Strategic
     Communication Plan in collaboration with the LC and key stakeholders which includes,
     but is not limited to, Total Force education and training opportunities.
     2.4.3.10. Provides oversight to ensure integration of LREC proficiency requirements into
     appropriate existing Combatant Command and Coalition operational, contingency and
     stabilization plans and programs, requests for forces, and lessons learned.
8                                                          AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


          2.4.3.10.1. Serves as focal point for DoD and Air Force Data Calls, providing
          analysis of foreign language metrics (e.g. number of language-proficient Airmen,
          number of foreign language requirements, proficient fill, and utilization rates for
          Airmen and foreign language requirements) annually and as tasked to evaluate
          capability investments to ensure compliance with established goals.
          2.4.3.10.2. Provides Air Force specific military and civilian intelligence foreign
          language and regional expertise requirements by proficiency levels to the Office of
          the Under Secretary of Defense Intelligence (OUSD(I)) for consolidation and other
          appropriate authorities upon request in coordination with the Deputy Chief of Staff
          for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2).
       2.4.3.11. Reports to SECAF or CSAF on the gaps in LREC capabilities as outlined in the
       Global Cultural, Regional and Linguistic Competency Framework.
       2.4.3.12. Supports the SAF/IA mission of building international partnerships by carrying
       out AF/A1 responsibilities IAW AFPD 16-1, International Affairs and AFI 16-109,
       International Affairs Specialist (IAS) Program.
       2.4.3.13. Forwards all foreign language waiver requests to AF/A1DV-LREC Office for
       recommendations prior to adjudication (see AFI 36-4002, Air Force Foreign Language
       Proficiency Bonus Program).
       2.4.3.14. Ensures compliance with directives for CFA responsibilities and attends
       Developmental Teams (DTs) meetings to coordinate Airmen development across the
       functional communities.
       2.4.3.15. Represents the Air Force on all foreign language training, education, and
       sustainment guidance issues with Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center
       (DLIFLC) and carries out responsibilities IAW DoD Instruction 5160.70, Management of
       DOD Language and Regional Proficiency Capabilities.
       2.4.3.16. Provides oversight and assistance, as required, for LC participation in the
       Training Resource Arbitration Panel (TRAP) and Structure Manning Decision Review
       (SMDR), and coordinating issues with LC, AF/A2, and other stakeholders, as required.
       2.4.3.17. Assists LC in developing and approves LREC training and education plans for
       language professionals and GPF Airmen.
    2.4.4. Air Force Executive Agent for DLIELC (Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower,
    Personnel and Services, Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D)) (T-0)
       2.4.4.1. Serves as the EA for DLIELC, which implements the DELP.
       2.4.4.2. Serves as the AF EA representative on the DLSC.
       2.4.4.3. Plans, programs, resources, and budgets for DLIELC activities related to test
       development, research and development, calibration, quality control, and scoring of the
       English Comprehension Level (ECL), Oral Proficiency Interview- English (OPI-E),
       English Language Proficiency Test (ELPT), and other future DoD-approved tests.
       2.4.4.4. Provides oversight for research and development activities performed by or for
       the DoD in support of foreign and English language training requirements.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 9


     2.4.4.5. Monitors related research and development activities, and establishes and
     maintains coordination channels with other Federal Agencies regarding research and
     development activities.
     2.4.4.6. Maintains a direct technical link between the DLIFLC and the DLIELC in
     matters pertaining to teaching methodology, performance standards for language training
     equipment and media, tests and evaluation systems, nonresident language programs and
     research and development to preclude duplication of efforts and assure full cooperation
     and coordination on information, concepts and techniques relevant to both programs IAW
     AFJI 14-107, Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program.
     2.4.4.7. Serves as the waiver authority for this document.
         2.4.4.7.1. Screens ELT waiver requests and forwards Air Force requests to SAF/IA
         for coordination.
         2.4.4.7.2. Forwards approved DELP English Language Training waiver requests to
         the appropriate military service representative.
  2.4.5. Air Force LREC Office (AF/A1DV-LREC) (T-0) for the Air Force SLA and Air
  Force EA. Collaborates with Air Force stakeholders on doctrine, and tactics, techniques, and
  procedures to define and incorporate LREC into strategic planning policy development,
  strategic communications plan development, strategic plan development, and doctrine
  development.
     2.4.5.1. Serves as Point of Contact (POC) to develop, coordinate, and provide overall
     guidance and oversight for the Air Force LREC Program.
     2.4.5.2. Partners with LC and key stakeholders to synchronize Total Force LREC related
     guidance and programs with DoD initiatives and directives, Air Force doctrine, strategy,
     guidance, and planning guidance, as required by the Air Force SLA.
     2.4.5.3. Advises Air Force SLA on LREC training mission focus areas and program
     development to properly shape the knowledge and skills of Total Force Airmen to meet
     strategic steady-state operational requirements.
     2.4.5.4. Establishes and represents, as directed by the AF SLA, the official Air Force
     LREC position both internally to the Air Force and externally across the DoD and to
     other government and commercial agencies.
     2.4.5.5. Establishes procedures to conduct a Foreign Language Self-Assessment (FLSA)
     and document capability in the Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS) upon accession
     IAW DoDI 5160.71, para 9.f. and DoDD 5160.41E, para 5.10.3.
     2.4.5.6. Ensure coordination is conducted with AF/ A3O-Q, as the HAF advocate, for all
     LREC issues related to the AAA
     2.4.5.7. Coordinates with the LC to effectively execute its objectives by ensuring LREC
     programs have sufficient resources through the Air Force Corporate Structure and POM.
     2.4.5.8. Provides visibility to the Combatant Commands on foreign language GPF steady
     state requirements met through awarded contracts in accordance with Federal Acquisition
     Regulation (FAR) 42.2.
10                                                        AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.4.5.9. Coordinates with MAJCOMs, Numbered Air Forces, ANG, AFR, and other
     agencies, as appropriate, to synchronize steady state LREC GPF foreign language
     proficiency requirements for force planning and manning documents.
     2.4.5.10. Coordinates with Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) and LC to
     ensure the Air Force LREC Program deliberately develops the right skills and
     proficiencies required to support Special Operations Forces (SOF) requirements IAW
     DoDI 3305.06, Special Operations Forces (SOF) Foreign Language Policy.
     2.4.5.11. Collaborates with Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons
     Learned (AF/A9) and LREC stakeholders to develop and sustain a Lessons Learned (L2)
     program consolidating and validating lessons into LREC improvements.
     2.4.5.12. Prioritizes LREC training mission focus areas in collaboration with AF LREC
     stakeholders and coordinates with LC in developing the program to properly shape the
     knowledge and skills of Total Force Airmen to meet strategic and operational
     requirements.
     2.4.5.13. Develops and implements guidance that enhances and sustains Air Force LREC
     program capabilities across the Total Force to include LREC education and training.
     2.4.5.14. Coordinates with the LC and DLIFLC to ensure, to the greatest extent
     practicable, all military units deploying to foreign territories have an appropriate
     capability to communicate in the languages of the territories of deployment. Provide
     appropriate cultural awareness training (or at least a rudimentary understanding IAW
     DoDD 5160.41E), basic language familiarization and language aid, in coordination with
     DLIFLC, except in cases of emergency, IAW AFPD 36-40.
     2.4.5.15. Presents an annual Air Force GPF LREC program review to the Air Force
     LREC SLA that includes, but is not limited to, expeditionary pre-deployment LREC
     training and performance metrics; LREC training plans; force development, sustainment,
     enhancement, management, utilization status; and challenges in meeting mission
     requirements.
     2.4.5.16. Collaborates with key stakeholders to establish readiness standards for LREC
     capabilities to meet pre-deployment requirements for Airmen deploying to foreign
     territories.
     2.4.5.17. Establishes policy and provides directives for GPF Air Advisor LREC
     education and training.
     2.4.5.18. Determines a method to code competency levels as Familiarized, Enabled and
     Professional for Regional and Cultural (RC) capabilities as defined in DoDI 5160.70,
     Enclosure 2. Develops LREC force education, training, sustainment, and management
     guidelines with objectives and measurable outcomes to develop sufficient 3C Airmen in
     each tier (familiarized, enabled and professional).
     2.4.5.19. Collaborates with CFMs and LREC program managers, (e.g. Personnel
     Exchange, International Health Specialist, Air Advisor) to optimize efficiencies and best
     practices.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                11


     2.4.5.20. Supports the AF LREC CFA, providing guidance and advising Developmental
     Teams (DTs), Career Field Managers (CFMs) and Assignment Teams IAW AFI 36-2640,
     Executing Total Force Development.
     2.4.5.21. Assists LC in developing LREC training and education plans that meet or
     exceed the goals and guidance of the Defense Language Program.
     2.4.5.22. Ensures Total Force GPF Airmen with validated foreign language skills, who
     also meet LREC force structure inventory requirements, are placed within sustainment
     and enhancement programs.
     2.4.5.23. Ensures proficiency in LREC capabilities is among the factors considered
     and/or emphasized for military and civilian personnel force development, as appropriate.
     2.4.5.24. Provides oversight to the Language Enabled Airman Program (LEAP) in
     coordination with LC.
     2.4.5.25. Coordinates and collaborates with AF/A2 on recruitment, force development,
     sustainment and management to meet DoD Intelligence Community (IC) and Air Force
     requirements for language-inherent AFSCs 1A8X1 and 1N3X1.
     2.4.5.26. Collaborates with the LC to assist in developing recruiting guidance and
     incentives that identify, attract, develop, and sustain personnel with LREC capabilities.
     2.4.5.27. Produces annual officer and enlisted language classification targets and cadet
     language programs targets for inclusion in the annual Air Force Technical Training
     Program Guidance Letters/Program Requirements Documents (PGL/PRD) IAW Air
     Force Officer and Enlisted Classification Directories, Sec 1-A, DoDI 1215.08, Senior
     Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) Programs, and AFI 36-2011, Air Force
     Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Program.
        2.4.5.27.1. Works with the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and National
        Guard Bureau (NGB) to ensure similar tracking is accomplished throughout the Total
        Force.
        2.4.5.27.2. Screens and documents Total Force LREC expertise upon accession and
        periodically thereafter.
     2.4.5.28. Incentivizes foreign language skills consistent with DoD guidance and Air
     Force requirements through guidance and procedures to build, support, and sustain a
     cadre of language professionals with a goal of possessing ILR proficiency level 3/3/3.
     2.4.5.29. Compiles the annual Air Force Strategic Language List (SLL) with foreign
     languages in which the Air Force has current or projected requirements. Provides a copy
     to the DoD SLA in accordance with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS)
     procedures.
     2.4.5.30. Implements and guides the execution of the Foreign Language Proficiency
     Bonus (FLPB) Program for military personnel.
        2.4.5.30.1. Ensures FLPB payment for eligible service members when they qualify
        by completing annual certification.
        2.4.5.30.2. Publishes and clarifies FLPB guidance.
12                                                        AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.4.5.30.3. Adjudicates requests for Exceptions to Policy (ETP) to FLPB guidance.
     2.4.5.31. Collaborates with AF/A1PC to develop guidance which will be governed and
     implemented by AF/A1DV-LREC for Air Force Foreign Language Proficiency Pay
     (FLPP). This pay is for eligible civilian personnel who support LREC force structure
     requirements IAW Title 10, United States Code (for Civilian Employees), Section 1596,
     Foreign Language Proficiency: Special Pay for Proficiency Beneficial for Intelligence
     Interests, and Section 1596a, Foreign Language Proficiency: Special Pay for
     Proficiency Beneficial for Other National Security Interests; DoDD 1400.25, DoD
     Civilian Personnel Management System.
     2.4.5.32. Supervises development of regional proficiency metrics. Collects established
     regional proficiency metrics for use as tasked to evaluate capability investments and
     ensure compliance with established goals.
     2.4.5.33. Manages annual Language Professional and Command Language Program of
     the Year awards program.
     2.4.5.34. Provides annual, informal estimates of the number of Defense Language
     Proficiency Test (DLPT) System Tests which will be required by the Air Force in the
     next FY. Provides this information before the end of the current FY. These estimates
     will be forwarded to DLIFLC for their test administration planning efforts (scheduling
     testers and scorers for the next FY).
     2.4.5.35. Executes day-to-day EA responsibilities for DLIELC, ensuring the success of
     the programs in meeting National Defense and Air Force building. partnership capacity
     goals and carrying out functions IAW DoDD 5160.41E and AFJI 16-103.
        2.4.5.35.1. Supports the DLIELC EA in reporting DELP funding status, as directed
        by the Chair of the DLSC 2.4.5.1.
        2.4.5.35.2. Advocates for Joint Service interests relating to DLIELC in support of the
        EA, in collaboration with LC and Air Force LREC stakeholders.
        2.4.5.35.3. Programs in coordination with LC, to meet DLIELC needs of DoD
        components and advocates annual budget and full range of staff resources in the Air
        Force Corporate Structure and OSD Program Objective Memorandum (POM).
        2.4.5.35.4. Develops, maintains, and reports DLIELC data when required by law,
        OSD, or Congressional requirements.
        2.4.5.35.5. Provides oversight, in coordination with the LC, for DLIELC execution
        and program guidance, including the resolution of ELT issues.
  2.4.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services, Directorate of
  Manpower (AF/A1M) (T-0)
     2.4.6.1. Provides guidance, assistance, and direction to units for coding manpower billets
     for LREC strategic and operational requirements.
     2.4.6.2. Assists and provides AF/A1DV-LREC and Deputy Chief of Staff for
     Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, Directorate of ISR Strategy, Integration
     and Doctrine (AF/A2D) data to satisfy reporting requirements.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     13


      2.4.6.3. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC on LREC Air Force Corporate Funding and
      Presidential Budget process issues.
   2.4.7. Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower Personnel, and Services, Directorate
   of Force Development, Learning Division (AF/A1DL) (T-0)
      2.4.7.1. Synchronizes      LREC-related   Developmental                Education       (DE)
      opportunities/guidance with AF/A1DV-LREC and LC.
      2.4.7.2. Collaborates and coordinates voluntary LREC-related educational guidance
      changes with AF/A1DV-LREC and LC.
      2.4.7.3. Includes AF/A1DV-LREC and LC on the Air Force Learning Committee
      (AFLC).
   2.4.8. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services, Directorate of Force
   Management (AF/A1P) (T-0)
      2.4.8.1. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC to develop guidance which will be governed
      and implemented by AF/A1DV-LREC for Air Force Foreign Language Proficiency Pay
      (FLPP). This pay is for eligible civilian personnel who support LREC force structure
      requirements IAW Title 10, United States Code (for Civilian Employees), Section 1596,
      Foreign Language Proficiency: Special Pay for Proficiency Beneficial for Intelligence
      Interests, and Section 1596a, Foreign Language Proficiency: Special Pay for
      Proficiency Beneficial for Other National Security Interests; DoDD 1400.25, DoD
      Civilian Personnel Management System.
      2.4.8.2. Compiles previous FY retention and accession data of language professionals
      (language inherent AFSCs, specifically for AFSCs 1A8X1, (Airborne Cryptologic
      Language Analyst (CLA)), 1N3X1 (Ground CLA), and 16F (RAS)), and reports the
      results annually to AF/A1DV-LREC for forwarding to OUSD(P&R) IAW DoDD
      5124.02, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.
      2.4.8.3. Develops policy to access, classify, and provide initial skills training to language
      professionals (language inherent AFSCs), specifically for 1A8X1 and 1N3X1 who have
      language training requirements IAW Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory.
      2.4.8.4. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC to establish targets and provide incentives,
      as necessary, to recruit civilians with LREC capabilities to meet mission requirements.
      2.4.8.5. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC to develop and implement assignment and
      promotion guidance, as well as guidance to ensure LREC capabilities are utilized and
      rewarded to meet mission requirements.
      2.4.8.6. Coordinates on all guidance and program changes impacting the Air Force
      LREC Program to include force development, sustainment, and utilization.
2.5. Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) (AF/A2)
(T-0)
   2.5.1. Serves as the Air Force focal point for the end-to-end functional management of all
   Air Force ISR LREC capabilities.
 14                                                       AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


   2.5.2. Develops and implements Air Force LREC policies and guidance in support of Air
   Force ISR activities, including plans to build, support, and sustain a cadre of ISR foreign
   language professionals and language-enabled personnel who meet or exceed DoD IC, and
   Air Force standards.
   2.5.3. Oversees professional development, training, education, readiness, utilization, and
   deployment of ISR LREC resources to ensure appropriate alignment with DoD, IC, and Air
   Force policies, priorities, and programs.
   2.5.4. Provides ISR LREC planning, programming, and budgeting oversight.
   2.5.5. Directs MAJCOMs and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs) in the functional
   management of ISR foreign language resources. Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA) is
   designated as the Service Cryptologic Component and oversees the training and development
   of administratively and operationally assigned language professionals.
   2.5.6. Coordinates, as necessary, with external offices regarding ISR LREC force
   management/ development activities, initiatives, operational requirements, and personnel
   actions.
   2.5.7. Nominates a general officer or equivalent to serve as Deputy AF SLA. Incumbent
   also serves as the Senior Technical Advisor for Air Force ISR LREC activities.
      2.5.7.1. Establishes and represents, as directed by the AF SLA, the official Air Force
      LREC position both internally to the Air Force and externally across the DoD and to
      other government and commercial agencies.
      2.5.7.2. Partners with LC and key stakeholders to synchronize Total Force ISR-related
      LREC guidance and programs with DoD initiatives and directives, Air Force doctrine,
      strategy, guidance, and planning guidance, as required by the Air Force SLA.
      2.5.7.3. Advises Air Force SLA on ISR-related LREC training mission focus areas and
      program development to properly shape the knowledge and skills of Total Force Airmen
      to meet strategic steady-state operational requirements.
2.6. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) (T-0)
   2.6.1. Facilitates the integration of Air Force LREC requirements into existing operational
   plans.
      2.6.1.1. Coordinates with MAJCOMs to include LREC in strategic planning to enable
      projection of future requirements for LREC-enabled positions.
          2.6.1.1.1. Coordinates inclusion of LREC in Combatant Command and MAJCOM
          Operational and Contingency Plans, Security Cooperation Plans and goals.
          2.6.1.1.2. Assists Combatant Commands and MAJCOMs to identify LREC
          contingency requirements for Air and Space Operations Centers (AOC) and Air Force
          Forces (AFFOR) across the functional areas and mission sets.
          2.6.1.1.3. Identifies disconnects between LREC requirements and operational
          development of Aircrew Force.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  15


           2.6.1.1.4. Develops and implements Air Advisor LREC competency level
           requirements and requisite education and training plans to develop Total Force
           Airmen to meet Air Advisor LREC mission requirements.
           2.6.1.1.5. Ensures Air Advisor LREC requirements are identified and coded on
           owning UMDs and in reporting instructions.
           2.6.1.1.6. Presents an Air Advisor LREC force development review to the Air Force
           LREC ESC. This report should be presented annually and include requirements,
           education and training plans status and issues, LREC force development
           synchronization and other issues impacting the Air Force LREC Program.
       2.6.1.2. Ensures aircrews have appropriate LREC training and/or skills to support rated
       staff and Combatant Command requirements.
   2.6.2. Ensures operational guidance and planning guidance reflect LREC requirements for
   operational, contingency ,and stabilization planning.
   2.6.3. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC, AFSOC, and LC to identify LREC operational
   and training requirements and ensure that training programs meet mission requirements.
   2.6.4. Advocates for Air Force LREC validated operational requirements in the Air Force
   Corporate Structure.
   2.6.5. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC to solve identified Air Force LREC issues that
   affect Air Force operations (e.g. capability gaps, student no-show, etc.).
   2.6.6. Ensures an Air Advisor SME participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and
   ESC.
2.7. Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support, Office
of The Civil Engineer, Installation Management and Operations Branch Asset
Management Division (AF/A7CAI) (T-0): Establishes guidance and procedures to ensure
infrastructure and facilities are available to support test administration IAW DoDI 5160.71, DoD
Language Testing Program, paragraph 9.a.
2.8. The Director of Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (L2) (AF/A9)
(T-0)
   2.8.1. Assists AF/A1DV-LREC and LC in development and sustainment of an L2 program,
   which includes a bi-annual report requirement. The report will be coordinated with Air
   Force LREC stakeholders and will consolidate validated lessons identified in force
   capabilities.
   2.8.2. The Lessons Learned Program (AF/A9L) portfolio manager will coordinate
   on/review the summary briefing for the Air Force LREC ESC on their bi-annual L2 Reports.
   2.8.3. AF/A9 portfolio managers provide assistance/training to AF/A1DV-LREC, to enable
   development of the LREC L2 Program, satisfy L2 reporting requirements, and conduct the
   L2 resolution process.
 16                                                         AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


2.9. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) (T-0)
   2.9.1. Serves as the LC IAW AFPD 36-40 for the DELP and Air Force GPF LREC training
   programs. Retains responsibility for the integrated execution of these training programs to
   meet requirements. AETC may sub-designate tasks.
   2.9.2. Nominates AETC OPRs for LREC responsibilities in the GPF and the DELP, in
   writing, to AF/A1DV-LREC and notifies AF/A1DV-LREC of any changes within five
   working days.
   2.9.3. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC to ensure valid ELT requirements are published in
   the Air Force ELT Requirements PGL
   2.9.4. Works with Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) and AF/A1DV-LREC to
   coordinate all ELT waivers.
   2.9.5. Builds partner capacities and strengthens defense relationships by managing,
   executing, and improving the DELP.
   2.9.6. Ensures DLIELC is properly resourced and staffed and that facilities are sufficient to
   meet the English language education and training needs of the DoD Components.
   2.9.7. Provides DLIELC annual budget and staff resource requirements and English
   Language Training PGL to AF/A1DV-LREC for EA review and presentation at the DLSC,
   as applicable.
   2.9.8. Participates in and champions DLIELC issues as a member of the ELPWG.
   2.9.9. Nominates the Commandant of DLIELC to AF/A1DV-LREC for staffing approval.
   2.9.10. Assists DoD Components, through DLIELC, to determine recommended English
   Comprehension Level (ECL) proficiency scores for entry into military occupational training.
   2.9.11. Maintains responsibility for ELT development, research and development
   calibration, and quality control through DLIELC and coordinated with AF/A1DV-LREC.
   2.9.12. Plans, programs, resources, and budgets for DLIELC activities related to test
   development research and development, calibrations, quality control, and scoring of the ECL,
   Oral Proficiency Interview-English (OPI-E), English Language Proficiency Test (ELPT) and
   other DoD-approved tests.
      2.9.12.1. Administers the OPI-E as required by DoD Components.
      2.9.12.2. Prints, distributes, and provides English Language Proficiency (ELP) paper-
      and-pencil test materials to all DoD test control centers, as required.
      2.9.12.3. Develops a comprehensive security plan to include all aspects of test
      development, design, and administration within the DLIELC.
      2.9.12.4. Implements quality assurance procedures to ensure the accuracy and security of
      the test development and distribution process for Defense English language testing.
      2.9.12.5. Reports all compromises or possible compromises of test materials to the
      Defense Language and National Security Education Office (DLNSEO) as soon as
      possible after notification by DoD components and reports of the results of all
      investigations upon completion.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                17


  2.9.13. Coordinates with SAF/IA, AF/A1DV-LREC and AF/A3O-Q on DELP security
  cooperation issues and initiatives.
  2.9.14. Serves as the Subject Matter Expert (SME) for all education, training, learning, and
  execution aspects of the DELP and Air Force GPF LREC Program.
  2.9.15. Educates, trains, and equips a cadre of Total Force Airmen with LREC capabilities to
  meet current operational and strategic requirements.
  2.9.16. Leverages LREC partner relationships to gather requirements, create flexibility for
  increased capacity, increase value in cultural immersion, and contribute to the Total Force.
  2.9.17. Provides any budget and staff resource requirements for the full range of DLIFLC
  needs to AF/A1DV-LREC for submission to OSD in the overall budget and financial plans.
  2.10.19. Programs to meet the foreign language education and training needs of the DoD
  Components and partners.
  2.9.18. Enhances Total Force capability by contributing LREC expertise to develop
  curriculum, to increase information exchange with partners, and contribute to operational
  requirements.
     2.9.18.1. Consolidates and submits the Air Force foreign language training requirements
     to AF/A1DV-LREC for DLIFLC, prioritizing resources and schedules to meet mission
     requirements.
     2.9.18.2. Interfaces with and submits out-year Air Force foreign language
     training/education requirements each FY in response to the AF/A1DV-LREC data call.
     2.9.18.3. Participates in TRAP/SMDR meetings with AF/A1DV-LREC and DLIFLC.
     2.9.18.4. Coordinates execution year Air Force foreign language training/education
     requirements with AF/A1DV-LREC for DLIFLC.
     2.9.18.5. Ensures management practices minimize DLIFLC training seat losses and
     reports missed training seats to AF/A1DV-LREC, as required.
  2.9.19. Collaborates with Air Force LREC stakeholders and AFPC on effective GPF LREC
  force utilization to meet mission requirements.
  2.9.20. Collaborates with Air Force LREC stakeholders in defining and implementing LREC
  training and education strategic planning..
  2.9.21. Ensures advocacy for LREC POM prioritization among all stakeholders.
  2.9.22. Implements performance metrics to expand the Air Force GPF LREC force inventory
  to meet assignment and utilization needs. Presents these metrics annually to the Air Force
  LREC ESC.
  2.9.23. Identifies and resolves systemic Air Force GPF LREC training execution issues in
  coordination with Air Staff functionals/offices, stakeholders, Combatant Commands, and
  MAJCOMs as appropriate.
  2.9.24. Ensures Total Force GPF Airmen with validated foreign language skills, who also
  meet LREC force structure inventory requirements, are placed within sustainment and
  enhancement programs.
18                                                          AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


  2.9.25. Exploits study abroad and immersion opportunities, in a fiscally-responsible manner,
  to increase LREC education and training consistent with Air Force Security Assistance
  Strategy.
  2.9.26. Assists and provides AF/A1DV-LREC data to satisfy LREC reporting requirements.
  2.9.27. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC to validate enlisted and officer classification
  language targets and cadet language programs targets for inclusion in the annual Air Force
  Technical Training PGL/PRD.
  2.9.28. Coordinates with AFSOC to build and maintain LREC training programs to support
  SOF Total Force Airmen and civilians and LREC education and training IAW DoDI
  3305.06.
  2.9.29. Develops LREC guidance and programs for Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)
  cadets. Ensures ROTC programs include, at a minimum, scholarships, study abroad and
  foreign immersion programs. These programs will be synchronized with Air Force LREC
  force requirements.
  2.9.30. Administers the Foreign Language Skills Proficiency Bonus (FL SPB) for ROTC
  cadets. Provides FL SPB guidance and guidance input to AF/A1DV-LREC to ensure
  program targets the right foreign language skills to effectively and efficiently meet Air Force
  LREC force structure and development requirements.
  2.9.31. Identifies, facilitates, and assists all training organizations in developing curriculum
  and materials for LREC capability learning. Ensures LREC learning venues are integrated
  and categorized by LREC competency level and included in LREC learning plans.
     2.9.31.1. Works with AF/A1DV-LREC to ensure all Airmen become RC familiarized
     through foundational education and training in culture.
     2.9.31.2. Implements LREC learning plans and incorporates best practices into LREC
     learning programs.
     2.9.31.3. Synchronizes 3C education and training plans and aligns competency
     development capabilities with current and future requirements.
  2.9.32. Develops LREC recruitment, accession, education, training and sustainment
  programs in coordination with the AF/A1DV-LREC Program Office. Coordinates programs
  with LREC stakeholders, MAJCOMs and Air Force Culture and Language Center (AFCLC).
  2.9.33. Establishes pre-deployment readiness standards for LREC capabilities within the
  Defense Readiness Reporting System.
  2.9.34. Conducts biannual reviews of LREC pre-deployment training to ensure adequacy
  and provides Air Force LREC ESC with an annual report of the LREC pre-deployment
  training assessment.
  2.9.35. Ensures Air University (AU), via AFCLC, integrates Air Force LREC requirements
  across the entire continuum of Air Force officer and enlisted education, to include pre-
  commissioning, Professional Military Education (PME) and Professional Continuing
  Education (PCE).
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 19


     2.9.35.1. Ensures AFCLC is properly resourced and staffed, and facilities are sufficient
     to meet the LREC education and training needs of the GPF.
     2.9.35.2. Ensures AFCLC aligns culture and region instruction to meet operational and
     institutional requirements.
     2.9.35.3. Ensures Air Advisor Academy (AAA) is properly resourced and staffed for
     LREC. Provides policy, oversight, guidance, resourcing assistance, and direction to the
     AAA for LREC. AETC/CC serves as the Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI) for both
     the Building Partnerships (BP) and the Education and Training (E&T) Service Core
     Functions.
        2.9.35.3.1. Leverages its education and training enterprise to produce qualified GPF
        air advisors with critical LREC skills, to successfully engage with Partner Nations, in
        support of national security objectives.
        2.9.35.3.2. Advocates for resources supporting AAA execution and LREC education
        and training, as directed by HQ USAF.
        2.9.35.3.3. Oversees the development of course syllabi supporting LREC GPF air
        advising education and training programs. This responsibility includes the use of
        standardized AETC education and training products, such as the oversight of plans of
        instruction (POIs).
  2.9.36. Air University (T-0)
     2.9.36.1. Ensures that Air Force LREC institutional competencies and requirements are
     integrated across the entire continuum of Air Force officer and enlisted education,
     including pre-commissioning, Professional Military Education (PME), Professional
     Continuing Education (PCE) and other Air University venues.
     2.9.36.2. Charters the Air Force Culture and Language Center (AFCLC) with its mission,
     tasks and major organizational parameters; ensures that AFCLC has sufficient financial
     and manpower resources through existing Air Force corporate programming and
     budgeting processes to effectively execute its missions.
     2.9.36.3. Conducts and commissions research, via the AFCLC, to define/develop
     competencies and assemble the most relevant information to inform Air Force LREC
     programs, guidance and requirements.
     2.9.36.4. Provides subject matter expertise in support of Air Force LREC programs and
     guidance and via the AFCLC, executes enabled-level learning and familiarized-level
     training as assigned and resourced.
  2.9.37. Air Force Culture and Language Center (AFCLC) (T-0)
     2.9.37.1. Serves as lead for designing Regional Expertise and Culture GPF training and
     education.
     2.9.37.2. Develops, delivers and supports LRC GPF training and education across the
     Continuum of Learning.
20                                                        AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


     2.9.37.3. Develops and executes career-long sustainment and enhancement training and
     education plans as part of LEAP in accordance with the Air Force Building Partnership
     Core Function Master Plan, force structure requirements and LREC Master Plan.
     2.9.37.4. Provides regional and cultural support to the Air Advisor Academy,
     International Health Specialists (IHS) and other LREC-enabled programs as required.
     2.9.37.5. Develops and maintains the AFCLC website.
     2.9.37.6. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel, the Air Force LREC ESC and
     presents a program review annually to the Air Force LREC ESC.
  2.9.38. Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) (T-0)
     2.9.38.1. Establishes screening procedures to screen potential foreign language recruits
     for language aptitude with the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB),
     Defense Language Aptitude Battery (DLAB), Air Force Qualification Test (AFOQT), or
     other DoD-approved screening tools.
     2.9.38.2. Informs recruits who score above 72 on the Armed Forces Qualification Test
     (AFQT) that their performance reflects a potential aptitude to learn a foreign language.
     2.9.38.3. Coordinates and collaborates with LC, Accessions and Training Division
     (AF/A1PT), and AF/A1DV-LREC to establish recruiting programs designed to qualify
     sufficient numbers of recruits to meet career field needs IAW Air Force Officer and
     Enlisted Classification Directories.
  2.9.39. Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC) (T-0)
     2.9.39.1. Serves as the DoD center for English language education and operational
     training needs, in support of the National Security Strategy through the Defense Security
     Exchange Program.
     2.9.39.2. Builds partner capacities and strengthens defense relationships by managing,
     executing, and improving the DELP.
     2.9.39.3. Teaches foreign and U.S. military and civilian personnel to speak English;
     provide cultural immersion; train foreign military and civilian personnel to teach English
     in their host country; teach English as a second language for the US military; and manage
     the deployment of non-resident English training programs to partner states and host
     nations.
     2.9.39.4. Meets English language education and operational training needs IAW DoDD
     5160.41E under the guidance of LC.
  2.9.40. Air Advisor Academy (AAA) (T-0)
     2.9.40.1. Serves as the DoD center for education and operational training of GPF Air
     Advisor.
     2.9.40.2. Prepares GPF Airmen with the LREC skills to build partnerships / build partner
     capacities and strengthen defense relationships with Partner Nations.
     2.9.40.3. Teaches foreign language skills to GPF Airmen and civilian personnel.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                21


      2.9.40.4. Instructs GPF Airmen on the Political, Military, Economic, Social,
      Infrastructure, and Information- Physical Environment, Time (PMESII-PT) model with
      respect to assigned region and / or country in preparation for deployment.
      2.9.40.5. Prepares Airmen for cross-cultural engagements.
      2.9.40.6. Meets Security Force Assistance LREC education and operational training
      requirements as approved by the HAF.
2.10. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC)
   2.10.1. AFPC/Director of Personnel Assignments (DPA) (T-0)
      2.10.1.1. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC and DTs to execute officer and enlisted
      assignments to meet LREC requisition requirements.
      2.10.1.2. Participates in LREC force development and utilization working groups and
      provides assignment process input to improve assignment actions in support of LREC
      mission requirements.
      2.10.1.3. Ensures LREC assignment requirements are vetted by DTs and ensures they are
      informed of positions with LREC requirements that go unfilled.
   2.10.2. AFPC/Civilian Personnel Program Support Division (DPIE) (T-0)
      2.10.2.1. Provides oversight and guidance on execution of FLPP for civilians.
      2.10.2.2. Maintains foreign language proficiency data in personnel records.
      2.10.2.3. Ensures positions requiring foreign language proficiency are properly coded in
      Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS) and that position descriptions reflect
      requirement for foreign language proficiency.
   2.10.3. AFPC/Test Management Office (DPSOE) (T-0)
      2.10.3.1. Provides oversight and guidance on execution of the DLPT, Oral Proficiency
      Interview (OPI), DLAB, and DLAB Screening Tool.
      2.10.3.2. Administers foreign language capability assessment upon demand (DLPT,
      ASVAB/AFQT, or DLAB), gathers information on all accessed Total Force Airmen with
      language capabilities, and ensures data is entered into the Air Force personnel system.
      2.10.3.3. Ensure Test Control Officers (TCO) are properly trained to administer the
      DLPT in accordance with AFI 36-2605, AF Military Personnel Testing System and DoDI
      5160.71.
      2.10.3.4. Provides education and guidance to TCOs and field entities on language
      testing.
      2.10.3.5. Elevates all significant language testing issues to the Air Force SLA.
      2.10.3.6. Serves as a clearinghouse for test-delivery matters with Defense Manpower
      Data Center (DMDC).
   2.10.4. AFPC/ Special Programs (T-0)
      2.10.4.1. Ensures personnel records maintain language proficiency data and DLAB
      scores.
 22                                                        AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


      2.10.4.2. Provides oversight and guidance of FLPB program execution IAW DoDI
      7280.03, Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus.
      2.10.4.3. Provides oversight and implementation guidance of FLPB.
   2.10.5. AFPC/Research and Assessment (DSYX) (T-0)
      2.10.5.1. Establishes standards and procedures for delivery of the computer-based/web-
      delivered DLPT.
      2.10.5.2. Coordinates with DMDC.
   2.10.6. AFPC/Line Accessions (DPSIP) (T-0)
      2.10.6.1. Collaborates with LC and AF/A1DV-LREC on officer accessions.
      2.10.6.2. When no other classification need exists and when skills in language other than
      English may be desired, classifies Airmen with existing foreign language capabilities into
      AF specialties with LREC requirements IAW AF Officer Classification Directory and the
      AF Enlisted Classification Directory.
2.11. The Air Force (Surgeon General) (AF/SG) (T-0)
   2.11.1. Nominates an LREC OPR in writing to AF/A1DV-LREC and notifies AF/A1DV-
   LREC of changes to the position within five working days.
   2.11.2. Recruits and trains personnel for the IHS program in accordance with AFI 44-162,
   Air Force International Health Specialist Program.
   2.11.3. Identifies requirements for initial and sustainment LREC education and training in
   conjunction with the LC for enlisted and officer personnel seeking the appropriate IHS SEI,
   and ensures that language-enabled personnel contribute to the goals and guidance outlined in
   DoDD 5160.41E and this AFI.
   2.11.4. Establishes requirements for the regional IHS SEI within the AF/SG Community in
   conjunction with LC.
   2.11.5. Supports the development and implementation of education and training for Air
   Force Medical Service (AFMS) personnel selected to perform duties that require LREC both
   within the IHS program and the AFMS at-large in conjunction with the LC.
   2.11.6. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC and the LC on development of LREC education
   training and sustainment programs.
   2.11.7. Advocates for Air Force LREC requirements in the POM.
   2.11.8. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and as an advisory member to the
   Air Force LREC ESC. Presents an IHS LREC program review to the Air Force LREC ESC
   annually.
2.12. Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) (T-0)
   2.12.1. Identifies LREC requirements needed to support AFOSI’s criminal, fraud,
   counterintelligence, and counter threat operations IAW AF-MD 39, Air Force Office of
   Special Investigations, within AFOSI and ensure proper documentation of requirements on
   the UMD.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                              23


   2.12.2. Establishes and maintains personnel programs and guidance supporting LREC
   programs for AFOSI field units. Ensures programs are coordinated with the LC.
   2.12.3. Ensures the AFOSI program is synchronized with the Air Force GPF LREC program
   to ensure force development, management and utilization of LREC Total Force Airmen is
   achieved.
   2.12.4. Nominates an LREC OPR in writing to AF/A1DV-LREC and notifies AF/A1DV-
   LREC of changes to the position within five working days.
   2.12.5. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and as an advisory member to the
   AF LREC ESC.
   2.12.6. Presents an AFOSI LREC program review to the Air Force LREC ESC annually.
   2.12.7. Advocates for Air Force LREC requirements in the POM.
2.13. United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) (T-0)
   2.13.1. Coordinates with the LC and Air Force SLA to develop and deliver LREC
   foundational education for USAFA cadets IAW national accreditation standards.
   2.13.2. Conducts FLSA and document capability in MilPDS upon accession IAW DoDI
   5160.71, para 9.f.; and DoDD 5160.41E, para 5.10.3.
   2.13.3. Provides all qualified cadets the opportunity to take the DLPT or OPI.
   2.13.4. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and the Air Force LREC ESC and
   presents a USAFA LREC program review annually to the Air Force LREC ESC.
   2.13.5. Develops and delivers LREC foundational education requirements for USAFA
   cadets and ensures they are coordinated with the LC, AFCLC, and Air Force SLA.
   2.13.6. Assists and provides Air Force SLA data to satisfy reporting requirements.
   2.13.7. Advocates for Air Force LREC requirements in the POM.
2.14. MAJCOM/FOA/Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) (except AFSOC and AFRC) (T-0)
   2.14.1. Integrates LREC capabilities in appropriate plans, programs, and resources.
   2.14.2. Nominates an LREC OPR in writing to AF/A1DV-LREC and notifies AF/A1DV-
   LREC of changes to the position within five working days. The LREC OPR will have the
   roles and responsibilities below:
      2.14.2.1. Ensures MAJCOM/FOA/DRU LREC programs, planning, and force
      development opportunities align with Combatant Command and/or Air Force objectives.
      2.14.2.2. Represents MAJCOM/FOA/DRU staff and subordinate units on all LREC
      matters.
      2.14.2.3. Manages and provides oversight of all subordinate Command Language
      Programs (CLP). Monitors quality and effectiveness of subordinate programs.
      2.14.2.4. Serves as liaison between the LC and AF/A1DV-LREC on all LREC training
      issues.
 24                                                          AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


      2.14.2.5. Coordinates with the LC and AF/A1DV-LREC and other Air Force LREC
      stakeholders to identify and resolve systemic LREC training problems, and identify
      solutions and best practices.
      2.14.2.6. Collects and validates LREC training requirements and forwards to the LC.
      2.14.2.7. Gathers subordinate unit inputs on LREC program needs and issues, and
      submits quarterly reports to the LC.
      2.14.2.8. Assists in the supervision of LREC programs and provides technical support, as
      requested.
      2.14.2.9. Reviews and forwards recommendations on CLP guidance to the LC and
      AF/A1DV-LREC.
      2.14.2.10. Manages the CLP for staff and other units, as required.
      2.14.2.11. Identifies and communicates LREC training opportunities.
      2.14.2.12. Collaborates with commanders to identify and select personnel for follow-on
      and supplemental LREC training.
      2.14.2.13. Provides CLP support to GPF units with fewer than six LREC
      Professionals/Enabled-personnel assigned.
      2.14.2.14. Monitors/conducts staff assistance visits for subordinate units, as requested.
      2.14.2.15. Ensures LREC requirement identification processes are included in all
      strategic planning processes.
      2.14.2.16. Ensures LREC requirements are properly identified and documented on
      UMDs.
      2.14.2.17. Develops and publishes strategic communications to staff agencies and
      subordinate units to ensure Total Force awareness of LREC requirements and force
      development opportunities.
      2.14.2.18. Advocates for Air Force LREC requirements in the POM.
2.15. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) (T-0)
   2.15.1. Identifies, documents on UMDs, and forwards SOF LREC requirements and skills
   necessary to support operational needs to the Commander of U.S. Special Operations
   Command IAW DoDI 5160.70, Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI),
   3126.01A, Language and Regional Expertise Planning, and DoDI 3305.06.
   2.15.2. Establishes and maintains personnel programs and guidance supporting the language
   training of SOF personnel.
      2.15.2.1. USAF Special Operations School (T-0)
          2.15.2.1.1. Provide courses focused on four areas: asymmetric warfare education,
          regional and cultural awareness, Special Operations Forces (SOF) professional
          development and joint operations
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     25


          2.15.2.1.2. Provide regional and Cultural awareness courses geared to SOF areas of
          responsibility in order to orient Airmen to the cultural, historical, political, economic
          and security issues of a particular region.
          2.15.2.1.3. Collaborates with the LC and other Air Force LREC stakeholders to
          ensure SOF LREC force development programs are synchronized across the Total
          Force.
          2.15.2.1.4. Ensures the design, development, and delivery of LREC educational
          programs for SOF personnel that are consistent with other Air Force efforts and
          respond to AFSOC’s specific requirements. Collaborates with the LC on all LREC
          curriculum development.
          2.15.2.1.5. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and the Air Force LREC
          ESC.
          2.15.2.1.6. Presents an annual SOF LREC program review to the Air Force LREC
          ESC. Program review should include, but not be limited to, LREC force
          development, sustainment, management and utilization.
          2.15.2.1.7. Advocates for Air Force LREC requirements in the POM.
2.16. USAF Expeditionary Center (USAF EC) (T-0)
   2.16.1. Builds upon the foundational expeditionary training provided by AETC, including
   LREC skills, to ensure deploying Airmen are prepared for the entire range of military
   operation. Rapidly develops courses to meet critical/emerging needs such as, but not limited
   to, humanitarian relief, irregular warfare, major theater contingencies and catastrophic attack
   on the United States Homeland.
   2.16.2. Rapidly applies ground combat lessons learned in partnership with AF/A9 to advance
   doctrine, develop timely tactics, techniques and procedures, and provide well-educated,
   trained and equipped expeditionary Airmen to Combatant Commanders.
   2.16.3. Provides venues for directed, joint, integrated exercises and Agile Combat Support-
   focused composite training (such as open-the-airbase and Joint Task Force-Port Opening) for
   operational and tactical units from the USAF, sister services and coalition partners.
2.17. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) (T-0)
   2.17.1. Identifies an AFRC LREC POC (O-6 or civilian equivalent) to champion all AFR
   LREC initiatives. Notifies Air Force SLA of the appointment and changes within five days.
   2.17.2. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC and develops guidance, plans, and guidelines for
   AFR participation in the Air Force LREC program.
   2.17.3. Develops guidance, plans, programs, guidelines, and requirements for LREC
   capabilities needed by AFR forces for participation in Irregular Warfare (IW), security
   cooperation, and Security Force Assistance (SFA).
   2.17.4. Coordinates with the LC and AF/A1DV-LREC on LREC force development,
   sustainment and utilization to ensure synchronization of effort.
   2.17.5. Coordinates with the LC and AF/A1DV-LREC on the development of new LREC
   guidance and programs.
 26                                                       AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


   2.17.6. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC on LREC POM submissions and funding
   shortfalls.
   2.17.7. Coordinates AFR LREC guidance and programming actions with senior level
   stakeholders to include: Joint Staff, HAF, SECAF staff offices, Secretary of Defense
   (SECDEF) staff offices, National Security Agency (NSA), National Guard Bureau (NGB),
   SOF, Intelligence Community (IC), AFRC Headquarters, MAJCOMs and others, as required.
   2.17.8. Works directly with the Intelligence, Special Operations, Air Advisor, and Air
   Mobility communities and each Combatant Command staff on AF Reserve LREC matters as
   mission dictates or as required.
   2.17.9. Provides analysis of long-term LREC costs and prepare documents in preparation for
   the Planning, Programming, and Budget Execution (PPBE) system.
   2.17.10. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and the Air Force LREC ESC, as
   well as other events at the Air Staff or higher levels, representing the Air Force Rreserve
   (AFR) LREC program.
   2.17.11. Presents an annual AFR LREC program review to the Air Force LREC ESC.
   Program review should include, but not be limited to, LREC force development, sustainment,
   management and utilization.
   2.17.12. Provides AFR LREC data to AF/A1DV-LREC to support reporting requirements.
2.18. National Guard Bureau (NGB) (T-0)
   2.18.1. Identifies an LREC POC for NGB as personnel are appointed to position (military or
   civilian equivalent) to champion all ANG LREC initiatives. Notifies AF/A1DV-LREC of
   the appointment and changes within five days.
   2.18.2. Collaborates with AF/A1DV-LREC and develops guidance, plans, and guidelines for
   ANG participation in the Air Force LREC program.
   2.18.3. Develops guidance, plans, programs, guidelines, and requirements for LREC
   capabilities needed by ANG forces for participation in security cooperation (State
   Partnership Programs), IW, and SFA.
   2.18.4. Coordinates on ANG LREC guidance and programming actions with senior level
   stakeholders to include: Joint Staff, HAF, SECAF staff offices, SECDEF staff offices, NSA,
   SOF, IC, AFRC Headquarters and others, as required.
   2.18.5. Coordinates with the LC and AF/A1DV-LREC on LREC force development,
   sustainment, and utilization to ensure synchronization of effort.
   2.18.6. Coordinates with AF/A1DV-LREC on LREC POM submittals and funding
   shortfalls.
   2.18.7. Works directly with the Intelligence, Special Operations, Air Advisor and Air
   Mobility communities and each Combatant Commander’s staff on ANG LREC matters.
   2.18.8. Provides analysis of LREC long-term costs and prepare documents in preparation for
   the DoD PPBE system.
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                              27


  2.18.9. Participates in the Air Force LREC Action Panel and the Air Force LREC ESC, as
  well as other events at the Air Staff or higher levels, representing the ANG LREC program.
  2.18.10. Participates in and present an annual ANG LREC program review to the Air Force
  LREC ESC. Program review should include, but not be limited to, force development,
  sustainment, management, and utilization.
  2.18.11. Provides ANG LREC data to AF/A1DV-LREC to support reporting requirements.




                                         DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                         Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                         (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
 28                                                          AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
1. Title 10 U.S.C., Section 1596, Foreign Language Proficiency: Special Pay for Proficiency
Beneficial for Intelligence Interests, and Section 1596a, Foreign Language Proficiency: Special
Pay for Proficiency Beneficial for Other National Security Interests, 7 Jan 2011
2. Title 37 U.S.C., Chapter 5, Special and Incentive Pays, 3 Jan 2012
3. FAA, Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
4. FSA, Foreign Service Act of 1980, Amended through 2002, Public Law 96-465; 94 Statute
2160 Language training requirements for US State Department
5. CJCSI 3126.01A/HAFMD 1-24, CJCSI 3126.01A, Language, Regional Expertise and
Culture (LREC) Capability Identification, Planning and Sourcing, 31 Jan 2013/HAFMD 1-24,
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Reserve Affairs, 15 Dec 2008
6. FAR 42.2., Federal Acquisition Regulations, Contract Administration Services
7. DoD EA List, DoD Executive Agent List, Mar 2010
8. DoDD 1315.17, Military Department Foreign Area Officer Programs, 28 Apr 2005
9. DoDI 1400.25 V 250, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, 18 Nov 2008
10. DoDD 3000.07, Irregular Warfare, 1 Dec 2008
11. DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, 3 Sep 2002
12. DoDD 5124.02, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, 23 Jun 2008
13. DoDD 5160.41E,, Defense Language Program (DLP), 21 Oct 2005
14. DoDI 1215.08, Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) Programs, 26 June 2006
15. DoDI 1315.20, Management of DoD FAO Program, 28 Sep 2007
16. DoDI 1340.27, Military Foreign Language Skill Proficiency Bonuses, 21 May 2013
(Revoked DoDI 7280.03, Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus, 20 Aug 2007
17. DoDI 2000.28, DoD Policy and Responsibilities Relating to the Regional Defense
Combating Terrorism Fellowship Program (CTFP), 14 Nov 2013
18. DoDI 5000.68, Security Force Assistance (SFA), 27 Oct 2010
19. DoDI 5160.70, Management of DOD Language and Regional Proficiency Capabilities, 12
June 2007
20. DoDI 3305.06, Special Operations Forces (SOF) Foreign Language Policy, 19 Nov 2008
21. DoDI 5410.17, United States Field Studies Program (FSP) for International Military and
Civilian Students and Military-Sponsored Visitors, 15 Sep 2006
22. DoDI 5160.71, DoD Language Testing Program, 26 Jan 2009
23. DoDI 7280.03, Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus, 20 Aug 2007
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                29


24. DSCA Manual 5105.38-M, Security Assistance Management Manual (SAMM), 30 Apr 2012
25. CJCSI 1800.01D, Officer Professional Military Education Policy (OPMEP), 15 Jul 2009
26. CJCSI 3126.01, Language and Regional Expertise Planning, 15 Dec 2008
27. HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) 15 Dec
2008
28. HAFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services, 1
Jul 2009
29. AFMD 1-33, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance, 4 Sep 2009
30. AFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower & Services, 15 Dec 2008
31. AFMD 39, Air Force office of Special Investigations, 6 Jul 2011
32. AFJI 14-107, Management of the Defense Foreign Language Program, 15 Mar 1987
33. AFJI 16-103, Managing the Defense English Language Program, 31 Aug 1994
34. AFI 16-105_IP, Joint Security Cooperation Education and Training, 3 Jan 2011
35. AFDD-1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, 14 Oct 2011
36. AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, 2 Nov 2009
37. AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 Sep 2011
38. AFPD 36-40, Air Force Language, Region and Culture Program, 16 Oct 2012
39. AFPD 36-81, Total Force (TF) Human Resource Management (HRM) Domain Governance,
15 Nov 2013
40. SAF/MR SLA re-designation memo, SAF/MR SLA re-designation memo, 15 Oct 2009
41. AF/A1DG SLA re-designation memo, SLA re-designation memo, 12 Sep 2011 (AF/A1DG
office renamed to AF/A1DV-LREC)
42. AFI 16-105_IP, Joint Security Cooperation and Training (JSET), 3 Jan 2011
43. AFI 16-109, International Affairs Specialist (IAS) Program, 3 Sep 2010
44. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 25 Jun 2013
45. AFI 36-2605, AFGM4.2, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, 24 Sep 2008, GM4.2,
26 Feb 2014
46. AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 Dec 2008
47. AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 9 Sep 2009
48. AFI 36-8101, Total Force Human Resource Management (HRM) Domain Governance, 4
Dec 2013
49. CSAF's Culture, Region and Language Flight Plan, CSAF's Culture, Region and Language
Flight Plan, 30 Apr 2009
 30                                                      AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


50. DLIELC Instruction 1025.15, English Comprehension Level (ECL) Test Guidelines, 22 Oct
2012
51. AF/A1 & Air University MOA, AF/A1 & Air University MOA
52. Adopted Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
53. AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
3C—-Cross-Cultural Competence
AAA—Air Advisor Academy
AEF—Air Force Expeditionary Force
AETC—-Air Education and Training Command
AF—-Air Force
AFCLC—-Air Force Culture and Language Center
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFJI—-Air Force Joint Instruction
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFMD—-Air Force Mission Directive
AFMS—-Air Force Medical Service
AFPC—-Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFLC—-Air Force Learning Committee
AFOSI—-Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFOQT—Air Force Officer Qualification Test
AFQT—-Armed Forces Qualification Test
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—-Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRS—-Air Force Recruiting Service
AFSC—-Air Force Specialty Code
AFSOC—-Air Force Special Operations Command
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                       31


ASVAB—-Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery
AU—-Air University
BP—Building Partnerships
CCMD—- Combatant Command
CFA—-Cross -Functional Authority
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFM—Career Field Manager
CJCS—-Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CLA—Cryptologic Language Analyst
CLP—-Command Language Program
CSAF—-Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DCPDS—-Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DE—-Developmental Education
DELP—-Defense English Language Program
DFLP—-Defense Foreign Language Program
DJMS—-Defense Joint Military Pay System
DLAB—-Defense Language Aptitude Battery
DLNSEO—-Defense Language and National Security Education Office
DLIELC—-Defense Language Institute English Language Center
DLIFLC—-Defense Language Institute Foreign Language Center
DLP—-Defense Language Program
DLPT—-Defense Language Proficiency Test
DLSC—-Defense Language Steering Committee
DMDC—-Defense Manpower Data Center
DoD—-Department of Defense
DoDD—-Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—-Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—-Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA—Defense Security Cooperation Agency
DT—-Developmental Team
E&T—Education and Training
EA—-Executive Agent
 32                                                 AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


ECL—-English Comprehension Level
ELP—English Language Program
ELPWG—-English Language Program Working Group
ELP—Exception to Policy
ELPT—-English Language Proficiency Test
ELT—-English Language Training
ESC—-Executive Steering Committee
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FLPB—-Foreign Language Proficiency Bonus
FLPP—-Foreign Language Proficiency Pay
FLSA—-Foreign Language Self-Assessment
FL SPB—-Foreign Language Skills Proficiency Bonus
FOA—-Field Operating Agency
FY—-Fiscal Year
GPF—-General Purpose Force
HAF—-Headquarters, United States Air Force
IA—-International Affairs
IAS—-International Affairs Specialist
IAW—-In accordance with
IC—-Intelligence Community
IHS—-International Health Specialist
ILR—-Interagency Language Roundtable
ISR—-Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance
IW—-Irregular Warfare
L2—-Lessons Learned
LC—-Lead Command
LEAP—-Language Enabled Airman Program
LREC—-Language, Regional Expertise and Culture
MAJCOM—-Major Command
OPI—-Oral Proficiency Interview
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—-Office of the Secretary of Defense
AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               33


OUSD(I)—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Intelligence)
OUSD(P&R)—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
PCE—-Professional Continuing Education
PCS—-Permanent Change of Station
PGL/PRD—-Program Guidance Letter/Program Requirements Documents
PM—-Program Manager
PME—-Professional Military Education
POC—-Point of Contact
POM—-Program Objective Memorandum
RAS—-Regional Affairs Strategist
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
ROTC—- Reserve Officer Training Corps
SAF—-Secretary of the Air Force Staff
SAF/IAX—-SAF International Affairs, AF Service Program Manager for the DELP
SCO—-Security Cooperation Officer
SECAF—-Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—-Secretary of Defense
SEI—-Special Experience Identifier
SLA—-Senior Language Authority
SLL—-Strategic Language List
SMDR—-Structured Manning Decision Review
SME—-Subject Matter Expert
SOF—-Special Operations Forces
SPM—-Service Program Manager
TCO—-Test Control Officer
TRAP—-Training Resource Arbitration Panel
UMD—-Unit Manning Document
USAFA—-United States Air Force Academy

Term
Airman:—Per Air Force Doctrine, any US Air Force member (officer or enlisted, active,
reserve, or guard, along with Department of the Air Force civilians) who supports and defends
the US Constitution and serves our country. Air Force Airmen are those people who formally
belong to the US Air Force and employ or support some aspect of the US Air Force’s air and
 34                                                           AFI36-4001 2 SEPTEMBER 2014


space power capabilities. The term Airman is often used in a very narrow sense to mean pilot.
An Airman is any person who understands and appreciates the full range of air and space power
capabilities and can employ or support some aspect of air and space power capabilities.
Classification Directories: Officer and Enlisted Classification Directories established the
occupation structure of the Air Force officer and enlisted forces and implement Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 36—21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel. Refer
to AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), for military classification
tenets and base level procedures. Specialty descriptions and other identifiers outline essential Air
Force managerial, technical, and professional duties.
Cross—Cultural Competence (3C): The ability to quickly and accurately comprehend, then
appropriately and effectively act, in a culturally complex environment to achieve the desired
effect (Culture, Region and Language Flight Plan).
Education: The process of imparting general bodies of knowledge and habits of mind
applicable to a broad spectrum of endeavors to intellectually prepare Total Force Airmen to deal
with dynamic environments and solve ill—defined problems by using critical thought and
reasoned judgment. Education programs prepare Total Force Airmen to successfully anticipate
and meet challenges across the range of military operations (CJCSI 1800.01D, Officer
Professional Military Education Guidance).
Language Enabled: A sub—set of Total Force Airmen from the General Purpose Force who
receive additional LREC force development based on operational or institutional requirements.
Language Enabled Airman Program (LEAP): LEAP is a career—spanning program to select,
develop and increase foreign language capability among GPF Airmen. The objective of LEAP is
to develop cross-culturally competent Airmen across all Air Force specialties who possess a
working level of foreign language proficiency to meet Air Force global mission requirements.
Region:—A geographic area defined by institutions, relations between people or interactions
between groups and their environments.
Training: A set of events or activities presented in a structured or planned manner through one
or more media for the attainment and retention of skills, knowledge and attitudes required to
meet job requirements. This involves the coaching and mentoring of Airmen, resulting in
proficiency development (AFPD 36—26, Total Force Development).
