BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2816
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             2 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                            INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARDS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IGQ                                                                Certified by: SAF/IG
Supersedes: AFI 36-2816,                                                (Lt Gen Marc E. Rogers)
            12 February 2007                                                            Pages: 15


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations.
It describes the annual John P. Flynn and Howard W. Leaf Inspector General Awards, as well as
the Air Force Office of Special Investigations individual and unit awards. It explains eligibility
requirements, the selection process, and the Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General’s
(SAF/IG) award presentation. It also outlines procedures for presenting Performance
Recognition Coins. This publication applies to all major command (MAJCOM), field operating
agency (FOA), and direct reporting unit (DRU) activities authorized an inspector general (IG).
This instruction applies to the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard personnel. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes described in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force     Records     Disposition     Schedule    located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate MAJCOM IG.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Chapter 857. Forms affected by the PA have an
appropriate PA statement. The applicable Privacy Act System of Record Notice(s) F036 AF PC
V, Awards and Decorations apply.
 2                                                              AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. This instruction has
administrative and reference updates. A new category (Category V) has been added to the Flynn
Award. This category is for National Guard State Joint Force Headquarters and that group has
been removed from Category III. For the Leaf Award, points have been assigned to the three
selection criteria and headings identified for the AF IMT 1206. The Air Force Office of Special
Investigations (AFOSI) individual special agent and unit awards program are added. Procedures
for presenting Inspector General Performance Recognition Coins were added.
1. John P. Flynn Inspector General Awards.
     1.1. Award Description. The John P. Flynn Inspector General awards recognize the
     Inspector General Complaints Resolution Program Office that best embodies the six
     fundamental characteristics of Lieutenant General Flynn’s leadership model: integrity,
     justice, compassion, loyalty, courage, and spirit. Consideration will be given to the IG offices
     whose performance is proactive as well as above and beyond the completion of day-to-day
     mission requirements.
     1.2. Award Categories.
        1.2.1. Category I. Installation-level complaints resolution program office.
        1.2.2. Category II. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
        (ANG) wing-level complaints resolution program office.
        1.2.3. Category III. Numbered Air Force (NAF) / DRU / FOA or equivalent-level
        complaints resolution program office.
        1.2.4. Category IV. MAJCOM-level complaints resolution program office.
        1.2.5. Category V. Joint Force Headquarters – State (JFHQ-St).
     1.3. Award Eligibility. IG offices in the above categories are eligible regardless of
     rank/grade structure or number of personnel.
     1.4. Selection Criteria. Criteria are based solely on complaints resolution activities. Other
     activities, such as inspections, exercise evaluation, etc., will not be considered.
        1.4.1. Leadership and Job Performance (50 points). Examples may include (but are not
        limited to) noteworthy management achievements, significantly improving processes or
        dealing with complex problems.
        1.4.2. Initiative (25 points). Examples may include (but are not limited to) synopsis of
        the innovation or unique organizational achievement that positively contributes to the Air
        Force Complaints Resolution Program.
        1.4.3. Training (25 points). Examples may include (but are not limited to) originality of
        training initiatives, quality of development, importance to the organization, and degree of
        completion.
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    3



2. The Howard W. Leaf Inspector General Awards.
   2.1. Award Description. The Howard W. Leaf Inspector General awards recognize the
   outstanding enlisted and officer (or civilian equivalent) inspectors in the United States Air
   Force assigned to a MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU IG team.
   2.2. Award Categories.
       2.2.1. Category I. Enlisted/Civilian Equivalent. Nominees will be inspectors in the grade
       of senior master sergeant and below or civilian equivalent.
       2.2.2. Category II. Officer/Civilian Equivalent. Nominees will be inspectors in the grade
       of second lieutenant through lieutenant colonel or civilian equivalent.
NOTE: Civilian equivalency will be at the submitter’s discretion, as determined by level of
responsibility and/or duty position.
   2.3. Award Eligibility. Each MAJCOM, FOA, and DRU authorized an IG by AFPD 90-2,
   Inspector General--The Inspection System, may submit one nomination for each award
   category. Nominees must have been assigned to an IG team as an inspector for a minimum of
   one year.
   2.4. Selection Criteria.
       2.4.1. Job Performance (60 points). Significant inspection findings, positive mission
       impact or any other area that improves inspection quality.
       2.4.2. Initiative (20 points).   Improved inspection techniques, guidelines, etc.
       emphasizing what was done, why it was important and actual results achieved.
       2.4.3. Professional Qualities (20 points). Examples may include military/professional
       bearing, self-improvement, efforts to share experience with inspected units and
       representation of the AF in community activities.
3. AFOSI Individual Awards Program.
   3.1. Award Description.       The Special Investigations Functional Awards program
   recognizes credentialed AFOSI special agents (SAs) in AFOSI, sister law enforcement
   organizations, and from the counterintelligence community who have excelled in
   performance and made outstanding contributions to the Air Force and/or Department of
   Defense (DoD) special investigations and counterintelligence missions.
   3.2. Award Categories.
       3.2.1. Field Grade Officer Special Agent of the Year. This award, sponsored by the
       Association of Former AFOSI Special Agents (AFOSISA), recognizes an active duty
       officer special agent (SA) in the grades of major or lieutenant colonel.
       3.2.2. Lee C. Hitchcock Award. This award, sponsored by AFOSISA, is in honor of
       Special Agent (Captain) Hitchcock who was killed in the line of duty on 10 September
       1967 while serving in Pleiku, Vietnam. This award recognizes an active duty officer SA
       in the grades of second lieutenant through captain.
4                                                             AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


       3.2.3. Rudolph M. Schellhammer Award. This award, sponsored by AFOSISA, is in
       honor of Special Agent (Lt Col retired) Schellhammer who selflessly dedicated over 35
       years to AFOSI. This award recognizes a civilian SA in the grade of GS 14 or GS 15.
       3.2.4. Civilian Special Agent of the Year. This award, sponsored by AFOSISA,
       recognizes a civilian SA in the grades of GS 7 through GS 13.
       3.2.5. Bert L. Hall Senior Enlisted Special Agent of the Year. This award, sponsored
       by AFOSISA, is in honor of Special Agent (Chief Master Sergeant) Hall who was one of
       three finalists for the first Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force. This award recognizes
       an active duty enlisted SA in the grades of master sergeant (MSgt) through chief master
       sergeant (CMSgt). Refer to Attachment 6 for a biography of CMSgt Hall.
       3.2.6. Enlisted Special Agent of the Year. This award, sponsored by AFOSISA,
       recognizes an active duty enlisted SA in the grades of senior airman through technical
       sergeant.
       3.2.7. Individual Mobilization Augmentee Officer Special Agent of the Year. This
       award recognizes an Air Force reserve officer SA regardless of grade.
       3.2.8. Individual Mobilization Augmentee Noncommissioned Officer Special Agent
       of the Year. This award recognizes an Air Force reserve enlisted SA regardless of grade.
       3.2.9. Host Nation Investigative Assistant of the Year. This award recognizes the
       accomplishments and professional contributions of a host nation investigative assistant,
       special investigator, or other foreign national employee ineligible for recognition in
       another category.
    3.3. Award Eligibility. Awards are reserved for credentialed SAs assigned to AFOSI,
    AFOSI SAs assigned to out-of-command assignments, and to host nation employees who
    assisted in the accomplishment of the AFOSI mission.          The performance and
    accomplishments being recognized must have occurred predominately between 1 January
    and 31 December of the previous year.
    3.4. Selection Criteria.
       3.4.1. Innovation: The act or beginning or introduction of something new or renewing
       something; to be creative. Specify if nominee developed any unique or innovative
       approach to resolving a problem or situation and describe any pre-existing elements that
       led to the development or innovation.
       3.4.2. Performance: The ability to begin and carry through to completion; to take
       action in accordance with requirement of; fulfill a duty, etc. Identify the tasks
       confronted, describe the degree of challenge and demonstrate how results were achieved
       through the use of quality tools and principles.
           3.4.2.1. Consider appropriateness of methods; use of systematic approach; and use of
           reliable, quantitative, and objective information.
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     5


       3.4.3. Leadership: The capacity to lead and/or guide others; one who is in charge or
       command of others; one who has influential voice. Specify concrete details of how the
       nominee developed, coached, or influenced others to improve their performance and
       describe how the individual demonstrated the dynamic balance between creative
       leadership, empowerment, and accountability.
          3.4.3.1. Detail how the nominee is viewed as a leader by subordinates, peers, and
          supervisors.
       3.4.4. Results: To occur or exist as a consequence of a particular cause. The
       consequences of a particular action, operation, or course; outcome. Show how the results
       are clearly aligned with a specific AFOSI strategic objective; show how the results
       exceeded the customer’s requirements and expectations and provide detailed results and
       explain why the achievements are noteworthy.
4. AFOSI Unit Awards.
   4.1. Award Description. These awards recognize units whose cumulative investigative
   accomplishments and professional contributions warrant such recognition.
   4.2. Award Categories.
       4.2.1. Small Unit of the Year. This award honors a small unit for demonstrated
       performance and specific achievements. Units with fewer than seven manpower
       authorizations as of 30 September are eligible to compete for this award.
   4.2.2. Medium Unit of the Year. This award honors a medium unit for demonstrated
   performance and specific achievements. Units with between seven and 15 manpower
   authorizations as of 30 September are eligible to compete for this award.
4.2.3. Large Unit of the Year. This award honors a large unit for demonstrated performance
and specific achievements. Units with 16 or more manpower authorizations as of 30 September
are eligible to compete for this award.
       4.2.4. Field Investigations Squadron of the Year. This award honors a field
       investigations squadron (FIS) for demonstrated performance and specific achievements.
       Units with the designation of ―FIS‖ are eligible to compete for this award.
   4.3. Award Eligibility. New units active for less than six months are ineligible to compete
   for unit awards. Operating locations (OLs) are not eligible to compete independently for
   awards, and are considered as a component of the parent unit. Refer to Attachment 5 for
   instructions on how to complete AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.
   4.4. Selection Criteria.
       4.4.1. Innovation: The act or beginning or introduction of something new or renewing
       something; to be creative. Identify specific internal and external customer requirements
       and how they were met.
       4.4.2. Performance: The ability to begin and carry through to completion; to take
       action in accordance with requirement of; fulfill a duty, etc. Demonstrate how results
       were achieved through the use of quality tools and principles and consider
       appropriateness of methods; use of systematic approach; and use of reliable, quantitative,
       and objective information.
 6                                                            AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


        4.4.3. Results: To occur or exist as a consequence of a particular cause. The
        consequences of a particular action, operation, or course; outcome. Clearly specify the
        unit’s successes and identify measurable improvements in exceeding customer
        requirements.
5. Submittal of Nominations.
     5.1. General. Use the AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award. Nominations will be one
     page, single-spaced, 12 pitch, Times New Roman font, bullet format, using specifics from the
     applicable calendar year only. Do not include classified information in the nomination. See
     Attachments 2 through 4 for more specific guidance.
     5.2. Submission Timeline for the IG Awards. Both the Flynn and Leaf award nominations
     for the previous calendar year must be submitted to the award point of contact by 1 March.
     Submission instructions will be outlined in a ―call for nominations‖ message released by
     SAF/IG.
     5.3. Submission Timeline for the AFOSI Awards. Nominations are due annually to HQ
     AFOSI/DPE by 15 February for the previous calendar year (CY) achievements. An award
     nomination submission by a commander or director certifies that the nomination is correct
     and true as written.
6. Awards Selection Board.
     6.1. Inspector General Awards Selection Board. The Deputy Inspector General chairs the
     Flynn and Leaf Award Selection Boards, which include three colonels selected by the board
     chair. The Inspector General may decide not to make an award in any category if he/she
     finds no suitable nominees.
     6.2. AFOSI Awards Selection Process. The AFOSI award selection board (ASB) will
     convene and each board member will grade each award nomination package using a scale of
     6.0 - 10.0, with 0.5 increments. Board membership will be determined by AFOSI/CC. The
     AFOSI ASB President will submit recommendations to the AFOSI/CC through HQ
     AFOSI/DPE. AFOSI/CC selects award recipients for each category of individual and unit
     awards and announces award winner selections to SAF/IG, Headquarters AFOSI and
     subordinate units.
7. The Inspector General’s Performance Recognition Coins.
     7.1. Award Criteria. The Inspector General, or those designated by the IG, may present
     performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including the
     Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and to personnel of other military departments
     and Executive Branch agencies for outstanding contributions or service rendered in
     furtherance of the Air Force mission. Presentation of a coin recognizes either continuing
     contributions or a single achievement. The purpose of a coin is to provide the Inspector
     General or his designee with an informal means to show recognition of and appreciation for
     superior job performance. Non-appropriated fund employees are ineligible to receive this
     award if the coin was purchased with appropriated funds.
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 7



8. Description of Awards.
   8.1. Flynn Award. Category award recipients receive an engraved eagle statue trophy.
   Names of winning organizations are also engraved on plaques permanently displayed in the
   Pentagon. Flynn award winners are eligible to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon IAW
   AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards.
   8.2. Leaf Award. Award recipients receive an engraved plaque. Names of winning
   individuals are also engraved on plaques permanently displayed in the Pentagon. Leaf award
   winners are eligible for the Air Force Recognition Ribbon IAW AFI 36-2805.
   8.3. AFOSI Individual Functional Awards. Each individual award recipient will receive a
   trophy or other suitable award. Award winners are eligible for the Air Force Recognition
   Ribbon IAW AFI 36-2805.
   8.4. AFOSI Unit Awards. Award winners will receive a trophy or other suitable award.
   Award winners are not eligible for the Air Force Recognition Ribbon IAW AFI 36-2805,
   para 1.8.2.1.
   8.5. Inspector General’s Performance Recognition Coins.           Coins purchased with
   appropriated funds will be IAW AFI 65-601, Vol. 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, Para
   4.29.2.. The coins are to be presented as cast from the die without further embellishment,
   and will not be personalized.
9. Award Announcement and Presentation.
   9.1. Flynn Award. SAF/IG will announce and present John P. Flynn award winners at the
   annual Worldwide Inspector General Conference or by 15 May. In addition, all nominees
   will receive letters of recognition signed by The Inspector General.
   9.2. Leaf Award. SAF/IG will announce Howard W. Leaf award winners at the annual
   Worldwide Inspector General Conference or by 15 May. SAF/IG or a designated
   representative will notify the commander and recipients of the winner and plan for
   presentation. In addition, all nominees will receive letters of recognition signed by The
   Inspector General.
   9.3. AFOSI Functional Awards. All individual and unit award winners will be recognized
   at the AFOSI Annual Command Awards Banquet.
   9.4. AFOSI Unit Awards. All individual and unit award winners will be recognized at the
   AFOSI Annual Command Awards Banquet.
   9.5. Inspector General’s Performance Recognition Coins. Individuals and groups may be
   recognized on the spot or at an appropriate meeting, such as an inspection outbrief or
   commander’s call.
 8                                                       AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011




10. Forms Adopted.

AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, current version
AF IMT 837, Recommendation for Change of Publication, current version




                                         DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                         DC S, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                       9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 Aug 97
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General--The Inspection System, 26 Apr 06
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 Jun 01
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFOSISA—Association of Former OSI Special Agents
AFOSI/CC—Commander, Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFOSI/CV—Vice Commander, AFOSI
AFOSI/CX—Executive Director, AFOSI
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ASB—Awards Selection Board
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FIS—Field Investigations Squadron
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
GS—General Schedule [Federal Employee]
HQ AFOSI/PA—Public Affairs, Headquarters AFOSI
IAW—in accordance with
IG—Inspector General
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
JFHQ—St—Joint Forces Headquarters-State
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
 10                                                        AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


NAF—Numbered Air Force
OLs—Operating Locations
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
SA—Special Agent
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of the Inspector General
SAF/IGI—Secretary of the Air Force, Inspections Directorate
SAF/IGQ—Secretary of the Air Force, Complaints Resolution Directorate
SAF/PA—Public Affairs, Headquarters AF
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  11


                                          Attachment 2
      REQUIREMENTS FOR JOHN P. FLYNN INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARD
                       NOMINATION PACKAGE

A2.1. Part I Letter of Transmittal (One Original).
   A2.1.1. Include organization title, command and location.
   A2.1.2. Do not include laudatory comments or endorsements.
   A2.1.3. Have MAJCOM (to include wing submissions), JFHQ, FOA, or DRU
   commander/vice commander sign the letter.
A2.2. Part II Narrative Justification (One Original).
   A2.2.1. Provide justification in bullet format, front side only, AF IMT 1206, Nomination for
   Award. Information submitted on back page of AF IMT 1206 will not be considered.
   Headers for the three subcategories (Leadership and Job Performance; Initiative; and
   Training) should be included. Category is either I, II, III, IV, or V; commander is the IG’s
   commander.
   A2.2.2. The nomination should emphasize specific, tangible achievements which benefited
   the unit, MAJCOM, or equivalent, and the Air Force. Include quantifiable achievements in
   both day-to-day activities and initiatives that go above and beyond expectations. This
   information should be drawn from any management indicators used to evaluate complaint
   resolution programs. Use the headings indicated in paragraphs 1.4.1.-1.4.3. Avoid inflated
   terms and generalities.
 12                                                         AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 3
      REQUIREMENTS FOR HOWARD W. LEAF INSPECTOR GENERAL AWARD
                        NOMINATION PACKAGE

A3.1. Part I Letter of Transmittal (One Original).
   A3.1.1. Include nominee’s name, grade, duty title, organization, command, and location.
   A3.1.2. Do not include laudatory comments or endorsements.
   A3.1.3. Have MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU commander/vice commander sign the letter.
A3.2. Part II Narrative Justification (One Original).
   A3.2.1. Provide justification in bullet format, front side only, AF IMT 1206, Nomination for
   Award. Information submitted on back page of AF IMT 1206 will not be considered.
   Category is either I or II; commander is either MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU IG.
   A3.2.2. Use the headings indicated in paragraphs 2.4.1.-2.4.3. Cite specific actions and
   results. Avoid inflated terms and generalities.
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 13


                                         Attachment 4
       REQUIREMENTS FOR THE AFOSI INDIVIDUAL AWARDS PROGRAM

A4.1. Narrative Justification (One Original).
   A4.1.1. Individual award nominations are limited to the first page of an AF IMT 1206. Use
   the headings Innovation, Performance, Leadership, and Results. In bullet format, illustrate
   the nominee's achievements under each of the headings.
   A4.1.2. Use the headings indicated in paragraphs 3.4.1-3.4.4. Cite specific actions and
   results. Avoid inflated terms and generalities.
 14                                                            AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 5
                   REQUIREMENTS FOR THE AFOSI UNIT AWARDS

A5.1. Part II Narrative Justification (One Original).
   A5.1.1. Unit award nominations are limited to the first page of an AF IMT 1206. Use the
   headings Innovation, Performance, and Results. In bullet format, illustrate the unit's
   achievements under each of the headings. List the unit members by grade, name, and current
   unit of assignment on the second page of the AF IMT 1206.
 A5.1.2. Use the headings indicated in paragraphs 4.4.1.-4.4.3. Cite specific actions and results.
Avoid inflated terms and generalities.
AFI36-2816 2 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   15


                                         Attachment 6
            SPECIAL AGENT (CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT) BERT HALL

Special Agent (Chief Master Sergeant) Bert Hall, after surviving a POW death march in 1945,
applied for OSI duty in 1952. An overwhelming portion of his career was devoted to uncovering
and defeating the offensive efforts of the former Soviet bloc, communist China, and Cuba. Chief
Hall led investigative and counterintelligence operations that succeeded in repairing faults in
national security, one which involved debriefing and processing numerous POWs returning from
the Korean War. Before retiring from active duty, Chief Hall was considered as one of three
finalists for the position of Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force. Returning to special agent
duty as a supervisory civilian agent, he oversaw a very large fraud investigations program in
Southern California, which sought to uncover white collar crimes that silently yet seriously
damaged American war fighting and peace keeping capability.
