                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-1401
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             1 AUGUST 1997

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                       POSITION CLASSIFICATION




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCC (Ms. Judith Mayrose)                 Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Ms. Sandra Grese)
                                                                                           Pages: 7
                                                                                    Distribution: F


This instruction is used by commanders, managers, supervisors, the Air Force Personnel Center, Director-
ate of Civilian Personnel Operations (AFPC/DPC) and servicing personnel offices. It implements 5 USC
Chapters 51 and 53, 5 CFR Chapter 511, the System for Classifying Federal Wage System Positions, the
Introduction to the Position Classification Standards, the Classifier’s Handbook, and AFPD 36-14. The
authority for the system of records in this instruction is 5 USC 5113.

1. Applicability and Coverage: This instruction pertains to the classification of Air Force US citizen
appropriated fund civilian positions, including Air Reserve Technician (ART) positions. It does not apply
to positions which exceed the General Schedule (GS), positions the pay of which is administratively
determined (AD), Air National Guard Technician positions (32 USC), non-appropriated fund positions,
non-US citizen positions (Local National), or positions covered by the Civilian Intelligence Personnel
Management System (CIPMS).

2. Legal Authority: 5 USC, Subpart D, Chapter 51 grants the authority to classify civilian positions to
heads of the Executive Departments. The Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) exercises this authority for the
Air Force and delegates classification authority to commanders with appointing authority as described in
AFPD 36-14 and AFPD 36-1.

3. Authorities and Responsibilities for Position Classification:
   3.1. HQ USAF: The Director of Civilian Personnel Policy and Personnel Plans
   (HQ USAF/DPC) establishes classification and position management policy, develops classification
   guidance for AF-unique positions that cannot adequately be covered by standardized core personnel
   documents (SCPDs), reviews and approves all agency requests for reconsideration of DoD and Office
   of Personnel Management (OPM) classification appeal decisions, and resolves classification issues
   referred from Major Commands.
3.2. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC/DPC): Develops SCPDs and supporting evaluation docu-
mentation for application AF-wide, develops procedures for implementation of SCPDs, participates in
resolution of classification appeals involving SCPDs, and provides direct classification services for
installations as specifically delegated.
3.3. Major Commands delegated responsibility for oversight of civilian personnel administration
(MAJCOM/DPC): Monitor the classification program under their authority, issue binding evaluation
decisions on classification actions referred to them in accordance with AFPD 36-14, ensure maximum
use of SCPDs, and ensure subordinate installations comply with law, regulation, and OPM, DoD, and
AF policies and procedures.
3.4. HQ Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Responsibility for Classification of Air Reserve Tech-
nician (ART) Positions: Classifies all ART positions (except enlisted ART positions in the Logistics
Complex of Associate Units), issues prescriptive SCPDs for ART positions, and issues procedures for
administration of the ART classification program to supplement this Instruction.
3.5. Host Installation and Tenant Commanders (or civilian equivalents):
   3.5.1. Maintain a core personnel document (CPD) accuracy rate of at least 90 percent.
   3.5.2. Require supervisors and managers to actively participate in the classification process and
   promptly report changes in major duties and responsibilities to the servicing manpower and per-
   sonnel offices as they occur.
   3.5.3. Ensure the principles of sound position and resource management are observed by all orga-
   nizational levels.
   3.5.4. Ensure all applicable SCPDs are implemented and approve exceptions to use of SCPDs.
3.6. Commanders with Appointing Authority (or civilian equivalents): In addition to responsibilities
described in 3.5., maintain a classification accuracy rate of at least 95 percent.
3.7. Managers and Supervisors:
   3.7.1. Assign definite duties, responsibilities, and authorities to positions to achieve optimum bal-
   ance of economy, effectiveness, productivity, and skill use in conformance with the objectives of
   sound position management and AF organization structure directives. The duties assigned should
   generally conform to the functional statement and the Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) on man-
   power documents. Duties inconsistent with the AFSC or functional statement should be referred to
   the responsible manpower office.
   3.7.2. Consider the impact on all other positions before assigning duties to any position that will
   result in a grade change.
   3.7.3. Advise the servicing manpower and personnel offices and other appropriate staff offices
   promptly of proposed organizational and position changes and furnish organization charts and
   other material pertinent to the change.
   3.7.4. Prepare accurate and adequate CPDs for subordinate positions. The responsibility for
   accuracy and adequacy of the description of duties must not be regarded lightly. Duty descrip-
   tions serve as a basis for setting pay and the commitment of public funds.
• Implement all applicable SCPDs.


                                                2
• Justify exception to use of a SCPD to the host installation or tenant commander, as appropriate, for
  approval.
   3.7.5. Maintain familiarity with the classification and qualification standards and available core
   document software for those occupations that constitute the core of the subordinate organization.
   Participate in the classification process by providing the personnel specialist the necessary infor-
   mation to determine the classification of all new and changed positions.
   3.7.6. Maintain current CPDs for subordinate positions and provide CPDs to employees.
   3.7.7. Advise employees of their assigned duties and responsibilities, grade controlling aspects of
   their positions, their right to review classification standards, and their grievance and classification
   appeal rights.
   3.7.8. Review CPDs at least annually with employees to ensure the CPD contains an accurate and
   adequate statement of each major duty currently assigned and performed.
   3.7.9. Review draft classification standards and guides for accuracy and adequacy of occupa-
   tional information and impact on the grade level of subordinate positions when requested.
   3.7.10. Support the classification program by explaining and supporting classification decisions
   to employees.
3.8. Servicing Personnel Offices:
   3.8.1. Classify positions in conformance with standards and guides issued by OPM, DoD, and/or
   HQ USAF.
   3.8.2. Apply new standards and guides within 6 months of receipt, unless otherwise specified.
   3.8.3. Audit positions as determined necessary to clarify work assignments and ensure classifica-
   tion accuracy. Audits are required in classification appeals.
   3.8.4. Prepare evaluation statements when there is a need for clarification of the classification
   decision. Evaluation statements may vary in depth depending on issues surrounding the classifi-
   cation decision. If there is a need to clarify the classification decision for internal personnel
   administration purposes only or to create an audit trail, brief notes or annotations of standards and
   guides used to classify the position on the CPD may be sufficient. If the classification decision
   results in a classification appeal by the employee or request for MAJCOM evaluation decision, a
   complete and thorough evaluation statement must be prepared. As a minimum, evaluation state-
   ments are required in the following circumstances:
• The grade of a position is derived from a factor or factor-and-point system of classification. This
  includes all Factor Evaluation System (FES) occupations and supervisory positions. Evaluation
  statements for these positions may be accomplished on a form or by annotation of factor levels and
  points on the CPD. When the basis for a factor selection is not self-evident, a brief rationale should
  be documented.
• Mixed series and/or grade positions.
• The classification is based on the impact of the person on the position.
• No published OPM standard exists which covers the work described.
• The grade is outside the grade range of published OPM standards.

                                                 3
       3.8.5. Provide classification and position management advisory services to management.
       3.8.6. Conduct organization or occupational studies and reviews as requested by management or
       to maintain position classification accuracy.
       3.8.7. Assist managers and supervisors with application of SCPDs.
   • Modifications to SCPDs that do not impact the classification or recruitment knowledges, skills, and
     abilities (KSAs) may be made using the SCPD number.
   • SCPDs modified to the extent that the classification or recruitment KSAs are changed should be
     assigned a local position number. The added duty that changed the classification or recruitment
     KSAs of the SCPD should be annotated in the classification remarks section of the local CPD.
       3.8.8. Assist supervisors in resolving employee disputes pertaining to CPD or classification accu-
       racy.
       3.8.9. Effect classification appeal certificates within the specified time frame unless otherwise
       informed by higher level authority and provide documentation of compliance with the certificate
       to the appropriate deciding authority.
   • Critically review appeal decisions rendered by OPM and DoD to determine if a request for recon-
     sideration and temporary compliance authority should be submitted through the MAJCOM to HQ
     USAF/DPC prior to implementing the decision.
   • Review and classify all identical, similar, and related positions consistent with the decision.
       3.8.10. Participate in quality assessment activities by higher headquarters.
       3.8.11. Maintain official classification records to include current CPDs, evaluation statements,
       and organizational information.
   • Retain canceled CPDs and associated evaluation statements for a minimum of one year.
   • Retain higher headquarters evaluation decisions and appeal decisions until a new standard or guide
     governing the position is applied.
       3.8.12. Maintain current position classification standards and guides and make them available to
       employees and supervisors, on request.

4. Resolution of Disputes:
   4.1. Employee disputes pertaining to the assignment of work or accuracy of duty descriptions in the
   official core personnel document are resolved through agency dispute resolution procedures, such as
   the negotiated or agency grievance procedure.
   4.2. An employee dispute involving the proper classification of the employee’s official position is
   resolved through the classification appeals process.
       4.2.1. Employees have the right to question the classification of their position at any time. Such
       questions should be directed first to the supervisor.
       4.2.2. Every effort should be made to resolve the classification dispute locally and in a timely
       manner. However, employees should not be discouraged from filing classification appeals.



                                                    4
   4.2.3. An employee may select a representative of his/her own choosing, including another civil-
   ian employee, to assist in the preparation of a classification appeal. If the employee elects repre-
   sentation, he/she must designate the representative in writing and notify management in writing of
   any change in representation. The choice of representative may be denied if it would result in a
   conflict of interest, the representative cannot be released from his/her official duties because of
   mission priorities, or it would result in unreasonable costs. Employees must be notified in writing
   as soon as possible, after the decision of any disallowance of representation and be provided a
   rationale for the disallowance.
   4.2.4. Employees and their representatives, if in duty status, are entitled to a reasonable amount of
   official time for the preparation of a classification appeal. The time allowed must be reasonable
   and be determined on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each case or as provided in the
   local union contract. Employees, whether appellants or representatives, must make advance
   arrangements with their supervisors for the use of official time. If disagreement arises over the
   amount of official time to be used, the matter will be submitted by the supervisor to the civilian
   personnel officer for resolution or through the negotiated grievance procedure, as appropriate.
   4.2.5. Federal Wage System (FWS) employees must file initial appeals with the DoD Civilian
   Personnel Management Service (CPMS). If not satisfied with the decision from CPMS, they may
   subsequently appeal to OPM.
   4.2.6. General Schedule (GS) employees may file an appeal directly to either OPM or CPMS. GS
   employees choosing to file initially with CPMS also may subsequently appeal to OPM if not sat-
   isfied with the CPMS decision. However, employees filing directly with OPM have no further
   avenues of appeal.
   4.2.7. Employees filing appeals must follow the appropriate procedures provided in guidance
   from either OPM, DoD, or both, as applicable.
4.3. Management Disputes over Classification Determinations:
   4.3.1. Supervisors who disagree with a classification decision made by the servicing personnel
   office must prepare a reclama based on the appropriate classification standards and guides and
   submit it to the servicing personnel office for review.
   4.3.2. If the servicing personnel office does not accept the classification rationale of the supervi-
   sor, the issue will be elevated through the supervisor’s chain of command to the commander with
   appointing authority. If the commander with appointing authority believes management’s techni-
   cal classification argument has merit, he/she will submit the action to his/her MAJCOM/DPC for
   a binding evaluation decision.
   4.3.3. Requests for evaluation decisions will contain:
• The CPD of record, certified as accurate by the supervisor.
• The evaluation statement prepared by the servicing personnel office.
• The reclama of the supervisor.
• Organization charts.
• Functional statements.
• Subordinate CPDs if the position is supervisory.

                                                5
• Additional information as requested.
   4.3.4. MAJCOM/DPCs will make every effort to render a final decision within 60 days of receipt.
   4.3.5. If the position belongs to a tenant organization, the MAJCOM/DPC of the servicing per-
   sonnel office will request comments from the owning MAJCOM/DPC or refer the action to the
   owning MAJCOM/DPC for decision, if mutually agreed.
4.4. Servicing Personnel Office Disputes over CPD Accuracy:
   4.4.1. If the servicing personnel office has reason to believe the duties and responsibilities of a
   core personnel document are not accurate or misrepresent the difficulty, complexity, or organiza-
   tional relationships of the assigned work, they will bring the matter to the attention of the supervi-
   sor and through the supervisor’s chain of command to the host installation or tenant commander,
   as appropriate. If agreement cannot be reached, the position will be classified on the basis of duties
   and responsibilities assigned and performed rather than on the basis of the duty description. Dis-
   crepancies between the actual duties and the described duties will be addressed in the evaluation
   statement.




                                      MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                      DCS/Personnel




                                                 6
                                              Attachment 1
                                       GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Audit—An interview for fact-gathering purposes conducted by a person competent in the classification
process to verify or gather information about the current duties and responsibilities of a position and the
accuracy of the description of duties and responsibilities. Audits may be conducted in person, by
telephone or other electronic media, or through questionnaires. Audits may be conducted with employees
and/or supervisors, both individually or in groups.
Classification Appeal—A written request by an employee, or group of employees occupying identical
positions, asking DoD or OPM to change the official pay plan, title, series, or grade of the position to
which assigned.
Classification Precedent—A classification decision made by the OPM or DoD on an appeal that is
applicable to other positions having like duties.
Core Personnel Document (CPD—) A single document which contains duties and responsibilities for
determining proper classification (position description); recruitment knowledges, skills and abilities
(KSAs) for staffing of the position; and performance elements and standards for appraising employee
performance (performance plan).
Evaluation Decision—A classification decision rendered by the parent MAJCOM of the commander
with appointing authority to resolve a management dispute or question on the proper classification of a
position. Only MAJCOMs delegated responsibility for oversight of civilian personnel administration
may exercise this authority.
Evaluation Statement—A thorough analysis of a specific position in comparison to all applicable
position classification standards, guides, and other applicable classification guidance.
Organization/Occupational Study or Review—A review of positions within an organization, an
organizational segment, an occupation, or a class of positions to ensure accuracy of core documents,
accurate classification of positions, and consistency of classification. Reviews are conducted when
applying new classification standards or guides, developing a Most Efficient Organization for a
Commercial Activities review (OMB Circular A-76), assessing work hazards, or as requested by
management. Reviews may be conducted by the servicing personnel office alone or with other offices
such as manpower and safety.
Position Management—The arrangement of duties and responsibilities among positions to achieve
maximum efficiency and economy in the use of Air Force resources. Ideal position management is an
optimum balance among mission needs, efficiency of operations, and effective use of employee skills.
Servicing Personnel Office—The personnel office providing technical classification service to the
installation. This may be the local Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF), AFPC/DPC as specifically delegated,
or a personnel office of another component servicing Air Force employees.
Standardized Core Personnel Document (SCPD)—A single core personnel document used for a
number of like positions across the Air Force issued by AFPC/DPC. SCPDs eliminate duplication of
effort in composing individual descriptions, eliminate confusion that arises from variations in
phraseology that do not represent variations in substance.

                                                    7
