BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              7 OCTOBER 2003

                                                                                     21ST SPACE WING
                                                                                           Supplement 1
                                                                                            21 JULY 2004

                                                                       Communications and Information

                                                               RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILCXE                                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/ILCX
       (Ms. Hochgesang-Noffsinger)                                                  (Col Hollace D. Lyon)
Supersedes AFI 33-322, 1 December 1998.                                                         Pages: 14
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 37-1, Air Force Information Manage-
ment (will become AFPD 33-3). It establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for life-cycle manage-
ment (i.e., creation, maintenance and use, and disposition) of information as records in all media through
the Air Force Records Management Program. The instruction also implements Title 44, United States
Code (U.S.C.), Public Printing and Documents, Chapters 29, Records Management by the Archivist of the
United States and by the Administrator of General Services; Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal
Agencies; Chapter 33, Disposal of Records; and Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy;
Title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National
Archives and Records Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management; Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources; Title 18 U.S.C., Crime
and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and Reports, Section 2071, Concealment,
Removal, or Mutilation Generally; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5015.2, DoD Records Man-
agement Program, March 6, 2000; DoD Standard 5015.2 (DoD 5015.2-STD), Design Criteria Standard
for Electronic Records Management Software Applications, June 2002; DoDD 5100.3, Support of the
Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands, November 15, 1999, Change 1, March
23, 2000. This instruction applies to all Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel under con-
tract by the DoD who maintain records in their area of responsibility. Failure to observe the prohibitions
and mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraph 3.2.1. by military personnel is a violation
of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of Military Justice. Similarly, fail-
ure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraph 3.2.1. by
civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary action under applicable civilian per-
sonnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations
of related laws. Additional records management publications are listed on the Air Force website at Uni-
form Resources Locator: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil, under Electronic Publications. Air Force
Directory (AFDIR) 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology, explains
2                                                              AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


other terms. Direct questions or conflicts on the contents of this instruction, through appropriate com-
mand channels, to Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF/ILCXE), 1030 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1030. Refer recommended changes or comments to Headquarters Air Force Com-
munications Agency (HQ AFCA/ITXD), 203 West Losey Street, Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222,
through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publi-
cation. Provide an information copy to HQ USAF/ILCXE. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of refer-
ences and supporting information. Maintain and dispose of records according to Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of
1995 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program, affect this publi-
cation.

(21SW) The OPR for this supplement is 21 SCS/SCXIR (Mr. Charles Springs). This supplement imple-
ments and extends the guidance for Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322, Records Management Program,
7 October 2003. This supplement describes 21st Space Wing (SW) procedures for use in conjunction with
the basic AFI. This supplement applies to all 21 SW units, Geographically Separated Units (GSUs), ten-
ant units, and Headquarters Air Force Space Command that have a support agreement in effect with the 21
SW for Records Management support. This supplement does not apply to the US Air Force Reserves or
the Air National Guard. All records created as a result of prescribed processes will be maintained and dis-
posed of in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This is a total rewrite of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322. It redefines roles and responsibilities at all
levels; deletes the requirement for joint commands to appoint a records manager (RM), requires all field
operating agencies (FOA) to appoint a RM (paragraph 3.4); revises support provided to joint commands;
and updates electronic record-keeping responsibilities throughout. The bar ( | ) preceding the publication
title indicates a major revision from the previous publication.
(21SW) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
(21SW) This is a total rewrite of the 21st Space Wing Supplement 1. It redefines roles and responsibilities
at all levels and brings the supplement in line with the new Air Force Instruction.


1. General. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force activities. In simple terms,
records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, a record of past events, and
are the basis for future actions. Every Air Force activity must manage its records to comply with legal
accountability requirements. The key to an effective records management program is the integrity of the
filing system--a system that ensures a standard methodology for filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately
disposing of records according to published retention and disposition schedules. Criteria for establishing
a filing system can be found in AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records.
    1.1. Commanders and staff agency chiefs must implement records management programs in order to
    comply with this instruction and protect the rights of the U.S. Government and persons directly
    affected by Air Force actions.
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                          3


   1.2. This instruction applies to contractors performing records management support and where con-
   tractors perform duties/services/functions in place of U. S. Government employees. Performance
   work statements must include record keeping requirements (see paragraph 10.).
   1.3. Air Force units at all levels must manage records systematically to make sure they are complete,
   accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. Air Force units at all levels must document their organi-
   zation, function, and activities and preserve their records by implementing effective life-cycle man-
   agement procedures within their areas of responsibility.

2. Definition of Records. “…all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or
other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an
agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public
business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evi-
dence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the
Government or because of the informational value of data in them. Library and museum material made or
acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved
only for convenience of reference, and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not
included.” (Title 44 U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section
3301, Definition of records).

3. The Air Force Program Guidance.
   3.1. The Air Force Director, Communications Operations (HQ USAF/ILC) oversees the Air Force
   records management program and appoints the Air Force Records Officer to administer the program,
   represent the Secretary of the Air Force on records management issues, and oversee the legal require-
   ments of records disposal.
   3.2. Air Force Personnel, Civilian Employees, and Contractors:
       3.2.1. Must not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate or destroy records without proper authority.
       Unauthorized concealment, removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of records, or any
       attempt to do so, is a violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may be punished by up to
       three years confinement and a fine. Failure to obey the prohibitions in this paragraph is also a
       violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to fol-
       low the prohibitions in this paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action
       under applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable
       criminal or civil sanctions.
       3.2.2. Must inform officials of any actual or potential unlawful removal, change, or destruction of
       Air Force records.
       3.2.3. Must distinguish Federal records from non-record materials and maintain personal papers
       separately.
   3.3. The Air Force requires an organized network of Record Managers (RM) at major commands
   (MAJCOM), direct reporting units (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), and bases for managing
   the program and ensuring compliance at all levels.
       3.3.1. Each MAJCOM (commander or senior communications and information official) must
       appoint a command records manager (CRM). Upon appointment or subsequent change of RM,
4                                                              AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


       notify HQ USAF/ILCX of the name, grade or rank, telephone number, office symbol, and organi-
       zational electronic mail address of the appointee.
       3.3.2. Each DRU (commander or senior communications and information official) must appoint a
       RM. CRM responsibility applies to Air Force DRUs and Air National Guard for the purposes of
       executing the Air Force Records Management Program. The 11th Wing supports offices of record
       in the Secretariat, HQ USAF, and at Bolling AFB DC and should develop a headquarters operating
       instruction outlining National Capital Region procedures.
       3.3.3. Each FOA (commander or senior communications and information official) must appoint
       an agency records manager (ARM).
       3.3.4. Each Air Force base (commander or senior communications and information official) must
       appoint a base RM and notify the CRM, providing the same information as in paragraph 3.3.1. At
       levels below MAJCOM, where there is a communications squadron, the RM is the chief of the
       office of records (COR) function.

4. The Air Force Records Officer.
    4.1. Works with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and General Services
    Administration (GSA) using the guidelines from Titles 36 CFR and 41 CFR, Public Contracts and
    Property Management.
    4.2. Develops and issues policies governing life-cycle management of Air Force records according to
    AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and AFI 37-138, Records Disposition--Procedures and
    Responsibilities.
    4.3. Works with the Archivist of the United States in applying standards, rules, and techniques to
    improve managing automated and manual records, to improve how the Air Force identifies, main-
    tains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and disposes of records of temporary
    value under guidelines in Titles 36 and 41 CFR.
    4.4. Certifies to the Archivist of the United States that records no longer of value to the Air Force are
    disposable.
    4.5. Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change, or destruction
    of Air Force records.
    4.6. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure the Air Force properly creates and preserves
    records that document all aspects of its business to protect the rights of the United States Government
    and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
    4.7. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure all records, including databases and those in auto-
    mated information systems, generated by processes and prescribed in Air Force publications are
    scheduled.
    4.8. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure system developers include records management
    requirements in automated information systems development and redesign.
    4.9. Applies DoD records management functional and system requirements to all electronic
    record-keeping systems.
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                       5


   4.10. Obtains written approval or concurrence from the Comptroller General of the United States to
   dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States Government or accounts
   affecting the United States Government.
   4.11. Negotiates agreements to transfer Air Force records to NARA, Federal records centers (FRC),
   other Federal agencies, or private organizations.
   4.12. Implements agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records.
   4.13. Publishes a records disposition schedule authorizing disposal of agency records and directing
   prompt and proper disposition of temporary records and retirement of permanent records.
   4.14. Directs evaluations of the Air Force’s Records Management Program, during staff assistance
   visits (SAV) or Inspector General (IG) team visits, ensuring compliance with Federal, DoD, and Air
   Force requirements.
   4.15. Issues guidance on authenticating records according to AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force
   Records.
   4.16. Maintains awareness of developments in the field of records technology and systems, and
   potential application to the Air Force’s record systems..
      4.16.1. Provides, upon request, a copy of any report submitted to NARA, GSA, OMB, or the Con-
      gress, to the Director of Administration and Management (DA&M), Office of the Secretary of
      Defense (OSD).
      4.16.2. Advises the DA&M, OSD of any matters pertaining to records management that may have
      DoD-wide implications.
      4.16.3. Provides combatant commands with requested administrative and logistical support for
      records management as specified in DoDD 5100.3.
      4.16.4. Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records.

5. Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers.
   5.1. Manage the records program within their command or agency as specified in Federal laws,
   NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33- (and 37-) series publications. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
   internal record-keeping programs will comply with host base guidelines for storage, staging, retrieval,
   and training.
   5.2. Establish and manage a training program for newly appointed base RMs and for continuing train-
   ing and education.
   5.3. Provide guidance on document imaging and electronic record-keeping requirements. If records
   are to be maintained electronically, establish and implement command-wide process for electronically
   storing records having a retention of 10 years or less, with manual application of disposition, where a
   DoD 5015.2-STD compliant system is not implemented. Records with a retention of more than 10
   years are not authorized for electronic storage without a compliant system or approval of HQ USAF/
   ILCX.
   5.4. Ensure records generated by command or agency directives and information collections (forms)
   are scheduled. When a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary responsibility (OPR)
6                                                             AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


    for an Air Force publication, the CRM or ARM ensures records generated by the prescribed processes
    are scheduled. Send documentation to support this action to HQ USAF/ILCX.
       5.4.1. Provide instruction to the OPR on submitting records disposition recommendation (AF
       Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation).
       5.4.2. Agency record managers must ensure functional series records dispositions are current. At
       a minimum, during the month of September review applicable tables and rules in AFMAN 37-139
       and submit changes or a negative reply, as applicable, through their functional Air Force OPR to
       HQ USAF/ILCX. When processes change, are deleted, or new ones implemented, submit records
       scheduling information as previously stated.
    5.5. Coordinate contract record-keeping requirements with MAJCOM contracting office (see para-
    graph 10.).
    5.6. Review each base RM program at least once every 24 months.
    5.7. Work with the IG to:
       5.7.1. Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams.
       5.7.2. Provide compliance evaluation criteria and standards for functional area inspectors.
       5.7.3. Establish crossfeed procedures to ensure command units are aware of records management
       evaluation contained in IG reports. Send a copy of procedures to HQ USAF/ILCX.
    5.8. Establish a local support agreement with the host base RM, when deemed necessary, for program
    assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staging, or records shipping ser-
    vices.

6. Base Records Manager (RM). The RM administers the installation program. Their duties fall into
three major areas: providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training.
6. (21SW) Base Records Manager (BRM). The 721st Mission Support Group (MSG) and 821st Air
Base Group (ABG) Records Managers (RMs) serve as Assistant Records Managers for the 21 SW. How-
ever, they are recognized as Base Records Managers for their installations and are responsible for admin-
istering Records Management programs under the direction of the 21 SW Base RM (21 SCS/SCXIR).
    6.1. Providing Assistance.
       6.1.1. Implements the Air Force Records Management Program across the base and provides
       assistance in the Air Force 33- and 37-series publications and guidance published by NARA.
       6.1.2. Makes recommendations on records storage issues. Provides guidance on using document
       imaging systems for records storage and authorized disposition of paper-based records following
       imaging.
       6.1.3. Provides guidance on electronic record-keeping requirements and implements MAJCOM/
       local procedures for creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of electronic records.
       6.1.4. Reviews OPR proposals for electronic storage and document imaging of records, makes
       recommendation to improve processes, and sends the proposal to the CRM before implementa-
       tion.
       6.1.5. Implements the Records Information Management System according to AFMAN 37-123.
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                   7


        6.1.5.1. (Added-21SW) Establishes organizational and Functional Area Records Manager
        (FARM) accounts in Web-RIMS.
        6.1.5.2. (Added-21SW) Makes modifications to organizational and FARM accounts as
        needed.
        6.1.5.3. (Added-21SW) Updates Records Custodian (RC) training dates upon completion of
        initial Records Management training.
        6.1.5.4. (Added-21SW) Updates Records Management Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) dates in
        Web-RIMS upon completion of SAVs.
     6.1.6. Establishes and implements procedures for processing and approving file plans not speci-
     fied by the CRM.
     6.1.6. (21SW) Approves all file plans using Web-RIMS.
        6.1.6.1. (Added-21SW) Approves file plans within 3 workdays upon request from the FARM.
     6.1.7. Investigates incidences of lost records and unauthorized destruction of records.
        6.1.7.1. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records.
        6.1.7.2. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records loss.
        6.1.7.3. Provides report as prescribed by AFI 37-138.
     6.1.8. Reviews base directives and forms/Information Management Tool (IMT) before publica-
     tion to ensure compliance with records management directives.
     6.1.9. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recom-
     mendation, for new or revised records schedule.
     6.1.10. Provides records management administrative and logistical support for combatant com-
     mands where a support agreement exists.
     6.1.11. Ensures offices of record receive a SAV at least every 24 months.
     6.1.11. (21SW) All Offices of Record within a 21 SW organization receive a SAV every 24
     months. Base RM personnel use the HQ AFSPC Checklist 33-22, Records Management Program,
     to document discrepancies noted during the SAV. A copy of the completed checklist is provided to
     inspected unit commander/heads of staff agencies and FARM. Original is given to the Office of
     Record inspected. For HQ AFSPC, a copy of the SAV is provided to the FARM and to the 3-letter
     of that organization. The original copy is provided to the Office of Record inspected.
        6.1.11.1. (Added-21SW) Unit commanders and heads of staff agencies are encouraged to uti-
        lize the wing Self-Inspection Program (SIP) to monitor those items identified as critical dis-
        crepancies.
        6.1.11.2. (Added-21SW) Monitors and follows-up all records management items identified in
        SIP until closure.
     6.1.12. (Added-21SW) Provides one-on-one orientation to newly appointed FARMs (i.e., review
     of file plans, assistance to, and evaluation of Offices of Records).
     6.1.13. (Added-21SW) 721 MSG and 821 ABG RMs forward copies of SAVs conducted to 21
     SCS/SCXIR, 655 West Ent Avenue, Suite 108, Peterson AFB CO 80914-1645.
8                                                            AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


    6.2. Managing Staging Areas.
       6.2.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or transfer to
       a FRC including centralized storage of electronically stored inactive records.
       6.2.1. (21SW) GSUs will utilize the Peterson AFB Records Staging Area for storage of perma-
       nent records.
       6.2.2. Provides records staging service for tenant activities, if provided for in a support agree-
       ment.
       6.2.3. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and accountability for records
       transferred to other agencies or FRCs by maintaining copies of the Standard Forms (SF) 135,
       Records Transmittal and Receipt, as prescribed in AFI 37-138.
       6.2.4. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for disposition. Where
       required, the base RM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-based records stored in the
       staging area.
    6.3. Training.
       6.3.1. Train all personnel within 3 months of assignment, including tenant activities’ personnel.
       ANG personnel will be trained within 6 months of assignment.
       6.3.1. (21SW) The 3-month period begins on the date that the Base RM receives the RC and
       FARM appointment letters.
           6.3.1.1. (Added-21SW) Base RM records the receipt date of FARM and RC appointment let-
           ters and schedules a training date within the first 3-month period.
       6.3.2. Training must cover command-unique or local operating procedures or requirements, par-
       ticularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
       6.3.3. Include instruction on requirement to identify personal papers, how to identify personal
       papers, and requirement to maintain them separately from official records.
       6.3.4. Notify supervisors of the training completion and requirement to record training on their
       Supervisor’s Employee Brief for civilian employees and on AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Train-
       ing Record Continuation Sheet for military personnel.
       6.3.4. (21SW) Base Records Manager issues an AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training, for ini-
       tial Records Management and FARM training.

7. Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). Each base-level unit, principal staff office within an
Air Force organization, or contractor appoints a FARM. One or more FARMs may be required based on
the span of control, the complexities of the mission, and the size of the organization’s functional areas.
Where a MAJCOM-approved electronic records management process or application has been imple-
mented, a designated workgroup manager may perform a combination of FARM and records custodian
duties. The FARM:
7. (21SW) Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). Sends FARM and RC appointment memo-
randums to Base RM via email, fax, or mail within 10 workdays of appointment. Memorandums will
include name, rank, functional office symbol, and duty telephone number.
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                         9


   7.1. Serves as the point of contact for and monitors the records management program of their unit or
   functional area and serves as liaison with the base RM.
   7.2. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
   7.3. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
      7.3.1. (Added-21SW) FARMs will use the Email Envelope button in Web-RIMS to submit file
      plan approval requests to Base RM.
   7.4. Ensures each office of record receives a SAV at least once every 24 months. Follows up with the
   COR on corrective actions for discrepancies noted during visits.
   7.4. (21SW) Conducts SAVs to each Office of Record every odd numbered year to ensure records
   management objectives are being met. Uses HQ AFSPC Checklist 33-22, Records Management Pro-
   gram, for this purpose. Provides the original to the office visited and a copy to Base RM (21 SCS/
   SCXIR). Places copy in FARM Handbook.
   7.5. Ensures offices of record promptly retire eligible records and maintain accountability of such
   records.
   7.5. (21SW) Reviews all documents for staging and signs Block 2, Standard Form 135, Records
   Transmittal and Receipt, to ensure records are properly prepared for staging.
   7.6. Schedules training for all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records.
   7.7. Assists the RM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and electronic storage
   media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and electronic storage on creating, trans-
   ferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office records. Reports problems to the COR and RM.
   7.8. (Added-21SW) Maintains a FARM Handbook. Tab handbook accordingly:
      Tab 1 – FARM and RC appointment letters
      Tab 2 – Training certificates
      Tab 3 – Chief of the Office of Record training
      Tab 4 – SAVs conducted
      Tab 5 – Waiver letters (e.g., use of non-standard filing supplies/equipment, authorization to retain
      small volume of 2- to 8-year records in current files area),
      Tab 6 – File plans for each Office of Record
NOTE: Base Records Manager cannot approve waiver letters for exceptions to the Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Use the RDS, Table 37-14, Rule 10, to document this file.
      7.8.1. (Added-21SW) Tab out each office maintained in FARM Handbook.
   7.9. (Added-21SW) Establishes COR and RC user accounts in Web-RIMS.

8. Chief of the Office of Record (COR).
   8.1. Responsible for physical and legal custody of all records the office creates or receives, regardless
   of their physical characteristics, including identifying appropriate disposition authorities (AFMAN
   37-139) for records the office maintains according to AFI 37-138.
10                                                             AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


     8.2. Ensures the office creates only essential records, permanently preserves valuable records, and
     disposes of temporary records according to AFMAN 37-139.
     8.3. Ensures each office of record under their purview develops a file plan.
     8.4. Appoints a records custodian (RC).
     8.4. (21SW) Sends appointment letter to the Base RM through the organizational FARM.
        8.4.1. (Added-21SW) Appointment of FARM and RC can be incorporated on the same appoint-
        ment letter.
     8.5. Ensures RCs attend records management training. The COR briefs the RC on office functions to
     include the reason why the office keeps records.
     8.6. Submits proposals for establishing electronic records storage and document imaging systems to
     the RM.
     8.7. Assists the FARM or RM in reviewing and evaluating automated information systems for their
     effect on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of records.
     8.8. Ensures all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records attend records management
     training.

9. Records Custodian (RC). The RC maintains, services, and disposes of the office records. RCs must
learn the functional mission of the office of record that the records support and know the purposes the
records serve. The RC:
     9.1. Maintains the office file plan and accountability for active and inactive records.
     9.2. Ensures eligible records are promptly and properly prepared to retire or transfer.
     9.3. Must be proficient on the equipment used for storing and retrieving the records from the files.
     9.4. Knows and implements the records maintenance, use, and disposition policies and procedures for
     records maintained.
     9.5. Adjusts office records maintenance practices to provide accurate and effective reference service
     to the users of the records.
     9.6. Consults with the COR, and when necessary with the FARM, on problems that affect creating,
     maintaining, using, and disposing of records.

10. Contractor Records. Records management oversight of a contractor’s records is necessary to
ensure all Air Force record-keeping requirements are met. Agencies or organizations initiating contracts
must coordinate them with the applicable command or base RM.
     10.1. Contractors performing Congressionally mandated program functions must create and maintain
     records to document these programs. The contract must include requirements for the delivery of all
     pertinent documentation of contractor program execution.
     10.2. Many other types of contracts involve creating background data that may have value to the
     United States Government. Whenever appropriate, agency officials should require the delivery of
     such background data in addition to a final product. The contractor assigns the appropriate file identi-
     fication and disposition instructions to all records delivered to the United States Government.
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                          11


       10.2.1. Contracts to produce statistical analyses specify the delivery of background data that may
       have value to the contracting agency or to other agencies.
       10.2.2. Contracts to produce reports that represent Air Force policy specify the delivery of back-
       ground data needed to verify assertions or justify conclusions.
       10.2.3. Research contracts specify the delivery of background data that have value to the contract-
       ing agency.
   10.3. Background electronic data and records specified for delivery to the contracting agency must be
   accompanied by sufficient technical documentation to permit the Air Force to use the data.
   10.4. A deferred ordering and delivery data clause should be included in the contract to acquire any
   data and records that may have value to the Air Force but were not identified in advance.
   10.5. Contracts must list records management instructions and directives for contractor compliance.

11. Support Agreements. Base RMs will provide support to any and all organizations authorized to
receive administrative or logistical support. To validate and defend availability of resources, a support
agreement is an essential tool. Local support agreements for records management services can be between
the host and Air Force tenants of other MAJCOMs, other services, or DoD components and non-DoD
agencies. Normally it is the responsibility of the receiving activity to assess and generate requests for sup-
port. If a support agreement is necessary, the RM must work with the base communications unit plans
flight to modify an existing agreement or create a new one. Follow the procedures in AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures.

12. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT).
   12.1. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this publication.
   12.2. Records: Records pertaining to disposition recommendations, on-the-job training, support
   agreements, transmittal and receipt are created by this publication. Retain and dispose of records cre-
   ated by this publication according to AFMAN 37-139, Table 37-19, Rules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8.01, 12, 17
   and Table 37-15, Rules 7, 8, 9, and 10.
   12.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
       12.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation; AF
       Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Records Continuation Sheet; AF Form 847, Recommenda-
       tion for Change of Publication; and SF 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt.
       12.3.1. (21SW) AF Form 1256, Certificate of Training.
       12.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                                      MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                      DCS/Installations and Logistics
12                                                          AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 18, U.S.C., Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and Reports, Sec-
tion 2071, Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally
Title 44, U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 29, Records Management by the Archivist of
the United States and by the Administrator of General Services
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301, Definition of Records
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records Admin-
istration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records Admin-
istration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management
Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources
DoD 5015.2-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software Applications,
June 2002
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands, November
15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management (will become AFPD 33-3)
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities
AFDIR 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDIR—Air Force Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004                                                                       13


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ARM—Agency Records Manager
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of an Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
DA&M—Director of Administration and Management
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
RC—Records Custodian
RM—Records Managers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Chief of Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records are created,
received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records. This can be at staff
level (division chief, branch chief, director) wing, squadron, or flight.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers at MAJCOM, specific FOAs, DRUs, and
Combatant Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a specified
retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer to a
14                                                             AFI33-322_21SWSUP1_I 21 JULY 2004


staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken with inactive
records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or transfer to the National
Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in AFMAN 37-139, specifying the date or event for
cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records that are stored
together and treated as a unit.
Information Management Tool (IMT)—Information Management Tool, formerly referred to as a form.
The new nomenclature reflects the expanded capability brought on by the new technology.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having primary
functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or problem.
Personal papers—Documentary materials belonging to an individual that are not used to conduct agency
business. Related solely to an individual’s own affairs or used exclusively for that individual’s
convenience. Must be clearly designated as such and kept separate from the records.
Records—(See paragraph 2.)
Records Custodian (RC)—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal record
keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a base records storage area or a Federal records center.
Scheduled—Having final disposition approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory instructions
for what to do with records (and nonrecord materials) no longer needed for current Government business.
