BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             30 MARCH 1994
                                              UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                        Supplement
                                                                           11 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                        RESOURCES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                     www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC
                                                                          (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes:   AFR 40-312, 20 February                                                Pages: 13
              1980 and AFR 40-112,
              25 October 1973.
                                          (USAFE)
OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KKC                                             Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                          (Monique F. Botting)
Supersedes:   AFI36-502_USAFESUP,                                                    Pages:12
              9 November 2007


This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD
36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for
commanders, managers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees.
Use this instruction with Air Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a
glossary of terms.

(USAFE) This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management,
and AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions
for commanders, managers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian
employees. Use this instruction with Air Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1
contains a glossary of terms. This supplement provides general resource management
information, details the requirements for the MAJCOM CRCB, prescribes HQ USAFE/NAF and
Wing Civilian OH Processes, USAFE Civilian Employment Plan (CEP), and outlines
 2                                                AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


responsibilities of civilian personnel officers (CPO). This supplement applies to all United States
Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) units, unless otherwise stated. It does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintain in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It
updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.

(USAFE) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This is the
first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.


1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while
balancing:
            Mission needs.
            Operational economy and efficiency.
            Skills and career paths.
            Employee development and motivation.
            Recruitment and retention of competent people.
2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management
responsibility is assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of
the Air Force to commanders of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to
subordinate commanders on down to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs
civilian personnel within the chain of command must manage civilian resources properly and is
accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers and supervisors at each level must
evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their civilian resources and take
appropriate action to correct or reward managers" performance.
     2.1. All managers and supervisors:
              Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length
               of the workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis
               when execution year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian
               pay. Make sure that employee work schedules accommodate both the employees"
               needs and the efficient and effective accomplishment of the mission.
              Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of
               civilian pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans
               (decisions that commit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel
               management authority to minimize adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track
               civilian resource costs and take action to ensure successful budget execution.
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                              3


         Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
         Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of
          each year.
     2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward
     personnel within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
           Applicable authorities.
           Sound management practices.
           The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
  2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation
  commanders establish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most
  efficiently and effectively. The commander or designated representative chairs the board,
  which includes functional managers and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial
  management, and manpower communities. The board:
         Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation
          level.
         Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures
          against budgetary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the
          civilian resource operating budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes
          any surplus funds.
         Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
     2.2.1. (Added-USAFE) USAFE Civilian Resources Corporate Board (CRCB): The
     USAFE Vice Commander is the designated representative and will chair the MAJCOM
     and HQ USAFE/NAF CRCB. This role is dual-hatted and chairperson assumes total
     authority, with the advice of the advisory staff (identified below). For MAJCOM CRCB
     issues, the NAF/CC and HQ USAFE Directors will become part of the advisory staff; for
     HQ USAFE/NAF issues, the NAF/CC and HQ USAFE Directors become voting
     members. The chairperson:
          2.2.1.1. (Added-USAFE) Convenes meetings on a quarterly basis, or more
          frequently as required, and record/ distribute meeting minutes. If a time-sensitive
          topic, requiring CRCB coordination and approval, arises        ‗out-of-cycle‘ – the
          alternative process is a fully-coordinated staff package utilizing the Task
          Management Tool (TMT).
          2.2.1.2. (Added-USAFE) Assigns offices of primary responsibility (OPR) to resolve
          open items, sets suspense dates, and approves completed actions.
          2.2.1.3. (Added-USAFE) Reviews work year (WY) and funding execution of the
          CEP and approves recommended employment strategies, as necessary.
          2.2.1.4. (Added-USAFE) Ensures 100 percent execution of civilian WYs through
          utilization of both permanent and temporary US and Foreign National employees.
          2.2.1.5. (Added-USAFE) Monitors execution and makes decisions on the civilian
          pay budget.
4                                     AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


    2.2.1.6. (Added-USAFE) Reviews proposed expenditures for relocation and
    recruitment bonuses, retention allowances, performance awards, and superior
    qualification appointments against the budget.
    2.2.1.7. (Added-USAFE) Approves requests for HQ USAFE/NAF overhires (OHs),
    monitors compliance regarding use of OHs USAFE-wide, implements corrective
    policy directives, as necessary.
    2.2.1.8. (Added-USAFE) Voting Members (or their designated representative):
       2.2.1.8.1. (Added-USAFE) 3AF/CC
       2.2.1.8.2. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1, Director of Manpower, Personnel,
       and Services
       2.2.1.8.3. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A2, Director of Intelligence
       2.2.1.8.4. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A3/10,            Director   of    Operations,
       Strategic Deterrence, and Nuclear Integration
       2.2.1.8.5. (Added-USAFE) HQ          USAFE/A4/7,    Director    of    Logistics,
       Installations, and Mission Support
       2.2.1.8.6. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A5/8/9, Director of Plans, Programs,
       and Analysis
       2.2.1.8.7. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A6, Director of Communications
       2.2.1.8.8. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/DS, Director of Staff
       2.2.1.8.9. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/FM, Comptroller
       2.2.1.8.10. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/HC, Chaplain
       2.2.1.8.11. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/IG, Inspector General
       2.2.1.8.12. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/JA, Judge Advocate
       2.2.1.8.13. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/SE, Director of Safety
       2.2.1.8.14. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/SG, Surgeon General
    2.2.1.9. (Added-USAFE) Advisory Staff (or their designated representative):
       2.2.1.9.1. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1K, Chief, Personnel Programs
       Division
       2.2.1.9.2. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1KD, Deputy Chief, Personnel
       Programs Division
       2.2.1.9.3. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1KK, Chief, Civilian Personnel
       Programs Branch
       2.2.1.9.4. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1KKC, Civilian Personnel Resources
       Manager and Staffing Manager
       2.2.1.9.5. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1M, Chief, Manpower, Organization,
       and Resources Division
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                          5


              2.2.1.9.6. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/A1MP, Chief, Programs and Resources
              Branch
              2.2.1.9.7. (Added-USAFE) HQ       USAFE/FMA,       Chief,     Financial   Analysis
              Division
              2.2.1.9.8. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE/FMAO, Chief, Budget Operations
              Branch
              2.2.1.9.9. (Added-USAFE) 86 FSS/FSP, Civilian Human Resources Flight
              Chief
     2.2.2. (Added-USAFE) At the beginning of each fiscal year (FY), the Command
     Civilian Resources Manager (HQ USAFE/A1KKC) provides each CPS with guidance in
     the form of USAFE-approved and funded WY targets. CPSs will then develop a
     comprehensive CEP to fully execute the WY target. Upon request, a copy of the CEP
     will be forwarded to HQ USAFE/A1KKC, usafe.a1kc@ramstein.af.mil, no later than
     30 days after program release by the command for the new FY.
     2.2.3. (Added-USAFE) Installation CEPs will be reviewed at USAFE as part of the
     mid-year budget review process, or at any other time during the FY, as management
     decisions impact the program. The MAJCOM CRCB may adjust WY targets to maximize
     WY execution and/or meet mission requirements.
  2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel
  jointly help managers and supervisors by:
         Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and
          projections for civilian resources.
         Allocating manpower resources.
         Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
         Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
  2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
         Helping them plan employment.
         Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding
          them to HQ USAF as required.
         Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
     2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration,
     and operational requirements, including:
               The costs of recruitment and staffing.
               The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
               Affirmative employment goals.
               The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
     2.4.2. (Added-USAFE) CPO Responsibilities include the following:
         2.4.2.1. (Added-USAFE) Monitoring installation civilian WY and funding
         execution data on a monthly basis to ensure compliance with imposed targets.
 6                                             AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


            2.4.2.2. (Added-USAFE) Preparing and reviewing periodic reports for the CRCB
            advising board on the current status of employment levels and tracking WY usage.
            2.4.2.3. (Added-USAFE) Tracking reimbursable positions and working with your
            local FM to ensure accurate coding.
            2.4.2.4. (Added-USAFE) Maintaining awareness of expenditures affecting the
            civilian pay budget; i.e., overtime and compensatory time use.
            2.4.2.5. (Added-USAFE) Developing local procedures to ensure that individual
            employment actions are within existing program limitations.
     2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
            Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the
             mission.
            Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower
             requirements.
            Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
     2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
            Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs
             approved by the corporate board.
            Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their
             civilian resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.
3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS:
HAF-DPC [AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting
requirement is designated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions,
precedence priority. Submit data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any
means to ensure arrival on the established due dates.
4. (Added-USAFE) Use of Overhires (OHs). Each person employed within USAFE must be
assigned to either a permanent authorization reflected on the unit manpower document (UMD) or
an OH authorization approved and issued by the appropriate commander. Approval authority for
OHs may be delegated by the commander to the respective CRCB.
     4.1. (Added-USAFE) Manpower Position Control Numbers (MPCN): Management must
     place employees on permanent appointments against valid MPCNs using the AFPC-directed
     MPCN overage designators in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).
        4.1.1. (Added-USAFE) Do not submit OH requests if there is an authorization
        associated with requested workload unless it meets requirements of paragraph 4.1.8.
        below. Do not submit an OH request if there is a vacant authorization associated with
        that workload as recruitment for a permanent fill is the correct course of action.
        4.1.2. (Added-USAFE) Unless there are extenuating circumstances, an employee
        assigned to a valid, permanent MPCN may not be placed on a time-limited appointment.
        An example of extenuating circumstances would be an authorization scheduled to
        become unfunded/abolished within the next 1-2 fiscal years (FY); however, the workload
        associated with that authorization is mission critical until time of abolishment. In this
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                          7


     instance, the appointment associated with the action is temporary and the employee is not
     an OH.
     4.1.3. (Added-USAFE) OH Definitions and Constraints: An OH position is one that
     has been assigned a classification (pay plan/pay schedule, title, occupational series and
     grade/pay band)/pending establishment of an assigned classification; established in
     DCPDS; and, for which there is almost always no authorization on the UMD. Ongoing
     work of an indefinite duration is more appropriately assigned to a permanent position
     authorized on the UMD. If there is a critical long-term need to perform specific work,
     organizations should work with USAFE/A1M to fund an authorization on the UMD
     allowing an organization to fill the position outside the OH process using normal,
     permanent fill, recruitment process.
     4.1.4. (Added-USAFE) An OH is defined as a work requirement not associated with an
     established UMD authorization at the time an employee is on the rolls. OHs are
     generally used to satisfy short-term or seasonal workload requirements. OH positions
     cannot be established to backfill authorizations abolished as a result of a manpower
     reduction or downsizing effort and cannot be used to accomplish permanent workload
     except as cited below. OH positions must only be utilized in the following ways:
     4.1.5. (Added-USAFE) Seasonal Workload: OHs may perform seasonal workload
     exceeding allocated manpower capabilities.       Requests for workloads that are
     programmable should be processed as far in advance as possible. (Example: Lifeguards
     or snow removal.)
     4.1.6. (Added-USAFE) Emergency Workload:            OHs may be used to perform
     emergency requirements, which are beyond the control of the local commander/director.
     (Examples: fire damage, storm damage, and natural disasters). Peak workload
     requirements accounted for during development of manpower standards for a given
     functional area are not considered as emergency workload.
     4.1.7. (Added-USAFE) Short-Term Mission Requirement: OH positions may be used
     to perform temporary duties as directed and approved by management. This would
     include surge workload or special projects/ initiatives for a limited time, but less than 2
     years.
     4.1.8. (Added-USAFE) Critical Mission Continuity: OH positions directly associated
     with conduct of contingency operations or temporary/non-permanent basis backfill
     support for deployed employees. This category includes, but is not limited to, direct
     support to Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO), support for peacekeeping
     operations, major humanitarian assistance efforts, non-combatant evacuation operations
     (NEO), and international disaster relief efforts. USAFE organizations must use the
     appropriate Emergency and Special Purpose (ESP) code. If the OH is OCO coded, then
     the organization must include the OH expense in their OCO budget estimate submitted to
     HQ USAFE/FMAO. Please contact your local budget officer or USAFE/FMA budget
     analyst for more details.
     4.1.9. (Added-USAFE) New Programmed Mission: OH positions may be used for
     ‗Directed New Mission‘ or ‗Early Start to Mission Already Programmed‘. These
     programs will require documentation to reflect the higher level approval authority. OHs
8                                               AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


       are intended to facilitate this process through advanced recruitment for a projected
       vacancy. These OH approvals will include a transition plan to move the incumbent to a
       permanent authorization once OH position is funded on the UMD.
    4.2. (Added-USAFE) Duration of OH Appointments: OHs are recruited and filled on a
    time-limited basis only. Do not use a permanent appointment for an OH. OH positions
    (other than ‗New Programmed Mission‘ listed above) are filled with either ‗Temporary
    Appointment‘ or ‗Term Appointment‘, each having its own criteria and pros/cons. Managers
    must carefully consider the distinctions between the two types of appointments prior to
    requesting an OH position.
       4.2.1. (Added-USAFE) For US positions, Temporary Appointments are used when the
       workload requirement is expected to last one year, or less. When unforeseen
       circumstances extend the temporary work requirement, a GS Temporary Appointment
       can be extended up to one year for a maximum duration of two years. This limitation
       was established in response to Congressional concern over past misuse of temporary
       appointment authority. Temporary employees do not have reduction-in-force (RIF)
       rights if their position is terminated (lack of work, lack of funds, etc.) prior to the end of
       the appointment expiration date. Temporary employees do not receive the traditional
       benefits and entitlements of permanent employees.
       4.2.2. (Added-USAFE) For US positions, term appointments may be made for a period
       of more than one year, but not more than four years for short-term project work or
       extraordinary workload. Term employees have RIF rights if their position is terminated
       prior to their not to exceed date. They are also more costly than temporary employees
       due to their entitlement to government paid benefits. Normally, work that is projected to
       last more than four years is considered permanent work and a funded manpower
       authorization should be obtained to support this workload.
       4.2.3. (Added-USAFE) For US positions addressing new programmed work, the
       appointment type should be permanent. The OH request must clearly delineate the
       timeframe from initial hire to the date the authorization is funded on the UMD.
       4.2.4. (Added-USAFE) For Local National positions, time-limited or temporary
       appointments will follow country specific rules and the host country personnel system.
    4.3. (Added-USAFE) The following applies to OH positions:
       4.3.1. (Added-USAFE) Used for short-term, additional workload requirements.
       4.3.2. (Added-USAFE) Used for temporary personnel shortages (i.e. employees on
       maternity leave, extended sick leave pending disability retirement, etc.).
       4.3.3. (Added-USAFE) Not appropriate for long-term, permanent workload lasting
       more than four years; only in rare instances should OHs be used beyond this period.
       4.3.4. (Added-USAFE) Not used to perform work of positions that have been abolished
       as the result of a manpower reduction or downsizing effort.
       4.3.5. (Added-USAFE) Subject to periodic review by the CRCB.
       4.3.6. (Added-USAFE) The effective date of the temporary/term hire will be the date
       the employee starts the position, not the date of approval for the OH position.
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                          9


  4.4. (Added-USAFE) Requesting an OH. The requesting organization is responsible for
  ensuring proper coordination.
     4.4.1. (Added-USAFE) HQ USAFE and NAF staffs: The procedures for requesting a
     temporary, term, or extension of an existing OH position are provided below. All
     requests must come from Directorate/NAF level, with Director/NAF Commander or
     Deputy Director/NAF Commander approval. The requesting organization is responsible
     for ensuring proper coordination. To expedite OH request decisions, please follow the
     appropriate coordination requirements outlined below:
        4.4.1.1. (Added-USAFE) The requesting organization creates a tasker in TMT using
        Electronic Staff Summary Sheet format and submits (in the following order) to HQ
        USAFE/A1M, HQ USAFE/FM, and HQ USAFE/A1K for coordination. All requests
        will be submitted via TMT NLT 14 days prior to the scheduled CRCB. Requests
        received less than 14 days prior will be considered ‗out of cycle‘ and addressed
        during the following CRCB.
        4.4.1.2. (Added-USAFE) Once all required coordination is received and the
        feedback is considered by the requesting organization, the request must be submitted
        to USAFE/A1 for approval.
        4.4.1.3. (Added-USAFE) The TMT addresses for coordination/approval are as
        follows: HQ USAFE/A1M Manpower and Organization; HQ USAFE/FM; HQ
        USAFE/A1K Personnel Division, and HQ USAFE/A1 for approval. The requesting
        organization must provide HQ USAFE/A1K notification of the name of the
        incumbent when recruitment is completed.
        4.4.1.4. (Added-USAFE) All OH requests are subject to HQ USAFE/A1M
        validation of work requirement, IAW criteria set forth in para 4.1. above.
        4.4.1.5. (Added-USAFE) Subject to funding validation by HQ USAFE/FM.
        Subordinate units and directorates must understand they assume the risk of the costs
        for their OH positions, which may become a unit bill if sufficient civilian pay funds
        are not available to fund all authorized positions. Due to the annual fluctuation in the
        command's civilian pay funding levels, funding validation for the initial OH request
        will be for no longer than the current fiscal year. Management must submit a follow-
        on request for OH funding for subsequent year(s). The original OH approval package
        must be included in these follow-on requests. If funding is disapproved in subsequent
        years, then a personnel action must be taken to separate the employee. An employee
        on a current OH must not transition to perform work outside the scope of what was
        approved in the OH request. This also applies to Overseas Contingency Operations
        (OCO) reimbursed OHs. The employee appointed is ―attached‖ to a set of
        deployment orders and is to only perform the set of duties assigned to the military
        member. This employee appointment must be terminated once the associated military
        member returns to duty. The employee cannot be realigned to another requirement.
        4.4.1.6. (Added-USAFE) All requests for an OH must include the following:
            4.4.1.6.1. (Added-USAFE) Requested duration of the position.
            4.4.1.6.2. (Added-USAFE) Type of OH required (temporary or term) and US or
10                                           AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


            LN.
            4.4.1.6.3. (Added-USAFE) Detailed rationale on why the position is needed.
            4.4.1.6.4. (Added-USAFE) Workload description (attach a position description).
            4.4.1.6.5. (Added-USAFE) Impact on mission of organization if OH is
            disapproved.
            4.4.1.6.6. (Added-USAFE) Management            actions   taken   to   accommodate
            workload from existing resources.
            4.4.1.6.7. (Added-USAFE) Feasibility of using civilian overtime versus hiring
            an OH; keeping in mind that overtime funding is also restricted during budget
            austerity.
            4.4.1.6.8. (Added-USAFE) Resource Advisor‘s verification of internal/external
            resources to support the request.
            4.4.1.6.9. (Added-USAFE) If the request is for an extension of a current OH,
            include a statement indicating how long the position has already been filled by
            temporary/term appointment (i.e., effective date of action) and associated
            employee name (if applicable).
            4.4.1.6.10. (Added-USAFE) Requests received from the NAF must include a
            funding availability statement certified by the NAF Resources Advisor prior to
            submission to HQ USAFE/A1M.
        4.4.1.7. (Added-USAFE) Approval from HQ USAFE/A1 must be obtained before
        the Request for Personnel Action (RPA) is processed. The requesting organization
        will attach the OH approval to the RPA, which serves as authority for the Civilian
        Personnel Section (86 FSS/FSP) and AFPC to start the recruitment process.
        4.4.1.8. (Added-USAFE) Extension Procedures:           Procedures for extending
        approved OH positions will follow the same procedures in paragraphs 4.4.1.1.-
        4.4.1.7. Extension requests must be initiated 120 days prior to expiration of current
        appointment.
        4.4.1.9. (Added-USAFE) If an OH position becomes vacant before the approved
        expiration date, please follow the process set above in paragraphs 4.4.1.1.-4.4.1.7. to
        have the requirement revalidated.
        4.4.1.10. (Added-USAFE) Requests to extend positions/appointments beyond the
        limitations provided by the Office of Personnel Management will be submitted
        following the same procedures in paragraphs 4.4.1.1.-4.4.1.7. However, once
        approved by HQ USAFE/A1, these requests will have to be processed through the 86
        FSS/FSP to the approving official. Guidance on requesting extensions under these
        circumstances is available from the 86 FSS/FSP.
     4.4.2. (Added-USAFE) USAFE Wing Staffs (and subordinate units): Unit commanders
     use USAFE Form 243, Request for Temporary/Seasonal/Supplemental Civilian Overhire,
     to request approval for a civilian OH. The unit will provide justification pertaining to the
     need for the OH requirement. At a minimum, requests must include answers to questions
     in the footnote on USAFE Form 243. The USAFE Form 243 must be coordinated on by
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                        11


     the Manpower and Organization Office (MO) and the Finance Office (FM). The MO
     office must validate the requirement and the FM office must ensure funds availability.
     All OH requests are due to the servicing CPS NLT 14 days prior to the scheduled CRCB.
     Requests received less than 14 days prior will be considered ‗out of cycle‘ and addressed
     during the following CRCB. Funds for civilian pay are a significant limiting factor in the
     OH approval process. Availability of other sources of funds should be actively explored
     to cover OH costs. The OH request will be presented to the CRCB for review and must
     receive approval/disapproval by the commander or designated representative. After
     approval or disapproval, the CPS will retain on file copies of all USAFE Form 243.
     Commanders may designate in writing other approval processes at their discretion.
     However, the CRCB will maintain oversight to ensure efficient resource utilization.




                                          BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel

                                          (USAFE)

                                          CHRISTOPHER C. SHARPE, Colonel, USAF
                                          Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 12                                          AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
                                  GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority
dollars and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational
economy and efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and
recruitment and retention of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish
the mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming,
and budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years.
The process uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior
leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of
civilian employment.
AFI36-502_USAFESUP_I 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                        13


                                   Attachment 1 (USAFE)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Prescribed Forms
USAFE Form 243, Request for Temporary/Seasonal/ Supplemental Civilian Overhire

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS–Air Force Records Information Management System
CEP—Civilian Employment Plan
CPS—Civilian Personnel Section
CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer
CRCB—Civilian Resource Corporate Board
FM—Finance Office
FY—Fiscal Year
MO—Manpower and Organization Office
RDS-Records Disposition Schedule
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
WY—Work Year

Terms
Targets—Air Force work year targets are based on the work years approved in our budget.
Each MAJCOM will be measured against the target/allocation provided by AF/A1MO. Because
work years are derived from programmed end strength, it is critical we accurately project and
program our future requirements.
Work Years -- Remains the term of reference used throughout DoD to account for the civilian
workforce and manage civilian resource allocations and execution. A work year is defined as the
number of hours worked (or to be worked) divided by the number of compensable hours
available in a fiscal year. These hours include regular work time only, and excludes overtime
and holiday hours which are recognized as additive to average cost. The Air Force work years
are normally derived by averaging prior year and current year Fiscal Year Defense Program
(FYDP) authorizations and adjusting for any mission/workload transfers for the current year.
However, there are exceptions.
