                                 DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                              WASHINGTON, DC




OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY                                                    AFI33-230_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                           8 May 2014

      MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
                     MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

      FROM: SAF/CIO A6

      SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 33-230, Information Assurance
                 Assessment and Assistance Program, 4 Aug 2004

         By Order of the Secretary of Air Force, this Air Force Guidance Memorandum immediately
      changes AFI 33-230, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP).
      Compliance with this Memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
      with other Air Force publications; the information herein prevails in accordance with AFI 33-
      360, Publications and Forms Management.

          Information Assurance (IA) disciplines (COMSEC, COMPUSEC, and EMSEC) are no
      longer assessed under the IAAP program and is now assessed under Inspector General (IG)
      inspections as defined in AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System.

          Wings will utilize the Information Assurance Self-Assessment Checklists (SAC) located in
      the Inspector General’s Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) for all IA disciplines to
      perform self-assessments.

         The required use of the AF Form 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance
      Program (IAAP) Criteria, is hereby eliminated. For those entities without access to MICT (e.g.
      contractor, joint service) a copy of the SAC A6-2-1 will be provided by their respective AF audit
      agency.

         The guidance in this Memorandum becomes void after one year from the date of this
      Memorandum, or upon incorporation by interim change to or the rewrite of AFI 33-230,
      whichever is earlier.


                                                      MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                      Chief, Information Dominance and
                                                        Chief Information Officer
BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-230
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 4 AUGUST 2004

                                                                        Communications and Information

                                                         INFORMATION ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT
                                                                   AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFCA/WFPL (MSgt Eric J. Wolfe)                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/XICI
                                                                                  (Lt Col Tracy A. Phillips)
Supersedes AFI 33-230, 28 September 2000                                                          Pages: 17
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction implements National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security
Instruction (NSTISSI) No. 4005, Safeguarding Communications Security (COMSEC) Facilities and
Materials, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-2, Information Protection (will become Informa-
tion Assurance). This instruction establishes the Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Pro-
gram (IAAP) and applies to all Air Force units and personnel, including civilians under contract by the
Department of Defense, who use information systems. This publication applies to the Air National Guard
(ANG). Direct technical changes or questions pertaining to this instruction to Headquarters Air Force
Communications Agency (HQ AFCA/WFP), 203 W Losey St, Room 2200, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222.
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications on AF Form 847, Recom-
mendation for Change of Publication, through channels to HQ AFCA/ITXD, 203 W. Losey St. Room
1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222. Send supplements to this publication to HQ AFCA/WFP for review,
coordination, and approval prior to publication. Public Law 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995,
and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program—Information Man-
agement Tool (CMP-IMT), affect this publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates terminology and office symbols throughout the entire document. It adds HQ USAF
responsibilities and updates the order of the activities under responsibilities. Identifies grade requirements
for major command (MAJCOM) team chief. Provides the criteria for events that drive an earlier assess-
ment of the wing by the MAJCOM. Creates an executive summary and a detailed report. Adds tables for
2                                                                              AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


processing and routing reports, initial and follow-up replies, annual summary reports, and usage of each
section of the AF IMT 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP)
Criteria. It also provides a table to determine the rating of the Information Assurance Assessment and
Assistance Program (IAAP). Added are examples of the executive summary report, the detailed report, an
initial reply, a follow-up reply, and an example of the annual summary report.


1. Purpose. The IAAP’s purpose is to “find and fix” wing-level information assurance (IA) problems,
essentially staff assistance, therefore, it is not a function of, or to be replaced by, Inspector General (IG) or
Audit Agency activities. The IAAP accomplishes “staff assistance” by reviewing and assessing processes,
identifying problems, providing assistance to help resolve the problems, and recommending solutions.
The IAAP team provides technical and training assistance in all IA areas. The IAAP also includes the
auditing of all communications security (COMSEC) materials and records mandated by the National
Security Agency and defined in NSTISSI 4005. The IAAP consists of two parts: assessment and assis-
tance. Areas to be assessed are to be found on AF IMT 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and
Assistance Program (IAAP) Criteria, and can be located at https://private.afca.af.mil/ip.
NOTE: All references to wing-level IA programs in this AFI represent similar levels such as bases and
geographically separated units.
    1.1. Assessments. Using AF IMT 4160 IAAP teams will assess:
        1.1.1. Effectiveness of the wing IA program to include COMSEC (AFI 33-201, Communications
        Security (COMSEC)), network and computer security (AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Secu-
        rity), emission security (EMSEC) (AFI 33-203, Emission Security), IA awareness (AFI 33-204,
        Information Awareness (IA) Awareness Program), information protection operations (AFI 33-115,
        Volume 1, Network Management), network user licensing and the certification of network user
        licensing (AFI 33-115,Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Profession-
        als), password management (AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication), and other areas
        of interest covered on AF IMT 4160.
        1.1.2. Security posture of wing information systems and the information contained therein.
        1.1.3. Security of computer systems associated with information-dependent systems (i.e., tele-
        phone switches, air traffic, base security alarm, sensor, space systems, etc.).
        1.1.4. Security, availability, and reliability of systems supporting the base information infrastruc-
        ture.
        1.1.5. Quality of the wing COMSEC operations and a 100 percent audit of all COMSEC keying
        material.
NOTE: This applies to all COMSEC accounts whose numbers begin with a 6 or 7, including contractors
having Air Force accounts.
        1.1.6. Quality of security training provided to individuals using information systems, systems
        administrators, workgroup managers, personnel responsible for COMSEC material, personnel
        assigned to the network control center (NCC), and wing IA personnel.
        1.1.7. Actions taken based on Air Force and major command (MAJCOM) Time Compliance Net-
        work Order
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                 3


   1.2. Assistance. IAAP teams are not required to "fix" all identified problems but to assist users, sys-
   tems administrators, network managers, designated approving authorities, unit security personnel,
   NCC, and wing IA personnel in the resolution of identified problems. This includes, but is not limited
   to, technical, administrative, and training assistance. Additionally, the IAAP team will refer assessed
   organizations to the appropriate organizations which may provide follow-on assistance.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Headquarters United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff/Warfighting Integration,
   Information Assurance Division (HQ USAF/XICI):
       2.1.1. Serves as the Air Staff office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the IAAP.
       2.1.2. Directs changes to policy, procedures and criteria based on problems identified in the
       annual summary of IAAP reports.
       2.1.3. Provides applicable Air Staff offices a copy of the IAAP Annual Summary Report.
   2.2. Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency (HQ AFCA):
       2.2.1. Develops, coordinates with HQ USAF/XICI, publishes, and maintains the IAAP Checklist
       (AF IMT 4160) and works with HQ USAF/XICI to establish critical items.
       2.2.2. Periodically accompanies MAJCOMs, and, if requested, assists them during MAJCOM
       IAAP visits. Keeps visits to the minimum necessary to maintain currency with wing IA and NCC
       functions and responsibilities.
       2.2.3. Tracks and monitors MAJCOM’s IAAP schedule.
       2.2.4. Reviews IAAP reports to identify overall weaknesses in the Air Force IA program by rec-
       ommending changes to policy and procedures.
       2.2.5. Reviews IAAP reports and has the final authority to downgrade IAAP report ratings when
       it is clear that incidents or deviations are involved.
       2.2.6. Provides HQ USAF/XICI an annual summary of the results of MAJCOM conducted
       IAAPs.
       2.2.7. Performs IAAPs for organizations where HQ AFCA is identified as monitoring headquar-
       ters for the supporting COMSEC account, as listed in AFKAG-28, COMSEC Account Directory.
   2.3. Air Force Information Warfare Center (AFIWC):
       2.3.1. Provides technical support to MAJCOM IAAPs according to AFPD 33-2, AFI 33-207,
       Computer Security Assistance Program, and this instruction.
       2.3.2. Provides inputs and comments to the MAJCOMs during the assessment for the MAJCOM’s
       IAAP detailed report.
   2.4. MAJCOMs:
       2.4.1. Implement and manage a command IAAP.
          2.4.1.1. Coordinate the scheduling of the IAAP visit with the unit, agencies within the MAJ-
          COM (i.e., IG, gatekeeper, etc.), and other agencies outside the MAJCOM (i.e., Scope Net,
          auditors, etc.) to avoid or minimize scheduling conflicts.
4                                                                          AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


          2.4.1.2. Send IAAP schedules to HQ AFCA/WFP for tracking and monitoring.
          2.4.1.3. Deconflict scheduling between the IAAP visit and other agencies; the MAJCOM IA
          office will determine the appropriateness of performing an IAAP at that time. As a minimum,
          perform the COMSEC assessment and audit as near to the 2-year requirement as possible. Pro-
          vide units with as much notice as possible. No-notice IAAP assessments are not authorized.
       2.4.2. Establish IAAP teams consisting of personnel with experience in base information infra-
       structures, information systems, and IA. Personnel performing assessments must have extensive
       on-the-job experience in the area they are assessing and must understand the “staff assistance”
       nature of IAAPs.
          2.4.2.1. The minimum grade required for the IAAP team chief is an officer, a senior noncom-
          missioned officer (NCO), or GS-11 or above. IAAP team members may include contractor
          personnel.
          2.4.2.2. The lead individual assessing and auditing COMSEC operations must be the same
          rank required as a COMSEC manager (MSgt, GS-9 civilian, or above).
       2.4.3. Conduct assessments of wing IA programs using AF IMT 4160 every 2 years or sooner
       based on the following specific events or situations:
          2.4.3.1. Within 6 months of a change of COMSEC manager, if requested. Under these circum-
          stances, the IAAP may be limited to an assessment of the COMSEC function.
          2.4.3.2. Correspondence that is consistently late or nonexistent.
          2.4.3.3. Influx or increase in incidents, vulnerabilities, or other disturbing activities, which
          might indicate cause for concern.
          2.4.3.4. Upon request from the wing or unit commander.
          2.4.3.5. Overseas units with tour of duty less than 18 months.
          2.4.3.6. Within 60 days of activation or deactivation of a contractor COMSEC account.
       2.4.4. In coordination with the ANG, conduct assessments of gained ANG units.
       2.4.5. Use technical support from the AFIWC or the MAJCOM Network Operations and Security
       Center (NOSC). Request support for AFIWC at least 60 days prior to scheduled MAJCOM IAAP
       visits to coordinate schedules.
       2.4.6. After the IAAP assessment, outbrief the wing commander. Include the wing IA office, unit
       commanders who have critical deficiencies identified (e.g., a NO is answered for a critical ques-
       tion), the unit commander of the IA office, and the wing IA manager. Describe the posture of the
       wing IA program and the security of the base information infrastructure by summarizing and iden-
       tifying critical deficiencies. NOTE: For contractor COMSEC accounts, also outbrief the contrac-
       tor’s Facility Security Officer (FSO).
       2.4.7. Provide an executive summary and a detailed report according to Table 1.
       2.4.8. Provide an annual summary of the MAJCOM IAAPs according to paragraph 3.7., Table 4.,
       and Attachment 6.
    2.5. Wings:
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                  5


       2.5.1. Perform semiannual self-assessments of wing COMSEC operations and annual IA
       self-assessments on behalf of the wing commander, using the AF IMT 4160.
          2.5.1.1. Assess all host and tenant units (includes ANG and Air Force Reserve Command
          (AFRC) units) who use any IA services of the wing (e.g., use the base information network,
          telephone service, COMSEC material, etc.).
          2.5.1.2. The Wing IA office will support ANG and AFRC units who are tenants on their bases.
          If the ANG or AFRC unit has an established COMSEC account, the wing IA is responsible for
          all other IA support except for COMSEC.
       2.5.2. Provide technical support such as on-line surveys, site traffic, and network mapping infor-
       mation to visiting MAJCOM IAAP teams.
       2.5.3. Outbrief the unit commander on the organization's IA posture by summarizing any identi-
       fied critical deficiencies and laudatory observations. Briefing the wing commander is not required
       unless recurring critical items have been identified.
       2.5.4. Provide an executive summary and a detailed report according to Table 1.
       2.5.5. Provide an annual summary of the wing IAAPs according to paragraph 3.7., Table 4., and
       Attachment 6.

3. Reports. IAAP reports consist of executive summaries, detailed reports, initial replies, follow-up
replies, and annual summaries.
   3.1. Report Preparation. MAJCOMs and wings document the results of all IAAPs in narrative for-
   mat as executive summaries and detailed reports. Properly classify and mark IAAP reports according
   to AFMAN 33-272 (S), Classification of Communications Security, TEMPEST, and C4 Systems Secu-
   rity Research and Development Information (U) (will become Information Assurance Classification
   Guide). This report is exempt from report control symbol reporting according to AFI 33-324, The
   Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Inter-
   agency Air Force Information Collections.
       3.1.1. The IAAP executive summary report will reflect the status of the IA posture of the wing: all
       critical deficiencies found; impact if the deficiencies are not corrected; assistance provided; and
       recommendations (see Attachment 2).
       3.1.2. The IAAP detailed reports will include: deficiencies and impact if not corrected; significant
       problems; those problems resolved on-site (found and fixed); those that still require resolution
       with recommendations; and any additional assistance provided by the IAAP team (see Attach-
       ment 3).
NOTE: Significant problems are those which have not been identified as critical items, but if not cor-
rected could lead to more serious problems.
   3.2. Rating Criteria. The IAAP will be rated satisfactory or unsatisfactory. Critical questions are
   identified on the AF IMT 4160 with a “#” sign before the number. Use Table 1. to determine the rat-
   ings for each section and the overall rating. Take into consideration the impact of discrepancies iden-
   tified when determining the rating. Rate each section individually, and provide a final overall rating
   for the entire wing IA program.
       3.2.1. Unsatisfactory ratings. At a minimum, reassess those areas that were rated unsatisfactory.
6                                                                        AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


        3.2.2. Wings: Reassess units receiving unsatisfactory assessments within 90 days.
        3.2.3. MAJCOM: Reassess bases receiving unsatisfactory assessments no earlier than 90 days but
        within 180 days.

Table 1. Determine Rating for IAAP.
                of the AF IMT 4160, if the    and the number of
On section:     number of critical            noncritical             then the overall
                questions that are not        questions answered      rating is:
                favorable equals              favorable equals
One             50% or greater                70% or greater           Satisfactory
Two                                           Less than 70%
Three           Less than 50%                 70% or greater           Unsatisfactory
                                              Less than 70%
Four            None                          70% or greater           Satisfactory
                                              Less than 70%
                One or more                   70% or greater           Unsatisfactory
                                              Less than 70%

NOTES:
           1. For MAJCOM and wing IAAPs: Use sections one, two, and three.
           2. Use section four as a self-assessment by the MAJCOM/field operating agency (FOA)/
              direct reporting unit (DRU) or by an outside agency assessing the MAJCOM.
           3. Rating is based from the questions in the AF IMT 4160 checklist only. This is to standard-
              ize the overall IAAP; rating will be based on the question on the AF 4160 checklist.
    3.3. Reports Processing and Routing. Process and route reports according to Table 2. When a
    MAJCOM other than the assessed activity’s headquarters performs a review, the assessing activity
    processes the report and forwards it to the assessed activity’s MAJCOM IA office for processing.
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                  7


Table 2. Processing and Routing Reports.
Type of        Process               Route reports
Report         report within:        Action to:                  Info to:
MAJCOM         20 working days       Wing Commander              Wing IA Unit Commander and
Executive                                                        Wing IA Office
Summary
MAJCOM         10 working days       Wing IA Unit                Commander of Assessed Units
Detailed                             Commander                   (Note 1), Wing IA Office, and HQ
Report                                                           AFCA/WFP
Wing           20 working days       Wing Commander (Note Commander of Assessed Units
Executive                            2)
Summary
Wing           10 working days       Commander of Assessed Assessed Unit
Detailed                             Unit
Report

NOTES:
     1. If any critical items are identified for a unit, then address a copy of the report to the com-
        mander of assessed unit.
       2. This report is only needed if critical items are identified.
   3.4. Report Responses.
       3.4.1. Assessed activities must respond to all deficiencies identified in reports. Replies must
       address the specific actions taken to correct and eliminate the basic root cause of the deficiencies
       and provide enough detail to permit effective evaluation (See Attachment 4 and Attachment 5).
       3.4.2. Endorsements (Table 3.) must provide a concurrence or non-concurrence with corrective
       actions taken and definitive plans to resolve uncorrected deficiencies.
   3.5. Initial Replies. Prepare the initial reply in the format provided in Attachment 4. Process initial
   reports according to Table 3.
   3.6. Follow-up Replies. Prepare the follow-up reply in the format provided in Attachment 5. Pro-
   cess follow-up reports according to Table 3.
8                                                                          AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


Table 3. Processing and Routing Initial and Follow-up Replies.
Type of         Initial       Then, follow-up        Reports are endorsed Authority for
report          follow-up due reporting is due       by:                  closing report:
                              in:
MAJCOM          10 working      60 days (Note 1)     Unit Commander(s)        MAJCOM IA office
                days                                 (Note 2)                 (Note 3)
Wing                            30 days (Note 1)     Unit Commander           Wing IA office
                                                                              (Note 3)

NOTES:
     1. Follow-ups are due on all open items until closed by the office listed in the last column to the
        far right.
       2. Unit commanders of all units identified as having deficiencies will endorse the reports until
          the item is corrected for that unit.
       3. The authority determines the adequacy of responses and is responsible for closing the critical
          deficiencies and the report.
    3.7. Annual Summary Reports. Prepare and route annual summary reports according to Table 4.
    Prepare the summary report in the format provided in Attachment 6. At a minimum, the summary
    will identify all critical deficiencies identified, impacts and recommended solutions, including recom-
    mended changes to policy and procedures. The MAJCOM summary report will identify bases that are
    overdue for assessment and reasons for noncompliance. The overdue bases will be matched up with
    the HQ AFCA database and included in the final report sent to HQ USAF/XICI. The report will be
    provided to the addresses by the due date listed in Table 4. The annual summary report from AFCA
    will also be incorporated into the annual IA metric report reported according to AFI 33-205, Informa-
    tion Protection Metrics and Measurements Program.

Table 4. Processing and Routing Annual Summary Reports.
Report          Due Date:            Route reports
By:                                  Action to:                 Info to:
Wing            15 Jan               Wing Commander             MAJCOM IA Office
MAJCOM          1 Feb                MAJCOM/SC                  HQ AFCA/WFP
AFCA            15 Feb               HQ USAF/XICI               MAJCOM/SC (or equivalent)

4. AF IMT 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP) Criteria.
Use the AF IMT 4160 sections as prescribed in Table 5.
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                9


Table 5. Usage of Each Section of the AF IMT 4160.
Section:    Applies to:       Used for:              Usage by Wings:              Usage by
                                                                                  MAJCOM:
One         Units             Self-assessments and Semiannually for CRO           During
                              Wing IAAPs           questions, annually for all    MAJCOM IAAP
                                                   other questions
Two         Wing IA Office    Self-assessments and Semiannually for
                              MAJCOMs IAAPs COMSEC questions,
                                                   annually for all other
                                                   questions
Three       Host Wing Units                          Annually
Four        MAJCOMs/          Self-assessments and N/A                            As needed
                              by other outside
            FOAs/DRUs
                              agencies

5. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools (IMT) .
   5.1. Information Collections. Annual Multi-Disciplinary Review Board RCS SAF-PAS(A) 0203 (see
   paragraph 3.1.).
   5.2. Records. Records pertaining to executive summary report, the detailed report, an initial reply, a
   follow-up reply, and the annual summary report are created by this publication (paragraph 3.). Retain
   and dispose of these records according to Air Force Web-RIMS RDS, Table 37-18, Rule 17, located at
   https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm.
   5.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
        5.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications.
        5.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: AF IMT 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and
        Assistance Program.



                                                    WILLIAM T. HOBBINS, Lt General, USAF
                                                    DCS, Warfighting Integration
10                                                                    AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
NSTISSI No. 4005, Safeguarding Communications Security (COMSEC) Facilities and Materials
AFPD 33-2, Information Protection (will become Information Assurance)
AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network Management
AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals
AFI 33-201, Communications Security (COMSEC)
AFI 33-202, Network and Computer Security
AFI 33-203, Emission Security
AFI 33-204, Information Assurance (IA) Awareness Program
AFI 33-205, Information Protection Metrics and Measurements Program
AFI 33-207, Computer Security Assistance Program
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication
AFMAN 33-272 (S), Classification of Communications Security, TEMPEST, and C4 Systems Security
Research and Development Information (U) (will be Information Assurance Classification Guide)
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Content Management Program-Information Management Tool (CMP-IMT)
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFKAG-28, COMSEC Account Directory
Air Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIWC—Air Force Information Warfare Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSSI—Air Force Special Security Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                               11


COMSEC—Communications Security
CRO—COMSEC Responsible Officer
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EMSEC—Emission Security
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSO—Facility Security Officer
IA—Information Assurance
IG—Inspector General
IAAP—Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCC—Network Control Center
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
NOSC—Network Operations and Security Center
NSTISSI—National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
AFKAG—A short title used on Air Force general operational publications. Some of these publications
are handled through COMSEC Material Control System (CMCS) channels.
Information Assurance (IA)—Measures that protect and defend information and information systems
by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation. These
measures include providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection,
and reaction capabilities.
Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP)—A function established to
assess the effectiveness of wing IA programs and to provide assistance, when necessary.
Information Systems—Set of information resources organized for the collection, storage, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of information.
12                                                                         AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


                                              Attachment 2

     EXAMPLE OF EXECUTIVE SUMMARY REPORT OF INFORMATION ASSURANCE
               ASSESSMENTS AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAM VISITS


MEMORANDUM FOR (Wing Commander)
FROM: MAJCOM/SC (or equivalent)
SUBJECT: Executive Summary Report of IAAP Visit
Section I – General
1. (Names of IAAP team members including any supporting teams such as AFIWC, or auditors, etc.) con-
ducted the IAAP of the (list wing and base), from (inclusive dates of the assessment). The assessment pro-
vides valuable insight into the information assurance posture of (wing/site name). The previous
assessment and assistance visit was conducted (date). The authority for this assessment is AFI 33-230,
Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program.
2. (Summarize all items including impact if not corrected, assistance provided, and recommendations.
Also, identify any other items that have an impact on the security posture of the wing/site.)
3. A detailed report has been sent to the Wing IA office and follow-up reporting is required on all items.




                                             Signature Block
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                   13


                                               Attachment 3

              EXAMPLE OF DETAILED REPORT OF INFORMATION ASSURANCE
                   ASSESSMENTS AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAM VISITS


MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit Commander of Wing IA Office)
FROM: MAJCOM
SUBJECT: Detailed Report of Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP) Visit
Section I – General
1. (Names of IAAP team members including any supporting teams such as AFIWC, or auditors, etc.) con-
ducted the IAAP of the (list wing and base), from (inclusive dates of the assessment). The assessment pro-
vides valuable insight into the information assurance posture of (wing/site name). The previous
assessment and assistance visit was conducted (date). The authority for this assessment is AFI 33-230,
Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program.
2. Personnel contacted: (List name and rank of key personnel contacted including the unit and position
held.)
Section II - Findings/Impact/Recommendations
3. Deficiencies identified using AF IMT 4160, Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance
Program (IAAP) Criteria.
Item 1. (List section and question number)
a. Finding: (Identify findings, include if critical deficiencies, significant problem or if problem was cor-
rected on the spot.)
b. Ref: (Provide specific paragraph reference in an AFI, AFSSI, other specialized publication, or policy
message.)
c. Impact: (Critical items must identify impact if not corrected.)
d. Recommendation: (Provide recommended solution to correct the problem.)
Item 2 (Report all items for each finding.)
a. Finding:
b. Ref:
c. Impact:
d. Recommendation:
Section III - Other Comments:
4. Other Deficiencies. (This area is for deficiencies found that are not listed on the AF IMT 4160, how-
ever, a publication [AFI, AFSSI, AFKAG, etc.] or a policy message exists mandating the deficiency.)
a. Finding:
b. Ref:
14                                                                            AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


c. Impact:
d. Recommendation:
5. Summary of Assistance Provided. (Identify those areas where assistance was provided ["found and
fixed"] by the IAAP team members.)
6. Laudatory comments. (Use this area for any person, product, best practice, etc., which is worth men-
tioning.)
7. Request you endorse this report through IA channels within 10 working days of receipt. If you are
unable to correct critical deficiencies in the 10 days, then provide the status of the corrective actions under
way and include the estimated completion date.



                                               Signature Block
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                   15


                                               Attachment 4

      EXAMPLE OF INITIAL REPLY TO INFORMATION ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT
                    AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (IAAP) VISIT


MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM IA Office)
FROM: (Wing IA Office)
SUBJECT: Initial Reply to Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP) Visit,
(include dates)
Section I - General
1. This is our initial reply to the IAAP conducted by (MAJCOM IA Office) from (dates of assessment).
The following is the status of all deficiencies identified during the IAAP visit.
Section II – Findings/Impact/Recommendations
Item 1. (List section and question number)
       a. Comments: (State the actions taken to correct the deficiency.)
        b. Status: (State if the action is open or if it completed and is recommended to be closed.) (If the
item is still open then:) Estimated completion date is (provide a date).
2. (Additional comments.)
3. (List POC, office symbol, phone numbers, and e-mail address.)




                                              Signature Block




1st Ind, (Unit commander)
MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM IA Office)
(Provide a concurrence or nonconcurrence with corrective actions taken and definitive plans to resolve
uncorrected deficiencies.)




                                              Signature Block
16                                                                           AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004


                                               Attachment 5

                       EXAMPLE OF FOLLOW-UP REPLY TO IAAP VISIT


MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM IA Office)
FROM: (Wing IA Office)
SUBJECT: Follow-up Number (#) to Information Assurance Assessment and Assistance Program (IAAP)
visit, (include dates)
Section I
1. This is our second follow-up to the IAAP visit conducted by (MAJCOM IA Office) from (dates of
assessment). The following deficiencies remain open from (initial report or follow-up number #), (date on
initial reply or previous follow-up).
Section II
Item 1. (List section and question number)
       a. Comments: (State the actions taken to correct the deficiency.)
        b. Status: (State if Open or if can be recommended to closed.) (If the item is still open then provide
the following) Estimated completion date is (provide a date).
2. (Additional comments.)
3. (List POC, office symbol, phone numbers, and e-mail address.)




                                                       Signature Block


1st Ind, (Unit commander)
MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM IA Office)
(Provide a concurrence or nonconcurrence with corrective actions taken and definitive plans to resolve
uncorrected deficiencies.)




                                                       Signature Block
AFI33-230 4 AUGUST 2004                                                                                  17


                                              Attachment 6

                          EXAMPLE OF ANNUAL SUMMARY REPORT


MEMORANDUM FOR (Address per Table 3.)
FROM: (Origination Office)
SUBJECT: Annual Summary Report of (Base or MAJCOM) for (year)
1. This annual summary is an assessment of (base or MAJCOM) of the following (units or bases): (Wing
report, list all units assessed during that year. MAJCOM report, list all bases assessed during that year.)
Base/COMSEC Acct Number                       Date of assessment            Rating
Lincoln AFB/CA 612345                         3-8 Jun 03                    Satisfactory
2. (Summarize all areas identified and corrective action that has been taken to correct them.)
COMSEC
       a. (List the problem and fix action taken to resolve the problem.)
       b. (List each item separately if there were problems in more than one area.)
COMPUSEC
       a. (List the problem and fix action taken to resolve the problem.)
       b. (List each item separately if there were problems in more than one area.)
(Include all sub-areas that apply: EMSEC, NCC, etc.)
3. (For MAJCOM report: identify all bases that are overdue for assessment and the reasons for noncom-
pliance)
4. (List any additional comments)
5. (List POC, office symbol, phone numbers, and e-mail address.)




                                                     Signature Block
