BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7062
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                        AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                             SUPPLEMENT

                                                                                     12 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                                    COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFGSC/A7PP                                                      Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A7P
                                                                              (Lt Col Walter D. Graves)
                                                                                              Pages: 2
This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive
Planning. This supplement describes AFGSC’s procedures for use in conjunction with the basic AFI.
This publication is intended to support AFI32-7062 and specifies additional responsibilities and
requirements for the General Plan, Five-Year Plan and Facility Utilization Study. This instruction
applies to HQ AFGSC, its Numbered Air Forces (NAF) and their assigned wings. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
1.3.5.1. (Added) Additional MAJCOM Responsibilities:
1.3.5.1.1 (Added) Coordinate on the 65 percent submittal (or equivalent) of the installation General
Plan (GP).
1.3.6.1. (Added) Additional Installation Commander Responsibilities:
1.3.6.1.1. (Added) Ensure all development actions are in accordance with the installation GP.
1.3.6.1.2. (Added) Revalidate the GP annually as an action of the installation facilities board.
    2                                                   AFI32-7062_AFGSCSUP 12 AUGUST 2010


1.3.6.1.3. (Added) Ensure the host wing’s future land use and transportation planning, site planning,
and mapping for geographically separated units takes into account future needs and requirements.
1.3.6.1.4. (Added) Ensure installation base layout map, and related spatial information is updated
annually. Forward an electronic copy of the base layout map annually to HQ AFGSC/A7P Not Later
Than (NLT) 1 Dec.
1.3.6.1.5. (Added) Ensure the Composite Constraints and Opportunities and Land Use and
Transportation Component Plans as defined in Attachment 4 are developed and maintained.
1.3.6.1.6. (Added) Develop and maintain the wing Five-Year Plan. Forward a copy of the approved
plan annually to HQ AFGSC/A7P NLT 1 Dec.
(Added) Facilities Excellence Program and Standards Handbook
3.3. (Added) Facility Siting Approval Guidelines.
3.3.1. (Added) Facility siting requests require approval by the Installation Commander and
installation facilities board.
3.3.2. (Added) Facility sitings should be limited to proposed facilities or additions to existing
facilities programmed for construction within the next 6 years. Site approval expires 6 years after the
date of approval if no construction has occurred. An exception may be made when site location is
critical and must be reserved for a particular type of facility or when a sizable area is required for the
facility.
3.3.3. (Added) Facility sitings that require HQ AFGSC/A7P coordination:
3.3.3.1. (Added) Any project requiring a waiver of airfield or airspace criteria, quantity distance
criteria or other special waiver or permit action.
3.3.3.2. (Added) Any project sited in a flood plain or wetland.
3.3.3.3. (Added) Any project requiring an environmental impact statement.
3.3.3.4. (Added) Any project proposed for siting on or near an Installation Restoration Program site
where no practicable alternative exists.
3.3.3.5. (Added) Any project requiring acquisition of real estate.




                                                         ANN L. MITCHELL, SES-2, DAF
                                                         Director of Installations, Logistics
                                                         and Mission Support
