BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-134
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          10 FEBRUARY 2005

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                                               MOBILE SATELLITE
                                                                           SERVICES MANAGEMENT



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFCA/ECWM                                                           Certified by: HQ USAF/ILC
     (Maj Miralba C. Fernandez-Covas)                                   (Brig Gen Ronnie D. Hawkins Jr)
                                                                                               Pages: 11
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communica-
tions, and Computer (C4) Systems, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6250.01B,
Satellite Communications; Assistant Secretary of Defense/Command, Control, Communications and
Intelligence (ASD[C3I])(now Assistant Secretary of Defense/Networks and Information Integration
[ASD/NII]) Policy Letter, DOD Policy Letter on Managing MSS, dated August 29, 2001; Defense Infor-
mation Systems Agency (DISA Circular 310-130-1, Submission of Telecommunications Service Requests,
and DISA-Defense Information Technology Contracting Organization (DITCO) Circular 350-135-1,
Commercial Communications, Defense Commercial Communications Acquisition Procedures. It provides
procedures for Air Force personnel who procure and manage Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) resources
in support of mission readiness and warfighting capabilities. This publication applies to the Air National
Guard (ANG). It complements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-116, Long-Haul Telecommunications Man-
agement. Send questions or comments on the content of this instruction through appropriate command
channels to Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency (HQ AFCA/ECWM), 203 W. Losey Street,
Room 2110, Scott AFB IL 62225-5234. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other
publications to HQ AFCA/EASD, 203 W. Losey Street, Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363), and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Web-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/
index.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity,
or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a glos-
sary of references and supporting information.


1. Introduction. This AFI identifies roles and responsibilities for Air Force organizations in the acquisi-
tion, management, and reporting of Mobile Satellite Services. It addresses both the equipment and service
sides of MSS.
2                                                                    AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005


2. Roles and Responsibilities.
    2.1. Global C4 Operations Division (HQ USAF/ILCO) is the Air Force focal point for developing
    MSS policy and reporting Air Force MSS service and equipment each fiscal year to DISA.
       2.1.1. Acts as the Air Force waiver approval authority.
    2.2. HQ AFCA/ECWM:
       2.2.1. Acts on behalf of HQ USAF/ILC as the day-to-day Air Force MSS system manager.
       2.2.2. Provides the Air Force a single point of contact for HQ USAF, major command (MAJ-
       COM), vendors, and other parties to improve MSS support and formulates policy changes for HQ
       USAF review and approval.
       2.2.3. Documents and coordinates the operating commands’ MSS requirements in service-level
       planning documents.
       2.2.4. Monitors MSS technological advances and changes to identify the types of systems that can
       best satisfy Air Force requirements. Provides recommendations to MAJCOM, field operating
       agency (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU) and MSS managers.
       2.2.5. Works with HQ AFCA/EN and MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs to participate in operational test-
       ing, compatibility, and interoperability testing and evaluation of MSS products and services.
       2.2.6. Maintains an aggregated list of all Air Force MSS equipment and service.
       2.2.7. Trains MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS managers in activation/deactivation, procurement of
       MSS systems and service, and satellite communications (SATCOM) database (SDB) procedures.
       2.2.8. Works with MAJCOM/DRU/FOA action officers to report annual USAF MSS hardware
       and service costs. AFCA provides consolidated MSS report to HQ USAF/ILC.
       2.2.9. Reviews MAJCOM/DRU/FOA requested waivers to procure and use non-Office of the
       Secretary of Defense (non-OSD), for networks and information integration (NII), Department of
       Defense (DOD), chief information officer (CIO) approved MSS systems and coordinates with HQ
       USAF/ILCO for approval or disapproval.
    2.3. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs:
       2.3.1. Establish a command-level MSS manager. Send name, rank, Defense Switched Network
       number, and e-mail address to Air Force MSS lead command within 15 days of appointment.
       2.3.2. Ensure all MSS requirements are documented in the SDB for service-level missions
       according to CJCSI 6250.01B.
       2.3.3. Develop MAJCOM/FOA/DRU policy for the funding of MSS terminals and service.
       2.3.4. When one or more units from one MAJCOM/DRU/FOA are deploying in support of
       another MAJCOM/DRU/FOA coordinate to insure funds are available to cover MSS airtime
       expenses in the appropriate Program Designator Code (PDC) account.
    2.4. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS Manager:
       2.4.1. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS managers will use cost, system availability, encryption require-
       ments, and reliability as the primary criteria in deciding whether an approved MSS system, or
       alternative, should be the system of choice to meet a user’s mission requirement. If further exper-
AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                           3


     tise is needed, MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS managers should contact Air Force MSS lead com-
     mand.
     2.4.2. Ensures unit compliance with ASD(NII)/DOD CIO policy on acquisition and use of MSS.
     2.4.3. Forwards waiver requests for procuring and using non-standard DOD MSS systems to Air
     Force lead command office.
     2.4.4. Works with and forwards MSS requirements to proper MAJCOM/FOA/DRU authority and
     Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)/DRN for submission into the SDB.
     2.4.5. Ensures that AF Form 3215, Information Technology/National Security System (IT/
     NSS) Requirements Documents, or MAJCOM equivalent requirements documents are gener-
     ated before MSS airtime and equipment are purchased.
     2.4.6. Validates and forwards all MAJCOM MSS activation and deactivation requests to the Air
     Force MSS lead command office. Maintains all pertinent information regarding service activa-
     tions including serial numbers and assigned telephone numbers of activated terminals.
     2.4.7. Serves as the overall manager of MSS assets within the command to ensure that terminal
     assets are at the right place at the right time to ensure MAJCOM/FOA/DRU mission is met. Is the
     command focal point for MSS customer service.
         2.4.7.1. Authorizes the intracommand transfer of MSS terminals to ensure missions are met
         and to gain efficiencies of scale.
     2.4.8. Provides semiannual updates of MSS assets and service to the Air Force MSS lead com-
     mand office. Assets will be tracked and accounted for using the Custodian Authorization/Custody
     Receipt Listing (CA/CRL) and Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS).
     2.4.9. Provides Air Force MSS lead command with annual report, RCS: HAF-AFCA(A)0310,
     Commercial SATCOM Use and Expenditure Report (MSS), of command MSS hardware and
     service use according to CJCSI 6250.01B.
     2.4.10. Develops command specific procedures for tracking information needed for annual
     reporting. Report will include at a minimum current fiscal year (FY) hardware purchases and inte-
     gration costs by terminal type and number, total number of terminals by type and costs for current
     FY associated satellite airtime.
  2.5. Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC):
     2.5.1. Functions as Air Force lead for collecting, assessing and synthesizing all Air Force SAT-
     COM requirements (military and civilian, current and future) through the Deputy Chief of Staff,
     Warfighting Integration (HQ USAF/XI) to the Air Force Requirements for Operational Capability
     Council (AFROCC) for validation and documenting the requirements in the SDB according to
     CJCSI 6250.01B.
  2.6. Units:
     2.6.1. Commander or Designated Representative:
         2.6.1.1. Appoints, in writing, a primary and alternate unit MSS manager.
         2.6.1.2. Coordinates with the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager on all issues pertaining to
         budgeting for the acquisition, operation (including Satellite "air time" charges), and mainte-
4                                                                AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005


       nance of their unit MSS assets and services unless centrally funded by the MAJCOM/FOA/
       DRU.
       2.6.1.3. Annually revalidates all unit MSS requirements with the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU to
       determine if existing equipment meets known and anticipated unit mission requirements.
       2.6.1.4. Ensure all MSS equipment and services are procured through DISA per OSD policy.
       Initiates waiver request to OSD policy as required
    2.6.2. Unit MSS Manager:
       2.6.2.1. Sends a copy of the unit MSS manager appointment letter to the MAJCOM Manager.
       2.6.2.2. Performs an inventory of MSS equipment during the month of June each year (for
       reconciliation with the MAJCOM MSS manager inventory), and before a change in unit MSS
       managers. Assets will be tracked and accounted for using the CA/CRL and AFEMS.
       2.6.2.3. Works with unit-level training manager to ensure that qualification and on-the-job
       training takes place for MSS systems according to AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training
       Program On The Job Training Administration, and AFI 36-2234, Instructional Systems Devel-
       opment. See https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/ for an example of a unit-level Job Qualification
       Standard Continuation Sheet.
       2.6.2.4. Signs for the latest MSS inventory list and routes document to commander or desig-
       nated representative for validation. Sends a validated copy of the inventory list to the MAJ-
       COM MSS manager. Retains a copy of the document for at least 1 year.
       2.6.2.5. Pre-coordinates new/replacement MSS requirements with the MAJCOM MSS man-
       ager to ensure clearly defined unit requirements are compatible with planned and existing sys-
       tems and are technically feasible. Accomplishes this before preparing and submitting the AF
       Form 3215 or equivalent to the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU.
       2.6.2.6. Prepares requirements documents for all unit MSS mission requirements using func-
       tional terms, according to AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing, and Air
       Force 23-series supply instructions. Multiple users within a unit with identical requirements
       may be covered by the same requirement document (e.g., a technical solution that establishes
       a unit MSS net with 10 users normally requires only one document).
       2.6.2.7. Works with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU action officer to ensure all MSS requirements are
       documented in the SDB according to CJCSI 6250.01B and AFI 33-116.
       2.6.2.8. Ensures excess MSS equipment is identified to the MAJCOM MSS manager for
       deactivation or potential redistribution before turn in to the base’s designated Defense Reuti-
       lization and Marketing Office (DRMO). Do not dispose of MSS equipment or turn in to
       DRMO without the MAJCOM MSS manager’s approval.
       2.6.2.9. Establishes local Preventive Maintenance Inspections (PMI) and pre- and
       post-deployment inspections, which will include, at minimum, an operational check for unit
       MSS equipment. See https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/ for an example of a unit-level MSS
       PMI.
AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               5


         2.6.2.10. Inspects and performs operational checks on each MSS equipment item before plac-
         ing it into service (if new), removing it from service for maintenance, or returning it to service
         after maintenance.
         2.6.2.11. Reports lost or damaged MSS equipment to the MAJCOM MSS manager.
         2.6.2.12. Briefs MSS users on the proper use of MSS equipment, to include operational secu-
         rity, transmission security, and abuse as outlined in AFI 10-1101, Operations Security, and
         applicable local policies.
         2.6.2.13. Forwards requests for waiver from ASD(NII)/DOD CIO MSS policy to the MAJ-
         COM/FOA/DRU MSS manager.
         2.6.2.14. Makes MSS crypto requirements known to unit communications security (COM-
         SEC) manager.

3. Procedures. NOTE: Per ASD(NII) policy only International Maritime Satellite Terminal
(Inmarsat) and Iridium are approved for use without a waiver at this time.
   3.1. Inmarsat.
      3.1.1. Acquiring Equipment. The Inmarsat is a commercial communications system subject to
      international law and treaty. An Inmarsat terminal is a radio communications device using a sat-
      ellite link to interface with terrestrial telephone systems or other Inmarsat terminals.
         3.1.1.1. MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs will provide Inmarsat funding oversight and management
         oversight.
         3.1.1.2. Units will coordinate with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager to find out if an
         underutilized terminal is available from somewhere else in the command before the purchase
         of a new terminal occurs.
             3.1.1.2.1. The Unit MSS manager will purchase terminal equipment utilizing DISA
             DITCO contracts line items or other contract vehicles prescribed by the Director DISA if
             available, otherwise units are authorized to use any vendor offering the equipment on GSA
             contract--as long as it is not pre-activated.
         3.1.1.3. If disapproved, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will state and explain why
         another system, (such as Iridium or ultra high frequency [UHF] military satellite communi-
         cations (MILSATCOM) demand assigned multiple access) can better meet the mission
         requirement.
         3.1.1.4. All Air Force terminals must be securable as per ASD(NII)/DOD CIO policy. To this
         end--if a terminal can be interconnected with an National Security Agency (NSA) approved
         secure voice device (secure telephone equipment [STE], secure telephone unit [STU], wireline
         terminal), the (Inmarsat) terminal must be purchased in the commensurate configuration
         (STU-III algorithm installed) to facilitate secure operations.
      3.1.2. Activation.
         3.1.2.1. Once the terminal is received, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will begin ter-
         minal activation as soon as practicable but no later than 5 duty days.
6                                                                  AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005


       3.1.2.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will activate a terminal through the appro-
       priate Point of Service Activation Authority (PSA) that best meets the user’s end needs. Fac-
       tors to be considered include the Land Earth Station that will be used for communications to
       the secure communications algorithm.
    3.1.3. Contracting.
       3.1.3.1. After the terminal is activated, the terminal must then be enrolled on the DISA
       DITCO contract. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will ensure the owning unit coor-
       dinates with the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Circuit Management Office to initiate the DISA
       DITCO-contracting process within 5 duty days. Department of Defense Instruction (DODI)
       4640.14, Base and Long-Haul Telecommunications Equipment and Services, considers Inmar-
       sat airtime service as long-haul telecommunications; consequently, Inmarsat airtime ser-
       vices may only be contracted through DISA DITCO.
    3.1.4. Inmarsat Use.
       3.1.4.1. Users will follow instructions provided by the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager
       to ensure the correct earth station is used for Inmarsat service. Users will, depending on
       equipment capabilities, program Inmarsat terminals automatically to select the DITCO-con-
       tracted Land Earth Station for that terminal. Failure to do so will result in higher airtime costs
       and possible direct billing from foreign earth stations.
       3.1.4.2. MSS transmissions must be encrypted whenever required by the classification of the
       information being transmitted. When transmitting classified information, NSA Type-1 is the
       only approved encryption method.
       3.1.4.3. Users must comply with the regulations governing the use of radio communications
       of the country in which the terminal is operating. If supporting a military deployment, contact
       the supported Unified Command’s frequency management office for usage.
    3.1.5. Deactivation.
       3.1.5.1. When an Inmarsat system is no longer required, or transferred to a new owner out-
       side the MAJCOM/DRU/FOA, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will deactivate the
       terminal. Deactivation ends the ability to use an Inmarsat terminal.
       3.1.5.2. The MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will go through the same PSA that was
       used for terminal activation.
    3.1.6. Transfer.
       3.1.6.1. If a serviceable terminal within a MAJCOM/DRU/FOA is no longer needed within
       the Command, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will contact the Air Force MSS lead
       command to inform them of the excess.
       3.1.6.2. The Air Force MSS lead command will check with all the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU
       MSS managers to determine if the terminal can be transferred to meet a mission requirement.
           3.1.6.2.1. If the terminal can be used within the Air Force, the affected Air Force MSS
           lead command will inform the affected MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS managers so they can
           accomplish the transfer of equipment.
AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                            7


        3.1.6.3. If the terminal is not needed within the Air Force, the Air Force MSS lead command
        will check with the MSS lead command equivalents in the Army and Navy.
            3.1.6.3.1. If the terminal can be used within a sister service, the Air Force MSS lead com-
            mand will inform the affected MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager and service (Army or
            Navy) so they can accomplish the transfer of equipment.
     3.1.7. Disposition. If a terminal is not required, the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager will
     make sure the terminal is deactivated and disenrolled from the DITCO contract before turning in
     to a base’s designated DRMO.
  3.2. Iridium.
     3.2.1. The Iridium system supports DOD missions and operations, as well as other Federal,
     national security, and emergency preparedness communications. Iridium system complements
     military terrestrial and satellite communications and improves warfighter beyond line-of-sight
     connectivity by offering global communications capability. The Iridium system is a satel-
     lite-based, global wireless communications network that offers voice, data, and paging capabilities
     to reach its destination, with a minimum reliance on land-based infrastructures. Cross-linking
     among satellites and up/down-linking through the Government-owned satellite gateway enables
     the system to provide secure, global access.
     3.2.2. Acquiring Iridium hardware and services. Purchase all Iridium service and hardware
     from DISA with MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager oversight. Units will follow the provision-
     ing process as directed in DISA Circular 310-130-1 and this AFI for ordering long-haul communi-
     cations. Purchase Iridium hardware through DISA contract only. If hardware accessories are not
     offered in a contract line item, they may be purchased commercially.
        3.2.2.1. If using the DISA contract causes a conflict with an existing contract, the MAJCOM/
        FOA/DRU MSS manager will resolve the conflict.
        3.2.2.2. Order all Iridium Subscriber Units (ISU) with an Iridium Security Module (ISM).
        If an ISM is not required, the user will submit a waiver request to the Air Force MSS lead com-
        mand manager for purchase of ISU without ISM. Do not purchase an ISU without an ISM
        before a waiver is granted by ASD(NII)/DOD CIO. Formatted waiver request is located at
        https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/.
  3.3. Acquiring Non-DOD Authorized Equipment and Service.
     3.3.1. Any users who require MSS other than Iridium or Inmarsat will work through their
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU MSS manager and the MSS lead command office to request a waiver as
     specified on URL https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/. If a satellite system is not NSA-Type 1
     encryptable, it will not be used operationally unless waivered by HQ USAF/ILCO and Joint Staff.
        3.3.1.1. If a Joint Staff waiver is granted, the using organization will purchase the equipment
        and pay for airtime out of unit or MAJCOM funds.
        3.3.1.2. If a Joint-Staff waiver is not granted, other MSS or MILSATCOM systems will be
        explored to determine which can best meet mission needs.
  3.4. Reporting Procedures. RCS: HAF-AFCA(A)0310, Commercial SATCOM Use and Expendi-
  ture Report (MSS).
8                                                                  AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005


       3.4.1. MAJCOM/DRU/FOA MSS managers will report annual costs for procuring, upgrading,
       and operating MSS terminals to MSS lead command. The MSS lead command will provide the
       format and reporting timelines to meet the CJCSI 6250.01B reporting requirements.
       3.4.2. MSS lead command will consolidate all MSS inputs to report and forward to HQ USAF/
       ILC, 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030.
       3.4.3. HQ USAF/ILC will submit report for USAF.

4. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools (IMT).
    4.1. Information Collections. RCS: HAF-AFCA(A)0310 is mandated by this publication. See para-
    graph 3.4. for guidance.
    4.2. Records. Retain and dispose of records in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will become
    AFMAN 33-363) and Air Force Web-RIMS RDS located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/
    index.cfm, Table 33-27, Rules 1-8.
    4.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
       4.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
       and AF Form 3215, Information Technology/National Security System (IT/NSS) Require-
       ments Documents.
       4.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                             DONALD J. WETEKAM, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS/Installations & Logistics
AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                     9


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 4640.14, Base and Long-Haul Telecommunications Equipment and Services, December 6, 1991
ASD(C3I) (now ASD(NII) Policy Letter, DOD Policy Letter on Managing MSS, August 29, 2001
DISA Circular 310-130-1, Submission of Telecommunications Service Requests
DISA-DITCO Circular 350-135-1, Commercial Communications, Defense Commercial Communications
Acquisition Procedures
CJCSI 6250.01B, Satellite Communications
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems
AFI 10-1101, Operations Security
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 33-116, Long-Haul Telecommunications Management
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program On The Job Training Administration
AFI 36-2234, Instructional System Development
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Radio Regulations 1 (RR1), Chapter 1 (Terminology),
Article 1 (Terms and Definitions)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AFEMS—Air Force Equipment Management System
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFROCC—Air Force Requirements for Operational Capability Council
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ASD—Assistant Secretary of Defense
C4—command, control, communications, and computer
CA/CRL— custodian authorization/custody receipt listing
CIO—Chief information officer
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction
COMSEC—communications security
10                                                                   AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005


DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DITCO—Defense Information Technology Contracting Organization
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense instruction
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
DRU—direct reporting unit
FOA—field operating agency
GHz—GigaHertz
HQ—headquarters
Inmarsat—International Maritime Satellite Terminal
ISM—Iridium security module
ISU—Iridium subscriber unit
IT—information technology
MAJCOM—major command
MILSATCOM—military satellite communications
MSS—Mobile Satellite Services
NII—Networks and Information Integration
NSA—National Security Agency
NSS—National Security System
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
PMI—preventive maintenance inspection
PSA—point of service activation authority
RDS—records disposition schedule
SATCOM—satellite communications
SDB—SATCOM database
STE—secure telephone equipment
STU—secure telephone unit
UHF—ultra high frequency
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite Service—A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are
located on board aircraft; survival craft stations and emergency position-indicating radiobeacon stations
may also participate in this service. (International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Radio Regulations 1
AFI33-134 10 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               11


(RR1), page RR1-6)
Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite Route Service—An aeronautical mobile-satellite service reserved for
communications relating to safety and regularity of flights, primarily along national or international civil
air routes. (ITU, RR1, page RR1-6)
Aeronautical Mobile-Satellite Off-Route Service—An aeronautical mobile satellite service intended
for communications, including those relating to flight coordination, primarily outside national and
international civil air routes. (ITU, RR1, page RR1-6)
Communications and Information System—An integrated system of communications equipment
(hardware and software), facilities, personnel, and procedures designed to provide communications and
information to its users. This includes the processing of the information by the system. Communications
and information systems include base visual information support systems.
Commercial Mobile Satellite Services (MSS)— Provide full-duplex, half-duplex, and simplex
communications services, which support any type of digital telephone transmission. These commercial
systems complement Department of Defense (DOD) communications resources and are standalone
terminals that can only be used on one system; for example, an Iridium phone may only be used in the
Iridium system. MSS systems are primarily on-demand, first-come, first-served communications. They
often operate, but not exclusively, on frequencies at 3 GigaHertz (GHz) or below. Types of systems
include, but are not limited to, Iridium and Inmarsat.
Fixed-Satellite Service—A radiocommunications service between earth stations at given locations, when
one or more Satellites are used; the given position may be a specified fixed point or any fixed point within
specified areas; in some cases this service includes satellite links, which may also be operated in the
inter-satellite service; the fixed-satellite service may also include feeder links for other space radio
communication service. (ITU RR1, page RR1-4).
Land Mobile Satellite Service—A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are located on
land. (ITU RR1, page RR1-5).
Maritime Mobile-Satellite Service—A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are
located on board ships; survival craft stations and emergency position-indicating radiobeacon stations
may also participate in this service. (ITU, RR1, page RR1-5)
Mobile-Satellite Service—A radiocommunication service between mobile earth stations and one or
space stations, or between space stations used by this service; or between mobile earth stations by means
of one or more space stations. This service may also include feeder links necessary for its operation. (ITU
RR1, page 1-4).
Preventive Maintenance Inspection—Includes necessary coordination of equipment downtime (if
needed) with appropriate agencies; prepares terminal, user manual, and tools needed to clean, service,
inspect, and perform corrosion control. Performs operational check of terminal and returns equipment to
normal configuration.
SATCOM DataBase (SDB)—A comprehensive database of network connectivity requirements, which
DISA maintains, intended to capture current and future information requirements of warfighter systems
and platforms that require SATCOM.
System—Any organized assembly of resources and procedures united and regulated by interaction or
interdependence to accomplish a set of specific functions.
