BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-201
ELLSWORTH AFB
                                                                      ELLSWORTH AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                      Supplement
                                                                                    11 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                                        Certified Current 4 February 2010
                                                                                                 Security

                                                                     SECURITY POLICE STANDARDS
                                                                               AND PROCEDURES

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 28 SFS/S-5                                           Certified by: 28 SFS/CC (Major Erik J. Bruce)
                                                                                              Pages: 5

AFI 31-201, 4 December 2001, is supplemented as follows. It provides guidance pertaining to general
security forces duties and law enforcement operations. This supplement applies to all organizations
assigned or attached to Ellsworth Air Force Base. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed pro-
cesses IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Dispo-
sition Schedule (RDS) at https://AFRIMS.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required.
Send comments and suggested changes to this supplement using AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, to 28 SFS/S-5, 2740 Eaker Drive, Ellsworth AFB SD 57706.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Deleted Figure 1
and added Attachment 10 (Added). Office symbols and phone numbers have changed.
1.4.1. (Added) The installation commander has established an Installation Juvenile Corrections Program
(IJCP) designed to rehabilitate juvenile offenders and maintain good order and discipline on the installa-
tion. This program functions through the operation of a Juvenile Corrections Board (JCB). Any instance
of juvenile misconduct can be brought before the JCB. Only those cases reflecting anti-social behavior,
serious incidents warranting command interest, and repeat offenders should be considered by the JCB.
These proceedings are closed to the public.
1.4.1.1. (Added) The sponsor’s participation in the program is essential. Failure to participate in the pro-
gram may result in termination of the sponsor’s privilege to reside in government quarters and, depending
on the seriousness of the incident, could also result in the dependent in question being barred from the
installation.
1.4.1.2. (Added) Responsibilities under the IJCP:
1.4.1.2.1. (Added) The 28th Bomb Wing Commander (28 BW/CC) is responsible for ensuring good order
and discipline on Ellsworth Air Force Base (EAFB). He/she is the Commander for Administrative Dispo-
2                                          AFI31-201_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP 11 FEBRUARY 2008


sition of all barment actions and has delegated the authority for all non-barment actions to the 28th Mis-
sion Support Group Commander (28 MSG/CC).
1.4.1.2.2. (Added) The 28 MSG/CC is the Commander for Administrative Disposition of all cases, except
where barment of the juvenile is recommended.
1.4.1.2.3. (Added) 28 BW/CC will appoint a Juvenile Corrections Officer (JCO) to hear matters of juve-
nile misconduct and to recommend administrative disposition.
1.4.1.2.4. (Added) The 28th Bomb Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (28 BW/CCC) will designate
a senior noncommissioned officer to serve on the JCB as the Juvenile Correction Noncommissioned
Officer (JCNCO).
1.4.1.2.5. (Added) The 28th Bomb Wing Staff Judge Advocate (or designee) will advise the JCB on all
legal matters.
1.4.1.2.6. (Added) The Chief, Security Forces will designate an administrative representative to the JCB.
1.4.1.2.7. (Added) The 28th Bomb Wing Chaplain Service, 28th Medical Group Mental Health Clinic (28
MDG/SGOMH), and the Ellsworth AFB First Sergeants Council will each provide a primary and alter-
nate representative to advise the JCB as needed. Each of these agencies will select a representative and
forward a letter identifying the representative to 28th Security Forces Reports and Analysis (28 SFS/
S-5R).
1.4.1.2.8. (Added) Squadron commanders and first sergeants are responsible for taking prompt and pro-
active corrective action to ensure compliance with laws and instructions by family members of unit per-
sonnel.
1.4.1.2.9. (Added) Parents, guardians, and sponsors have the primary responsibility for the conduct of
their children and for ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and instructions. Failure to do so can
result in adverse administrative action against the juvenile and/or the parent(s) or guardian(s).
1.4.1.3. (Added) The JCB, consisting of a JCO, JCNCO and their advisors will convene at the discretion
of the JCO. The JCB legal representative will advise the JCO on which case(s) should be heard.
1.4.1.4. (Added) Security Forces reports of juvenile misconduct will be reviewed by the legal advisor,
who will recommend to the JCO which cases should be heard. The administrative representative will
schedule a preliminary hearing of the board advisors if the JCO determines that it is necessary to convene
a JCB. The administrative representative will ensure each board member and advisor has a copy of the
case(s) for the upcoming JCB if a meeting cannot be scheduled. This will allow each JCB advisor to
review the case(s) and advise the JCB when called upon. The administrative representative will retrieve
all copies of reports for proper disposition or destruction upon completion of the JCB.
1.4.1.5. (Added) The administrative representative notifies the JCB of the date, time and place of the JCB
proceedings. The administrative representative also notifies the military sponsor’s commander or first ser-
geant of the type of offense, who committed it, and the time, date and location of the JCB proceedings.
See the sample JCB participation memorandum at Attachment 10 (Added).
1.4.1.6. (Added) The commander or first sergeant is responsible for notifying the sponsor of the time and
location of the JCB. The commander or first sergeant is also responsible for advising the sponsor that par-
ticipation by the sponsor is mandatory. While participation cannot be made mandatory for the civilian
juvenile dependent, failure of the sponsor or the dependent to participate may result in termination of mil-
itary family housing privileges. A dependent can also be barred from the installation if he or she does not
AFI31-201_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                3


participate. Both the sponsor and the dependent must be notified of these possible results of their failure
to participate in the JCB.
1.4.1.7. (Added) At least one security forces member who participated in the investigation of the incident
is required to appear at the JCB proceedings.
1.4.1.8. (Added) Once the JCB has convened, the administrative representative will bring in the juvenile
and parent(s). The military member accompanying the child will be directed to enter the room without
"reporting in." After the family is seated, the JCO will introduce himself/herself and tell the juvenile and
parent(s) the purpose of the meeting. The JCO will then ask the juvenile what happened and may also ask
questions of the parent(s).
1.4.1.9. (Added) The JCB recommends administrative disposition after the juvenile and sponsor have had
an opportunity to discuss the case. The JCB only uses a "preponderance of the evidence" as a standard
since the JCB proceedings are not a court of law. A preponderance of the evidence is the greater weight of
credible evidence; in other words, evidence which as a whole shows that the alleged incident is more
likely than not to have occurred or not occurred.
1.4.1.10. (Added) The administrative representative documents the recommended action(s) taken by the
JCB, forwards it to 28 BW/CC or 28 MSG/CC, as appropriate. Once the recommended action is
approved, the administrative representative will forward the original document to 28 SFS/S-5R for attach-
ment to the original case file. No independent system of records will be generated or kept by the JCB.
1.4.1.11. (Added) It is ultimately the responsibility of the military sponsor to ensure the actions recom-
mended by the JCB and approved by the appropriate commander are carried out. Unit commanders and
first sergeants are responsible for monitoring all approved actions.
1.4.1.12. (Added) JCB recommended actions include the following:
1.4.1.12.1. (Added) Oral counseling or reprimand of the juvenile.
1.4.1.12.2. (Added) Written reprimand of the juvenile.
1.4.1.12.3. (Added) Written and/or verbal apology from the juvenile to the victim(s).
1.4.1.12.4. (Added) Referring the juvenile and parent(s) to the 28 MDG/SGOMH or other agency for ini-
tial assessment, treatment or counseling.
1.4.1.12.5. (Added) The placement of certain installation facilities and areas off-limits for a specified
period of time.
1.4.1.12.6. (Added) The imposition of a curfew.
1.4.1.12.7. (Added) Monetary restitution in cases involving loss or damage to government or private
property.
1.4.1.12.8. (Added) Written articles for submission to the base newspaper.
1.4.1.12.9. (Added) The EAFB Community Service Program. This is a volunteer program allowing the
juvenile, with the consent of the parents, to participate in a work program that assists base organizations.
This program allows the juvenile to contribute to the EAFB community and is not considered to be puni-
tive.
1.4.1.12.10. (Added) Referral of the juvenile to an appropriate state or federal authority for prosecution.
1.4.1.12.11. (Added) Barment from EAFB.
4                                          AFI31-201_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP 11 FEBRUARY 2008


1.4.2. (Added) The installation commander has enacted a curfew policy for EAFB. The policy is as fol-
lows:
1.4.2.1. (Added) Curfew begins at 2300 and ends at 0500 for people 15 years old and under.
1.4.2.2. (Added) Except as stated below, affected persons must be accompanied by a parent, legal guard-
ian, or responsible adult (18 years old or older and identified in writing by the parent or legal guardian)
while outside during curfew.
1.4.2.3. (Added) On Friday and Saturday, persons 14 and 15 years old, attending special events (i.e.,
sporting events, dances, etc.) and possessing written permission from a parent or legal guardian, may be
outside unescorted until 2400. These persons must travel between the event and their residence by the
most direct route.
1.4.2.4. (Added) Security forces personnel will detain curfew violators until the military sponsor, parent,
or legal guardian arrives to assume custody. First sergeants will assist in making arrangements for the
minors if none of these are immediately available.
1.4.2.5. (Added) Two substantiated curfew violations within a 24-month period may result in the violator
going before the JCB.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
28 BW/CC—28th Bomb Wing Commander
28 BW/CCC—28th Bomb Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant
28 MDG/SGOMH—28th Medical Group Mental Health Clinic
28 MSG/CC—28th Mission Support Group Commander
28 SFS/S-5R—28th Security Forces Reports and Analysis
EAFB—Ellsworth Air Force Base
IJCP—Installation Juvenile Corrections Program
JCB—Juvenile Corrections Board
JCNCO—Juvenile Correction Noncommissioned Officer
JCO—Juveneile Correction Officer
AFI31-201_ELLSWORTHAFBSUP 11 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                  5


                                         Attachment 10 (Added)

      SAMPLE JUVENILE CORRECTIONS BOARD PARTICIPATION MEMORANDUM


MEMORANDUM FOR: (Sponsor's Rank, Name)                                                        (Date)
FROM: 28 MSG/CC
SUBJECT: Juvenile Corrections Board
1. As the Mission Support Group Commander, it is my responsibility to review and make decisions
regarding juvenile misconduct on this installation. On (Date), Security Forces personnel detained
(Offender's Name), your juvenile family member, for (Charge) on Ellsworth AFB. As a result of this
infraction, your juvenile family member may participate in the Installation Juvenile Corrections Program
as outline in Air Force Instruction 31-201, Ellsworth AFB Supplement 1.
2. The program is designed to provide positive motivation and correct minor misbehavior of dependent
military family members, under the age of 18, through community service, counseling, restitution, and
loss of privileges. Additionally, in extreme or repeat cases, the juvenile family member may be barred
from the installation. A board of key law enforcement, legal, and leadership personnel will meet and dis-
cuss the case at hand, and recommend avenues for positive motivation. The board is not a criminal pro-
ceeding; however, the board can recommend the case be turned over to civilian authorities for possible
criminal prosecution.
3. While participation in this program is voluntary, your support as the military sponsor and parent is
essential to the program's effectiveness. Failure to participate in the program may result in termination of
your military family housing privileges.
4. The board is scheduled to review this case on (Date) in the 28th Mission Support Group Conference
Room located in the Rushmore Center. If you have any questions, contact the 28th Security Forces Squad-
ron Reports and Analysis (S-5) section at 385-4060.
5. To be considered for participation in the program, you must indorse and return this memorandum no
longer than seven days after receipt. Failure to do so will constitute a decision on your part not to partici-
pate in the program.
(Signature Block, Commander, 28th Mission Support Group)
1st Ind, (Sponsor's Rank/Name)
TO: 28 SFS/S-5
My juvenile family member will / will not (select one) participate in the Installation Juvenile Corrections
Program.
(Signature Block, Sponsor)



                                                 SCOTT A. VANDER HAMM, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander, 28th Bomb Wing
