BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2803
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMMAND                                             AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
                                                                              Supplement 1
                                                                                        27 APRIL 2001
                                                                 Certified Current on 12 December 2013
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                    THE AIR FORCE AWARDS AND
                                                                       DECORATIONS PROGRAM

                                            "HOLDOVER"
"The basic publication has changed; impact on supplemental information is under review by the OPR.
             Users should follow supplemental information that remains unaffected."

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AETC/DPPP (Mr F. Cole)                        Certified by: HQ AETC/DPP (Lt Col K. Huxley)
Supersedes AFI 36-2803/AETC Sup 1,                                                         Pages: 4
           1 November 2000                                                          Distribution: F

The basic publication has changed; however, the only revisions required in this supplement were made
               in the date, lead-in, and supersession lines, and to the certifying official.
AFI 36-2803, 31 January 2001, is supplemented as follows:
This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in
accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-322, Volume
4).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Provides the criteria for award of the Aerial Achievement Medal (AAM) for AETC personnel (paragraph
2.6.). A bar (|) in the left margin indicates revision from the previous edition.
2.3. Except for the Distinguished Service Medal (DSM) and Legion of Merit (LOM), recommendations
based on meritorious service should not contain achievements or accomplishments that occurred at two or
more geographical locations. When the time period is too short, recommendations from base closures or
unit deactivations may be carried over with the member's next tour. In the case of an extended-tour deco-
ration, both assignments may be used in order to satisfy the 3-year time on station requirement.
2                                                           AFI36-2803_AETCSUP1 27 APRIL 2001


2.3.3. An extended-tour decoration may only be accomplished when no other reason exists to recognize
an individual for his or her accomplishments. For example, it is not appropriate to do an extended-tour
decoration for someone who recently completed a PCS.
2.6. Aircrew members within AETC may be awarded the Aerial Achievement Medal (AAM) as follows:
2.6.1. The AAM will not be awarded for single events or meritorious service. Instead, consider the Air
Medal for significant singular aerial accomplishments. The Air Force Commendation Medal (AFCM) and
Air Force Achievement Medal (AFAM) will not be awarded for sustained meritorious achievements
while personnel are participating in aerial flight. However, the medals may be awarded to personnel in
crew positions based on outstanding achievement or meritorious service. NOTE: The AFAM may not be
awarded for aerial achievement.
2.6.2. Units will devise a local tracking sheet or another method of ensuring mission numbers are tracked.
Aircraft commanders will ensure only qualifying missions are credited. Mission types cannot be com-
bined to reach an overall total.
2.6.3. Aircrew members who have not been awarded the basic AAM but are leaving the command, sepa-
rating, or going to a nonflying billet may be submitted for the award after meeting 75 percent of the
requirements. Individuals new to AETC will not be given credit for flights that took place prior to being
assigned to AETC.
2.6.4. Awards will not be submitted for missions that took place prior to the date of this supplement.
2.6.5. To qualify for award of an AAM within AETC, the following criteria applies:
2.6.5.1. Providing assistance to a theater commander during contingency operations. Aircrew members
will meet the criteria established by their host major command. Awards will be submitted through their
assigned unit.
2.6.5.2. Performing ten (10) search and rescue (SAR) mission sorties with the intent of locating personnel
in distress, providing medical support, or transporting such individuals, which resulted in six (6) total
saves. The SAR missions are not required to be from the same operation. Sorties from subsequent rescue
coordination center taskings may be combined to meet the total.
2.6.5.3. Performing ten (10) humanitarian relief mission sorties. Qualifying mission sorties are those mis-
sions providing support to local authorities in response to natural disasters. Mission sorties may be com-
bined with other humanitarian relief missions from a different time period or relief operation.
3.1. Forward decoration recommendations to HQ AETC/DPPP, 1850 First Street West, Suite 1, Randolph
AFB TX 78150-4308. Suspense requirements for HQ AETC directorates and chiefs of special staff (CSS)
are as follows:
3.1.1. Retirement and separation decorations are due to HQ AETC/DPPP 30 days prior to the desired pre-
sentation date.
3.1.2. Permanent change of station (PCS), permanent change of assignment (PCA), extended tour, post-
humous, heroism, and act of courage decoration recommendations are due to HQ AETC/DPPP no later
than 30 days after closeout date.
3.2. Ensure recommendations include the following: the DECOR6 recommendation for decoration print-
out (RDP) (original and one copy); a completed AETC Form 114, Indorsement for Decoration (origi-
nal); a signed narrative, when required (for example, for Airman's Medal, PCS LOM, or PCS DSM)
AFI36-2803_AETCSUP1 27 APRIL 2001                                                                         3


(original and one copy); and the citation (original and five copies with the social security number [SSN]
on the copies only). NOTE: For a DSM and below for retirement, put the following statement on the
AETC Form 114: "I recommend (grade and name) for the (AFCM, MSM, LOM), based on retirement. A
quality review of (his/her) records has been completed and (he/she) has met the requirements outlined in
AFI 36-2803, paragraph 2.2.10. (He/She) has rendered (number) years of honorable service to (his/her)
country and is deserving of this award."
3.2.3. The DECOR6 RDP must be typed, and neat and legible pen corrections are authorized. Recom-
mendations submitted for retirement or separation must include a desired presentation date in item 1F and
a forwarding address in item 1H. If the RDP was requested after reassignment, include all data for the
period of service being recommended in items 2D (including a personnel account system [PAS] code) and
2E. If the assignment was changed after the RDP was generated, correct items 1G and 1H.
3.2.4.3. Supervisors are responsible for obtaining copies of enlisted performance reports (EPR) and
officer performance reports (OPR) (for lieutenant colonels and below) that closed out during the decora-
tion period. (Copies of these documents may be obtained from the military personnel flight [MPF].) Strike
out any accomplishments prior to the decoration period that are not pertinent to the recommended decora-
tion or for which the individual has already received a prior decoration. If necessary, also include a sepa-
rate sheet of bond paper, using a bullet format, to include accomplishments not covered in the EPRs or
OPRs.
3.2.4.4. Narrative justifications prepared on plain bond paper will have a 1-inch top margin and 1/4- to
1-inch side margins. The opening sentence of the narrative description will read: "I recommend (grade,
first name, middle initial, last name, and SSN) for the award of the (decoration and [if applicable] oak
leaf cluster)." Narratives will be signed by the recommending official.
3.2.5. Submit each citation in a document protector in an original and five copies with the member's SSN
to the right of the name (on the copies only). Block the citation (left and right justify). Do not hyphenate
the first line of the citation. Do not staple or paperclip the citation.
3.3. Decorations monitors at the MPF or on the HQ AETC staff may ask HQ AETC/DPPP about the sta-
tus of recommendations. For LOM or higher recommendations, do not inquire on the status earlier than 5
days before the presentation date. NOTE: Do not make inquiries about recommendations for decorations
directly to the Air Force Personnel Center.
3.3.1. Approval authorities must be in the grade of colonel select, colonel, or above. The authority to
approve waivers (as well as the authority to approve the Meritorious Service Medal [MSM], AFCM, and
AFAM for colonels and below) for all conditions are as follows:
3.3.1.1. The Air University (AU) Commander and Vice Commander may approve MSMs and below for
all personnel assigned. AU wing commander equivalents (for example, Air War College, Air Command
Staff College, Air Force Officer and Assession Training Schools, and Air Force Institute of Technology
commanders) who are senior raters may approve MSMs and below for all personnel assigned.
3.3.1.2. Numbered Air Force (NAF) commanders may approve MSMs and below for all personnel
assigned (including their respective direct reporting units). NAF vice commanders may approve AFCMs
and below for all personnel assigned (including their respective direct reporting units).
3.3.1.3. Geographically separated group commanders and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
region commanders may approve AFCMs and below for their personnel.
4                                                            AFI36-2803_AETCSUP1 27 APRIL 2001


3.3.1.4. The Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) Commander may approve MSMs and below for all
personnel assigned. The AFRS Vice Commander may approve AFCMs and below for all personnel
assigned. NOTE: The AETC Director of Staff (AETC/DS) is the approving authority for MSMs and
below for those directors and CSSs not in the grade of colonel or above and for squadron commanders
who directly report to the AETC Commander; for example, the Air Force Security Assistance Training
(AFSAT) Squadron Commander.
3.3.3. Forward recommendations requiring SAF/PC approval to HQ AETC/DPPP 60 days prior to the
closeout or desired presentation date, whichever is sooner.
9.1.1. A citation for a foreign national will not contain "United States" in either the opening or closing
sentence. It will, however, contain the member's parent service in the closing sentence; for example, "The
(singularly) distinctive accomplishments of (grade and name) reflect (great) credit upon (himself/herself)
and the (Royal Air Force, Swedish Air Force, etc.)."
9.4. AETC Form 114.
Attachment 1. Additional abbreviations and acronyms are as follows:

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS——Air Force Recruiting Service
AU——Air University
CSS——chief of special staff
EPR——enlisted performance report
NAF——numbered Air Force
OPR——officer performance report
SAR——search and rescue
A4.1.2. If the individual had three or more duty titles, use "in various assignments culminating as (last
duty title)" in the opening sentence. Show the total period of service for all duties.
A4.1.4. The closing sentence for members of other services will contain the member's parent service in
addition to the Air Force; for example, "The (singularly) distinctive accomplishments of (grade and
name) reflect (great) credit upon (himself/herself), the United States Air Force, and the (United States
Army, United States Navy, etc.)."
A4.1.5. Citations pertaining to chief master sergeants will use the full grade in the opening sentence only.
The term "Chief" will be used throughout the rest of the citation.
A4.1.8. (Added) Do not separate the day from the month at the end of a line in the body of the citation;
however, you may separate the month from the year.



                                                     W. P. ARD, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Director of Personnel
