BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2844
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   1 JULY 2011
                                                         AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                            31 JANUARY 2013

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                ANALYSIS, ASSESSMENTS, AND LESSONS
                                                    LEARNED RECOGNITION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/A9I                                                   Certified by: AF/A9 (Jacqueline R.
                                                                   Henningsen, PhD, SES, DAF)
Supersedes:   AFI 36-2844, 15 April 2003;                                              Pages: 16
              AFI 36-2823, 28 April 2008
                                            (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/A9L                                             Certified by: HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO)
                                                                          (Col Jeffery E. Elliott)
Supersedes:   AFI36-2833_AFRCSUP,                                                        Pages:3
              24 April 2008


This Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Programs, and describes Air Force awards in Operations Research, Analytic Studies,
Assessments, and Lessons Learned functional areas, presented to individuals and organizations
in recognition of their outstanding service or contributions. It explains award eligibility,
nomination criteria, procedures for nomination, and winner selection. This Instruction applies to
Active Duty, Air Force Civilians, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve units. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval.
 2                                           AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
36-2844,
5 Jul 2011. This supplement describes Air Force Reserve procedures to be used in conjunction
with the basic instruction. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units and personnel. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at:

(AFRC) https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(AFRC) Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

AFI 36-2844 has been substantially revised as a consolidation and expansion of the former AFI
36-2823 Air Force Lessons Learned Recognition Program and AFI 36-2844,
Scientific/Operations Research Analyst Recognition Program.

(AFRC) This supplement replaces AFRC Supplement to AFI 36-2823. The three primary
changes are: (1) Adds Air Force Reserve Command Awards for Continuous Process
Improvement (para 3.8) (2) Adds the AFRC Analyst and L2 Professional Awards procedures to
this Supplement (para 6.1), and (3) Differentiates the AFRC Analyst and L2 Professional
Awards procedures from the George C. Kenney Award procedures (para 6.2.1).
1. Purpose. The Air Force Analysis, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (A2L2) Recognition
Program recognizes Operations Research Analysts, Lessons Learned (L2) professionals, and
Airmen from around the AF for significant accomplishments in analytic and L2 support of the
AF mission.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Director, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned
     (AF/A9):
        2.1.1. Establishes award guidance for AF Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
        Awards.
        2.1.2. Oversees the AF Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned Recognition
        Program.
        2.1.3. Establishes timelines and provides community notice of deadlines for awards
        under this Instruction. (See Attachment 2)
        2.1.4. Appoints evaluation board membership to review award nomination packages.
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                                3


      2.1.5. Ensures Nomination Packages have been properly submitted through assigned
      Higher Headquarters.
      2.1.6. Nominates assigned personnel for individual/team awards.
      2.1.7. Announces and provides recognition for all award winners.
      2.1.8. Maintains a list of all previous winners of awards associated with this Instruction.
   2.2. Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Two-Letters/Digits, Major Commands (MAJCOM),
   Combatant Commands (COCOM), Field Operating Agencies (FOA), Air National Guard
   (ANG), and Direct Reporting Units (DRU), Laboratories and Center commanders/directors:
      2.2.1. Nominate assigned personnel for individual/team awards.
      2.2.2. Forward nominations through their A9 or designated representative to AF/A9.
      2.2.3. When requested by AF/A9, appoint senior leaders (0-6/GS-15 or higher) as part of
      an AF-wide panel to evaluate awards packages.
      2.2.4. Officially recognize their nominees and their winners, and strive to keep Airmen
      outside of the AF A2L2 community aware of these awards.
   2.3. Commanders of organizations outside the Air Force chain of command should provide
   nomination packages directly to AF/A9.
3. Award Categories. AF/A9 may present the following awards annually to recognize
significant accomplishments in analytic and L2 support of the AF mission.
   3.1. Special Honorary Recognition and Awards.
      3.1.1. The Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership Award (See
      http://www.af.mil/information/bios/ for Lt Gen Kent‘s biography) recognizes
      influential leaders with substantive analytic responsibilities during their career, whose
      vision and leadership have had a significant and lasting effect on the achievements of Air
      Force analysis.
      3.1.2. The        General         George        C.       Kenney         Award         (See
      http://www.af.mil/information/bios/ for Gen Kenney‘s biography) recognizes the year‘s
      most notable L2 contribution to the AF mission. The award is jointly sponsored by the
      Air Force Association (AFA) and AF/A9. The General George C. Kenney Award is open
      to teams comprised of Air Force Active Duty, Reserve, Guard, government civilian and
      contractors (contractors as part of a AF team submission). Selections will be made from
      AF functional and cross-functional teams outside of the L2 Community whose vision and
      leadership through the use of the lessons learned process have had a significant impact on
      mission improvement. The nominated team must be composed of greater than 50 percent
      AF members (officer/enlisted military or government civilian) from a single AF
      organization, multiple AF organizations, or a joint organization with AF membership.
      The award recognizes accomplishments from 1 January through 31 December of the
      preceding year (e.g., submissions in CY2010 recognize accomplishments during the
      entirety of CY2009).
         3.1.2.1. The intent of the award is to first capture a description of the lessons learned
         achievement (the process developed to create a learning culture within that
4                                               AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


          organization). Secondly, submitters should capture the overall impact the process had
          on the unit mission and on the AF. It is important to note how the process is self-
          sustaining for the future users, including the use of the Joint Lessons Learned
          Information System (JLLIS). https://www.jllis.mil/USAF/.
          3.1.2.2. A ―Lesson Learned‖ is defined as an insight gained that improves military
          operations or activities at the strategic, operational, or tactical level, and results in
          long-term, internalized change to an individual, group of individuals, or an
          organization. The L2 process is the chain of events from submitting an observation to
          seeing that event being resolved within the AF through some substantive change in
          Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education, Personnel,
          Facilities, and Policy (DOTMLPF&P). A key aspect of the L2 process is ensuring
          those who follow have learned the correct lessons from previous lessons identified.
       3.1.3. The Analyst and Lessons Learned Lifetime Achievement Award recognizes
       AF Operations Research Analysts and/or L2 professionals who have demonstrated an
       enduring standard of excellence with significant and lasting effect on the Air Force
       mission.
          3.1.3.1. At the recommendation of the evaluation board, and approval of the AF/A9,
          multiple Lifetime Achievement Awards may be presented during a year.
          3.1.3.2. The Lifetime Achievement Award may only be given once to an individual.
    3.2. Air Force Analytic Awards.
       3.2.1. The Air Force Field Grade Analyst of the Year Award recognizes a AF analyst
       in the grade of Lieutenant Colonel or Major for their analytical efforts and achievements.
       3.2.2. The Air Force Company Grade Analyst of the Year Award recognizes a AF
       analyst in the grade of Captain, First Lieutenant, or Second Lieutenant for their analytical
       efforts and achievements.
       3.2.3. The Air Force Senior Civilian Analyst of the Year Award recognizes a
       Government Scale (GS/GM/GG) AF civilian employee in the grade of 14 (or other scale
       equivalent) for their analytical efforts and achievements.
       3.2.4. The Air Force Journeyman Civilian Analyst of the Year Award recognizes a
       Government Scale (GS/GM/GG) AF civilian employee in the grade of 13 (or other scale
       equivalent) or below for their analytical efforts and achievements.
       3.2.5. The Air Force Analytic Team of the Year Award recognizes a AF team for their
       superior analytical accomplishments during the year. No more than 10 team members
       may be included on a team award nomination. Team members may be of all ranks and a
       combination of military, civilian and contractors though contractors must make up less
       than 50 percent of the team.
    3.3. Air Force Annual Lessons Learned Awards.
       3.3.1. The Air Force Field Grade Lessons Learned Military Professional of the Year
       Award recognizes a AF officer in the grade of Lieutenant Colonel or Major for their L2
       efforts and achievements.
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                        5


     3.3.2. The Air Force Company Grade Lessons Learned Military Professional of the
     Year Award recognizes a AF officer in the grade of Captain, First Lieutenant, or Second
     Lieutenant for their L2 efforts and achievements.
     3.3.3. The Air Force Senior Civilian Lessons Learned Professional of the Year
     Award recognizes a Government Scale (GS/GM/GG) AF civilian employee in the grade
     of 14 (or other scale equivalent) for their L2 efforts and achievements.
     3.3.4. The Air Force Journeyman Civilian Lessons Learned Professional of the Year
     Award recognizes a Government Scale (GS/GM/GG) AF civilian employee in the grade
     of 13 (or other scale equivalent) or below for their L2 efforts and achievements.
     3.3.5. The Air Force Lessons Learned Outstanding Team of the Year Award
     recognizes a professional AF L2 team for their superior accomplishments du ring the year.
     No more than 10 team members may be included on a team award nomination. Team
     members may be of all ranks and a combination of military, civilian and contractors,
     provided contractors make up no more than 50 percent of the team.
  3.4. At the discretion of the AF/A9, special awards may be established for outstanding
  achievement outside of the established categories in all grades in a given year.
  3.5. An analyst or L2 professional will not be submitted for more than one individual
  category in a given year. An analyst or L2 professional may be nominated for an individual
  award and a team award in the same year.
  3.5. (AFRC) An Analyst or L2 Professional will not be submitted for more than one
  individual category in a given year. (Exception: Reservists may be entered into a civilian
  and/or military category based on their individual status.)
  3.6. An AF analyst or L2 professional on a joint assignment or on exchange with another
  service may be nominated by their assigned organization using the procedures defined in this
  Instruction.
  3.7. The award period (for all annual awards other than the General George C. Kenney
  Award) covers accomplishments of a team from 1 July of the previous year through 30 June
  of the current year (e.g., for submissions made in 2010, the accomplishments would be from
  1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010.). For the Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership
  Award and the Lifetime Achievement awards, the accomplishments should reflect the
  person‘s entire career and are not limited to covering just one year.
  3.8. (Added-AFRC) Air Force Reserve Command Award for Continuous Process
  Improvement (CPI).
     3.8.1. (Added-AFRC) Process Manager of the Year Award. Air Force Reserve
     Command annually sponsors the Process Manager award for NAF, ARPC, Wing or
     stand-alone Group Process Managers/CCOs. Award nominees must have served in the
     position within the command at least six months of the eligibility period. All military
     nominees must meet requirements outlined in AFI36-2903, Dress and Personal
     Appearance of Air Force Personnel, and AFI 10-248, Fitness Program.
         3.8.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Award Program Administration. HQ AFRC/A9R is the
         command focal point and administrator for this program.
 6                                              AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


           3.8.1.2. (Added-AFRC) Description of Award. The AFRC CPI Award recognizes
           Outstanding Contributions to the AFRC Continuous Process Improvement Program.
           3.8.1.3. (Added-AFRC) Eligibility. The eligibility period begins 1 January and
           ends 31 December. Air Force Reserve NAFs/DRUs are each limited to submitting
           one award nomination package for CCO/Process Manager of the Year Award to HQ
           AFRC/A9R NLT 15 February. Unit Commanders will determine eligibility of
           Process Manager and submit candidate to respective NAF for consideration.
           3.8.1.4. (Added-AFRC) Nomination. Award packages will be submitted on AF
           Form 1206, Nomination for Award, ―front side‖ only, in Times New Roman font, 12-
           pitch. Justification for the award should be based on three award criteria headings:
           Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty, Excellence in Mission
           Accomplishment and Impact, and Self Improvement and Other Initiatives. Narrative
           is limited to 15 bullets (category heading titles not included). A list of acronyms may
           be listed on the bottom. The nomination form must be accompanied by an
           endorsement letter by the Unit Commander. Other attachments or supplemental
           materials are not authorized.
           3.8.1.5. (Added-AFRC) Selection. Nominations received after the deadline for
           submission will not be considered. HQ AFRC/A9R will chair the Selection Board
           and members will be selected from the HQ AFRC staff. Voting panel members will
           review and score submissions using a standardized award scoring sheet. Scores will
           be presented to HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO). HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) is the approval
           authority for the command awards.
           3.8.1.6. (Added-AFRC) Announcement and Presentation. The award will be
           announced via a memo signed by AFRC/CC to the appropriate NAF/DRU. Once the
           announcement is made, HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) will prepare and forward a plaque and
           AFRC/CC-signed personal memo to the NAF/DRU for presentation.
        3.8.2. (Added-AFRC) Air Force and Other Recognition. Leaders are encouraged to
        recognize individuals or groups within the Reserve Command who improve
        organizational performance (mission effectiveness and efficiency) through continuous
        improvement through one or more means (e.g. the Secretary of Defense Productivity
        Excellence Awards Program, the Air Force Productivity Awards for Professional
        Excellence, Military or Civilian of the Quarter Awards, performance appraisals, etc.)
        Additionally, it is encouraged to have outstanding CPI work briefed to the highest levels,
        and to the widest audience for replication, awareness and benchmarking opportunities.
4. Awards Descriptions.
     4.1. Special Recognition Awards.
        4.1.1. Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership Award: Honorees will have
        their names engraved on a plaque on display at AF/A9. They will also receive an
        engraved award and a certificate acknowledging their contributions to the AF.
        4.1.2. General George C. Kenney Award: Winning teams will have their names
        engraved on a plaque on display at AF/A9. Additionally, the team winning the award will
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                         7


       receive an engraved award and individuals on the team will receive a certificate
       acknowledging their achievement.
       4.1.3. Analyst and Lessons Learned Lifetime Achievement Award: Honorees each
       receive an engraved award acknowledging their contributions.
   4.2. Individual Awards Winners receive an engraved award acknowledging their
   contributions to the AF.
       4.2.1. For each category of award (other than the Kent, Kenney or Lifetime
       Achievement awards), a single honorable mention may be designated by the evaluation
       team. Honorable mention awardees will receive a certificate acknowledging their
       achievement.
   4.3. Air Force Analytic Team of the Year Award or Air Force Lessons Learned
   Outstanding Team of the Year Award: Winning team members receive a certificate
   acknowledging their contributions to the AF.
   4.4. Engraved awards may be replaced by a comparable memorabilia item (trophy, statuette,
   etc.,) at the discretion of the AF/A9.
5. Eligibility Criteria.
   5.1. The AF/A9 will invite A2L2 principals to identify outstanding candidates for
   consideration of the Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership Award and to
   nominate individuals for the Analyst and Lessons Learned Lifetime Achievement Award.
   5.2. Current and former AF military and civilian members involved with analytical activities
   and/or L2 projects are eligible for the Analyst and Lessons Learned Lifetime Achievement
   Awards.
   5.3. Air Force Annual Analytic Awards: AF military and civilian members involved in
   any form of operations research analysis may compete for individual awards. AF
   organizations or teams involved in operations research analysis may compete for the Air
   Force Analytic Team of the Year award. Analytic teams must be composed of greater than
   50 percent AF members (military or government civilian) from a single AF organization,
   multiple AF organizations, or a joint organization. Analytic teams must be led by a AF
   military or civilian member to be considered. Selections are based on outstanding
   contributions to operations research during the award period. Previous award and/or
   honorable mention winners may be submitted for further work in the same or different
   subject areas.
   5.4. Air Force Annual Lessons Learned Awards: AF military and civilian members
   fulfilling L2 duties as described in AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, may
   compete for the individual awards. AF organizations or teams fulfilling L2 duties as
   described in AFI 90-1601 may compete for the Air Force Lessons Learned Team of the
   Year award. L2 teams must be composed of greater than 50 percent AF members (military or
   government Civilian) from a single AF organization, multiple AF organizations, or a joint
   organization with AF membership. L2 teams must be led by a AF military or civilian
   member to be considered. Selections are based on outstanding L2 accomplishments during
   the award period. Previous award and/or honorable mention winners may be submitted for
   further work in the same or different subject areas.
 8                                               AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


     5.5. Foreign Nationals are only eligible for consideration under this Instruction, as members
     of a US nominated team.
6. Submitting Nominations. (See Attachment 2 for general timelines)
     6.1. Generally, submissions for all awards (other than the General George C. Kenney
     Award) must reach AF/A9 by 1 September unless a different timeline is established.
        6.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Air Force Reserve NAFs and DRUs are each limited to
        submitting one award nomination package per category: Annual Analytic to HQ
        AFRC/A9A and Annual L2 to HQ AFRC/A9L NLT 15 July.
     6.2. The General George C. Kenney Award has a different submission and review timeline
     from the other awards in this Instruction. Special note must be taken of these timelines.
        6.2.1. Nominations for the General George C. Kenney Award must be received at
        AF/A9 by Close of Business (COB) 15 April.
            6.2.1.1. (Added-AFRC) Air Force Reserve NAFs, DRUs, HQ AFRC Directorates
            and Special Staff are each limited to submitting one award nomination package for
            the General George C. Kenney Award to HQ AFRC/A9L NLT 15 February.
        6.2.2. AF/A9 will submit final result recommendations for the General George C.
        Kenney Award to the AFA.
7. Award Packages. Awards nominations will be forwarded electronically from the nominating
official as an attachment to an email or as a scanned signed document to the AF/A9I workflow
box (af.a9I@pentagon.af.mil) and titled ―Nomination(s) for awards‖. At the discretion of
AF/A9I, other transmission methods may be accepted. All award packages will contain:
     7.1. Nominating official‘s cover letter. (See Attachment 3).
     7.2. Completed AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.
        7.2.1. All blocks must be populated with accurate and current information as of the date
        of the nomination.
        7.2.2. Specific justification for the award. Limit narrative to no more than 24 lines on the
        AF Form 1206 in single-spaced bullet format. The narrative should be in Times New
        Roman font with a 12pt font size.
        7.2.3. Justification on the AF Form 1206 should use the following respective block
        headings. These headings do not count against the 24 lines maximum. A blank line is
        allowed ahead of a block heading at the discretion of the submitting organization):
            7.2.3.1. Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership Award: Synopsis of
            Major Achievements/Contributions; Uniqueness of Achievements/Contributions;
            Lasting Impact on AF and/or Military Operations Research.
            7.2.3.2. General George C. Kenney Award: Description/Uniqueness of Major
            Achievements/Contributions; Impact on AF Doctrine/Operations/Training.
            7.2.3.3. Analyst and Lessons Learned Lifetime Achievement Award: Synopsis of
            Major Achievements/ Contributions; Uniqueness of Achievements/Contributions;
            Impact on AF Decisions; Improvement of AF and/or Military Operations Research.
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                         9


          7.2.3.4. Air Force Analyst of the Year Award and Air Force Analytic Team of
          the Year Award: Description/Uniqueness of Achievement(s); Contribution to
          Organizational Mission; Impact on AF, Department of Defense or Inter-Organization
          Decision(s); Improvement of AF and/or Military Operations Research.
          7.2.3.5. Air Force Lessons Learned Outstanding Professional of the Year
          Award/Air Force Lessons Learned Team of the Year Award:
          Description/Uniqueness of Achievement(s); Contribution to Organizational Mission;
          Impact on AF, Department of Defense or Inter-Organization Decision(s);
          Improvement of Organizational or Air Force L2 Processes or Techniques.
       7.2.4. Any acronyms used in the body of the AF Form 1206 must be listed and defined at
       the end of the main body of the AF Form 1206. Acronyms may be continued on the back
       of the form, if necessary. The acronyms block does not count against the 24 maximum
       lines for the nomination.
       7.2.5. For team awards, include the names, rank, and branch of service of individual
       team members after the award justification and optional acronym block. Team member‘s
       names may be continued on the back of the AF Form 1206, if necessary. A maximum of
       10 team member‘s names are allowed on the AF Form 1206. Contractors, if part of the
       team, will make up less than 50 percent of the team. The contractor‘s company will be
       included in parentheses to the right of the contractor‘s name. The names block does not
       count against the 24 maximum lines for the nomination.
       7.2.6. In most cases the AF Form 1206 will be UNCLASSIFIED. If classified
       information is included, the AF Form 1206 will be appropriately marked and transmitted
       appropriately. Classified submissions will not be above the SECRET//US Only level.
       Submissions will be accompanied by an appropriate note to the unclassified AF/A9I
       Workflow.
   7.3. A short unclassified citation to accompany the award. See Attachment 4 for an example.
   This citation should be suitable for reading at an awards occasion.
8. Evaluation Board Appointment for Selecting Award Recipients. An evaluation board,
consisting of members from the AF A2L2 community will be appointed by the AF/A9 from a list
of Air Force A2L2 community nominees/volunteers. A general officer or civilian equivalent will
chair all awards selection boards. The AF/A9 is the final approval authority.
   8.1. There is no requirement to have only analysts on analytic awards evaluation teams or L2
   professionals on L2 Awards evaluation teams. Mixed evaluation boards are encouraged and
   may be appointed at the discretion of the AF/A9.
   8.2. Evaluation Boards may be ‗virtual‘. There is no requirement for the evaluation board to
   meet in person. A combination of emails, telephone conferences, DoD online collaboration
   tools (such as Defense Connect Online) meetings or other techniques may be used to elicit
   and discuss evaluation team member thoughts.
   8.3. The Lieutenant General Glenn A. Kent Leadership Award will be chosen by a board
   consisting of the AF/A9, and the commander of the annual A2L2 host organization, and prior
   award recipients.
 10                                              AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


      8.4. (Added-AFRC) AFRC Evaluation Boards for Selecting Analytic and L2 Award
      Recipients. HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) will convene awards boards to select the AFRC Lessons
      Learned Excellence Award, AFRC Annual Analytic Awards and AFRC Annual L2 Awards.
      HQ AFRC/A9L will chair the Lessons Learned board and HQ AFRC/A9A will chair the
      Analytical board. Board members will be selected from the HQ AFRC staff. The AFRC
      Lessons Learned Excellence Award winner will be the AFRC nominee for competition at Air
      Force level for the General George C. Kenney award. The HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) Director is
      the approval authority for the command awards. HQ AFRC/A9 (CCO) will forward the
      command nomination packages to HQ AF/A9 by the specified due dates.
9. Multiple Winners. If, following scoring by the evaluation board and at the discretion of the
AF/A9, there are two or more candidates equally qualified for an award; multiple awards may be
given in the same year. In the case of multiple winners in a category, no honorable mention will
be given in that category.
10. No Winners in a Category. If, at the discretion of the evaluation board and the AF/A9, no
nomination is deemed worthy of an award in a category, no award will be given in that category
for the year.
11. Award Announcements and Presentations. AF/A9 will announce award winners at the
annual Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (A2L2) Symposium (exception: General
George C. Kenney Award which will be announced by the AFA). AF/A9 or a designated
representative will notify the commander or director and the recipients.
11. (AFRC)Award Announcements and Presentations. The award will be announced via a
memo signed by AFRC/CC to the appropriate NAF/DRU. Once the announcement is made, HQ
AFRC/A9 (CCO) will prepare and forward a plaque and AFRC/CC-signed personal memo to the
NAF/DRU for presentation.
      11.1. Should recipients be unable to attend the symposium, representatives from their
      organization may accept the award in their place.
      11.2. Alternative means of presentation may be left to the discretion of the AF/A9.
      11.3. In certain circumstance, the nominating commander or the AF/A9, may determine a
      presentation is warranted at a different time than the A2L2 Symposium (retirements,
      deployments, contingency operations, etc.). Alternative presentation times and formats are
      allowed under this Instruction.
12. Travel for Awards Presentations. Travel to award ceremonies will be in accordance with
the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR), and AFI 24-201.
AF military or civilian personnel selected for an award listed in this Instruction may attend the
presentation ceremonies on official orders at unit expense. When a unit is selected to receive an
award, the unit commander or designated representatives attends the presentation ceremony to
accept the award on behalf of the unit.
13. MAJCOM Awards. MAJCOMs are encouraged to establish their own awards nomination
programs and awards to supplement this AFI and complement the Air Force-wide program.
14. Air Force Recognition Ribbon. Members selected for individual awards or cited as part of
a team award are authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military member) or the
Air Force Recognition Lapel Pin (civilian) in accordance with AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                      11


and Awards. Award winners are responsible for informing their personnel office for updating
their records. Contractors named as part of a team are not eligible to wear the Air Force
Recognition Lapel Pin, and Foreign Nationals named as part of a team are not eligible to wear
the Air Force Recognition Ribbon.




                                          DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services

                                          (AFRC)

                                          JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                         AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Records Management Program, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFPD 90-16, Air Force Studies, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned, 4 June 2008
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A2L2—Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
AF—Air Force
AFA—Air Force Association
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-AFRC) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
(Added-AFRC) ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
(Added-AFRC) CCO—Office Symbol for unit Process Managers
COB—Close of Business
(Added-AFRC) CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CY—Calendar Year
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy.
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GG—General Government
GM—General Manager
GS—Government Schedule [Federal Employee]
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                13


HQ—Headquarters
(Added-AFRC) IAW—In Accordance With
L2—Lessons Learned
MAJCOM—Major Command
(Added-AFRC) NAF—Numbered Air Force
NLT—No Later Than
(Added-AFRC) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-AFRC) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
 14                                             AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                         ANNUAL AWARDS TIMELINE GUIDANCE

A2.1. AF/A9I annually sets deadlines for Award Timelines. Absent any further guidance, the
following timetables should serve as a guide for the Analyses and Lessons Learned Awards
process.
A2.2. General George C. Kenney Award timeline:
      A2.2.1. No Later Than (NLT) 1 February – AF/A9 sends announcement stating award
      deadlines.
      A2.2.2. NLT 1 April –AF/A9 appoints evaluation panel to review nominations.
      A2.2.3. NLT 15 April –Nomination packages due to AF/A9.
      A2.2.4. NLT 20 April – Nomination packages sent to evaluation panel.
      A2.2.5. NLT 1 May – Initial evaluation of nominations returned to AF/A9.
      A2.2.6. NLT 15 May – Any subsequent evaluation of nominations completed and presented
      to AF/A9 for review.
      A2.2.7. NLT 30 May – AF/A9 coordination and recommendations to the AFA complete.
      A2.2.8. Summer – AFA announces winner.
      A2.2.9. Approximately September – Presentation of General George C. Kenney Award.
A2.3. All other awards timeline:
      A2.3.1. NLT 1 July – AF/A9 sends announcement stating deadlines for the Analyses and
      Lessons Learned Awards for the year.
      A2.3.2. NLT 15 August, AF/A9 appoints evaluation panel to review nominations.
      A2.3.3. NLT 1 September – Nomination packages due to AF/A9I.
      A2.3.4. NLT 10 September - Nomination packages sent to Evaluation Panel.
      A2.3.5. NLT 1 October – Initial evaluation of nominations returned to AF/A9.
      A2.3.6. November – December -In conjunction with the Analyses, Assessments and Lessons
      Learned Symposium – announcement of the winners/presentation of awards.
AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013                                                             15


                                         Attachment 3
           EXAMPLE OF ORGANIZATION NOMINATION COVER LETTER

I take great pleasure in nominating the following candidate(s) from United States Air Forces –
Caribbean for the respective awards.
Joseph B. Smith, Lieutenant Colonel, Air Force Field Grade Analyst of the Year
Hannah Taylor, Captain, Air Force Company Grade Lessons Learned Professional of the Year
Pamela G. Lilly, Air Force Senior Lessons Learned Professional of the Year
Braden M. Parker, Air Force Journeyman Civilian Analyst of the Year
Airlift Options in Support of Littoral Warfare Team, Air Force Analytic Team of the Year
       Leslie C. Dempsey, Major, USAF, Team Leader
       Amanda J. Mosher, Lieutenant, USN
       Matthew L. Almaraz, Captain, USAF
       Reese C. Murphy, First Lieutenant, USAF
       Luke M Alexander, GS-12, DAF
       Gina A. Sedwick, Contractor (JSR Corporation)




//SIGNED//
Neel J. Price, PhD, GS-15, Director
USAFC/A9
 16                                              AFI36-2844_AFRCSUP_I 31 JANUARY 2013


                                           Attachment 4
                             EXAMPLE OF CITATION FORMAT

Citation to Accompany the Presentation
of
The Air Force Company Grade Lessons Learned Professional of the Year Award
to
CAPTAIN HANNAH TAYLOR

Captain Hannah Taylor distinguished herself as Project Leader, 16 th Air Force Analyses and
Lessons Learned Directorate, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, from 1 July 2009 to 30 June
2010. Captain Taylor expertly led a team of highly-skilled Lessons Learned Professionals
examining complex operations in the largest and most diverse Numbered Air Force. The lessons
learned from her work on maintenance/operations interfaces directly lead to a change within all
16th AF Wings resulting in increased efficiencies for all the organizations, saving 2500 training
sorties a year and simultaneously increasing effective aircrew training. While deployed to
Afghanistan for 4 months, Captain Taylor initiated a key Lessons Learned study of safety related
issues for Airmen deployed in the ground combat environment directly resulting in an alteration
of training in the United States. This rapid fire change to an existing doctrine directly resulted in
reducing Air Force accidents by 22 percent, sparing an estimated 4 lives and injuries to 28
airmen while saving $14.5 million in lost equipment. The distinctive accomplishments of
Captain Taylor reflect great credit upon herself and the United States Air Force.
NOTE: Limit the citation to a maximum of 12 lines that properly describe the nominee's
accomplishments or achievements. The narrative should be in landscape format and Times New
Roman font with a 12pt font size (Bold font should be used for the centered header). The first
and last lines of the citation should be like the example above.
