BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-117
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    29 JUNE 2012

                                                                                           Security

                                                       ARMING AND USE OF FORCE BY AIR
                                                                    FORCE PERSONNEL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFSFC/SFOP                                                               Certified by: AF/A7S
                                                                            (John A. Fedrigo, SES)
                                                                                          Pages: 41
Supersedes:    AFI31-207, 29 January 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense. It
establishes war and peacetime requirements for arming USAF personnel and the use of deadly
force. It applies to all active duty members and to members of the Air Force Reserve (AFR), and
Air National Guard (ANG); and civilians, contract personnel, and personnel from other military
departments assigned or attached to Air Force units. This instruction frequently refers to “officer
or sentry” who is defined as: any officer, noncommissioned officer, Airman, civilian or contract
employee performing security, law enforcement, military police, or guard duties under Air Force
control. This instruction sets forth guidance regarding arming and use of force by Air Force
civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. Failure
to observe the provisions and prohibitions of this directive by military personnel is a violation of
Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Sections 2.6.3, 2.13, 2.13.14, 2.15. of this
publication are affected. Violations may result in administrative disciplinary action without
regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Field
activities must send implementing publications to the higher headquarters functional Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) for review and coordination before publishing. The OPR
determines that if waivers may be granted for any part of this publication. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Any organization may supplement this instruction.
This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
 2                                                                                                    AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in
this publication are Title 5 United States Code, Section 552a(d), and Executive Order 12958. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Records Disposition:
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
corrects administrative and typographical errors throughout the text. It clarifies the Lautenberg
Amendment and adds Attachment 5, Lautenberg example. The guidance clarifies the
Commander’s responsibility to make a determination to temporarily withdraw the authority to
bear firearms. Verbal notification to the individual and the servicing armory can be made by the
commander, designated representative, or duty roster authentication official. Documentation for
temporary withdrawal, permanent withdrawal and reinstatement of authority to bear firearms can
be filed in an electronic records management system or personal information file (PIF). Digital
CAC signatures are authorized to be used in lieu of the written signature for authorization to
carry firearms and for the AF Form 629. Specifies requirements for initial, annual, and
permanent change of station non-lethal weapons training and adds training mishaps to non-lethal
reporting requirements. Adds DoDD 3000.3, Policy for Non-lethal Weapons and DoDI 5525.14,
DoD Law Enforcement Officers (LEOs) Flying Armed, as additional references for Non-Lethal
Weapons (NLWs) and LEO’s Flying Armed. Redefines reasonable officer response(s); removes
reference to Use of Force Model. Provides guidance on how to respond to actual incidents with
weapons based upon the officer’s risk perception. Clarifies the prohibition of carrying concealed
weapons off-duty under the provisions of House Resolution (HR) 218, Public Law 108-227, and
the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Improvements Act of 2010, Public Law 110-212.


Chapter 1—PROGRAM POLICY                                                                                                                   4
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................    4
       1.2.   USAF Use of Force Policy. ...................................................................................                4
       1.3.   Objective Reasonableness and Totality of Circumstances. ....................................                                 5
       1.4.   Using Force. ...........................................................................................................     5
       1.5.   Use of Deadly Force. .............................................................................................           6
       1.6.   Special Considerations for the Use of Firearms and Deadly Force. ......................                                      7
       1.7.   Use of Less-Lethal Force. ......................................................................................             7

Chapter 2—PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                                                                                                               9
       2.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................    9
       2.2.   Duty Assignment. ..................................................................................................         10
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                                                                3


     2.3.    Suitability to Bear Firearms. ..................................................................................         11
     2.4.    Weapons Training Requirements. ..........................................................................                14
     2.5.    Use of Force Training Requirement. .....................................................................                 15
     2.6.    Documenting Authorization to Bear Firearms. ......................................................                       16
     2.7.    Arming Plans. ........................................................................................................   18
     2.8.    Arming Senior Military and Civilian Officials. .....................................................                     18
     2.9.    Transporting Firearms. ...........................................................................................       19
     2.10.   Carrying Firearms as a Passenger aboard Aircraft. ................................................                       19
     2.11.   Carrying Firearms in a US Air Force Medical Facility. ........................................                           20
     2.12.   Firearms Qualification Extensions. ........................................................................              20
     2.13.   Firearms Safety. .....................................................................................................   20
     2.14.   Firearms as Signaling Devices. ..............................................................................            22
     2.15.   Peacetime Firearms Discharges. ............................................................................              22
     2.16.   USE OF FORCE REVIEW BOARD ....................................................................                           23
     2.17.   Non-Lethal Weapons. ............................................................................................         25
     2.18.   Non-Lethal Weapons and Techniques Training. ...................................................                          25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        28

Attachment 2—PERSONALITY AND BEHAVIOR FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT
             SUITABILITY TO BEAR FIREARMS                                                                                             34

Attachment 3—EMERGENCY RESPONSES WITH FIREARMS                                                                                        38

Attachment 4—PEACETIME GOVERNMENT FIREARMS DISCHARGE REPORT                                                                           39

Attachment 5—DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AMENDMENT / LAUTENBERG NOTICE
             EXAMPLE                                                                                                                  41
 4                                                                       AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


                                             Chapter 1

                                       PROGRAM POLICY

1.1. Overview. This instruction establishes USAF Standing Rule for the Use of Force (SRUF)
guidance and procedures consistent with CJCSI 3121.01B, Standing Rule of
Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for US Forces, and DoDD 5210.56, Use of
Deadly Force and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel Engaged in Law Enforcement
and Security Details. This instruction governs actions taken by all personnel subject to this Air
Force Instruction (AFI) performing civil support missions (e.g., defense support of civil
authorities defense support of civilian law enforcement agencies), routine Service functions
(including anti-terrorism and force protection duties), homeland defense missions occurring
within US territory, and law enforcement and security duties at all DoD installations and off
installation while conducting security functions. The guidance contained in paragraph 1.4.
provides amplifying guidance applicable primarily to personnel performing law enforcement or
security duties. The program management guidance in Chapter 2 applies to all personnel subject
to this AFI regardless of duty assignment or location.
     1.1.1. The guidance in this instruction, Host Nation laws, and international agreements may
     limit the means available for accomplishing law enforcement or security duties.
     1.1.2. Commanders at all levels must educate and train their personnel on how and when to
     use appropriate force in self-defense.
     1.1.3. Personnel subject to this AFI personnel detailed to other US Government Lead
     Federal Agencies (LFA) (e.g., support to US Border Patrol) will operate under common
     mission-specific Rules for the Use of Force (RUF) approved by the Secretary of Defense
     (SECDEF) and the LFA. DoD forces always retain the right of self-defense, in accordance
     with (IAW) Standing RUF.
     1.1.4. USAF forces, under DoD control (and using DoD SRUF and applicable mission-
     specific RUF), but operating in coordination with other LFA security forces, will coordinate
     with on scene LFA personnel to ensure common understanding of DoD and Air Force RUF.
1.2. USAF Use of Force Policy. Personnel subject to this AFI, to include military, civilian, and
contractor personnel, will use only that force which is objectively reasonable to accomplish their
duties in conformity with the Constitution of the United States, federal statutes, and DoD policy.
     1.2.1. Objectively Reasonable force may be used by personnel subject to this AFI while
     conducting authorized missions or official duties to gain control of an individual or
     individuals to meet lawful objectives or mission requirements. These lawful objectives
     include, but are not limited to searches, seizures, and apprehensions; defense of assets vital to
     national security or inherently dangerous; preventing a person from self-injury; conducting
     protective detail operations; preventing prisoner escapes; dissolving riots and other forms of
     civil unrest when directed by proper authority; maintaining good order and discipline; and
     overcoming resistance to lawful orders.
     1.2.2. Unit commanders always retain the inherent right and obligation to exercise unit self
     defense in response to a hostile act or demonstrated hostile intent. Unit self-defense includes
     the defense of other DoD forces in the vicinity.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                            5


   1.2.3. Personnel subject to this AFI may exercise self-defense in response to a hostile act or
   hostile intent, unless lawfully directed otherwise by their unit commander.
   1.2.4. The Use of Force does not apply solely to firearms and deadly force confrontations
   but all applications of force.
1.3. Objective Reasonableness and Totality of Circumstances. The force used should be
objectively reasonable as defined in 1.3.1. of this publication. When feasible and circumstances
permit, a threatening force should be warned and given the opportunity to withdraw or cease
threatening actions, as appropriate and consistent with the lawful objectives or mission
requirements of the officer/sentry. Law enforcement or security personnel may have an
obligation to apprehend rather than permit an individual to withdraw. In some circumstances,
force, including deadly force, may be the only option available to respond to a hostile act or
hostile intent. The use of force must be objectively reasonable in intensity, duration, and
magnitude based upon the totality of the circumstances to counter the threat.
   1.3.1. In Graham v. Connor, 490 U.S. 386 (1989), the US Supreme Court established the
   Fourth Amendment standard of “objective reasonableness” as the appropriate standard for
   assessing the use of force in the context of making an arrest or other seizure of a person. The
   Court explained its application in these terms: “The reasonableness of a particular use of
   force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, rather than
   with the 20/20 vision of hindsight. … [T]he “reasonableness” inquiry…is an objective one:
   the question is whether the officers actions are “objectively reasonable” in light of the facts
   and circumstances confronting them.
   1.3.2. The Supreme Court recognized in Graham v. Connor that law enforcement and
   security personnel have to make “split-second judgments” concerning the use of force under
   “circumstances that are tense, uncertain, and rapidly evolving...” The U.S. Supreme Court
   has held that reasonableness under the Fourth Amendment does not require the least intrusive
   force alternative be applied, only a reasonable one. In effecting a seizure, individuals
   performing law enforcement or security duties draw from a reservoir of options, ranging
   from simple displays of authority, to the application of various levels of less-lethal force, to
   the use of deadly force itself. Facts dictate the appropriate response, and those facts, as well
   as the choice of response, are subject to close scrutiny.
   1.3.3. In search, seizure, or apprehension situations, an officer/sentry must look at the
   totality of the circumstances when determining the reasonable amount of force necessary. In
   Graham v. Connor, the Supreme Court emphasized four factors affecting the use of force in a
   particular situation. These four factors are the severity of the crime, whether the person poses
   an immediate threat to the safety of the officer or others, whether the person is actively
   resisting, or whether the person is attempting to evade apprehension by flight. Additional
   factors courts use in applying the standard of Graham v. Connor include the number of
   subjects involved, size, age, and condition of the subject versus the officer/sentry, duration of
   the subject’s actions, whether or not the force applied resulted in injury, previous known
   violent history of the subject, use of alcohol or drugs by the subject, subject’s known mental
   or psychiatric history, the presence of innocent bystanders who could be harmed if force is
   not used, and the availability of appropriate non-lethal weapons.
 6                                                                      AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


1.4. Using Force. The decision by an officer/sentry to employ objectively reasonable force is
based upon the officer/sentry’s perception of the subject’s actions and the totality of
circumstances. This guidance is applicable to personnel conducting Law and Order Operations,
to include military police, security, or guard duties under Air Force control.
     1.4.1. Officer Perception. The Fourth Amendment standard of “reasonableness” does not
     lend itself to a precise definition or application; however, the principle of objective
     reasonableness can be simplified to establish the basis of reasonableness in use of force.
     Reasonableness applies to all uses of force and not just those where the officer or sentry is in
     jeopardy. The officer or sentry must perceive the person proposing the action or threat is
     capable of performing the action. The subject must be in a position to carry out the act or
     threat. The mental state of the subject(s) initiating an overt act either by words or deeds
     shows the intent in the furtherance of a threat, action, or crime.
     1.4.2. Subject Action. The officer/sentry’s perception of the subject indicates what degree of
     force is required, if any, by the officer/sentry to achieve their objective.
     1.4.3. Officer Response. In perceiving the subject’s actions, the officer/sentry goal is to
     obtain subject compliance and achieve their objective in accordance with the standards of
     objective reasonableness and totality of circumstances. The officer/sentry response may
     employ tactics which include verbal or physical controls, non-lethal weapons and techniques,
     deadly force, or all of the above. “Reasonableness” does not require officers to select the
     least intrusive or minimum force available, only a reasonable one.
1.5. Use of Deadly Force. The use of deadly force must meet the “objective reasonableness”
standard. It must be noted that when deadly force is used, the officer/sentry must be able to
articulate objective reasonableness based upon their perception of the threat and the totality of
the circumstances. Deadly force is authorized under the following circumstances as set forth in
CJCSI 3121.01B, Enclosure L.
     1.5.1. Inherent Right of Self-Defense. Applies when an individual reasonably believes they
     are in immediate danger of death or serious bodily harm. Deadly force is also authorized
     when individuals reasonably believe that a person poses an immediate threat of death or
     serious bodily harm to DoD forces. Unit self-defense includes the defense of other DoD
     forces in the vicinity.
     1.5.2. Defense of Others. When an officer/sentry reasonably believes others are in
     immediate danger of death or serious bodily harm, deadly force is authorized in defense of
     non-DoD persons in the vicinity, when directly related to the assigned mission.
     1.5.3. Assets Vital to National Security. Deadly force is authorized when it appears to be
     necessary to prevent the actual theft or sabotage of assets vital to national security. The DoD
     designates its assets as "vital to national security" only when their loss, damage, or
     compromise would seriously jeopardize the fulfillment of a national defense mission.
     Installation commanders must identify these resources specifically designated as assets vital
     to national security, and the procedures they will use to inform armed personnel of such
     specifically designated property in their installation security instruction. NOTE: Refer to
     DoD S-5210.41-M_Air Force Manual 31-108, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: The Air
     Force Nuclear Weapon Security Manual, for additional guidance on the use of force in
     defense of assets vital to national security.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                               7


   1.5.4. Inherently Dangerous Property. Deadly force is authorized when it appears to be
   necessary to prevent the actual theft or sabotage of inherently dangerous property. Property is
   considered inherently dangerous if its theft or sabotage would present a substantial danger of
   death or serious bodily harm to others. This includes weapons, ammunition, missiles, rockets,
   explosives, chemical agents, and special nuclear material. Installation commanders must
   identify resources specifically designated as inherently dangerous to others and procedures
   they will use to inform armed personnel of such specifically designated property in their
   integrated defense plan.
   1.5.5. National Critical Infrastructure. Deadly force is authorized when it appears to be
   necessary to prevent the sabotage of national critical infrastructure. This includes the
   destruction of public utilities or similar critical infrastructure vital to public health or safety,
   the damage of which would create an immediate danger of death or serious bodily harm.
   1.5.6. Serious Offenses Against Persons. Deadly force is authorized when it appears to be
   necessary to prevent the commission of a serious offense that involves immediate threat of
   death or serious bodily harm (for example, setting fire to an inhabited dwelling or
   encountering a sniper), including the defense of other persons, where deadly force is directed
   against the person threatening to commit the offense. Examples include murder, armed
   robbery, and aggravated assault.
   1.5.7. Escape. Deadly force is authorized when it appears to be necessary to prevent the
   escape of a prisoner, provided there is probable cause to believe such person(s) have
   committed or attempted to commit a serious offense, that is, one that involves immediate
   threat of death or serious bodily harm, and would pose an immediate threat of death or
   serious bodily harm to DoD forces or others in the vicinity.
   1.5.8. Arrest or Apprehension. Deadly force is authorized when it appears necessary to arrest
   or apprehend a person who, there is probable cause to believe, has committed a serious
   offense (as indicated in paragraphs 1.5.1., 1.5.2., 1.5.3., 1.5.4., 1.5.5., 1.5.6., and 1.5.7.).
1.6. Special Considerations for the Use of Firearms and Deadly Force. When feasible, an
order to “HALT” will be given before discharging a firearm. Use due regard for the safety of
innocent bystanders when using deadly force. Shots will not be fired as a warning to suspects
unless specifically authorized in overseas theater directives such as Status of Forces Agreement
(SOFA), when complying with Host Nation Laws and Rules of Engagement (ROE) as directed
by Combatant Commanders (CCDR).
   1.6.1. Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, or High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE)
   Operations. During protection and recovery operations involving nuclear weapons or lethal
   chemical agents, the presence of innocent bystanders or hostages must not deter individuals
   or commanders from stopping the attack through all means necessary.
   1.6.2. Local, Host Nation, and SOFA Laws. Commanders may impose further restrictions on
   the use of deadly force to comply with local or host-nation laws and SOFA. Such restrictions
   must not unduly compromise United States national security interests, and must be published
   in local installation instructions.
 8                                                                   AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


1.7. Use of Less-Lethal Force. IAW DoD 5210.56, DoDD 3000.3, Policy for Non-lethal
Weapons, establishes DoD policy for the development and employment of non-lethal weapon
(NLW). For the purpose of this AFI, and in the context of use of force, the term “Non-lethal
force” is not used; however, there is no guarantee that NLWs will not cause severe injury or
death. Less lethal force is subject to the same standards of objective reasonableness and totality
of circumstances as deadly force.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                           9


                                           Chapter 2

                                PROGRAM MANAGEMENT

2.1. Overview. Firearms are an instrument of deadly force. Commanders will only issue
firearms to support missions and contingencies in which deadly force may be authorized.
Personnel subject to this AFI eligible to bear firearms must belong to one of the two arming
groups below. Additionally, authorizations may be issued to bear firearms openly, concealed,
and in overseas locations. Authority to bear firearms will be based upon consideration of duty
assignment (paragraph 2.2.), suitability rules (paragraph 2.3.), possible consequences of
accidental or indiscriminate use of firearms, and confirmation that training requirements in
paragraph 2.4. have been met. Personnel subject to this AFI may not bear privately owned
firearms while performing official military duty, except as authorized in paragraph 2.6.4.2. A
failure to obey the guidance in this paragraph is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ.
   2.1.1. Arming Groups. Personnel subject to this AFI eligible to bear firearms belong to one
   of the following two arming groups. Air Force Career Field Managers (AFCFM) may
   mandate further requirements based upon specific Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC). If
   further requirements are needed, AFCFMs will coordinate with Air Force Security Forces
   Center/Security Forces Combat Arms (AFSFC/SFXW) for approval of personnel in their
   AFSCs that have specific arming group changes.
       2.1.1.1. Group A consists of military personnel subject to this AFI , civilian, and contract
       personnel performing law enforcement, security, or force protection duties or personnel
       serving in an AFSC that specifies qualification to bear firearms as a mandatory
       requirement IAW AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, or as identified in the Air Force
       Officer Classification Directory (AFOCD) or Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
       (AFECD). Group A also consists of military personnel subject to this AFI, civilian, and
       contract personnel from any AFSC who are required to be armed as part of their official
       in-garrison or peace-time duties.
       2.1.1.2. Group B consists of members other than those in Group A who are required to
       be armed as designated by deployment orders to meet Air Force War and Mobilization
       Plan or Air Expeditionary Force Unit Type Code (UTC) deployment requirements and
       have no in-garrison or peacetime arming requirement.
   2.1.2. Bearing and Using Firearms Openly. The following individuals may authorize
   assigned personnel to openly bear and use firearms.
       2.1.2.1. Major Command (MAJCOM), Numbered Air Force (NAF), or wing
       commanders.
       2.1.2.2. Installation, center, squadron, numbered flight commanders, and directors,
       including geographically separated unit (GSU) commanders.
       2.1.2.3. Principal appointees of squadron, installation, GSU, wing, NAF, MAJCOM,
       division, and center commanders/directors when specifically authorized in their
       respective MAJCOM supplements to this instruction.
 10                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


      2.1.2.4. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) commanders and special
      agents in charge (SAC) according to AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and
      Counterintelligence.
      2.1.2.5. Vice or deputy commanders or directors may be delegated the authority to
      authorize assigned personnel to openly bear and use firearms.
   2.1.3. Bearing and Using Concealed Firearms. The following individuals may authorize
   assigned personnel to bear and use concealed firearms:
      2.1.3.1. Installation commanders (or equivalents), a higher authority, or their designated
      representatives.
      2.1.3.2. AFOSI commanders and SACs, according to AFPD 71-1.
      2.1.3.3. Assigned commanders of aircrews armed specifically for preventing hijacks.
      2.1.3.4. Defense Force Commanders (DFC) may authorize Security Forces personnel to
      bear concealed firearms to meet certain mission requirements such as support of AFOSI
      operations, SF investigations, protection of distinguished visitors, etc.
      2.1.3.5. Vice or deputy commanders or directors may be delegated the authority to
      authorize assigned personnel to openly bear and use concealed firearms.
   2.1.4. Bearing and Using Firearms in Overseas Locations. Only Air Force MAJCOM,
   combatant commanders, their deputies, vice or deputy commanders can be delegated this
   approval authority authorizing personnel to bear firearms in any foreign country for other
   than routine law enforcement and security duties. Commanders may impose restrictions not
   contained in this instruction based upon host-nation laws and SOFAs. MAJCOMs list any
   additional restrictions in supplements to this instruction or in a foreign clearance guide
   (FCG) when a supplement is not feasible. In some overseas locations, authorization to bear
   firearms must be stated in the FCG or specifically approved by the U.S. Embassy.
2.2. Duty Assignment. All Airmen with a valid arming requirement, as deemed by their
authorizing official, are authorized to bear and use firearms.
   2.2.1. All categories of Airmen identified by the USAF Combat Arms Program Manager in
   the USAF Arming Group A Functions/Agencies Memorandum are specifically authorized to
   bear and use firearms. The following categories of personnel are also specifically authorized
   to bear and use firearms:
   2.2.2. Military command post and operations center controllers.
   2.2.3. Military missile combat crews.
   2.2.4. Military munitions maintenance personnel.
   2.2.5. Security Forces augmentees as designated by Defense Force Commanders (DFC).
   2.2.6. Personnel assigned to Terminal Attack Control (TAC) team, Tactical Air Control
   Party (TACP), Air Support Operations Center (ASOC), and Air Mobility Liaison Officer
   (AMLO) type code in support of field training exercises and operational deployments.
   2.2.7. Aircrew members may be armed in peacetime for protection of Air Force assets and
   personal defense (PD). Examples are aircrews armed for air operations security
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       11


   (antihijacking) and primary nuclear airlift flights. Aircrew members may be armed for PD in
   a combat area during wartime, in designated hostile force areas not during wartime, or during
   training exercises to prepare for such missions.
   2.2.8. Aircrew Flight Equipment Personnel.
2.3. Suitability to Bear Firearms. Commanders must continually monitor suitability of
personnel for armed duty and withdraw the authority to bear firearms when necessary.
   2.3.1. Behavioral Signs of Unsuitability. Everyone has a special responsibility to stay alert
   for behavioral signs that an individual should not be armed. If you have information or
   evidence of impairment of a member's mental or physical ability to bear firearms, notify that
   person's commander immediately.
      2.3.1.1. Commanders must evaluate available information and if necessary take
      immediate action to temporarily withdraw the affected person's authority to bear a
      firearm. If warranted, commanders must also deny the person access to any government-
      owned or privately owned firearm and associated ammunition stored in a government
      firearm storage facility. Commanders must follow the procedures in AFI 44-109, Mental
      Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, in referring individuals for a mental health
      evaluation.
      2.3.1.2. Commanders must not deny assignments, promotions, and reenlistment solely
      because of the temporary withdrawal of the person's authorization to bear a firearm.
   2.3.2. Gun Control Act. Commanders are responsible for ensuring compliance with the Gun
   Control Act of 1968, Public Law 104-208, (18 U.S.C. § 922(d)(9) and (g)(9)/Lautenberg
   Amendment). The Gun Control Act prohibits military personnel, civilians, and contractors
   with a qualifying conviction of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence from shipping or
   transporting in interstate or foreign commerce, or possessing in or affecting commerce, any
   firearm or ammunition; or receiving any firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or
   transported in interstate or foreign commerce. Furthermore, it is a felony for any person to
   sell or otherwise dispose of firearms or ammunition to any person whom he or she knows or
   has reasonable cause to believe has been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic
   violence.
      2.3.2.1. This law applies to qualifying convictions of domestic violence. A qualifying
      conviction includes a conviction for a crime of domestic violence tried by general or
      special courts-martial that otherwise meets the definition of a misdemeanor crime of
      domestic violence. Conviction for an offense meeting the definition of a felony crime of
      domestic violence adjudged on or after the date the law was enacted is also considered a
      qualifying conviction. NOTE: A qualifying conviction does not include summary courts-
      martial convictions, non-judicial punishment imposed under Article 15 of the UCMJ, or
      deferred prosecutions or similar alternative dispositions in civilian courts.
      2.3.2.2. Commanders are responsible for briefing personnel on the Gun Control Act,
      Lautenberg Amendment, and its consequences, annually. Further, commanders will take
      appropriate measures to ensure government-owned firearms or ammunition are not issued
      to anyone they have reasonable cause to believe has a qualifying conviction under this
      law. Additionally, commanders will initiate an appropriate investigation to confirm
      suspected convictions of domestic violence. Commanders are also responsible for
12                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


     providing constructive notice about the Lautenberg Amendment by posting information
     at all weapons/ammunition issue points in all facilities in which government firearms,
     ammunition, and ground defense munitions are stored, issued, received, transported, or
     disposed (see Attachment 5).
         2.3.2.2.1. Munitions Storage Areas (MSAs): Lautenberg Amendment information
         (see Attachment 5) must be posted at all vehicle and personnel entrances and any
         munitions issue points within the MSA that meets the requirement of constructive
         notice about the Lautenberg Amendment.
         2.3.2.2.2. Commanders must also ensure personnel complete a DD Form 2760,
         Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition, annually if they regularly handle
         firearms or ammunition, upon permanent change of duty station (PCS), permanent
         change of duty assignment (PCA), or when temporary duty (TDY) assignments will
         require use of firearms or ammunition. For personnel who do not regularly handle
         firearms and ammunition, the DD Form 2760 must be re-accomplished every time the
         military member or civilian employee is assigned to duties requiring the use of a
         firearm, destructive device, or ammunition. File this form in the unit’s personnel file
         management system (i.e., an electronic records management system or personnel
         identification file [PIF]).
         2.3.2.2.3. The Lautenberg Act applies to all firearms, small arms ammunition, and
         ground defense ammunition including but not limited to: .50 cal, 40MM grenades,
         and 7.62MM belted ammunition. The Lautenberg act does not apply to 'crew served'
         weapons and munitions; for the purposes of the US Air Force, this includes weapons
         larger than .50 cal and used solely from an aerial platform (e.g., missiles and air-
         munitions).
     2.3.2.3. For personnel found to have a qualifying conviction, the commander will
     immediately retrieve all issued firearms and ammunition, permanently withdraw their
     authority to possess firearms or ammunition, and advise them to legally dispose of any
     privately-owned firearms and ammunition they possess. Military members with AFSC
     requiring qualification to bear arms will have their AFSC withdrawn IAW AFI 36-2101,
     Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), para. 4.1.6. If a qualifying AFSC is
     withdrawn and the military member is not administratively separated, the member will be
     reassigned/retrained into another AFSC. Members with qualifying convictions will be
     awarded a “T” assignment limitation code (ALC). “T” ALC states member is not
     qualified to ship, transport, possess, receive firearms, and/or ammunition.
  2.3.3. Temporary Withdrawal. Commanders may temporarily withdraw authority to bear
  firearms for less than 72 hours by verbal notification. The verbal notification can be made by
  the commander, designated representative, or duty roster authentication official to the
  servicing armory and the affected person. Notice to the affected individual will also include
  their inability to carry a concealed firearm under the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of
  2004 (amended 2010). Servicing armories will take appropriate action to ensure a weapon is
  not issued to a person whose authority has been withdrawn.
     2.3.3.1. Within one calendar day of the determination to withdraw authority to bear
     arms, an updated Do-Not-Arm (DNA) roster/memorandum informing the servicing
     armory(s) of the withdrawal will be accomplished.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                        13


     2.3.3.2. Commanders, or their designated representative or duty roster authentication
     official, who previously withdrew or withdraws an individual’s authority to bear firearms
     for more than 72 hours, must notify the individual in writing and provide a brief synopsis
     of circumstances that form the basis for withdrawal. The written notification will also
     include notice of the affected individual’s inability to carry a concealed firearm under the
     Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004 (amended 2010). Individuals must
     acknowledge withdrawal action by endorsement on the notification letter, and be given a
     copy of the withdrawal action.
     2.3.3.3. An updated DNA roster/memorandum will be provided to the servicing armory
     within one calendar day of the determination to withdraw authority to bear arms.
     Commanders in consultation with the proper authorities, as applicable, must review the
     temporary status every 180-calendar days to either reaffirm that status or take other
     appropriate action.
     2.3.3.4. Commanders may file extensions on a case-by-case basis and normally only
     when their investigation is incomplete, or the member is undergoing medical treatment.
     2.3.3.5. File all correspondence dealing with temporary withdrawal in the unit’s
     personnel file management system (i.e., an electronic records management system or
     PIF). These records are to be maintained IAW the AF records disposition schedule in
     RDS.
     2.3.3.6. Commanders will temporarily withdraw authority to bear firearms from
     personnel for the following reasons:
         2.3.3.6.1. Identified substance abusers.
         2.3.3.6.2. Emotionally unstable or behavior suggests they are incapable of using
         firearms with care (See Attachment 2).
         2.3.3.6.3. Determined by medical authority to be suffering from alcohol abuse or
         dependence.
         2.3.3.6.4. Taking prescription medication that impairs their ability to use firearms.
         Use of prescription medication does not always disqualify individuals from bearing
         firearms. However, commanders must consult with the responsible physician when
         medication that impairs the ability to handle firearms is prescribed. If commanders, in
         consultation with servicing physicians, determine individuals should not have access
         to firearms, document this IAW              AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
         Standards, Volume I – General Provisions.
         2.3.3.6.5. Relieved of duty for disciplinary reasons.
  2.3.4. Permanent Withdrawal. If unit commanders or equivalent authority believe it is
  appropriate to permanently withdraw a member's authorization to bear firearms, they must
  first review the person's duty performance and medical and disciplinary records to ensure this
  decision is warranted. They should also consult their chief of personnel, staff judge advocate,
  proper medical authorities, and Defense Force Commander (DFC) before taking this action.
  Commanders must then document permanent withdrawal or reinstatement via AF Form 590,
  Withdrawal/Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms, IAW AFI 36-2608, Military
  Personnel Records System. Acknowledgement by the affected individual of the loss of
 14                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


   authority to bear arms, via AF Form 590, will also include notice of their inability to carry a
   concealed firearm under the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004 (amended 2010).
       2.3.4.1. When the person's AFSC description in AFOCD or AFECD requires
       qualification to bear firearms, commanders must take appropriate action according to AFI
       36-2101.
       2.3.4.2. When issuing the permanent withdrawal of authority to bear firearms to a
       military member, commanders submit a copy of the written withdrawal action to the
       military personnel flight along with those documents withdrawing the affected person’s
       AFSC.
       2.3.4.3. File all correspondence dealing with permanent withdrawal in the unit’s
       personnel file management system (i.e., an electronic records management system).
       These records are to be maintained IAW the AF records disposition schedule RDS.
       2.3.4.4. The decision to withdraw a person's authority to bear firearms does not
       necessarily mandate administrative separation. However, the affected person may need to
       undergo retraining if he or she no longer meets the AFSC requirements outlined in
       AFOCD or AFECD.
       2.3.4.5. Commanders should review the basis for the withdrawal to determine whether to
       take disciplinary or administrative action may be appropriate.
   2.3.5. Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms. Unit commanders may reinstate a
   person's authority to handle or bear arms upon receiving a favorable report of a completed
   investigation, corrective action, or medical evaluation.
       2.3.5.1. The individual will be notified in writing of the reinstatement and an updated
       DNA roster/memorandum will be provided to the servicing armory no later than 24 hours
       after reinstatement.
       2.3.5.2. Servicing armories must receive written reinstatement notification or an updated
       DNA roster prior to arming reinstated personnel.
       2.3.5.3. File all reinstatement correspondence or documentation in dealing with
       reinstatement in the unit’s personnel file management system (i.e., an electronic records
       management system). These records are to be maintained IAW the AF RDS.
       2.3.5.4. The administrative process to document and notify the military personnel flight
       of the reinstatement is the same as to execute the withdrawal (see paragraph 2.3.4.2.).
       2.3.5.5. Personnel whose authority to bear firearms has been permanently withdrawn
       may bear firearms in wartime or situations requiring immediate action to protect life or
       property. Commanders must weigh the benefits against possible adverse effects of
       arming such personnel.
2.4. Weapons Training Requirements. AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, contains
specific training requirements for each arming group, personnel selected for overseas
assignments, and personnel assigned to fill a unit type code (UTC) where qualification with duty
weapons must be met prior to authorizing personnel to bear firearms. AFCFMs may impose
additional firearms proficiency or sustainment training policies once personnel are weapons
qualified in accordance with AFI 36-2226. Only personnel task-certified through combat arms
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                            15


sections are authorized to conduct live-fire proficiency/sustainment training; refer to AFI 36-
2226 for proficiency training requirements. Unit commanders must ensure the following training
is completed.
   2.4.1. Qualification Training Frequencies. Generally, Group A personnel with an arming
   requirement must complete weapons qualification annually and Group B personnel tasked to
   deploy complete weapons qualification during pre-deployment Just-in-Time training.
   Specific weapons qualification training requirements and frequencies are directed by AFI 36-
   2226.
   2.4.2. Overseas Assignments. Before being stationed overseas, personnel identified by
   personnel processing code (PPC) must receive small arms weapons training IAW AFI 36-
   2226 and use of force training IAW section 2.5. of this instruction.
   2.4.3. Mobility Forces. All personnel assigned to fill a UTC receive small arms and use of
   force training as prescribed for their respective qualification group.
   2.4.4. All Air Force personnel trained and qualified on their assigned weapons IAW AFI 36-
   2226 and AFMAN 36-2227 V1, Combat Arms Training Programs Individual Use Weapons,
   and AFMAN 36-2227 V2, Combat Arms Training Programs Crew Served Weapons, will
   not arm or carry their weapons loaded either in training or operationally in any configuration
   other than those prescribed by AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual. NOTE:
   Failure to carry weapons in the trained configuration can be potentially dangerous to Air
   Force personnel.
2.5. Use of Force Training Requirement. This section identifies the use of force training
requirements for arming Groups A and B. A failure to obey the guidance in this paragraph is a
violation of Article 92 UCMJ.
   2.5.1. Arming Group A personnel will be trained annually (not to exceed 12 months) on Use
   of Force. Commanders will ensure Arming Group B personnel are provided use of force
   training prior to authorizing them to be armed and then annually thereafter as long as
   continued arming is required. Training for all groups will be IAW Air Force Manual
   (AFMAN) 31-222, Air Force Use of Force Manual. The approved use of force training is
   available at the Security Forces Center of Training Excellence https://sf-cte.csd.disa.mil.
   Use of Force training for deployment is good for 12 months or the entire length of the
   deployment, regardless of duration.
       2.5.1.1. Use of Force training is specifically designed as an additional training event.
       2.5.1.2. Annual use of force training for Group A will include performance based
       practical training incorporating decision-making scenarios.
       2.5.1.3. Annual use of force training for Group A personnel should include USAF
       approved simulated firearms systems. The use of dye and man-marking cartridge systems
       is preferred and strongly encouraged. USAF approved virtual training simulators and
       integrated laser based weapons training devices are acceptable.
       2.5.1.4. Each unit will be responsible for conducting Use of Force training for assigned
       personnel. It is recommended this training be specifically geared to the missions Airmen
       will likely perform or scenarios they will likely encounter. NOTE: Familiarization Use of
       Force and ROE training conducted by combat arms (CA) does not meet this requirement.
 16                                                                     AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


       2.5.1.5. Annual use of force training for Security Forces, both classroom and practical,
       will address deadly and non-lethal force options.
2.6. Documenting Authorization to Bear Firearms. The authorizing official must provide
written authorization for assigned personnel to carry firearms. Digital CAC signatures are
authorized in lieu of the written signature. If written authorization for assigned personnel to carry
firearms is more than one page in length, each page must reflect commander’s signature.
NOTE: Authorizing officials must ensure weapons qualification, use of force training,
sustainment training, and the DD Form 2760 has been successfully completed prior to
authorizing an individual to bear firearms to ensure that the individual is fit IAW Chapter 2 of
this instruction.
   2.6.1. Uniformed Personnel. Written authorizations can be issued as single multiple-listing
   memorandums, computerized rosters, aircrew orders, or other group document.
   Authorizations must identify the individual by name, last four digits of the social security
   number or DoD Electronic Data Interchange Personal Identifier (EDIPI), firearm type, and
   qualification expiration date for the weapon(s) carried. The original written authorization will
   be provided to the organization's servicing arms room or armory. For individuals other than
   Security Forces, the armorer must verify the arming authorization of each person requesting a
   firearm through review of a signed written authorization prior to issuing firearms. Security
   forces units may use the following procedures in lieu of the requirement for the armorer to
   review written authorization from the authorizing official.
       2.6.1.1. DFC may develop local policy permitting the signature (digital CAC signature
       or ink) of an “authentication official” on AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt, to
       serve as verification of authority to bear firearms. Local written policies must clearly
       state: the source document authorizing officials to sign; where the source documents are
       maintained; procedures for updating source documents (must meet requirements in
       paragraph 2.5.1.), and identify the authentication officials authorized to sign AF Form
       629.
       2.6.1.2. Authenticating official’s name must be clearly printed or typed on the AF Form
       629 and the armory must maintain a document showing who is authorized to sign the AF
       Form 629. By signing the AF Form 629, the “authentication official” certifies the
       individual being armed meets the requirements for arming (i.e., weapons qualifications,
       use of force training, DD Form 2760).
       2.6.1.3. If these procedures are implemented, authentication officials verify authority to
       bear firearms prior to issuing AF Form 629. The armorer must confirm each individual’s
       authorization to bear firearms through review of daily duty rosters and ensure personnel
       being armed possess a valid AF Form 629 prior to issuing firearms. Additionally, the
       armorer must ensure the member is not currently listed on the “Do Not Arm List.”
   2.6.2. Personnel Not in Uniform. Besides having written authorization as stated in paragraph
   2.6.1., personnel who openly bear firearms not in uniform while performing official military
   duties must comply with the following:
       2.6.2.1. Obtain an AF Form 523, USAF Authorization To Bear Firearms. Form can be
       ordered from the AF publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil .
       2.6.2.2. Carry AF Form 523 when armed.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                     17


     2.6.2.3. Surrender the form to authorizing officials when duties requiring firearms are
     complete.
  2.6.3. Carrying Concealed Firearms. The Air Force prohibits all military, civilian, and
  contract employees from carrying concealed firearms on duty except when specifically
  authorized in writing by an authorizing official, and only while performing an official
  military duty. Military members who violate this provision are subject to administrative or
  disciplinary proceedings under Article 92 UCMJ. Civilian employees who violate this
  provision are subject to administrative or disciplinary action without regard to otherwise
  applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Personnel carrying
  concealed weapons must comply with the following. EXCEPTION: AFOSI special agents
  follow the guidance set forth by their functional managers.
     2.6.3.1. Official aircrew orders or Contingency, Exercise, Deployment (CED) orders,
     specifying that the USAF member(s) are authorized to carry a concealed firearm, satisfies
     the written authorization requirement.
     2.6.3.2. Except when circumstances compromise the mission, always carry an AF Form
     523 while bearing concealed firearms. In those cases where a mission could be
     compromised, the authorizing official retains the form.
         2.6.3.2.1. AF Form 523 Requirements. All AF Forms 523 will use standardized AF
         Form 523 permit numbers. For example, 6SFS 12-0012 refers to the 12th permit
         issued by the 6th Security Forces Squadron at MacDill AFB, Florida, in 2012. The
         permit number on an AF Form 523 includes the heading "CONCEALED” preceding
         the permit number. AF Form 523 issued for off-base operations require full face
         photographs. All others contain the statement "VALID ON (INSTALLATION
         NAME) ONLY."
     2.6.3.2.2. MAJCOMs, including Air National Guard, may authorize personnel to retain
     an AF Form 523 when missions require those members to bear a concealed firearm on a
     regular basis.
     2.6.3.3. Authorized armed drivers for designated senior Air Force leaders must meet all
     qualification and training requirements established by AFOSI, Arming Group A, and
     comply with all provisions of this instruction. All drivers will inform the installation
     Security Forces, AFOSI detachment, and appropriate local civil authorities of their
     arming authorization. AFOSI is the single point of contact for all Air Force protective
     service operations, protecting senior US, DoD, Air Force, and Allied officials.
         2.6.3.3.1. Authorizations for armed drivers must be IAW DoD Instruction 2000.22,
         Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel.
     2.6.3.4. Carrying Weapons off Duty. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Law
     Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004, 18 U.S.C. §§ 926B, 926C (2004), as amended
     by Act of Oct. 12, 2010, 18 U.S.C. §§ 926B, 926C; and IAW DoDI 5525.12,
     Implementation of the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004, Security Forces,
     military, and civilian personnel are not authorized, in their official capacity, to carry
     concealed government-issued weapons, including firearms, off-duty.
 18                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


   2.6.4. Exceptions. Written authorization to bear firearms is not required in the following
   situations and circumstances.
       2.6.4.1. Uniformed military members performing an operational mission in a combat or
       hostile-fire zone or in situations requiring immediate action to protect life or property.
       2.6.4.2. Civilian contract guards may bear privately-owned firearms meeting the USAF
       Statement of Work specifications according to their USAF contract. Contract
       requirements must ensure weapons model and munitions comply with DoD/AF and local
       guidelines.
       2.6.4.3. Personnel performing honor guard duties who use firearms for ceremonial
       purposes (i.e., no live ammunition) need only comply with paragraphs 2.9. and 2.10. of
       this instruction and with handling instructions for their weapon found in AFMAN 31-
       229.
       2.6.4.4. An AFOSI special agent’s badge and credentials serve as authority to carry
       firearms openly or concealed in lieu of written authorization and an AF Form 523.
2.7. Arming Plans. Commanders must develop plans that specifically identify who may bear
firearms and under what circumstances they will be armed. Installation commanders must
incorporate these plans into existing programs for integrated defense, addressing personnel
arming requirements during defense readiness condition (DEFCON) changes, force protection
condition (FPCON) changes, and other military contingencies. Commanders must take into
consideration Non-Lethal Weapons when developing an arming plan.
   2.7.1. Normal Operations. Commanders develop plans for arming personnel consistent with
   the requirements of this instruction. Additionally, installation arming plans must include
   local laws for carrying firearms and use of deadly force by contract Security Forces if
   appropriate.
   2.7.2. Mobility Forces. Commanders may arm deployable forces to support contingency,
   wartime, or training operations. A command contingency plan or tasking message provides
   the arming requirements for deploying personnel.
       2.7.2.1. The contingency plan or tasking message describes the type of firearms required,
       the arming mission, the anticipated tasks armed members will perform, and the command
       and control elements.
       2.7.2.2. Supported commands develop guidance and procedures on selectively arming
       and using these personnel.
2.8. Arming Senior Military and Civilian Officials. MAJCOM and Combatant Commander,
or their designees, may authorize senior military and civilian officials to carry firearms for
personal protection in high-threat overseas areas where US government or other legitimate
intelligence analysis identifies a credible threat against US personnel. MAJCOM and Combatant
Commanders issue this authorization on a case-by-case basis for a specified assignment and must
ensure compliance with host-nation law and applicable SOFAs. This responsibility may be
delegated to vice or deputy commanders. NOTE: Senior military and civilian officials may not
bear government-owned firearms for personal protection within the United States without written
approval of either the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense. Information regarding handguns
issued to Air Force general officers is contained in the Air Force General Officer Handbook.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                         19


   2.8.1. Considerations. Before issuing authorizations to carry firearms for personal protection,
   commanders must consider the following.
       2.8.1.1. The likelihood of the threat in a particular location.
       2.8.1.2. The adequacies of DoD protective personnel support.
       2.8.1.3. The adequacy of host-nation protection.
       2.8.1.4. The effectiveness of other means to avoid personal attacks.
       2.8.1.5. The Department of State Threat Criminal levels.
       2.8.1.6. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Intelligence, Political, and Terrorism
       threat levels.
       2.8.1.7. DoD Defense Threat Assessments (DTA).
       2.8.1.8. Local Threat Assessment (LTA).
   2.8.2. Firearms Qualification. Individuals authorized to carry a weapon for personal
   protection must complete weapons qualification and use of force training before carrying
   their firearm.
2.9. Transporting Firearms. Individuals may transport their assigned weapons in their
privately-owned vehicle in the furtherance of their official duties to and from ports of
commercial and military transportation and to on or off-base firing ranges, consistent with
DoDIs, AFIs, local laws, and Host-Nation law and SFOAs governing transportation and carrying
of weapons. All firearms must be secured IAW DoD 5100.76-M, Physical Security of Sensitive
Conventional Arms, Ammunitions, and Explosives and AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense.
2.10. Carrying Firearms as a Passenger aboard Aircraft. Personnel subject to this AFI,
military, civilian and contract personnel may bear government firearms aboard military or
commercial aircraft while performing official military duties if the mission requires the member
to carry a firearm during the flight. NOTE: See DoDD 5210.56 and DoDI 5525.14, DoD Law
Enforcement Officers (LEOs) Flying Armed, for additional requirements.
   2.10.1. Requirements. Personnel carrying firearms aboard commercial aircraft will comply
   with Transportation Security Administration (TSA) guidelines and requirements.
   Additionally, personnel carrying firearms aboard military aircraft will notify the aircraft
   commander prior to flight.
   2.10.2. Authorization. Personnel carrying firearms aboard an aircraft must possess written
   authorization to carry firearms (e.g., CED orders, a memorandum of authorization,
   credentials, etc). NOTE: Official aircrew orders, along with a current AF Form 523, will
   suffice to meet the written authorization requirements for aircrew personnel aboard military
   aircraft. When flying on commercial aircraft, check with your airline or travel agent to see if
   firearms and ammunition are permitted, and ask about limitations and fees, if any, that apply.
   2.10.3. Training. Complete the Transportation Security Authority (TSA) Federal Law
   Enforcement Officer Flying Armed (FLEOFA) training course (including being
   knowledgeable of all applicable sections of 49 CFR and all subsequent updates), which is
   taught by an AF instructor or qualified agent of an authorized agency, such as the Federal Air
   Marshals.
 20                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


2.11. Carrying Firearms in a US Air Force Medical Facility. Only personnel performing
official military duties requiring them to be armed (e.g., on-duty Security Forces personnel,
AFOSI special agents, etc) may bear a firearm in an Air Force medical treatment facility.
2.12. Firearms Qualification Extensions. Individual weapons qualification is required at pre-
determined periodic times. Occasionally, situations such as health issues or TDY (outside of that
stated in paragraph 2.12.4.) may arise in which an individual may not be able to meet the
established qualification requirements.
   2.12.1. Squadron Commander Extensions. The authorizing official for the unit may grant
   onetime qualification extensions of up to 120 calendar days. Unit training sections ensure
   qualification extensions are posted on the individual’s AF Form 522, USAF Ground
   Weapons Training Data, and provide installation DFC with a courtesy copy of the extension
   letter.
   2.12.2. Installation Level Extensions. Installation commanders, Defense Force commanders
   (DFC), and senior-level US Air Force Reserve (USAFR) and Air National Guard (ANG)
   commanders may grant one-time qualification extensions of up to 12 continuous months for
   their affected Airmen. The granting authority informs each unit of the types of firearms,
   courses of training, duration of extensions, and authorizing documents. Each unit training
   section ensures qualification extensions are posted on the individual's AF IMT 522. The
   items below should be considered before granting lengthy extensions. NOTE: Squadron
   commander and installation level extensions may not exceed a total of 12 continuous months
   when combined.
       2.12.2.1. Impact on the force protection mission.
       2.12.2.2. The number of individuals requiring extension, the extension effects, and what
       their specific arming requirements are (e.g., peacetime or contingency arming).
       2.12.2.3. The reason for the extension, corrective action, compensatory measures, and
       get well date.
   2.12.3. MAJCOM Extensions. MAJCOM authorizing officials may approve qualification
   extensions of more than 12 continuous months. Document these extensions in memorandum
   format, ensuring the type(s) of firearm(s), courses of training, and duration of extension are
   listed in the memorandum. MAJCOM’s will specify an approving authority for their
   commands. NOTE: Extensions of more than 12 months should only be approved in dire
   circumstances where no other option is available and the total length of qualification,
   including all extensions, cannot exceed 24 months from the date of qualification training
   under any circumstances.
   2.12.4. Contingency Operation Extensions. Weapons qualifications do not expire during
   contingency operations; therefore, no extensions are needed. A failure to obey the guidance
   in this paragraph is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ. NOTE: Theater specifics and pre-
   deployment messages may have more stringent requirements.
   2.12.5. Firearms qualification extensions do not change the requirement for annual use of
   force training in non-deployed circumstances.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                        21


2.13. Firearms Safety. Firearms will only be drawn in the performance of official duties; as a
signaling device as authorized in paragraph 2.14.; or during weapons clearing/turn-in. Military
members who violate this prohibition are subject to administrative or disciplinary proceedings
under Article 92 UCMJ. Civilian employees who violate this provision are subject to
administrative or disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil
sanctions for violations of related laws. EXCEPTION: AFOSI special agents follow the
guidance set forth by their functional managers. A failure to obey the guidance in this paragraph
is a violation of Article 92 UCMJ.
   2.13.1. Responding to Incidents. Personnel responding to an actual incident, who can expect
   to meet an adversary armed with a deadly weapon, respond with firearms “ready” according
   to Attachment 3. Any decision to chamber a round of ammunition in a firearm that is not
   normally carried with a round chambered, or draw a pistol from the holster, will be based
   upon the circumstances encountered and the threat presented. EXCEPTION: AFOSI special
   agents follow the guidance set forth by their functional managers.
   2.13.2. Tactical Exercises. Personnel participating in tactical exercises or force-on-force
   training using marking cartridges (e.g., Dye Marking Cartridge), integrated laser based
   weapons training devices, or blank ammunition do not have to be qualified on the firearm
   they are armed with and are exempt from the provisions of paragraph 2.4. However, they
   must be familiar with all safety requirements, have a working knowledge of the weapon they
   are using, and be able to distinguish between live and training ammunition.
       2.13.2.1. Unit commanders must develop and implement written guidance for firearms
       safety tailored specifically to force-on-force training and exercises IAW AFMAN 31-
       229.
   2.13.3. Storing Firearms. All government issued firearms will be stored IAW DoD 5100.76-
   M and AFI 31-101. Firearms will not be stored loaded. Individuals authorized to store
   government-issued firearms at a residence or non-government location will use a firearms
   locking device. In such cases, the agency that issues the firearm(s) will provide the
   individual(s) with safety locks and instructions for proper use.
       2.13.3.1. Aircrew members performing anti-hijack missions, maintenance personnel at
       Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) missile launch facilities, and military
       personnel involved in actual combat may store loaded firearms.
   2.13.4. Use of Alcohol and Drugs. Personnel will not consume any form of alcohol or use
   over the counter drugs or prescription medications that could impair ability to handle a
   firearm while on duty, or within 8 hours before duty or firearms training. Failure to comply
   with this provision may lead to punishment under Article 92 of the UCMJ. Civilian
   employees who violate this provision are subject to administrative or disciplinary action
   without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related
   laws.
   2.13.5. Weapons Handling Procedures. Personnel will use standardized weapons handling
   procedures IAW AFMAN 31-229 and this publication, when armed with a USAF-owned
   weapon.
   2.13.6. Weapons Clearing Procedures. Weapons will be cleared IAW procedures outlined in
   AFMAN 31-229. Firearms may only be cleared under the supervision of a trained clearing
 22                                                                     AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


   barrel attendant at an authorized clearing area with a clearing barrel. Clearing barrel
   attendants, documented on the AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard
   Continuation/Command JQS, must know clearing procedures for all firearms loaded and
   unloaded at the clearing area. EXCEPTIONS: This requirement does not apply to personnel
   engaged in combat, weapons qualification training, training exercises simulating combat, and
   AFOSI personnel who follow guidelines in AFOSI Manual 71-113, Firearms, Use of Force,
   and Apprehension Tactics. NOTE: HQ AFSFC/SFXW must approve any deviations to these
   procedures before MAJCOMs or units implement them.
2.14. Firearms as Signaling Devices. Firearms may be used as an emergency signaling device
only as a last resort in life-threatening situations. This is only authorized when all other means of
communication have failed or no other means of communication are available to sound the
alarm. Firearms signaling should be conducted by firing three shots in rapid succession, in a safe
direction, away from resources and populated areas. A failure to obey the guidance in this
paragraph is a violation of Article 92 UCMJ.
2.15. Peacetime Firearms Discharges. Commanders must investigate all peacetime or in
garrison deliberate and negligent firearm discharges. Personnel must immediately report
peacetime discharges to their commander, the commander of the person who discharged the
firearm (if different), and the security forces. Failing to report these incidents is a violation of
Article 92 UCMJ. Civilian employees who violate this provision are subject to administrative or
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws.
   2.15.1. Commander Responsibilities. The commander of the person who discharged a
   firearm will accomplish the following:
       2.15.1.1. Begin an investigation of the incident immediately or contact the Security
       Forces for investigative assistance.
       2.15.1.2. Temporarily withdraw the person's authorization to bear a firearm immediately
       until completion of the investigation and, if necessary, until the person completes a
       remedial firearms training course (mechanical portion only).
       2.15.1.3. Immediately notify public affairs, even if unauthorized firearm discharge did
       not involve injury, death, or property damage.
       2.15.1.4. Take immediate corrective action, including applicable administrative or
       disciplinary actions, if investigation reveals the person used the firearm negligently or has
       a training deficiency.
       2.15.1.5. Return the affected person to duty immediately if results of the investigation or
       other conclusive evidence show the person discharged the firearm according to
       established policy.
   2.15.2. Reporting Requirements. If a US military member, contract employee, or a civilian
   employee of the US military discharges a government owned or affiliated firearm, during any
   non-combat related incident, other than authorized training events (e.g., qualifications and
   live fire exercises) the installation commander will ensure the following actions are taken.
   NOTE: This does apply to unintentional/negligent discharges of weapons during authorized
   training events including non-lethal weapons.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       23


     2.15.2.1. When unauthorized firearm discharges do not involve an injury, fatality, or
     possible publicity, report the incidents according to MAJCOM or Field Operating
     Agency (FOA) instructions.        Additionally send informational copies to HQ
     AFSFC/SFXW.
  2.15.3. When unauthorized firearm discharges involve an injury, fatality, or possible
  publicity, report the incidents as follows:
     2.15.3.1. Report incidents using OPREP-3/BEELINE message format attachment 4.
     2.15.3.2. Send messages to AF/A7S (SF) and AFSFC/SFO (Operations Division) within
     24 hours of the incident using Report Control Symbol AF/A3O (Operations). Messages
     may be sent via e-mail to: hqafsfc.opsctr@us.af.mil. Designate reports priority,
     emergency status code C1, and continue reporting during emergency conditions and
     ensure the reports are concise and to the point. AFSFC will notify all MAJCOM A7S of
     all incidents related to SF.
     2.15.3.3. Send information copies to HQ AFSFC/SFXW, HQ USAF or FOA
     headquarters functional manager and to intermediate Security Forces headquarters (FOA,
     MAJCOM, or Numbered Air Force) staff and functional manager of the unit involved.
     2.15.3.4. Send a written follow-up report in After Action Report (AAR) format to the
     AFSFC/SPC (Strategic Planning Cell) within 30 calendar days following all in garrison
     deliberate and unauthorized firearm discharges. Criminal investigations by Security
     Forces investigations or AFOSI into the discharge do not alleviate the need for an AAR.
     NOTE: Reports may be sent via e-mail to: SF Lessons Learned afsfc.sfp@us.af.mil or
     afsfc.sfp@us.af.smil.mil .
2.16. USE OF FORCE REVIEW BOARD
  2.16.1. Introduction: Similar to mishap safety investigations, Use of Force Review Boards
  (UFRBs) are important tools used to gather the facts, circumstances, and lessons learned
  concerning the use of force involving AF members. UFRBs and criminal investigations are
  two separate and distinct processes. As a general rule, UFRB gathered information and
  testimony should not be used in any related criminal investigation. UFRB witnesses, who are
  not suspected of a punishable offense, will be asked to voluntarily testify and will not be
  advised of their rights under Article 31, UCMJ (military), or the Fifth Amendment to the
  United States Constitution (civilian). If suspicion that a witness may have committed a
  punishable offense arises after the interview begins, the interview shall be stopped, the
  UFRB legal advisor consulted, and if deemed appropriate, the individual will be advised of
  his or her rights and may elect to continue to testify.
  2.16.2. When to Convene a Board and Its Purpose. A UFRB will be convened for most
  use of force events where an injury results or where there is potential for publicity. A UFRB
  will be convened for all shooting incidents (except for inadvertent clearing barrel incidents)
  or any use of force event resulting in death. AF/A7S will appoint a disinterested SF member
  in the grade of 0-6 or GS-15 as the board president. The MAJCOM director responsible for
  the individuals involved in the shooting cannot serve as the board president. The president
  may elect to have board members convene at the location of the shooting or as close as
  possible or may elect to assign tasks without physically convening members. Ideally, the
  board should convene within 14-30 days of the incident.
24                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


     2.16.2.1. The board’s purpose is to provide an all-encompassing evaluation that includes
     the results of the investigation or inquiry and:
        2.16.2.1.1. Determine if events and facts surrounding the incident were accurately
        investigated and completely reported;
        2.16.2.1.2. Determine if the AF member(s) acted within the scope of their authority,
        current policy and current procedure; and
        2.16.2.1.3. Recommend changes, if needed, in AF use of force and AFSC specific
        tactics, policies, procedures, or training.
  2.16.3. Board Members and Their Responsibilities. The board will be comprised of, at a
  minimum:
     2.16.3.1. The Board President. The Board President shall:
        2.16.3.1.1. Establish the board and determine its final composition;
     2.16.3.1.2. Preside over the board and make a final determination on the issues
     presented; and
        2.16.3.1.3. Will serve as the investigative focal point and conduct a comprehensive
        review of the incident focusing on administrative rules and procedures as well as
        criminal procedures
     2.16.3.2. HQ Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC) Representative. The HQ
     AFSFC representative will conduct the UFRB investigation, per the direction of the
     UFRB president for Security Forces. The HQ AFSFC representative will have the same
     access to the participant, witness and the crime scene as local investigators. All
     information gathered by investigative bodies must be made available to the HQ AFSFC
     representative.
        2.16.3.2.1. Other Directorates will provide guidance on who will conduct UFRBs.
     2.16.3.3. Psychologist. An AF psychologist will be assigned to the board and will:
        2.16.3.3.1. Provide psychological expertise and insights to the board; and
        2.16.3.3.2. Evaluate the involved SF members and make referrals to qualified
        counselors when needed.
     2.16.3.4. AF/JA. A judge advocate or civilian attorney will:
        2.16.3.4.1. Serve as the legal advisor to the board, AF/A7S, HQ AFSFC, and other
        directorates’ UFRB representatives, but not to the involved AF members; and
        2.16.3.4.2. Offer advice to the local staff judge advocate (SJA), if requested, and
        conduct liaison with higher legal staffs.
     2.16.3.5. HQ AFOSI Representative. The HQ AFOSI representative will provide
     investigative expertise, as required.
     2.16.3.6. A first-line security forces supervisor from a different installation. This
     member will provide a practical perspective on daily security forces operations.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                           25


       2.16.3.7. Other Members. The UFRB president will determine other members of the
       UFRB (additional advisors, administrator, etc).
       2.16.3.7.1. The investigators who conducted the investigation will not be included as
       UFRB members. The UFRB president should have the investigators appear before the
       board to brief the facts of the investigation and answer any questions. The investigators
       will not, however, be involved in making determinations or recommendations such as
       those outlined in paragraphs 2.16.2.1.1. through 2.16.2.1.3.
       2.16.3.8. Legal Considerations for a Shooting Incident. Historically, local law
       enforcement agencies have investigative responsibility for shootings within their
       territorial jurisdictions. That responsibility does not change simply because one of the
       participants is an AF law enforcement officer. Accordingly, an AF law enforcement
       officer involved in an off-base shooting incident, or where there is concurrent
       jurisdiction, should anticipate an investigation by local authorities in addition to a review
       by the UFRB. Consult the local SJA regarding applicable contract provisions, if any,
       scope of employment, local or state law enforcement investigation policies and
       procedures, and any potential local or state prosecution concerns.
       2.16.3.9. The Use of Force Review Board Report. The UFRB report will contain, at a
       minimum, the following information and any additional information as needed.
       Distribution of the final report will be determined by AF/A7S.
          2.16.3.9.1. A summary of the facts and circumstances surrounding the shooting
          incident and attach all documents reviewed. A security forces firearms discharge
          report must be completed by the unit involved and included as part of the report as
          well as;
          2.16.3.9.2. A summary of all interviews conducted by the UFRB;
          2.16.3.9.3. Findings of the UFRB, including misconduct or commendation;
          2.16.3.9.4. Dissenting opinions;
          2.16.3.9.5. Any identified training issues;
          2.16.3.9.6. Any identified policy issues; and
          2.16.3.9.7. Recommendations of the UFRB.
2.17. Non-Lethal Weapons. DoDD 3000.3 states non-lethal weapons are weapons that are
explicitly designed and primarily employed to incapacitate personnel or materiel, while
minimizing fatalities, permanent injury, and undesired damage to property and the environment.
Non-lethal weapons employ means other than gross physical destruction to prevent the target
from functioning. Non-lethal weapons are intended to have one, or both, of the following
characteristics: They have relatively reversible effects on personnel or materiel. They affect
objects differently within their area of influence. Unit Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
and Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) may require adjustment to enable employment
of non-lethal weapons and new equipment for the success of specific missions.
 26                                                                AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


2.18. Non-Lethal Weapons and Techniques Training. Career Field Managers will specify
what NLW and techniques training, if any, will be received by their respective AFSC.
   2.18.1. Personnel will not employ non-lethal weapons or techniques prior to being trained
   IAW AFMAN 31-222 or AFSC specific guidance as directed by CFMs.
      2.18.1.1. Each unit is responsible for providing instructors to train individuals on
      performing non-lethal techniques and (if appropriate) using non-lethal weapons.
      Instructors must be a graduate of one of the following: Air University (AU) Online
      Instructor Methodology Course (Course Number 03S00W), Basic Instructor Course
      (BIC), or Principles of Instruction (POI) and currently certified on the NLW.
      Alternatively be a graduate of the Inter-service Non-lethal Individual Weapons Instructor
      Course (INIWIC), Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), or other
      instructor certification course such as Safari Land Basic Instructor Course. Instructors
      must currently be certified on the non-lethal weapon or technique before being authorized
      to teach the course. Instructors must follow the guidance set forth in AFMAN 31-222 or
      AFSC specific guidance as directed by CFMs.
      2.18.1.2. Commanders will ensure personnel receive practical, performance based and
      scenario-driven use of force training annually, IAW section 2.5. of this publication,
      before authorizing individuals to employ non-lethal weapons.
      2.18.1.3. Personnel must complete qualification training IAW AFI 36-2226 on the
      service weapon used to deploy non-lethal munitions, to include the non-lethal orders of
      fire. This training only qualifies the individual on the weapon/munitions and does not
      meet non-lethal employment training requirements. Instructor requirements for non-
      lethal employment training are outlined in 2.17.1.1. of this publication.
   2.18.2. Non-Lethal Weapons Reporting Requirements. Use the following format to report
   non-lethal weapons incidents if a US military member, contract employee, or a civilian
   employee of the US military employs/discharges a non-lethal weapon, while on duty or in the
   performance of official duties (to include training mishaps).
      2.18.2.1. When unauthorized employment does not involve an injury, fatality, or possible
      adverse publicity, report the incidents according to MAJCOM or Field Operating Agency
      (FOA) instructions.
      2.18.2.2. Report incidents using OPREP-3/BEELINE message format. NOTE: The
      OPREP-3/BEELINE report format will be used even if the event does not meet the
      reporting guidelines in AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting.
      2.18.2.3. Send messages to HQ USAF/A7S (SF) and HQ AFSFC/SFO (Operations
      Division) within 24 hours of the incident using Report Control Symbol AF/A3O
      (Operations). Messages may be sent via e-mail to: hqafsfc.opsctr@us.af.mil. Designate
      report’s priority, emergency status code C1, and continue reporting during emergency
      conditions and MINIMIZE.
      2.18.2.4. Send information copies to HQ USAF or FOA headquarters functional manager
      and to intermediate Security Forces headquarters (FOA, MAJCOM, or Numbered Air
      Force) staff and functional manager of the unit involved.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       27


     2.18.2.5. Send a written follow-up report in a lessons learned format (Attachment 4)
     within 60 calendar days of the employment/discharge to all original addressees and HQ
     AFSFC/SFOP (Police Services Branch) via e-mail at all.afsfc.sfop@us.af.mil. Criminal
     investigations by Security Forces Investigations or AFOSI do not alleviate the need for a
     lessons learned report.




                                          JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
 28                                                                AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force General Officer Handbook
18 USC 922, Unlawful Acts, 3 January 2007
(CJCSI) 3121.01B, Standing Rules of Engagement/Standing Rules for the Use of Force for US
Forces, 15 January 2009
DoDD 3000.3, Policy for Non Lethal Weapons, 9 July 1996
DoD 5100.76-M, Physical Security of Sensitive Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and
Explosives, 12 August 2000
DoD S-5210.41-M_Air Force Manual 31-108, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual: The Air Force
Nuclear Weapon Security Manual, 1 Feb 2010
DoD Directive 5210.56, Carrying of Firearms and the Use of Force by DoD Personnel Engaged
in Law Enforcement and Security Duties, 1 April 2011
DoDI 2000.22, Designation and Physical Protection of DoD High Risk Personnel (HRP),”
January 22, 2008, Change 1, July 22, 2008
DoDI 5525.12, Implementation of the Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act of 2004
DoDI 5525.14, DoD Law Enforcement Officers (LEOs) Flying Armed, 22 March 2011
DoD Civil Disturbance Plan “Garden Plot” (unnumbered), 15 February 1991
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 20 September 2010
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 7 March 2006
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program, 24 February 2009
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 1 March 2000
AFI 48-123 Volume 1, Medical Examinations and Standards, Volume 1 – General Provisions,
5 June 2006
AFMAN 31-222, Air Force Use of Force Manual, 18 February 2009
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, 12 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 36-2227 V1, Combat Arms Training Programs Individual Use Weapons, 21 May 2004
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                         29


AFMAN 36-2227 V2, Combat Arms Training Programs Crew Served Weapons, 1 January 2004
AFOSI Manual 71-113, Firearms, Use of Force, and Apprehension Tactics, 15 January 2009
PL 108-277, Amend title 18, United States Code, to exempt qualified current and former law
enforcement officers from State laws prohibiting the carrying of concealed handguns, 22 July
2004
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 523, USAF Authorization To Bear Firearms
AF Form 629, Small Arms Hand Receipt
AF Form 590, Withdraw/Reinstatement of Authority to Bear Firearms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 522, USAF Ground Weapons Training Data
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Managers
AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOCD—Air Force Officer Classification Directory
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ALC—Assignment Limitation Code
AMLO—Air Mobility Liaison Officer
ANG—Air National Guard
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
AU—Air University
BIC—Basic Instructor Course
CA—Combat Arms
CAC—Common Access Card
 30                                                            AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosives
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CED—Contingency, Exercise, Deployment
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DEFCON—Defense Readiness Condition
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DNA—Do Not Arm
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DTA—Department of Defense Threat Assessment
EDIPI—Electronic Data Interchange Personal Identifier
FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide
FLEOFA—Federal Law Enforcement Officer Flying Armed
FLETC—Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFSFC—Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center
HR—House Resolution
IAW—In Accordance With
INIWIC—Inter-Service Non-lethal Individual Weapons Instructor Course
LFA—Lead Federal Agency
LTA—Local Threat Assessment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSA—Munitions Storage Area
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NLW—Non-lethal Weapon
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PD—Personnel Defense
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       31


POI—Period of Instruction
PPC—Personnel Processing Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROE—Rules of Engagement
RUF—Rules for the Use of Force
SAC—Special Agent in Charge
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
SOP—Standard Operating Procedures
SRUF—Standing Rules for the Use of Force
TAC—Terminal Attack Control team
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
TDY—Temporary Duty
TSA—Transportation Security Administration
TTP—Tactical Training Procedure
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UFRB—Use of Force Review Board
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserves
UTC—Unit Training Code

Terms
Aggravated Assault—An unlawful intentional, or attempt, to do bodily harm to another person,
using a dangerous weapon or other means or force likely to produce grievous bodily harm, or the
intentional infliction of grievous bodily harm, with or without a weapon.
Armed—Equipped with a loaded firearm.
Armed Robbery— Wrongfully taking certain property from a person or from a person’s
possession while in the person’s presence, by means of force or violence or fear of immediate or
future injury to that person, a relative, or member of their family or any one accompanying that
person at the time.
Concealed Weapon— A firearm that is carried by a person and intentionally covered or kept
from sight (for instance, a hand gun not clearly visible on the outermost garment worn).
Deadly Force— Force that which when applied, a reasonable Airman would know would cause
death or serious bodily harm.
Deadly Weapon— Any implement whose purpose is to cause death or that when used as an
instrument of offense is capable of causing death or serious bodily harm. This includes not only
 32                                                                     AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


firearms and knives, but also blunt instruments like clubs, baseball bats, pipe wrenches, or
automobiles.
Firearm—Any weapon designed to expel a projectile through a barrel by the action of a
propellant or one that you can readily convert to this purpose. The frame or receiver group of any
such weapon, any firearm muffler or silencer, and starter guns are firearms.
Firearm Locking Device—A device that when installed on a firearm and secured by means of a
key or mechanically, electronically, or electro-mechanically operated combination lock prevents
the firearm from being discharged without first deactivating or removing the device by means of
a key or mechanically, electronically, or electro-mechanically operated combination lock; or a
mechanical, electrical, or electro-mechanical locking mechanism incorporated into the design of
the firearm that prevents discharge of the weapon by anyone not having access to the key or
other device designed to unlock and allow discharge of the firearm.
Functional Manager—The office of primary responsibility for a particular Air Force specialty.
Examples: HQ USAF/A7S, for security forces; HQ USAF/A7C for civil engineers; AF/A1 for
personnel, and education and training specialists.
Hostile Act— An attack or other use of force by any civilian, paramilitary, or military force or
terrorist(s) (with or without national designation) against the United States, US forces, and in
certain circumstances, US nationals, their property, US commercial assets, or other designated
non-US forces, foreign nationals, and their property. Force used directly to preclude or impede
the mission and/or duties of US forces, including the recovery of US personnel and vital US
Government property. When a hostile act is in progress the right exists to use proportional force,
including armed force, in self-defense by all necessary means available to deter or neutralize the
potential attacker or, if necessary, to destroy the threat.
Hostile Intent—The threat of imminent use of force by a foreign force, terrorist(s), or
organization against the United States and US national interests, US forces, and in certain
circumstances, US nationals, their property, US commercial assets, and other designated non-US
forces, foreign nationals, and their property. When hostile intent is present, the right exists to use
proportional force, including armed force, in self-defense by all necessary means available to
deter or neutralize the potential attacker or, if necessary, to destroy the threat. A determination
that hostile intent exists and requires the use of proportional force in self-defense must be based
upon evidence that an attack is imminent. Evidence necessary to determine hostile intent will
vary depending upon the state of international and regional political tension, military
preparations, intelligence, and indications and warning information.
Immediate Threat—The determination of whether the danger of death or serious bodily harm is
immediate will be based upon an assessment of all facts and totality of circumstances known to
DoD forces (military, civilian, or contractor) at the time and may be made at any level.
Individuals with the capability to inflict death or serious bodily harm and who demonstrate intent
to do so may be considered an immediate threat.
Installation Commander—The individual responsible for all operations performed by an
installation.
Objective Reasonableness—Fourth Amendment standard established by Supreme Court in
determining if individuals involved in law enforcement or security duties employed appropriate
level of force in dealing with all persons. The Supreme Court defined police use of force as a
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                           33


“seizure” under the Fourth Amendment to the US Constitution. The “reasonableness” of a
particular use of force must be judged from the perspective of a reasonable Airman with like
training on the scene, rather than with the 20/20 vision of hindsight.
Officer/Sentry— Any officer, noncommissioned officer, Airman, civilian or contract employee
performing security, law enforcement, military police, or guard duties under Air Force control.
Subject Action(s)—The officer/sentry’s perception of the subject’s capability, opportunity, and
intent indicate what degree of force is required, if any, by the officer/sentry to achieve his/her
objective. As in the elements of reasonableness, subject actions cannot be defined mechanically,
but can be structured into behavioral categories to promote understanding of the concept.
Probable Cause (Reasonable Grounds)— Determination required by Fourth Amendment of
the Constitution and UCMJ in the general context of apprehension, search, or seizure that
reasonable grounds exist to believe that a specific offense has occurred, that a certain person has
committed a specific offense or is engaged in committing an offense, or that a person, property,
or evidence sought is located in a particular place or on a particular person.
Reasonable Suspicion—Function: noun: an objectively justifiable suspicion that is based upon
specific facts or circumstances and that justifies stopping and sometimes searching (as by
frisking) a person thought to be involved in criminal activity at the time. The Supreme Court
case Terry v Ohio (1968) held that police may briefly detain a person who they reasonably
suspect is involved in criminal activity. NOTE: A police officer stopping a person must be able
to point to specific facts or circumstances even though the level of suspicion need not rise to that
of the belief that is supported by probable cause. A reasonable suspicion is more than a hunch.
Rules of Engagement—Directives issued by competent military authority that delineate the
circumstances and limitations under which US forces will initiate or continue combat
engagement with other forces.
Grievous Bodily Harm /Serious Bodily Harm—Includes fractured or dislocated bones, deep
cuts, torn members of the body, serious damage to the internal organs, and life threatening
injuries but does not include minor injuries solely such as a black eye or bloody nose.
Unauthorized Firearms Discharge—Intentionally or accidentally discharging a firearm without
authorization.
Unit Commander—An officer who commands a designated unit assigned, attached, or tenant to
an installation and whom administrative orders identify as a "commander.”
 34                                                                    AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


                                          Attachment 2
PERSONALITY AND BEHAVIOR FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT SUITABILITY TO
                        BEAR FIREARMS

A2.1. The personality and behavioral factors below are presented in categories so they may be
more easily recognized. There is no magic number of these factors that suggests a personality or
behavioral disorder. Rather it is the extent to which the noted factor(s) change that is different
from what is considered "normal" that makes a factor important. Finally, it is the duration (how
long the factor has been present/how long it lasts), frequency (how often it happens), and
intensity (strength) of the factor that suggest the severity of the personality or behavioral trait.
A2.2. Factors Relating to Thinking and Attitude.
   A2.2.1. Suspiciousness. Individual seems unable to trust others, is jealous, complains of
   plots against him or her, and sees hidden meanings in personal slights.
   A2.2.2. Arrogance. Individual assumes or presumes the possession of superior or unique
   ideas or abilities.
   A2.2.3. Lack of Humor. Especially the inability to laugh at one's self, at one's mistakes, or
   one's weaknesses.
   A2.2.4. Inflexibility. Especially in accepting new ideas originating among others.
   A2.2.5. Preoccupation. Sticking to one idea to the exclusion of almost all other thoughts so
   those relationships with others are strained and ranges of interests are severely narrowed.
   A2.2.6. Sensitivity. Particularly concerning status, where the individual is overly concerned
   with being left out, ignored, ridiculed, or talked about.
   A2.2.7. Arguing. When accompanied by the development of a personal logic to support
   unusual or unrealistic ideas.
A2.3. Factors Related to Behavior or Activity.
   A2.3.1. Impulsiveness. Acts without considering the consequences, is easily distracted,
   seeks enjoyment of the moment to the exclusion of long-range goals, craves excitement, and
   may talk about disasters, violence, or destruction.
   A2.3.2. Destructiveness. May involve impulsive damage to military equipment.
   A2.3.3. Temper Tantrums. Childish outbursts of anger, sulking, or pouting over minor
   disappointments.
   A2.3.4. Agitation. Excessive restlessness due to emotional tension.
   A2.3.5. Excessive Talking. Particularly when no logical thought is communicated to the
   listener.
   A2.3.6. Decreased Talking. Usually accompanied by boredom, listlessness, and apparent
   disinterest.
   A2.3.7. Accident Prone. May show apparent disregard for safety procedures.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                             35


A2.4. Factors Related to Awareness or Level of Consciousness.
   A2.4.1. Alcohol and Drug Intoxication. May cause loss of inhibitions, poor judgment, or
   physical impairment.
   A2.4.2. Fainting Spells. May have both physical and emotional causes.
   A2.4.3. Sleep Attacks (Narcolepsy). Uncontrollable episodes of sleeping that may interfere
   with functional reliability.
   A2.4.4. Seizures (Epilepsy). May have convulsions, with or without complete loss of
   consciousness; trance-like states; attacks of inappropriate rage; or repetitive, stereotyped
   behavior.
   A2.4.5. Sleepwalking. Individuals may injure themselves or damage property while
   apparently asleep.
   A2.4.6. Daydreaming. Individual preoccupied with internal thoughts and fantasies with lack
   of attention to current tasks.
   A2.4.7. Amnesia. Loss of memory due to brain disease and injury or emotional conflicts.
A2.5. Factors Related to Mood and Feeling.
   A2.5.1. Unusual Happiness. Particularly when no apparent reason for elation exists. May be
   accompanied by excessive physical activity, lack of sleep, excitement, and excessive talking.
   A2.5.2. Unusual Sadness. May indicate significant depression, particularly when
   accompanied by hopelessness, self condemnation, dejection, feelings of guilt, pessimism,
   poor sleep, fatigue, loss of appetite, slow physical activity, or loss of interest in job and
   family.
   A2.5.3. Attempted Suicide. Particularly significant when attempted through the deliberate
   use of a firearm. Factors predictive of suicide include a history of previous suicide attempts,
   suicidal threats, depression, serious physical illness, alcoholism, loss of a loved one through
   death or divorce, financial or job reversals with loss of self-esteem, and apparent preparations
   for death, such as an unusual interest in wills and life insurance.
   A2.5.4. Suicide Gestures. May represent significant emotional disorder and require medical
   evaluation.
   A2.5.5. Hypochondria. Imagined illness. Disagreements with doctors who are pictured as
   not understanding.
   A2.5.6. Complaints of headaches, back pain, or abdominal pains without evidence of
   physical illness or medical evaluation.
   A2.5.7. Hostility. Particularly expressions of hostility towards one's country.
   A2.5.8. Legal Controversies. Threats of lawsuit and other reprisals over minor or
   nonexistent wrongs.
A2.6. Stress Reactions. The stress reactions below are presented in categories so they may be
more easily recognized and understood. There is no magic number of these symptoms that
suggests difficulty in coping. Rather it is the extent to which the noted reaction is a change that is
different from a person's normal condition that makes a reaction potentially important. It is the
 36                                                                 AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


combined presence of symptoms that determines potency of the problem. Indicators may be
isolated reactions or combinations among the three categories listed below. Finally, it is their
duration (how long symptoms have been present/how long they last), frequency of such incidents
(how often they happen), and intensity (strength) with which they are present that suggest
severity of the difficulty of coping.
A2.7. Emotional Indicators
   A2.7.1. Apathy:
       A2.7.1.1. The "blahs”/sad
       A2.7.1.2. Recreation no longer pleasurable
   A2.7.2. Anxiety:
       A2.7.2.1. Restless/agitated
       A2.7.2.2. Insecure/ feelings of worthlessness
   A2.7.3. Irritability:
       A2.7.3.1. Overly sensitive/defensive
       A2.7.3.2. Arrogant/argumentative
       A2.7.3.3. Insubordinate/hostile
   A2.7.4. Mental Fatigue:
       A2.7.4.1. Preoccupied/inflexible
       A2.7.4.2. Difficulty concentrating
   A2.7.5. Overcompensation (Denial):
       A2.7.5.1. Exaggerate/grandiose
       A2.7.5.2. Overworks to exhaustion
       A2.7.5.3. Denies problems/symptoms
       A2.7.5.4. Suspicious/paranoid
A2.8. Behavioral Indicators
   A2.8.1. Withdrawal (Avoidance)
       A2.8.1.1. Social isolation
       A2.8.1.2. Work-related withdrawal
       A2.8.1.3. Reluctance to accept responsibilities
       A2.8.1.4. Neglecting responsibilities
   A2.8.2. Acting out:
       A2.8.2.1. Alcohol abuse; promiscuity
       A2.8.2.2. Gambling/spending spree
   A2.8.3. Desperate acting out (getting attention):
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                       37


      A2.8.3.1. Cry for help
      A2.8.3.2. Administrative infractions such as tardy for work, poor appearance, poor
      personal hygiene, accident prone, etc.
      A2.8.3.3. Legal infractions such as traffic tickets, indebtedness, shoplifting, etc.
      A2.8.3.4. Fights and/or Child/spouse abuse
A2.9. Physical Indicators
   A2.9.1. Preoccupation with illness (intolerant of/dwelling on minor ailments)
   A2.9.2. Frequent illness (actually sick)
   A2.9.3. Use of self-medication
   A2.9.4. Somatic indicators:
      A2.9.4.1. Headaches
      A2.9.4.2. Insomnia
      A2.9.4.3. Change in appetite
      A2.9.4.4. Weight gain/weight loss
      A2.9.4.5. Digestion problems
      A2.9.4.6. Nausea/vomiting
      A2.9.4.7. Diarrhea/constipation
      A2.9.4.8. Sexual difficulties
 38                                                                  AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                     EMERGENCY RESPONSES WITH FIREARMS

A3.1. During routine/normal operations, all personnel are required to arm/carry all USAF small
arms IAW AFMAN 31-229. However, when responding to an actual incident where you can
reasonably expect to meet an adversary armed with a deadly weapon, respond with firearms
ready as follows. You must base any decision to chamber a round of ammunition in a firearm
that is not normally carried with a round chambered, or draw a pistol from the holster, on the
circumstances you are facing and the threat present. NOTE: AFOSI special agents will follow
guidance set forth in AFOSI Manual, Firearms, Use of Force, and Apprehension Tactics.
   A3.1.1. When armed with an M16 series rifle, an M4 carbine, or the GAU-5A, GAU-5A/A,
   or GUU-5P; the weapon may be carried with a round in the chamber, safety selector on
   "SAFE," and the finger not in the trigger guard either at the high ready or low ready positions
   based upon the officer’s risk perception.
   A3.1.2. When armed with a shotgun, the weapon may be carried with a round in the
   chamber, safety selector on "SAFE," and the finger not in the trigger guard either at the high
   ready or low ready positions based upon the officer’s risk perception.
   A3.1.3. When armed with the M9 (9mm); the weapon may be drawn from the holster and
   carried with the finger outside of the trigger guard, either at the high ready or low ready
   positions based upon the officer’s risk perception.
   A3.1.4. When armed with the M203 grenade launcher attached to a M16/M4 carbine, follow
   the instructions for the M16/M4 (A3.1.1.). You will chamber a 40mm round only when use
   is deemed necessary.
   A3.1.5. When armed with the M240B machine gun; carry it, "half load" or "full load"
   depending upon MAJCOM directives, safety lever on "SAFE," and finger not in the trigger
   guard.
   A3.1.6. When armed with other firearms (UZI submachine gun, H&K MP5 submachine gun,
   etc) follow the guidance set forth by the Air Staff functional manager or MAJCOM (see
   AFMAN 31-229, attachments 15 and 16).
   A3.1.7. When armed with the M249 automatic rifle, carry it at “half load” or “full load”
   depending on MAJCOM directive, selector lever on “Safe”, and finger not in the trigger
   guard.
   A3.1.8. When armed with an M24 sniper rifle, the weapon may be carried either at the high
   ready or low ready positions based on the officer’s risk perception. You will chamber a
   round only when use is deemed necessary.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                                         39


                                         Attachment 4
           PEACETIME GOVERNMENT FIREARMS DISCHARGE REPORT

A4.1. Installation commanders must use this report when providing the follow-up firearms
discharge report specified by section 2.15. and 2.1.17.5.4. of this publication to include NLW.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON SUBJECT

1. FULL NAME AND GRADE
2. SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER (EMPLOYEE NUMBER WHEN SUBJECT
DOES NOT HAVE A SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER)

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

4. MAJCOM/SOA/FOA OF ASSIGNMENT

5. UNIT AND INSTALLATION OF ASSIGNMENT

6. DATE ASSIGNED PRESENT UNIT

7. PRIMARY AFSC

INCIDENT SUMMARY

1. DATE AND TIME OF INCIDENT

2. TYPE AND SERIAL NUMBER OF FIREARM

3. TYPE OF INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE

4. PUBLICITY RECEIVED

5. BRIEF SUMMARY OF INCIDENT

LESSONS LEARNED

1. Submitted by: The DFC or squadron commander of the individual who discharged the
firearm will normally initiate the report.

2. Operation/Event Name: The formal name of the military operation or a brief description of
the event; for example, RESTORE HOPE in Somalia from August to December 1993, or Use of
Deadly Force, Andrews AFB, MD, 1990.

3. Keywords: Critical terms specific enough to facilitate a subject matter automated search.
Example: Law enforcement, use of deadly force.
 40                                                                    AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012


4. Title: Name of the incident. Example: Murder of an SF Member/Robbery.

5. Observation: A precise, factual description of the entire incident in narrative format. This
section should include background information on the subject.

6. Discussion: A critical review of the procedures used and actions accomplished during the
incident. The intent is to highlight potential problem areas so readers can prevent similar
mistakes or to prompt a review of appropriate policy or procedures.

7. Lessons Learned: A synopsis of a “better way” or a “best business practice” that may be
more effective in the future.

8. Recommended Action: Use this section to outline suggested review actions by higher
headquarters.

9. OPR Comments: This is an open area designed for the OPR to add any additional appropriate
comments.
AFI31-117 29 JUNE 2012                                                           41


                                   Attachment 5
    DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AMENDMENT / LAUTENBERG NOTICE EXAMPLE

A5.1. The listed Domestic Violence Amendment/Lautenberg Notice may be used to comply
with unit posting requirements.

       Domestic Violence Amendment/Lautenberg Notice

The duties, activities, or responsibilities performed in this
area or facility require employees and/or military members
to store, issue, dispose of, or transport firearms or
ammunition. Using firearms or ammunition; selling or
disposing of firearms or ammunition; receiving, possessing,
shipping or transporting firearms or ammunition; or other
duties, activities or responsibilities involving firearms or
ammunition are covered by the Gun Control Act (Title 18,
U.S.C., § 922). Any person who has been convicted of a
crime of domestic violence is not eligible to perform these
duties. Employees and military members have an
affirmative, continuing obligation to inform their
supervisors if they have, or later obtain, a qualifying
conviction. Candidates selected to fill these positions will be
required to certify they have not been convicted of a crime of
domestic violence prior to assuming the duties of the
position. False or fraudulent information provided by
candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment
(Title 18, U.S.C., § 1001) and may result in referral to
commanders for appropriate action.
