BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION31-205
KADENA AIR BASE (PACAF)
                                                                        KADENA AIR BASE Supplement
                                                                                           1 JUNE 2009
                                                                          Certified Current 24 June 2011
                                                                                                Security

                                                     THE AIR FORCE CORRECTIONS SYSTEM (PA)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 18 SFS/S3L                                               Certified by: 18 SFS/CC (Lt Col Richard W.
                                                                                               DeMouy)
Supersedes:    AFI31-205_18WGSUP, 1 July 1999                                                   Pages: 8


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-205, The
Air Force Corrections System, 7 April 2004. It implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive
1325.4, Confinement of Military Prisoners and Administration of Military Corrections Programs and
Facilities. It establishes unit responsibilities for confinement procedures of personnel designated for
confinement at the Marine Corps Brig, Camp Hansen. This publication governs procedures for all Air
Force personnel assigned to Kadena Air Base, Japan. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard or US Air Force Reserve. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, as implemented by
AFI 31-205 and Executive Order 9397. System of Records Notice P125 AFA, Correction and
Rehabilitation Records, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include better defined local procedures, commander’s responsibilities along with recent AFI updates in
the USAF Corrections Program. Family members who wish to visit must complete the memorandum
(Attachment 1) and have it signed by the owning unit commander.
5.2.6. The Marine Corps Brig located at Camp Hansen, Okinawa, Japan, is the US military corrections
facility for Okinawa. All US Air Force pretrial, adjudged, and sentenced prisoners who do not meet the
criteria for transfer to a long-term correction facility will be confined at the Marine Corps Brig.
2                                                           AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009


5.2.7. (Added) Only military personnel of the armed forces who are medically certified as fit for
confinement, in accordance with appropriate service regulations and who are accused or convicted of an
offense under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or persons awaiting action of Japanese
authorities, may be confined in the Marine Corps Brig. Personnel that receive non judicial punishment
will not be confined.
5.4.3. (Added) Administrative Instructions for the Confinement Order:
5.4.3.1. (Added) Personnel shall be examined by a qualified medical officer to determine fitness for
confinement prior to confinement. The examining official will certify the person’s fitness for
confinement on the confinement order. No person shall be confined who, through the use of alcohol,
drugs, or narcotics, is expected to experience withdrawal symptoms. Female prisoners must be given a
pregnancy test during the pre-trial confinement physical. The test results will be stated in the "remarks"
section of the confinement order. Only confinement physicals completed within 24 hours after the
ordered confinement will be considered valid confinement physicals.
5.4.3.2. (Added) No person will be confined without a completed order for confinement, with the
offenses indicated, and signed by a commissioned officer. The DD Form 2707, Confinement Order, is
the only legitimate and accepted form for a Confinement Order. The order may only be signed by a
commissioned officer. Under no circumstances will a noncommissioned officer (NCO) or Senior NCO
sign a confinement order. A copy of the record of trial is required for all personnel detained pursuant to
court-martial convictions. The DD Form 2329, Record of Trial by Summary Court-Martial, is required
for all inmates confined by Summary Court-Martial.
5.4.3.3. (Added) A completed original copy of the confinement order is required to confine any
individual. The confinement order will clearly identify the person to be confined and show the offenses,
in an abbreviated form, of which the person is accused or convicted. The offenses must include the
UCMJ article violated.
           5.4.3.4. (Added)     The original copy of the confinement order is retained by the Marine
           Corps Brig.
           5.4.3.5. (Added) A copy of the completed confinement order is returned to the unit as an
           endorsement and receipt for the prisoner.
           5.4.3.6. (Added) Upon receiving the convening authority’s action, the time remaining at
           that time will determine whether or not an inmate will be transferred to a long-term
           corrections facility.
           5.4.3.7. (Added) The medical and dental records must accompany the person being
           confined at the time of confinement. If the permanent medical and dental records are not
           available, it is the unit’s responsibility to ensure that a temporary record is prepared and
           delivered with the person being confined. If permanent records are not available, Marine
           Corps Brig medical personnel will prepare DD Form 877, Request for Medical/Dental
           Records or Information, to obtain permanent records.
    5.15. (Added) The Commanding Officer of the Marine Corps Brig will affect release of the
    prisoner by signing the DD Form 2718, Inmate’s Release Order. Only the Commanding Officer, or
    Acting Commanding Officer, of the Marine Corps Brig is authorized to sign the inmate’s release
    order.
    5.16. (Added) Written justification for remittance, deferment or suspension of any remaining
    sentence must accompany a request for early release of a prisoner serving a sentence. The
    convening authority will consider all requests and, upon review, render a final decision in written
    form. In the case of a detainee, the detainee’s commander may make a request in writing to release a
AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009                                                                       3


   detainee anytime that pretrial confinement is no longer deemed necessary (see attachments). Any
   request for release of an inmate, or detainee, must be delivered in original copy to the Marine Corps
   Brig prior to release.
      6.4.7. (Added) Official visits are for the purpose of conducting official government business
      either on behalf of the individual or in the interest of justice. Inmates do not have the right to
      refuse any official visit and they will be made available at the posted hours for visitation. The
      commander, legal counsel, case investigator, and other authorized military personnel in the
      prisoner’s chain of command requesting visits with an inmate will be considered official visitors.
      6.4.8. (Added) The inmate’s commander is required to ensure a command visit takes place
      weekly. It is preferable that the commander conducts these visits personally; however, the
      commander may appoint personnel in the grade of E-6 or higher to make these visits on Fridays
      between the hours of 0800-1500. Visits by legal counsel may be scheduled Mon-Thurs 0800-
      1500 by informing the Marine Corps Brig 24 hours in advance. This will ensure that the inmate
      will be made available for the visit.
      6.4.9. (Added) Visitation by family members and friends is permitted on weekends and
      holidays from 1300 to 1500. Inmates are not limited to the number of visitors they may see
      during these hours; however, only three visitors will be allowed to visit with the inmate at a time.
      Visitation will only be granted to personnel that have an approved Active Duty Service
      Member’s Request To Visit Confined Person(s) (see Attachment 1) form from the
      Commanding Officer of the Inmate’s squadron. All requests for visitation must be completed
      and delivered to the Marine Corps Brig no later than 1630 on the Thursday prior to the visit.
      This form is maintained at the Marine Corps Brig and is available upon request.
      7.1.5. (Added) The parent unit is responsible for delivery of all required items at the time of
      confinement. This will include all items of clothing, health and comfort items and any other
      items that the inmate will need during confinement. All items required for confinement must be
      new and serviceable. The required items and amount required for confinement are indicated in
      Table 7.1. and Table 7.2.

Table 7.1. (Added) Required Clothing.
REQUIRED CLOTHING                             MAXIMUM
Boots (non steel toe)                         2 pair
Underwear, White (male only)                  6
Undershirts (Brown or Black)                  6
Socks (Black or White)                        6 pair
Shoes (Running or Court)                      1 pair
Shorts, PT (without waist band cord)          2
FEMALE REQUIRED
Underwear                                     6
Bras (wireless)                               6
Box of Sanitary Napkins (no tampons)          1


Table 7.2. (Added) Required Health and Comfort Items.
ITEM                                          MAXIMUM
4                                                         AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009


Laundry Bag                                   1
Writing Tablet (non-spiral)                   1
Ball Point Pen (non-government, non-          2
mechanical)
Shoe Polish, Black                            1
Boot Brush                                    1
Shower Shoes (Black or service standard)      1
Disposable Razors (non-battery operated)      10
Shave Cream (no gel type)                     1
Toothbrush with Case                          1 each
Toothpaste                                    1
Towel, White                                  2
Face Cloth, White                             2
Soap (bar style) with Case                    4
Nail Clippers (without nail file)             1
Comb or Brush                                 1
Deodorant (non-aerosol)                       1
Medical Record                                1
Dental Record                                 1

         7.1.5.1. (Added) Any missing gear must be delivered to the Marine Corps Brig by 0800 the
         following duty day. Proper clothing as well as health and comfort items are essential for
         work and hygiene factors. Noncompliance could result in refusal by the Marine Corps Brig
         to confine the individual until the items needed are in the inmate’s possession.
         7.1.5.2. (Added) Replenishment items of clothing and health and comfort items will be
         obtained by the Marine Corps Brig from clothing cash sales and the Camp Hansen Exchange
         outlet. Items will be paid for by the individual inmate through cash purchase or checks,
         except for inmates in a "nonpay" status. An inmate will be released on a "temporary
         absence" by his/her parent unit the first workday to obtain required items not possessed
         during the initial confinement. Coordination with the Marine Corps Brig is required to
         ensure a temporary release does not interfere with the confinement indoctrination phase. The
         point of contact will be the Air Force Liaison.
      7.3.12. (Added) Personnel confined in the Marine Corps Brig will have a minimum of $100 in
      the form of cash, money order, or US Government check in their possession upon confinement.
      Since pay accounts cannot be held in suspense, any money due to a confined member will be
      paid through the parent unit. It is the responsibility of the unit to expedite the delivery of all
      checks to the Marine Corps Brig. All payroll checks for prisoners will be received by the
      Valuables NCO and entered into the Marine Corps Brig safekeeping account.
      8.2.11. (Added) The terminology “escort” and “chaser” are synonymous.
      8.2.12. (Added) Permanent Release: Escorts are not required for prisoners being permanently
      released. However, a unit representative will be required to sign for prisoners upon their release.
      Unit representatives must hold the grade of E-2 or higher, or be of a rank equal to or higher than
      that of the prisoner being released from confinement.
AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009                                                                   5


     8.2.13. (Added) The unit representative signing for a prisoner permanently released will be in
     uniform of the day. Use of a government-owned vehicle (GOV) is not mandatory for permanent
     release.
     8.2.14. (Added) Temporary Release: It is the responsibility of the parent unit to provide
     escorts with a valid chaser identification card issued by the Marine Corps Brig. The only
     exception for this is Security Forces Members E-4 or higher. At the time of arrival, Security
     Forces members must be briefed on current procedures prior to being authorized to take custody
     of any inmate. Chaser classes are held at the Marine Corps Brig every Thursday at 0730. To
     become a chaser, unit members must adhere to the following requirements:
        8.2.14.1. (Added) Complete 6 months of active duty service following basic training.
        8.2.14.2. (Added) Be at least 19 years of age.
        8.2.14.3. (Added) Be mature and emotionally stable.
        8.2.14.4. (Added)     Not have a record of non judicial punishment or conviction by court-
        martial.
        8.2.14.5. (Added) Not be under any current investigation or pending any type of discharge.
     8.2.15. (Added) Chasers must hold a chaser card with a 2” x 2” color photo (passport photo;
     photo not provided by Marine Corps Brig) issued by the Marine Corps Brig. Chaser training
     must be re-accomplished every 12 months.
     8.2.16. (Added) The parent unit will also provide one driver for each vehicle used to transport
     prisoners. Drivers are not required to have a chaser identification card. Only government
     vehicles will be used to transport prisoners.
     8.2.17. (Added) Drivers do not count as chasers.
     8.2.18. (Added) Considerations when selecting chasers: Commanders and First Sergeants
     must use sound judgment in selecting personnel to fulfill chaser duties. Individuals must possess
     maturity, the ability to think under pressure, and be able to act independently during escorts.
     This will assist them when there are unforeseen delays in transportation or lodging, or when
     other unforeseen circumstances arise during the course of their escort duties. Commanders and
     First Sergeants should also consider the potential that senior ranking personnel who are confined
     and/or sentenced may attempt to influence younger and more impressionable chasers by virtue of
     their rank, former rank, or position once held within a unit. To help avoid some of these
     potential problems, it is highly recommended that Commanders and First Sergeants select junior
     NCOs, senior NCOs, or junior officers as chasers. Having a broad selection of chasers will give
     greater flexibility to the respective unit.
     8.2.19. (Added) Commanders are responsible to ensure their units maintain a sufficient
     number of chasers at all times. Commanders must consider TDY factors, leave, and pending
     PCS to avoid any shortfalls. The 18th Security Forces Squadron is not responsible for providing
     escorts when a unit has failed to meet its requirement. The Marine Corps Brig staff is unable to
     schedule emergency classes due to manpower and resource constraints associated with these
     types of requests.
     8.2.20. (Added) Prisoners in maximum and medium-in controlled custody require two chasers
     and a military vehicle operator. Prisoners will wear a restraining belt, handcuffs, and leg irons
     when outside of the Marine Corps Brig. Restraints may be removed only with the authorization
6                                                        AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009


      of Marine Corps Brig personnel. No more than five medium-out or minimum custody prisoners
      may be escorted by one escort. Note: Six prisoners require two escorts, eleven prisoners require
      three escorts, and so forth.
      8.2.21. (Added) Temporary Absences: Temporary absences of prisoners from the Marine
      Corps Brig are authorized under custodial procedures when approved by the commander. A DD
      Form 2708, Receipt for Inmate or Detained Person, must be accomplished. The DD Form 2708
      will be accomplished by the Marine Corps Brig. Valid reasons for temporary absences include,
      but are not limited to:
          8.2.21.1. (Added) Appearance at court-martial, Article 32 and Article 72 hearings.
          8.2.21.2. (Added) Consultations with legal counsel.
          8.2.21.3. (Added) Investigations.
          8.2.21.4. (Added) Procurement of uniform of the day for legal proceedings.
          8.2.21.5. (Added) All temporary absences will be coordinated through the Marine Corps
          Brig and parent unit First Sergeant no later than 24 hours prior to release.
      9.1.1. (Added) The Parent Unit of all Inmates/Detainees is responsible for unit members
      regardless of location until that member is gained into Air Force Correctional System.
      9.1.9. (Added)      At the time of transfer, medical recertification to determine fitness for
      confinement is required. A break in confinement for periods over 24 hours requires a new
      physical examination. Examinations may be requested for shorter periods when circumstances
      indicate cause. Inmates transferred between facilities will obtain a new medical certification if
      deemed appropriate by either the receiving facility or the inmate escort upon arrival.
11.8.2. (Added) Forms Adopted.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 877, Request for Medical/Dental Records or Information
DD Form 2329, Record of Trial by Summary Court-Martial




                                           BRETT T. WILLIAMS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander, 18th Wing
AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009                       7


                                Attachment 25
                  SAMPLE VISITATION PROCEDURES LETTER

Figure A25.1. SAMPLE VISITATION PROCEDURES LETTER 1.
8                                         AFI31-205_KADENAABSUP 1 June 2009


Figure A25.2. SAMPLE VISITATION PROCEDURES LETTER 2.
