BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2646
AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                      AIR COMBAT COMMAND
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                              22 JANUARY 2014
                                                                 Certified Current 10 March 2014
                                                                                       Personnel

                                                         SECURITY FORCES TRAINING AND
                                                          STANDARDIZATION EVALUATION
                                                                            PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: ACC/A7STT                                                             Certified by: ACC/A7S
                                                                           (Col Erik K. Rundquist)
                                                                                          Pages: 8




This publication supplements AFI 36-2646, Security Forces Training and Standardization
Evaluation Programs. This publication establishes Air Combat Command (ACC) standards
during the conduct of Security Forces (SF) training and Standardization Evaluation processes.
This publication does not apply to Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all Supplements must be routed to the OPR of
this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the
field through the appropriate functional chain of command to ACC/A7S. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                 AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014


2. 3.10.5. (Added) Appoints trainers and mentors to support SF Officer Developmental
Learning (DL). Trainers and mentors may be enlisted or officers. Trainers must attend the AF
Trainer’s Course. (T-3).
              2.3.10.5.1. (Added) Ensures Officer DL training is included in the unit Master
              Training Plan (MTP). (T-3).
          2.3.10.6. (Added) Maps individual DL plans using the Officer’s Career Field
          Education Training Plan. (T-3).
          2.3.12.4. (Added) The Security Forces Operations (S-3) Training Noncommissioned
          Officer in Charge (NCOIC) or Civilian in Charge (CiC) will maintain a hard or
          electronic master copy of all Headquarters Air Force Security Forces Center
          (AFSFC), Major Command (MAJCOM), and locally approved lesson plans used.
          The NCOIC/CiC will review/ update the master lesson plans whenever changes are
          required. Instructors will maintain their own updated personalized lesson plans to use
          during instruction. A personalized lesson plan has questions, transitions, examples,
          training aid correlation, personal notes and anything else necessary to assist or
          enhance training. The NCOIC/CiC will certify each master and personalized lesson
          plan for accuracy by reviewing all lesson plans every year or whenever changes
          occur. Document proof of lesson plan review on a form letter, general-purpose
          worksheet, or MAJCOM approved lesson plan review form. The NCOIC/CiC will
          place a copy of the review result in the master and each instructors personalized
          lesson plan. (T-3).
          2.4.5.1. Five-level and above graduates of the Combat Arms (CA) Apprentice Course
          who augment the S-3 training section are exempt from completing the Principles of
          Instruction Course or Air University Online Instructor Methodology Course. (T-3).
       2.5.4. (Added) Instructors assigned to the S-3 Training section who perform lead
       instructor duties must have annual instructor evaluations to maintain training standards.
       Newly assigned instructors must complete a minimum of one training evaluation prior to
       being lead instructor certified by the S-3 Training NCOIC/CiC. Annually thereafter,
       instructors will be evaluated on a different subject. The evaluation must be completed
       prior to the end of the anniversary month of initial certification. Lead instructor
       evaluations will be maintained for a period of two years in the instructor’s folder. An
       entry will be made on AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations, in the instructor’s Air
       Force Training Records (AFTR) showing when they completed the evaluations and what
       subject they were evaluated on. (T-3).
          2.5.4.1. (Added) The instructor evaluation checklist posted on the HQ AFSFC
          website will be used for initial and recurring evaluations. Modifications to the
          checklist are not allowed without ACC/A7STT approval. (T-3).
          2.5.4.2. (Added) Instructor’s folders will have as a minimum the following items:
              2.5.4.2.1. (Added) Instructor qualification training (i.e., Principles of Instruction
              or compatible course). (T-3).
              2.5.4.2.2. (Added) Training certificates and credentials (i.e., Train-the-Trainer,
              Self-Aid Buddy Care, Combat Lifesaver or other advanced schools). (T-3).
AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014                                                               3


            2.5.4.2.3. (Added) Initial training evaluation(s). (T-3).
            2.5.4.2.4. (Added) Annual training evaluation(s). (T-3).
            2.5.4.2.5. (Added) AF Form 803 showing past training evaluations. (T-3).
        2.5.4.3. (Added) All instructor training will be documented in the instructor’s
        AFTR. (T-3).
        3.3.3.1. ACC/A7STT will send out a data call to ACC SF units for all annual Mission
        Readiness Training Programs (MRTP) no later than 1 June of the current year. Units
        must submit their MRTP requirements to ACC/A7STT no later than 30 June of the
        current year. (T-3).
     3.4.2. Mission Readiness Training timelines are based on class start dates for individual
     courses. ACC/A7STT will regularly send out a spreadsheet with individual course
     use/loose dates. Air Force course slots must be accepted/turned-in no later than 35 days
     prior to their start date. Inter-service/Sister Service course slots must be accepted/turned-
     in no later than 65 days prior to their start date. (T-3).
     3.5.1. Units must make every effort to minimize replacements, cancellations, or swaps.
     Minimum change request timeline for Air Force courses is 10 calendar days and Inter -
     service/Sister Service is 14 calendar days. When submitting a change request to
     ACC/A7STT by email the unit commander and Security Forces Manager must be
     courtesy copied to ensure they are aware their unit will be changing their training
     opportunity. (T-3).
        4.2.3.9. (Added) Ensures the Lautenberg Amendment is briefed and DD Form 2760,
        Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition, is filled out and filed as part of
        annual Arming and Use of Force (AUoF) training. (T-2).
        4.2.4.19. (Added) Conducts annual AUoF training and performance-based practical
        training incorporating decision-making scenarios. Both AUoF and practical training
        must be conducted and successfully passed before individuals can be added to the
        commander’s authorization to bear arms listing. The practical training scenarios may
        be performed using shoot-don’t-shoot scenarios on a weapons simulator or in a force-
        on-force training event. (T-1).
        4.2.4.20. (Added) Develops and updates, as needed, the commander’s authorization
        to bear arms listing. Prior to adding personnel to the list, they must have successfully
        completed AUoF written test, scenario-based practical evaluations, have a current DD
        Form 2760 on file and current weapons qualification. Personnel will not be added to
        or shown on the authorization to bear arms listing if any of these items are not
        current. (T-2).
     4.3.5. The S-3 Training NCOIC/CiC must complete a minimum of one training
     evaluation on unit level Subject Matter Experts (SME) prior to allowing them to instruct.
     This evaluation is not required if the SME can provide documentation showing they have
     previously been certified to teach. (T-3).
        4.3.10.6. If a second extension is needed, the superintendent of the affected person
        may grant a 30 calendar day extension and the circumstances, dates and reasons for
        the delay must be loaded into the individual's AFTR. Any further extensions must be
4                                              AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014


       coordinated through the superintendent and Security Forces Manager prior to being
       approved by the unit commander. The approval must be documented in the
       individual's AFTR. (T-3).
    4.3.11. S-3 Training will notify the Standardization Evaluations section in writing within
    five calendar days of when duty position qualification training is complete. (T-3).
               4.3.14.3.1.1. The Nuclear Security Training (NST) identified on the AFSFC
               consolidated list is not applicable to Offutt AFB. NST will be provided as just
               in time training in support of United States Strategic Command Operational
               Plan 8010 at the deployed location in accordance with DOD 5210.41M,
               Security Policy for Protecting Nuclear Weapons. Nuclear Command and
               Control training for Offutt AFB can be found on the ACC/A7STT SharePoint
               page at https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/OO-SF-AC-48/default.aspx (T-1).
       4.3.15.3. The written test will include questions on all weapons the individual is
       currently qualified to bear arms with. Units may need to develop local weapons tests
       if not provided by the AFSFC. As a minimum, practical evaluations need to include
       primary duty weapons. (T-3).
           4.3.15.4.3. S-3 Training may conduct same day retraining and testing for
           individuals who score between 72% and 79%. Supervisors/flight trainers must
           provide remedial training for individuals who score less than 72%. Individuals
           will not be authorized to bear arms until they have successfully passed both AUoF
           written test and performance-based practical training incorporating decision-
           making scenarios. (T-3).
       4.3.16.4. The written weapons knowledge test will include questions on all weapons
       the individual is currently qualified to bear arms with. Units may need to develop
       local weapons tests if not provided by the AFSFC. (T-3).
           4.3.16.4.3. This paragraph was rescinded by the AFSFC on 8 Jun 12 through a
           policy memorandum.
           4.3.16.4.4. The passing score for ACC units is 80%. (T-3).
           4.3.16.4.5. Personnel scoring between 80% and 100%%, will receive on-the-spot
           review training on any missed questions. (T-3).
           4.3.16.4.6. S-3 Training may conduct same day retraining and testing for
           individuals who score between 72% and 79%. Supervisors/flight trainers must
           provide remedial training for individuals who score less than 72%. Individuals
           will not be authorized to bear arms until they have successfully passed the
           weapons knowledge test. (T-3).
    4.4.2. CA support is limited to providing instruction on Close Combat Marking Cartridge
    Kit (CCMCK) installation and safe use of dye-marking cartridges to Security Forces
    Training (SFT) and Standards and Evaluation section (QC) personnel. SFT and QC will
    conduct unit level train the trainer to flight personnel. Supervisors will ensure AF Form
    797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, is loaded in each
    individual’s AFTR. (T-3).
AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014                                                            5


     4.4.5. (Added) Annually, S-3 Training and Standardization Evaluation sections will
     jointly develop Shoot, Move and Communicate (SMC) scenarios to expand existing SMC
     and Active Shooter training using CCMCK and dye-marking cartridges. (T-3).
     4.5.5. The annual evaluations will be annotated on AF Form 1098. (T-3).
        4.7.5.3. The unit learning center must have a copy of the unit’s MTP and other
        training material needed to promote effective learning in the event computer systems
        are not accessible. (T-3).
        5.4.2.1. Electronic dates and signatures are authorized when the document is digitally
        signed using a Common Access Card. (T-3).
            5.4.3.3.1. Clearing procedures will include the use of a clearing barrel.
            Performance evaluations will also include clearing barrel official duties. (T-3).
        5.4.3.5. A written job knowledge evaluation will be incorporated into DPEs. The
        evaluation should consist of a minimum of 25 questions, but no more than 50
        questions. 80% will be the minimum passing score. Tests will consist of a
        combination of multiple choice, scenario based, and forms usage. Local test control
        procedures, to include test security, will be developed to ensure test material is not
        compromised. Local procedures will be developed to address written evaluation
        failures. Procedures should address notifications to be made, re-evaluation time-
        lines, documentation and procedures to take in the event of decertification. (T-3).
            5.4.3.7.2. Simulated weapons will be signed in/out using AF Form 1297,
            Temporary Issue Receipt. Simulated weapons will only be signed out for use
            during a training event and then returned as soon as possible. (T-3).
        5.4.4.3. Conduct DPEs for Individual Mobilization Augmentees assigned to an active
        duty unit while on orders for 90 consecutive days or more. (T-3).
            5.4.4.3.5. If a DPE expires for a non-critical position while deployed or within 30
            days of return, the DPE may be extended for 45 calendar days by the unit
            commander or SF Manager. (T-3).
            5.4.4.3.9. Within ACC, personnel assigned to unit S-staff positions, below the
            superintendent level or section head, will maintain a DPE for a minimum of one
            S-3 position commensurate to their rank. They will maintain the appropriate
            weapons qualifications for the position they will be evaluated on. (T-3).
  5.5. Evaluation and Rating System. Minimum passing score for evaluations is 80%. The
  Standardization-Evaluation section may, with commander approval, conduct on-the-spot
  remedial training and evaluation for individuals who score between 72% and 79%. If this
  standard is implemented, supervisors/flight trainers must provide remedial training for
  individuals who score less than 72%. Prior to being rescheduled for a re-evaluation,
  individuals must receive a minimum of five duty days of supervisor/trainer-administered
  remedial training. (T-3).
     5.5.4. Individuals who fail the M4 carbine/M9 pistol performance evaluation will have
     their authority to bear firearms removed. Once they successfully pass the evaluation,
     their commander can reinstate the authorization. (T-3).
6                                             AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014


    5.6.1. The results of DPEs will be documented in AFTR within 3 duty days of
    evaluation. (T-3).
       6.3.1.1. The goal is to have all SF assigned to the unit proficient on CRT tasks. SF
       commanders should ensure they have a prioritized training plan to meet this inte nt
       while ensuring all deploying individuals receive CRT training. (T-3).
       7.2.4.1. ACC/A7STT is appointed as Expeditionary Skills Training OPR for ACC
       Security Forces. (T-3).
    7.5.3. The following material pertains to individuals/instructors who provide
    Expeditionary Skills Training or Tier III pre-deployment training at the ACC Ground
    Combat Readiness Training Center (GCRTC). It is highly recommend the 820 th Base
    Defense Group use the following standards when conducting Tier III pre-deployment
    training. (T-3).
       7.5.3.2. The ACC GCRTC and locations conducting SF Tier III pre-deployment
       training, will appointed a person to maintain and validate lesson plans as shown in
       paragraph 2.3.12.4 (T-3).
       7.5.3.3. Format for instructor folders will be the same as used in paragraph 2.5.4.2
       Additional material can be added to the folder as needed. (T-3).




                                       TIMOTHY S. GREEN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                       Director, Installations and Mission Support
AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014                                           7


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION

References
DOD 5210.41M, Security Policy for Protecting Nuclear Weapons, 13 Jul 2009
Prescribed Forms
This supplement does not prescribe any forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard (JQS) Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 803, Report of Task Evaluations
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt
DD Form 2760, Qualification to Possess Firearms or Ammunition

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
ACCSUP—Air Combat Command Supplement
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSFC—Air Force Security Forces Center
AFTR—Air Force Training Records
AUoF—Arming and Use of Force
A7—Installations and Mission Support
A7STT—Installations and Mission Support, Security Forces Training
CA—Combat Arms
CCMCK—Close Combat Marking Cartridge Kit
CiC—Civilian in Charge
CRT—Combat Readiness Training
DD—Department of Defense
DL—Developmental Learning
DPE—Duty Performance Evaluation
GCRTC—Ground Combat Readiness Training Center
MAJCOM—Major Command
MRTP—Mission Readiness Training Plan
MTP—Master Training Plan
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
 8                                     AFI36-2646_ACCSUP 22 JANUARY 2014


NST—Nuclear Security Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QC—Standards and Evaluation Section
SF—Security Forces
SFT—Security Forces Training
SMC—Shoot, Move and Communicate
SME—Subject Matter Expert
S-3—Security Forces Operations
