BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-102
AIR FORCE                                                                           18 FEBRUARY 1994

                                                         UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                                 Supplement 1
                                                                                    18 FEBRUARY 2005
                                                                          Certified Current 11 May 2011
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                       BASIC AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
                                                      FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
                                                                       AND ADMINISTRATION

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX (Mr Jack G. Flowers)               Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-102, 3 August 1987.                                                       Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

                                                (USAFE)
OPR: HQ USAFE/A1CP                                                       Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1CP
       (Ms Eva Schmitt-Vogeley)                                                   (Mr Thomas P. Neville)
Supersedes AFI 36-102 USAFE Supplement 1,                                                       Pages: 1
           2 December 2003.                                                              Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It gives
the directive requirements for basic authority and responsibility for the Air Force Civilian Personnel Pro-
gram at the installation level. Authority and responsibility to manage personnel follows the Air Force
chain of command. This concept is essential in the assignment of mission responsibilities from the Sec-
retary of the Air Force to the Chief of Staff, and, successively, to commanders of major commands or
comparable organizations, subordinate commanders, and on down to first-level supervisors. Each level in
the chain of command has personnel management responsibilities, from overall direction and guidance at
the top management level to immediate supervision at the operating level.

(USAFE) AFI 36-102, 18 February 1994, is supplemented as follows: This supplement applies to all
US Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) units. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air
National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://
webrims.amc.af.mil.
2                                                    AFI36-102_USAFESUP1_I 18 FEBRUARY 2005



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFI 36-102, substantially revising AFR 40-102.
(USAFE) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Updates office
symbol of the OPR and Certifier from HQ USAFE/DPCP to Directorate of Personnel, Civilian Policy
(HQ USAFE/A1CP).



1. Delegation of Appointing Authority. Appointing authority as defined in AFPD 36-1 is granted by
the Congress to the Secretary of the Air Force who delegates it to the installation commanders assigned a
civilian personnel flight. Exceptions are:
    • The appointing authority at HQ USAF is the commander of the Air Force District of Washington.
    • The appointing authority for 32 United States Code (U.S.C.) National Guard technicians who are
        Air Force civilian employees is the State Adjutants General.
    • The appointing authority for nontechnician (5 U.S.C.) Air National Guard employees is the Com-
        mander of Air National Guard organizations who are assigned a civilian personnel flight.
    • The appointing authority for employees who are covered by interagency servicing agreements
        under AFI 36-105, Civilian Personnel Servicing Arrangements (formerly AFR 40-105), is the
        commander of any organization who enters into such agreements. (These commanders may not
        effect a personnel action but may direct that a specific civilian personnel action be taken, cor-
        rected, or canceled to comply with a law, policy, directive, or procedure.)
1. (USAFE) Within USAFE, the exception is that the civilian personnel officers (CPO) also act for the
commander in administering this authority for local national employees paid from nonappropriated funds.
    1.1. Appointing authority may only be held by a commander on extended military service or by a des-
    ignated full-time Federal civilian employee.
    1.2. The appointing authority cannot make changes in legal requirements or in the policies issued by
    the Federal central civilian personnel agencies (Office of Personnel Management,Merit Systems Pro-
    tection Board, Federal Labor Relations Authority, or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commis-
    sion), the Department of Defense, or the Air Force. Some instructions in the 36 series assign authority
    and responsibility for the subject area they cover to specified positions, organizations, or organiza-
    tional levels. Usually, this is done for those actions based on the use of appointing authority. If there
    is no specific restriction, the authority and responsibility follows the established channels of command
    and commanders may delegate their authority to any appropriate subordinate level.

2. Supervisors' Responsibilities. As a minimum, management must give supervisors authority and
responsibility to:
    •   Select employees and ensure their proper placement and use.
    •   Recommend employees for promotion and reassignment.
    •   Assign duties and certify the accuracy of position descriptions/core documents.
    •   Establish work standards and evaluate employee performance and conduct.
    •   Recognize superior performance.
AFI36-102_USAFESUP1_I 18 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                  3


   •   Identify training needs; conduct on-the-job training; and evaluate training results.
   •   Resolve complaints and grievances and maintain discipline.
   •   Make personnel management decisions that control costs.
   2.1. Supervisory duties are to be performed without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national ori-
   gin, age, handicapping condition, marital status, political party, or any other nonmerit factor; and
   observe strictly all merit system principles and prohibited practices.

3. Merit System Principles. All staff officials, managers, and supervisors with Civilian Personnel Pro-
gram responsibilities must preserve the following principles:
   • Treat employees fairly.
   • Recruit and place employees effectively.
   • Motivate and retain employees.
   • Develop employees.

4. Prohibited Personnel Practices. All persons with authority to take, direct others to take, recommend,
or approve any personnel action are prohibited from the following:
    • Discriminating because of nonmerit factors.
    • Using influence unlawfully.
    • Taking reprisals.
    • Violating other merit principles such as taking (or failing to take) any personnel action in viola-
       tion of a law, rule, or directive that implements the merit system or concerns them directly.




                                     BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                     DCS/Personnel

                                     (USAFE)

                                     JOHN A. SNIDER, Colonel, USAF
                                     Director of Personnel
