                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-3204
AIR FORCE                                                                                 15 JULY 1994

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                               PROCEDURES FOR APPLYING AS A
                                                                   CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFMPC/DPMARS2                                                 Certified by: HQ AFMPC/DPMA
       (Mr. James H. Jones)                                                      (Col Joseph W. Moran)
Supersedes AFR 35-24, 4 June 1982.                                                            Pages: 20
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction describes Air Force procedures for establishing conscientious objector (CO) status and
applies to all members of the Air Force and its Reserve components. It is not the authorizing instruction
for discharge; therefore, do not cite it as such. This instruction implements Department of Defense (DoD)
Directive 1300.6, 20 August 1971, and Air Force Policy Directive 36-32, Military Retirements and Sepa-
rations. Title 10, U.S.C., Section 8013, authorizes the collection and maintenance of data prescribed in
this instruction. The Privacy Act of 1974 requires that each prescribed document that collects personal
data from the subject contain a separate Privacy Act Statement (PAS). Military Personnel Flights (MPF)
ensure that members read the PAS before furnishing information. MPF give members a PAS on request.
Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice F035 AF MP C, Military Personnel Records System, and F035
MPC U, Separation Case Files (Officer and Airman), apply to documentation accumulated under this Air
Force Instruction (AFI). Send proposed supplements to HQ AFMPC/DPMARS2 (Airman Separations
Section) for approval. Process supplements that affect any military personnel function as shown in AFI
37-160, volume 1, table 3.2 , The Air Force Publications and Forms Management Programs--Developing
and Processing Publications (formerly Air Force Regulation (AFR) 5-8). Refer to Attachment 1 for a
glossary of terms.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFI 36-3204, substantially revising AFR 35-24, 4 June 1982. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on handling conscientious objectors.
                                               Chapter 1

                                 PREPARING CO APPLICATIONS

1.1. Establishing Claim. The applicant for CO status bears the burden of establishing conscientious
objection as grounds for separation or assignment to noncombatant training and service. The applicant
must establish by clear and convincing evidence that:
    • The nature or basis of the claim falls under the definition of conscientious objections described in
        this AFI.
    • The applicant's belief is honest, sincere, and deeply held.
    • The applicant's belief is by virtue of religious training or other belief system akin to religion.
    • The applicant opposes participation in war in any form or the bearing of arms..

1.2. Nature of Request. The claimant must set out the exact nature of the request -- that is, whether the
claimant requests separation based on conscientious objection (1-0) or for assignment to noncombatant
training and service based on conscientious objection (1-A-0).

1.3. Submitting Application. A member of the Air Force who seeks either discharge (1-0) or assign-
ment to noncombatant duties (1-A-0) will include in the application:
   1.3.1. A notation of the separation directive that applies:
       • AFI 36-3207, Administrative Separation of Commissioned Officers (formerly AFR 36-12)
          (active duty officers).
       • AFI 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen (formerly AFR 39-10) (active duty air-
          men).
       • AFI 36-3209, Separation Procedures for US Air Force Reserve Members (formerly AFR
          35-41, volume 3).
       • ANGR 36-05 (Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS) (officers).
       • ANGR 39-10 (ANGUS airmen).
   1.3.2. The personal information required by Attachment 2.
   1.3.3. The statement required by Attachment 3 if applicant is requesting noncombatant duties.
   1.3.4. Any other information that the applicant desires to submit in support of the case. Note: Mem-
   bers who have departed their duty station for permanent change of station (PCS) reassignment
   must submit their application at their next duty station.
   1.3.5. Forward application according to Table 1.




                                                2
                                                Chapter 2

                          INSTALLATION PROCESSING PROCEDURES

2.1. General Procedures. Consistent with national policy, the Air Force will recognize members who
qualify as bona fide conscientious objectors to the extent practicable and equitable. The Air Force does
not recognize objection to a particular war as grounds for COs.
   2.1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) decides on administrative discharge before completion of
   an obligated term of service based on individual facts and circumstances of each case. The Air Force
   makes CO classification or restricts military duties of COs only to the extent that such classifications
   do not compromise Air Force effectiveness and efficiency.
       2.1.1.1. Air Force members who had CO beliefs before entering military service are not eligible
       for CO status if one of the following circumstances apply:
           • Such beliefs satisfied the requirements for CO classification pursuant to Section 6(j) of the
               Universal Military Training and Service Act, as amended (Title 50 U.S.C. App 456(j)) and
               other provisions of law at the time the member entered the service, and the member did
               not request CO classification by the Selective Service System (SSS) at that time.
           • The member requested CO classification before entering military service, the SSS denied
               the request, and the member's request for classification as a CO is based on essentially the
               same grounds (or supported by essentially the same evidence) as the request that was
               denied by the SSS.
       2.1.1.2. Air Force members who had CO beliefs before entering military service are eligible for
       CO status if the following circumstances apply:
           • The beliefs crystallized after receipt of an induction notice.
           • The member could not request CO classification from the SSS because of SSS regulations
               prohibiting the submission of such requests after receipt of induction notice.
   2.1.2. Processing personnel must not use this instruction instead of other administrative separation
   instructions when the member has not been able to establish CO status but separation appears to be in
   the best interest of the Air Force.
   2.1.3. Process any person classified as a 1-A-0 CO for administrative separation under other Air
   Force instructions when the circumstances warrant it.
   2.1.4. When assigning or transferring persons classified 1-A-0 by the SSS before induction follow the
   guidelines below.
       2.1.4.1. After induction, transfer 1-A-0s to a training center or station for recruit training and give
       them noncombatant training and service duties. These inductees sign and date a statement accord-
       ing to Attachment 3.
       2.1.4.2. After training, if they meet requirements, transfer them to the medical service or to a
       medical unit for further training. They perform the same duties as the other members of the med-
       ical organization.
       2.1.4.3. If these inductees do not meet requirements or fail to complete the training, assign them
       to other noncombatant duties.

                                                 3
2.2. Other Personnel Effects of CO Status Applications.
   2.2.1. Members who request CO status under this instruction are subject to the following:
       2.2.1.1. Airmen awaiting promotion enter withhold status (AFI 36-2502, Promotion of Airmen
       (formerly AFR 39-29)).
       2.2.1.2. Officers awaiting promotion to all grades, appointment in the Regular Air Force, or
       Indefinite Reserve Status (IRS) will be subject to delay action (AFI 36-2610, Appointment of
       Officers in the Regular Air Force and Conditional Reserve Status (formerly AFP 36-5) or AFI
       36-2501, Officer Promotion and Selective Continuation (formerly AFR 36-89)).
       2.2.1.3. When the Air Force approves the member’s CO applcation, the member is ineligible for
       promotion, appointment in the Regular Air Force, or Conditional Reserve Status.
       2.2.1.4. The rationale for the above actions is that members who apply for CO status, place them-
       selves in an uncertain position, where their potential for future service is questionable.

2.3. Status of Applicant Whose Request Is Under Consideration.
   2.3.1. Commanders during the application’s processing period and before a decision is made by the
   SAF, Personnel Counsel (AFPC), Air Force Military Personnel Center (HQ AFMPC/DPMARS), Air
   National Guard (HQ ANG/DPP), Air Force Reserves (HQ AFRES/DPAA), and Air Reserve Person-
   nel Center (HQ ARPC/DPA), make every effort to assign applicants to duties that will conflict as little
   as possible with their asserted beliefs.
   2.3.2. Applicants will conform to the normal requirements of military service and satisfactorily per-
   form their assigned duties.
   2.3.3. Commanders discipline applicants if they violate the Uniform Code of Military Justice
   (UCMJ) while awaiting action on their application.
   2.3.4. Commanders who may want to discipline applicants who are on flying status, see AFI 36-2214,
   Aviation Service, Aeronautical Ratings, and Badges (formerly AFR 60-13) for disqualification action.

2.4. Effect of Unauthorized Absence of Applicant.
   2.4.1. Do not stop processing applications, disciplinary action, or administrative separation actions
   because the applicant is absent without authorization.
   2.4.2. However, do not discharge an applicant whose request for CO classification has been approved
   until you resolve all disciplinary action.

2.5. Making Final Determination on Applications. Because of the personal and subjective nature of
conscientious objection (the existence, honesty, and sincerity of asserted conscientious objection), you
must not apply inflexible standards. Paragraph 5.1. lists final decision levels.

2.6. Returning Applications Without Action. The commander may return the application without
action if a member submits an application based on essentially the same grounds or supported by the same
evidence as a previous application disapproved by the SAF.

2.7. MPF Instructions. Before processing the application, MPF/Personnel Relocation Element must:

                                                4
   2.7.1. Inform the applicant of the effects of being discharged as a CO as per specific provisions of
   Title 38, U.S.C., Section 5303. Note: Title 38, U.S.C., Section 5303 provides, in pertinent part, that
   the discharge of any person on the grounds that he or she was a CO who refused to perform mili-
   tary duty or refused to wear the uniform or otherwise to comply with lawful orders of competent
   military authority, shall bar all rights (except certain government insurance) of such persons under
   law administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs based on the period of service from which
   discharged. (See Attachment 4.) The only exception is in cases in which it is established, to the
   satisfaction of the Secretary, that the member is insane.
   2.7.2. Have the applicant complete the statement shown in Attachment 3. (MPF must forward the
   statement with the application).
   2.7.3. Screen the applicant’s field personnel record (FPR).
   2.7.4. Contact other sources (the unit of assignment, HQ AFMPC/DPMM for officers of the medical
   services, HQ USAF/HCP for chaplains, HQ USAF/JAX for judge advocates, Headquarters Air
   Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC/DPAD) for any information that may support or cast doubt on
   the applicant’s sincerity. These sources must promptly forward information for inclusion in appli-
   cant’s file for consideration by the investigating officer.
   2.7.5. Counsel applicant on the information in paragraph 2.1. of this AFI.
   2.7.6. Schedule applicant for interviews with the chaplain and psychiatrist.
   2.7.7. Ensure commander takes withhold or delay action according to paragraph 2.2.

2.8. Reports of Interview. If the applicant refuses to participate or is uncooperative or unresponsive in
the course of the interview, include this fact in the report.
   2.8.1. Chaplain Interview. The chaplain will submit a written opinion as to the nature and basis of
   the applicant’s sincerity and depth of conviction.
       2.8.1.1. The chaplain’s report must include the reasons for its conclusions.
       2.8.1.2. The report must not make any recommendations for approval or disapproval of the appli-
       cation.
   2.8.2. Psychiatrist Interview. The psychiatrist will submit a written report of the psychiatric evalua-
   tion, including discussion of any psychiatric disorder that would warrant treatment or disposition
   through medical channels, or any personality disorder that would warrant appropriate administrative
   action.
       2.8.2.1. A psychologist may conduct this evaluation if a psychiatrist is not reasonably available.
       2.8.2.2. The psychiatrist or psychologist will not make any recommendations for approval or dis-
       approval of the application.

2.9. Furnishing Case File to Investigating Officer. MPF/Personnel Relocation Element includes in the
case file the information developed in the screening ( paragraph 2.7.3.), the chaplain’s opinion, and the
psychiatric evaluation and provides the case file to the investigating officer (see Chapter 3).

2.10. Forwarding Case File. Appropriate personnel observe the routing and review procedures outlined
below for the applicant’s case file.

                                                5
   2.10.1. The MPF/Personnel Relocation Element sends the case file to the local staff judge advocate
   (SJA) for review for procedural compliance within 15 calendar days after the date of the applicant’s
   request for a copy of the record or when the MPF receives the applicant’s rebuttal, which ever comes
   first. See paragraph 3.2.12. and paragraph 5.1.4. for the 15 days rule.
   2.10.2. If the local SJA acts as the investigating officer, the SJA of the next higher echelon in the
   chain of command of the applicant will provide the legal review.
   2.10.3. SJA will return the case through the MPF to the investigating officer for further investigation
   if necessary.
   2.10.4. When the record is complete, the SJA will forward it to the commander who appointed the
   investigating officer.
   2.10.5. The appointing commander will forward the case, including recommended disposition and
   rationale for disposition, through channels to:
       • The MAJCOM or field operating agency (FOA) of assignment for members serving in the
           active military service.
       • HQ AFRES/DPAA, Robins AFB GA 31098-5000 for reserve unit officers and airmen.
       • HQ ANGRC/DPM, Andrews AFB DC 20331-6008 for ANG officers and airmen.
       • HQ ARPC/DPA, 6760 E. Irvington Pl #1500, Denver CO 80280-1500 for all other reserve
           officers and airmen.

2.11. MAJCOM and FOA Instructions. After review for legal sufficiency, MAJCOM or FOA forward
the original and one copy including recommendations and reasons, to HQ AFMPC/DPMARS1 (officers)
or HQ AFMPC/DPMARS2 (airmen), 550 C Street West, Ste 11, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4713.

2.12. ARPC, AFRES, and National Guard Bureau (NGB) Instructions. After review for legal suffi-
ciency, ARPC, AFRES, and NGB forward the original and one copy including recommendations and
rationale, to Air Force Personnel Council (AFPC) for officers, and ANGRC/DPM, AFRES/CV or ARPC/
CC who may approve airmen applications, but will forward all recommendations for disapproval to
AFPC ( paragraph 5.3.). Note: Do not forward applications for officers not serving on active duty to HQ
AFMPC/DPMARS1 unless the Air Force will order the officer to extended active duty (EAD) or will
considered them for entry on EAD, see AFI 36-3209, (formerly AFR 35-41, volume 3).




                                                6
                                                Chapter 3

                                     INVESTIGATING OFFICER

3.1. Appointing Investigating Officer. Commanders, shown below, appoint a judge advocate serving in
the active military service, in the grade of captain or higher, to investigate the applicant’s claim. If the
applicant is a commissioned officer, the investigating officer must be senior in grade. The letter appoint-
ing the investigating officer becomes a part of the case file.
   3.1.1. Active Duty (AD) Members. The commander exercising special court martial jurisdiction
   over the applicant appoints the investigating officer.
   3.1.2. USAFR Non-EAD Members. The commander exercising special court-martial jurisdiction
   over the installation processing the application appoints the investigating officer.
   3.1.3. Air National Guard (ANG) Non-EAD Members. The ANG wing or group commander
   exercising control over the ANG/CBPO that is responsible for processing the application appoints the
   investigating officer.

3.2. Investigating Officer Actions:
   3.2.1. The investigating officer reviews this instruction.
   3.2.2. The investigating officer then expeditiously investigates and conducts a hearing (see 5.7.para-
   graph 5.7 for time goals), the purpose of which is to:
       • Give the applicant an opportunity to present any desired evidence in support of the applica-
          tion.
       • Enable the investigating officer to gather all relevant facts.
       • Create a comprehensive record.
       • Facilitate an informed recommendation by the investigating officer and an informed decision
          on the merits of the claim by higher authority.
   3.2.3. The officer making a recommendation may consider the applicant's failure or refusal to submit
   to questioning under oath or affirmation when evaluating the applicant's claim.
   3.2.4. The investigating officer will proceed in the applicant's absence if the applicant fails to appear
   at the hearing without good cause and the applicant is deemed to have waived an appearance.
   3.2.5. Applicant may be represented by legal counsel at applicant's own expense. Legal counsel may
   be present at the hearing, assist the applicant in the presentation of the case, and examine all items in
   the file.
   3.2.6. The hearing is informal and not governed by the courts-martial rules of evidence except that all
   verbal testimony presented must be under oath or affirmation.
       3.2.6.1. The hearing may receive any relevant evidence.
       3.2.6.2. Written statements from persons not present at the hearing may be under oath or affirma-
       tion.
       3.2.6.3. The hearing is not an adversary proceeding.


                                                 7
3.2.7. The applicant may submit any additional evidence, including sworn or unsworn written state-
ments, and present any witnesses in his/her behalf, applicant is responsible for their attendance.
   3.2.7.1. The commander exercising special court-martial jurisdiction will try (if reasonably avail-
   able) to make available military members requested by the applicant as witnesses.
   3.2.7.2. The applicant may question any other witnesses who appear and examine all items in the
   file.
3.2.8. The Air Force does not require a verbatim record of the hearing.
   3.2.8.1. If the applicant wants a written record, he or she must make prior request which includes
   paying for the preparation, reproduction, and distribution of the record.
   3.2.8.2. If applicant elects a verbatim record, the applicant provides a copy to the investigating
   officer, at no expense to the government, within a reasonable time after the hearing.
   3.2.8.3. If there is no verbatim record, the investigating officer will summarize the testimony of
   witnesses and permit the applicant or counsel to examine the summaries and then note, for the
   record, their differences with the investigating officer’s summary.
   3.2.8.4. File in the hearing record copies of statements and other documents received in evidence.
3.2.9. At the end of the investigation, the investigating officer will prepare a written report that con-
tains:
    • The date of the hearing, if the applicant appeared, if the applicant was accompanied by coun-
       sel, and, if so, the latter's identity, and if the applicant understood the nature and purpose of
       the hearing.
    • Any materials received during the investigation including a specific comment regarding para-
       graph 2.8.2. information and what bearing, if any, it had on the conclusions reached.
    • Summaries of witness testimonies or a verbatim record of the testimonies, if there is one.
    • A statement of the investigating officer's conclusions as to the underlying basis of the appli-
       cant's conscientious objection and the sincerity of the applicant's beliefs, including the reasons
       for such conclusions.
    • Subject to paragraph 4.2., the investigating officer's recommendations for disposition of the
       case, including reasons for the recommendations. Limit the actions recommended to:
    • Denial of any classification as a CO.
    • Classification as a CO and assignment to noncombatant duties (1-A-0).
    • Classification as a CO and discharge (1-0).
3.2.10. The final record consists of:
    • The investigating officer's report, along with the member's application.
    • All interviews with chaplains, doctors.
    • Evidence from the investigating officer's hearing.
    • The commander's memorandum of appointment of the investigating officer.
    • Any other items submitted by the applicant in support of applicant's case.



                                             8
3.2.11. The investigating officer will base conclusions and recommended disposition on the entire
record and not merely on the evidence produced at the hearings.
3.2.12. The investigating officer must furnish a copy of the record to the applicant when he or she for-
wards it to the servicing MPF and informs the applicant of the right to submit a rebuttal within 15 cal-
endar days after receipt of a copy of the record. The case file must include a statement by the
investigating officer, or a copy of a receipt from the applicant, showing the date on which the copy of
the record was delivered to the applicant. Note: The investigating officer should make every effort
to interview friends, acquaintances, clergymen, supervisors, first sergeant, co-workers, subordi-
nates, and anyone in a position to shed light on the applicant’s moral, ethical or religious beliefs
and how these beliefs have guided the applicant’s life. Only through a complete investigation of the
application by the investigating officer are reviewing authorities in position to judge the merits of the
application.




                                             9
                                                 Chapter 4

             GUIDELINES FOR APPROVING OR DISAPPROVING APPLICATIONS

4.1. Approving Applications for Classification as CO:
   4.1.1.   Reviewing authorities may approve the CO classification for any member:
       •    Who conscientiously opposes participation in war in any form;
       •    Whose opposition is founded on religious training and belief.
       •    Whose position is sincere and deeply held.
   4.1.2. Reviewing authorities do not grant noncombatant status as a compromise to an applicant claim-
   ing CO status.

4.2. Religious Training and Belief:
   4.2.1. To approve a CO classification, the reviewing authorities must find that an applicant's moral
   and ethical beliefs oppose participation in war in any form and that the applicant holds these beliefs
   with the strength of traditional religious convictions.
   4.2.2. The applicant must show that these moral and ethical convictions, once acquired, have directed
   the applicant's life in the way traditional religious convictions of equal strength, depth, and duration
   direct the lives of those who have such beliefs. In other words, conscientious objection must be the
   primary controlling force in the applicant's life.
   4.2.3. A primary factor is the sincerity with which the applcant holds the belief. Exercise great care
   in determining whether the applicant honestly and genuinely holds asserted beliefs.
       4.2.3.1. Determine sincerity by evaluating the applicant's thinking and life style in its totality, past
       and present.
       4.2.3.2. Information the applicant presents should clearly establish that avoidance of military ser-
       vice is not the basis of the claim.
   4.2.4. In evaluating applications, carefully examine and weigh the conduct of applicants, in particular
   their outward manifestation of their beliefs.
   4.2.5.   Consider the following relevant factors:
       •    Training in the home and church.
       •    General demeanor and pattern of conduct.
       •    Participation in religious activities.
       •    Whether the applicant gained ethical or moral convictions through training, study, contempla-
            tion, or other activity comparable in rigor and dedication to formulating traditional religious
            convictions.
       •    Credibility of the applicant.
       •    Credibility of persons supporting the claim.
   4.2.6. Be particularly careful not to rule out bona fide beliefs simply because those beliefs are incom-
   patible with one's own.

                                                 10
   4.2.6.1. It is not necessary that an applicant belong to a church or adhere to particular theological
   tenets for the Air Force to grant separation or assignment to noncombatant training and service for
   COs.
   4.2.6.2. The applicant’s affiliation with a church or other group that advocates conscientious
   objection as a tenet of its creed is not necessarily conclusive of an applicant’s position or belief.
   4.2.6.3. Conversely, if an applicant is affiliated with a church or group that does not teach consci-
   entious objection such affiliation does not necessarily rule out an applicant’s adherence to consci-
   entious objection beliefs.
4.2.7. Where an applicant is or has been a member of a church, religious organization, or religious
sect, and where applicant’s claim of conscientious objection is related to the membership, you may
inquire about the membership, and the teachings of the church, religious organization, or religious
sect, as well as the applicant’s religious activity.
   4.2.7.1. However, the fact that the applicant may disagree with, or not subscribe to, some of the
   tenets of applicant’s church does not necessarily discredit applicant’s claim.
   4.2.7.2. The personal convictions of each member are controlling so long as they derive from
   moral, ethical, or religious beliefs.
4.2.8. Do not deny an applicant who is otherwise eligible for CO status simply because conscientious
objection beliefs influence his or her views on domestic or foreign policy.
   4.2.8.1. The task is to decide whether the applicant sincerely holds the beliefs, and whether they
   govern the claimant’s actions both in word and deed.




                                            11
                                               Chapter 5

                                        FINAL DISPOSITION

5.1. Decision Level.
   5.1.1. For officers: SAF or a designated representative makes the decision regarding CO status.
   5.1.2. For enlisted personnel: The final approval decision is by HQ AFMPC/DPMARS2 (active duty
   airmen), ANGRC/DPM (ANG airmen), HQ AFRES/CV (reserve unit airmen), or HQ ARPC/CC (all
   other reserve airmen).
   5.1.3. SAF/MIB is the organization that disapproves enlisted personnel.
   5.1.4. The applicant has 15 calendar days from receipt date of adverse information to comment on or
   refute the material before the Air Force makes a final decision.
       5.1.4.1. The record must include any such rebuttal by the applicant.
       5.1.4.2. The applicant is entitled to know why the Air Force rejected his CO request. The ratio-
       nale behind a CO rejection must be part of the record.

5.2. Approving Noncombatant Status. Applicants are either:
    • Assigned to noncombatant duty, or
    • Discharged from military service at the discretion of the SAF or HQ AFMPC/DPMARS2 (active
       duty airmen), ANGRC/DPM (ANG airmen), HQ AFRES/CV (reserve unit airmen), or HQ
       ARPC/CC (all other reserve airmen).

5.3. Approving or Directing Discharge. The appropriate Air Force organization honorably discharges
bona fide COs under AFI 36-3208, paragraph 3.16, including noncombatant COs whose discharge is
directed. This is a convenience of the government discharge. Pending separation:
    • The applicant continues to perform duties that conflict as little as possible with professed beliefs,
        conform to the normal requirements of military service and satisfactorily perform assigned duties.
    • Commanders discipline applicants for violations under the UCMJ.

5.4. Disapproving Application or Classification of Applicant as a CO and Assigned Noncombatant
Duties (1-A-0).
   5.4.1. COs assigned to noncombatant duties and members assigned to normal military duties because
   of disapproval of their application must conform to the normal requirements of military service and
   satisfactorily perform their assigned duties.
   5.4.2. Disciplinary authorities handle violations of the UCMJ by these members as in any other situ-
   ation.

5.5. Assignment Limitation. Update the Personnel Data System (PDS) with the appropriate assignment
limitation code (AFM 300-4, ADE AS 730-I) on individuals approved for noncombatant service (1-A-0).




                                                12
5.6. Notifying Selective Service When a CO Member Has Not Completed 180 Days of Active Duty.
Discharge bona fide CO (1-0 classification or 1-A-0, with directed discharge) with less than 180 days’ ser-
vice early enough to permit them to serve their remaining service time in the civilian work program
administered by Selective Service System (SSS).
    5.6.1. The MPF/Personnel Relocation Element promptly notifies the SSS of the date of discharge
    from military service and of the fact that the individual has not completed 180 days of active duty.
    5.6.2. The MPF/Personnel Relocation Element prepares the discharge notification for the immediate
    commander’s signature and sends it to the Director of the SSS, National Headquarters, Selective Ser-
    vice System, Washington DC 20435.

5.7. Processing Time Goals. Process CO applications without delay, while observing the following:
    5.7.1. Protect applicant’s rights and ensure that the case is complete.
    5.7.2. The Air Force goal is for everyone in the application processing chain (through SAF), to move
    the package within 3 workdays. (The investigating officer may take more than 3 but no more than 15
    workdays).
    5.7.3. Keep in mind the applicant has 15 calendar days from the date of receipt of the investigating
    officer’s report for rebuttal (paragraph 3.2.12.).
    5.7.4. Failure to meet the suggested time standards does not invalidate the action.

5.8. Disposing of Pending Applications. Applications started under AFR 35-24, 4 June 1982, will be
processed to conclusion under that regulation.

Table 5.1. Forwarding Application.
R              A                              B                               C
U              If member is                   and is                          then submit the applica-
L                                                                             tion to the
E
1              Regular Air Force              serving on active duty          servicing MPF/MSPQS.
2              USAFR
3              ANGUS
4              USAFR                          not serving                     immediate commander
5              ANGUS                          on EAD                          (see note).

NOTE. Commanders of USAFR members request assistance of the consolidated base personnel office
(CBPO) or USAFR CBPO nearest member's home address. ANGUS members will be supported by their
CBPO.




                                          BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel

                                                 13
                                              Attachment 1

                                       GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Conscientious Objection—A firm, fixed, and sincere objection by reason of religious training and belief
to participation in war in any form, or the bearing of arms.
Conscientious Objector (CO)—Class 1-0. A member who, by reason of conscientious objection,
sincerely objects to participation of any kind in war in any form. Class 1-A-0. A member who, by reason
of conscientious objection, sincerely objects to participation as a combatant in war in any form, but whose
convictions permit military service in a noncombatant status.
National Policy—Military service is a patriotic obligation of every citizen who desires to share in the
benefits and protections afforded by allegiance to the national aims, objectives, welfare, and security of
the US government. Congress established the Armed Forces to ensure attaining these objectives by
preserving peace and national stability in a highly competitive and changing world. Nevertheless,
Congress has recognized that deep and sincerely held convictions against the use of force may place any
citizen in a dilemma between conscience and patriotic obligation. Therefore, Congress provided a means
whereby these citizens may be excused or restricted in duties from their military obligation by receiving
status as COs.
Noncombatant Duties or Service—Service in a unit of the armed forces that is unarmed at all times.
Service in a medical department of the armed forces, wherever performed. Any other assignment that
does not have a primary function which requires the use of arms in combat, provided that such other
assignment is acceptable to the member and does not require the member to bear arms or to be trained in
their use. Note: Service aboard an armed ship or aircraft or in a combat zone is not considered
combatant duty unless the member is personally and directly involved in the operation of weapons.
Noncombatant Training—Any training that is not concerned with the study, use, or handling of
weapons.
Religious Training and Belief:—
   • Belief in an external power or being, or deeply held moral or ethical belief to which all else is sub-
       ordinate or on which all else is ultimately dependent, which has the power or force to affect moral
       well-being. The external power or being need not be a deity in the conventional usage. It may be
       a sincere and meaningful belief that occupies a place parallel to that filled by the God of another,
       or, in the case of deeply held moral or ethical beliefs,
   • Beliefs held with the strength and devotion of traditional religious conviction. Religious training
       and belief may involve only moral or ethical beliefs even though the applicant may not character-
       ize these beliefs as religious in the traditional sense, or may expressly characterize them as not
       religious. Religious training and belief does not include a belief that rests solely on the consider-
       ation of policy, pragmatism, expediency, or political views.
War in Any Form—All warfare--those wars waged in the past, present, and future that include
combatant forces. The Air Force does not consider members who believe they can choose the war in
which they will participate as COs under the law. The objection must be to all wars rather than to a
specific war. A belief in a theocratic or spiritual war between the powers of good and evil does not
constitute a willingness to participate in war within the meaning of this instruction.



                                                14
                                              Attachment 2

  REQUIRED INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED BY APPLICANT FOR DISCHARGE OR
                      NONCOMBATANT SERVICE
Any member seeking discharge from the Air Force or assignment to noncombatant duties as a CO must
provide, at a minimum, the information indicated below. This in no way bars the Air Force from requir-
ing additional information. The individual may submit such other additional information as desired.

A2.1. General Information Concerning Applicant:
   A2.1.1. Full name.
   A2.1.2. Social Security number (SSN).
   A2.1.3. Selective Service number (if applicable).
   A2.1.4. Service address.
   A2.1.5. Permanent home address.
   A2.1.6. Name and address of each school and college attended (after age 16), dates of attendance, and
   the type of school (public, church, military, commercial, etc.).
   A2.1.7. A chronological list of all occupations, positions, jobs, or types of work (other than work
   after age 16 performed while in school or college) whether for monetary compensation or not.
   Include the type of work, name of employer, address of employer, and the "from" and "to" date for
   each position or job held.
   A2.1.8. All former addresses (after age 16) and dates of residence at those addresses.
   A2.1.9. Parents’ names and addresses. Indicate whether they are living or deceased.
   A2.1.10. The religious denomination or sect of both parents.
   A2.1.11. Was application made to the Selective Service System (local board) for classification as a
   conscientious objector before entry into the Air Force?
      • To which local board?
      • What decision was made by the board, if known?
   A2.1.12. When the applicant has served fewer than 180 days in the military service:
      • A statement as to whether they are willing to perform work under the Selective Service civil-
          ian work program for COs, if discharged as a CO.
      • A statement as to whether they consent to a work order for such work issued by their local
          Selective Service Board.

A2.2. Training and Belief:
   A2.2.1. A description of the nature of the belief that requires the applicant to seek separation from the
   military service or assignment to noncombatant training and duty for reasons of conscience.




                                                15
   A2.2.2. An explanation as to how the beliefs changed or developed, to include an explanation of the
   factors (how, when, from whom, or from what source applicant received training or acquired belief)
   contributing to conscientious objection beliefs.
   A2.2.3. An explanation as to when these beliefs became incompatible with military service, and why.
   A2.2.4. An explanation as to the circumstances, if any, under which the applicant believes in the use
   of force, and to what extent, under any foreseeable circumstances.
   A2.2.5. An explanation as to how the applicant’s daily life style has changed as a result of the beliefs
   and what future actions applicant plans to continue to support applicant’s beliefs.
   A2.2.6. A description of what most conspicuously demonstrates the consistency and depth of the
   beliefs that gave rise to the claim.

A2.3. Participation in Organizations:
   A2.3.1. Information as to whether applicant has ever been a member of any military organization or
   establishment before entering present term of service. If so, applicant must give the name and address
   of such organization along with the reasons why applicant was a member.
   A2.3.2. A statement as to whether applicant is a member of a religious sect or organization. If so, the
   statement must show:
       • The name of the sect and the name and location of its governing body or head.
       • When, where, and how the applicant became a member of said sect or organization.
       • The name and location of any church, congregation, or meeting that the applicant customarily
          attends and the extent of the applicant's active participation.
       • The name, title, and present address of the pastor or leader of such church, congregation, or
          meeting.
       • A description of the organization's or sect's creed or official statements, if any, and if known,
          any statements of the religious sect or organization regarding participation in war.
   A2.3.3. A description of applicant's relationships with and activities in all organizations with which
   applicant is or has been affiliated, other than military, political, or labor organizations.

A2.4. References. Any additional information, such as letters of reference or official statements of orga-
nizations to which the applicant belongs or refers to in the application, that the applicant wishes the Air
Force authority reviewing the application to consider. The burden is on the applicant to obtain and for-
ward such information.
AUTHORITY: Title 50, App U.S.C., Section 456(j), 10 U.S.C. 8013, and Executive Order 9397.
PURPOSE: Used by member to apply for conscientious objector status.
ROUTINE USE: Reviewing authorities use the recorded information to make a decision to grant or deny
the requested conscientious objector status. Appropriate organizations also use the information, when
appropriate, to withhold promotion, remove members from flying status, and affect members utilization.
DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: If applicant does not furnish the information, applicant may not
receive the requested conscientious objector status.


                                                16
PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT: Applicant must supply this required information for discharge or non-
combatant service (this attachment).




                                         17
                                            Attachment 3

    STATEMENT (COUNSELING CONCERNING DESIGNATION AS CONSCIENTIOUS
                                             OBJECTOR)
   1. I have been counseled concerning designation as a conscientious objector. Based on my training
      and belief, I consider myself to be a conscientious objector within the meaning of the statute and
      regulations governing conscientious objectors and am conscientiously opposed to participation in
      combatant training and service. I request assignment to noncombatant duties for the remainder of
      my term of service. I fully understand that on expiration of my current term of service I may not
      be eligible for voluntary enlistment, reenlistment, extension or amendment of current enlistment,
      or active service in the Armed Forces by reasons of my noncombatant conscientious objector
      classification.
   2. If I am determined to be a noncombatant conscientious objector and if a further determination is
      made that I cannot be effectively utilized as a noncombatant, I am requesting that (I be discharged
      for the convenience of the government according to AFI 36-3208 (airmen)) (my resignation be
      accepted according to AFI 36-3207 (officer)).
   3. I understand that any discharge resulting from my application for conscientious objector designa-
      tion is voluntary on my part. If I have received special pay, bonuses, or advanced education assis-
      tance in return for my commitment to serve a period of active duty, I understand that I am
      obligated to reimburse the United States for such pay, bonuses, or the cost of such education
      assistance, in proportion to the unserved part of my active duty service commitment.



      (date)                                            (signature of member)   __
                                                    (typed name, grade, USAF, SSN)


(Member’s name) signed the preceding statement after being counseled by me.


      (date)                                            (signature of member)   __
                                                    (typed name, grade, USAF, SSN)




AUTHORITY: 50 App. U.S.C. 456, 10 U.S.C. 8013, and Executive Order 9397.

PURPOSE: Used by member to apply for conscientious objector status.

ROUTINE USES: Reviewing authorities use the recorded information to make a decision to grant or
deny the requested conscientious objector status.



                                               18
DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: If applicant does not furnish information, applicant may not receive
the sought-for status.

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT: Statement (Counseling Concerning Designation as Conscientious
Objector) (this attachment).




                                          19
                                              Attachment 4

STATEMENT (COUNSELING CONCERNING VETERANS ADMINISTRATION BENEFITS)
I have been advised of the provisions of Title 38, U.S.C., Section 5303 concerning possible non entitle-
ment to benefits administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs due to discharge from the military
service as a conscientious objector under certain conditions. I understand that a discharge as a conscien-
tious objector, who refused to perform military duty or otherwise to comply with lawful orders of compe-
tent military authority, shall bar all rights, based upon the period of service from which discharged, under
any laws administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs except my legal entitlement (if any) to any
war risk, government (converted) or National Service Life Insurance.



       (date)                                            (signature of member)   __
                                                     (typed name, grade, USAF, SSN)


(Member’s name) signed the preceding statement after being counseled by me.


      (date)                                             (signature of member)   __
                                                     (typed name, grade, USAF, SSN)



AUTHORITY: 50 App. U.S.C. 456(j), Title 38, U.S.C., 5303, 10 U.S.C. 8013, and Executive Order
9397.

PURPOSE: Used by member to apply for conscientious objector status.

ROUTINE USES: Reviewing authorities use the recorded information to make a decision to grant or
deny the requested conscientious objector status.

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY: If applicant does not furnish information, applicant may not receive
the requested conscientious objector status.

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT: Statement (Counseling Concerning Department of Veterans Affairs
Benefits) (this attachment).




                                                20
