                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-217
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           1 FEBRUARY 1997

                                                                                                  Services

                                                                 AIR FORCE AERO CLUB PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVPAR                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/SVP (Col William Brady)
       (Lt Col Roger Sharp)
Supersedes AFI 34-117, 17 February 1995.                                                        Pages: 11
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-2, Air Force Community Service Pro-
grams, by providing guidance and procedures for operating Air Force and AFRES aero clubs. This
instruction is only applicable to the Air National Guard upon mobilization. A indicates revisions from
the previous edition.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This publication implements the realignment of Services publications from AFPD 34-1, Morale, Welfare,
Recreation, and Services, to AFPD 34-2, Air Force Community Service Programs. This instruction
replaces AFI 34-117. It clarifies membership eligibility criteria, classifying mishaps, inspection policy,
and safety officer responsibilities in investigating mishaps. It deletes aero club manager responsibilities
as they are outlined in AFMAN 34-230. This instruction adds responsibilty to conduct operational and
safety inspections to the Headquarters Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA). It requires the Services
Commander or division chief to conduct an inspection at least every 12 months and to approve the stan-
dard operating procedures. It requires the installation operations, safety, and maintenance advisors to
conduct spot inspections as required.
                                               Chapter 1
                                       GENERAL GUIDANCE

1.1. Specific Application. This instruction applies to commanders at each echelon, aero club personnel,
members, and others responsible for implementing the Air Force Aero Club Program. These individuals
must comply with applicable Air Force Policy Directives and Instructions, Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
34-232, Aero Club Operations, Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR), and National Transportation Safety
Board (NTSB) Statutes.
   1.1.1. AFMAN 34-232 explains operational requirements and restrictions applicable to aero clubs.
   1.1.2. HQ AFSVA Community Programs Division (SVPAR) may waive requirements and restric-
   tions detailed in this instruction and AFMAN 34-232.
   1.1.3. In addition to the authorized persons specified in AFI 34-201, Services Programs and Use Eli-
   gibility, the following individuals are authorized membership:
       • Individuals authorized Veterans Administration (VA) Flight Training Benefits, for the period
           they are enrolled in a VA approved flight training course provided local VA flight training
           facilities are unavailable.
       • Civil Air Patrol members.
       • Flight instructors and mechanics on contract with the aero club.

1.2. Purpose and Intent. Aero clubs are recreational activities established to promote morale. Aero
clubs give eligible personnel an opportunity to:
    • Support the Air Force mission.
    • Participate in professional aviation training programs.
    • Enjoy safe, low-cost aircraft operations.
    • Develop and maintain aeronautical skills.
    • Develop awareness and appreciation of aviation.
    • Enjoy a social activity.
   1.2.1. Aero clubs support the United States Air Force Survival, Recovery, and Reconstitution Plan,
   search and recovery operations, and other operational missions. Except for actual survival, recovery,
   and reconstitution or contingency missions, normal club activities have priority.
       1.2.1.1. Appropriated fund reimbursement to the aero club is authorized according to AFI 64-301,
       Nonappropriated Fund Contracting. When clubs participate in operational missions, their aircraft
       perform an appropriated fund function and the nonappropriated funds (NAF) insurance liability
       program does not apply.
       1.2.1.2. File any claims arising out of such missions in accordance with AFI 51-501, Tort Claims.
       1.2.1.3. Only qualified aero club pilots may operate aircraft for operational missions.
   1.2.2. Members are encouraged to use aero club aircraft as a method of temporary duty (TDY). Joint
   Travel Regulation, Volume I, and AFI 24-101, Passenger Travel, authorizes the use of aero club air-
   craft for this purpose.

                                                2
1.3. Establishing an Aero Club. Establish aero clubs according to the instructions in AFMAN 34-232.

1.4. Insurance Programs. Air Force aero clubs have insurance coverage for liability, hull, club assets,
contractors, employees, and customers as described in AFI 34-408, Property and Casualty Insurance.




                                               3
                                              Chapter 2
                           AIRCRAFT, EQUIPMENT, AND SUPPLIES

2.1. Purchasing and Leasing Aircraft. Aero clubs may acquire aircraft by purchase or exclusive-use
lease.
   2.1.1. Obtain approval for leases according to AFI 34-401, Use of Nonappropriated Funds, and
   AFMAN 64-302, NAF Contracting.

2.2. Department of Defense (DoD) Loaned Aircraft. Aero clubs may borrow excess DoD aircraft.
   2.2.1. HQ Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Office, screens
   excess DoD aircraft and offers to loan those compatible with aero club operations. HQ AFSVA/
   SVPAR then distributes the aircraft to clubs with appropriate membership needs, financial stability,
   and Major Command Services Commander/Director (MAJCOM/SV) approval.

2.3. HQ AFSVA/SVPAR Loaned Aircraft. Aero clubs may borrow excess aircraft obtained from the
General Services Administration (GSA).
   2.3.1. HQ AFSVA/SVPAR screens GSA aircraft and offers to loan those compatible with aero club
   operations and then distributes the aircraft to clubs with appropriate membership needs, and financial
   stability.

2.4. Obtaining Aircraft and Engine Parts. Aero clubs can get replacement parts on a reimbursable
basis from the Air Force supply system. Clubs can also borrow excess major replacement items accord-
ing to AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual.

2.5. Obtaining Other Supplies and Equipment. Managers may obtain other items from base supply
as authorized by AFI 65-106, Appropriated Funds Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Programs
and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities. Clubs establish supply accounts according to AFMAN
23-110.

2.6. Selling Fuel, Oil, and Other Aviation Related Items: Aero clubs may sell items according to
AFI 34-401. Sell items only to:
    • Individuals authorized to use Services activities.
    • Government and official mission aircraft.
    • Other US military aero club members for use in other aero club aircraft.

2.7. Maintaining Inventories. Clubs may maintain a centralized inventory of aviation-related merchan-
dise and a decentralized storeroom inventory of aviation petroleum, oil, lubricants, and aircraft spare
parts. Refer to AFI 34-402, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets, for guidance on establishing, main-
taining and controlling these inventories.

2.8. Registering Aircraft. Register all aircraft owned or operated by aero clubs in accordance with
FARs. Obtain registration information from the local Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) office.


                                               4
                                              Chapter 3
                              SAFETY AND MISHAP REPORTING

3.1. Applicability. Safety is every aero club member’s responsibility. Managers, with assistance from
the club safety officer, develop and implement an aggressive mishap prevention program.

3.2. Holding Safety Meetings. The club safety officer holds a safety meeting for the membership at
least once a month. Schedule these meetings when most members can attend.

3.3. Classifying Mishaps. Classify mishaps according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports.

3.4. Investigating Mishaps. An Air Force flight safety officer (FSO) conducts an official investigation
on each reportable aero club mishap according to AFI 91-204. The FSO works closely with applicable
ground safety, NTSB, FAA, or host country investigators.
   3.4.1. FSO will impound all applicable member training and checkout records, as well as any appli-
   cable aircraft or aircraft component until a reasonable determination of the facts can be made.
   3.4.2. FSOs will contact HQ AFSVA/SVPAR to determine the source and extent of material analysis
   needed to determine the cause of the mishap.

3.5. Reporting Mishaps. The manager notifies the installation safety office of any mishap as soon as
possible. The safety office reports aero club mishaps according to AFI 91-204 and, if required by NTSB
Statutes, notifies the NTSB. The manager notifies HQ AFSVA/SVPAR according to AFMAN 34-232.
   3.5.1. FSOs prepare message reports according to AFI 91-204, send reports to AFI addressees and
   address indicator group (AIG) 9405.
   3.5.2. The installation commander endorses all Class A Mishap reports and then sends them through
   channels to the MAJCOM commander.
       3.5.2.1. The MAJCOM safety staff prepares an endorsement on mishap reports and obtains
       release from the command section. The MAJCOM safety staff then forwards the reports to HQ
       Air Force Safety Center (AFSC) and HQ AFSVA/SVPAR.
       3.5.2.2. HQ AFSC renders the final evaluation on all mishaps involving injury to personnel (refer
       to AFI 91-204). HQ AFSVA/SVPAR renders the final evaluation on all others. Note: Both
       injury and property damage thresholds are used to report mishaps.

3.6. Using or Releasing Mishap Reports Without Authorization. Mishap investigations determine
causes of mishaps and identify steps to keep them from recurring.
   3.6.1. You may not use reports as evidence to support a disciplinary action or to determine pecuniary
   liability.
   3.6.2. The mishap investigator must advise witnesses they have no guarantee of confidentiality
   because the report is not protected by claim or privilege.
   3.6.3. All reports are For Official Use Only (FOUO).


                                               5
   3.6.4. The releasing authority for aero club AFI 91-204 mishap reports is the Director, Air Force
   Safety Center (AFSC).
       3.6.4.1. Refer all requests for release to HQ AFSC Staff Judge Advocate (JA), 9700 Ave G SE,
       Ste 237, Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5671.
   3.6.5. Non-injury related reports are maintained at HQ AFSVA/SVPAR, refer requests for release to
   HQ AFSVA, Directorate of Management Systems, Resource Mangement Division, 9504 IH 35 North,
   Suite 250, San Antonio TX 78233-6636.

3.7. Investigating Pecuniary Liability. Services commanders or division chief investigate pecuniary
liability for mishaps according to AFI 34-402.
   3.7.1. Although this investigation is separate from the mishap investigation, the investigator may use
   factual data and recall witnesses from the mishap investigation.

3.8. Ground and Occupational Safety
   3.8.1. Managers establish comprehensive ground safety programs including aircraft servicing,
   ground handling, and maintenance activities.
   3.8.2. Club employees must comply with applicable portions of the Air Force Occupational Safety
   and Health standards.




                                               6
                                                 Chapter 4
                                           WHAT PEOPLE DO

4.1. HQ USAF/SV. This office establishes policy for aero clubs.

4.2. HQ AFSVA.
    • Sets, publishes, and distributes guidance on aero club operations.
    • Trains aero club managers, safety officers, and chief mechanics.
    • Acquires and distributes government-loaned aircraft.
    • Performs staff assistance visits to aero club activities upon MAJCOM request.
    • Reviews major aero club construction and renovation projects.
    • Publishes forms needed to document flight training programs.
   •   Conducts no notice operational and safety inspections.

4.3. AFSC Director. AFSC/CC is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for USAF safety policies
and instructions. Additionally, AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards, establishes a program to give special annual
recognition to mishap-free aero clubs and to promote aviation safety.

4.4. MAJCOM/CC: This office:
    • Designates three advisors, one each from operations, maintenance, and safety, to provide the
      MAJCOM/SV with specific area expertise.
    • Helps with mishap investigations as required; once the mishap report is complete, tracks recom-
      mendations to completion.
    • Supplements this instruction as required after coordinating the supplements through HQ AFSVA/
      SVPAR.

4.5. MAJCOM/SV: This office conducts staff assistance and training visits of all aero clubs within the
command at least every 24 calendar months.
    • The staff assistance team consists of the MAJCOM appointed advisors and MAJCOM/SV OPR is
      the team chief.
    • HQ AFSVA/SVPAR may supplement the staff assistance team upon request or when the com-
      mand can't find qualified individuals.

4.6. Installation Commander. The commander:
    • Provides hangar and ramp space, classroom and maintenance facilities, and supplies.
    • Authorizes off-base operations if the base has inadequate facilities. NOTE: Get HQ AFSVA
       approval to lease off-base civilian facilities. Any lease for facilities at a civilian airport must per-
       mit Air Force inspection.
    • Ensures that specialists (e.g. fuels and corrosion control) work with the manager to implement
       aggressive quality assurance programs.
    • Includes aero club facilities in ground safety and fire protection inspections.

                                                  7
   •   Appoints, in writing, an operations, maintenance, and safety advisor to serve as a direct opera-
       tional link with the club.
   •   Revokes a club member's privileges if the member demonstrates negligence, willful misconduct,
       or drug or alcohol abuse.
   •   Revokes membership privileges according to AFMAN 34-232.
   •   Supplements this instruction as required after coordinating the supplements through the MAJ-
       COM and HQ AFSVA/SVPAR.

4.7. Services Commander or Division Chief
   4.7.1. Overall Responsibilities:
       • Helps establish or dissolve the aero club according to AFMAN 34-232.
       • Supervises the aero club manager and notifies HQ AFSVA/SVPAR within five working days
          of any change in the manager's position.
       •   Removes from flying activities or aircraft maintenance any employee or contractor who dem-
           onstrates, or who is suspected of, negligent acts, willful misconduct, drug abuse, or alcohol
           abuse, and investigates and takes appropriate action.
       •   Conducts an inspection of the aero club at least every 12 calendar months.
       •   Approves the club Standard Operating Procedures.
   4.7.2. For the activity inspection,
       • Assembles the inspection team, consisting of at least the commander's three appointed advi-
          sors and the resource management flight chief.
       • Serves as the team chief.
       • Forwards a consolidated report to the installation commander within five working days of the
          inspection.
       • Ensures the club manager returns proposed corrective actions within 15 working days of
          receipt.
       • Forwards the amended report to the installation commander within 45 workdays of the inspec-
          tion.
       • Once approved by the installation commander, forwards completed inspection reports to the
          MAJCOM/SV and HQ AFSVA/SVPAR.

NOTE:
The reporting requirement in this paragraph is exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 37-124, The
Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Public, and Interagency
Air Force Information Collections, para 2.11.8.
   4.7.3. For flight instruction, may authorize the aero club manager, if qualified, to perform duties as a
   flight instructor. NOTE: Club management takes precedence over any instructional duties, and the
   manager must return instructor fees to the club.

4.8. Installation Operations Advisor:

                                                8
   •   Is a rated military pilot actively flying at the installation and, if possible, a qualified supervisor of
       flying. This individual should be highly experienced in general aviation and hold a valid FAA
       Airman's Certificate.
   •   Attends all safety and standardization meetings and advises the manager on operational issues.
   •   Helps the club operations officer monitor flight operations and coordinate with base agencies.
   •   Conducts spot inspections as required.

4.9. Installation Safety Advisor:
    • Is a rated flight safety officer from the servicing flight safety office. This individual should be
       highly experienced in general aviation and hold a valid FAA Airman's Certificate.
    • Attends all safety and standardization meetings and helps the club safety officer develop an
       aggressive mishap prevention program.
    • Provides the club safety officer with mishap prevention information and serves as a link to MAJ-
       COM Safety Staff and HQ AFSC.
    • Conducts mishap investigations.
    • Takes part in the annual activity inspection and follows up on any safety discrepancies found.
    • Conducts spot inspections, as required.

4.10. Installation Maintenance Advisor:
    • Is a senior maintenance manager familiar with FAA maintenance procedures. This individual
       should be highly experienced in general aviation and hold a valid FAA Airframe and Powerplant
       Certificate.
    • Helps the maintenance officer to use base maintenance facilities and equipment.
    • Attends all safety meetings and advises the manager on:
       • Overall condition of the aircraft and maintenance facilities.
       • Aircraft maintenance procedures.
       • Fuels quality assurance program.
       • Corrosion control program.
    • Conducts spot inspections as required.




                                           PATRICK O. ADAMS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director of Services




                                                  9
                                             Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND TERMS

References
AFPD 34-2, Air Force Community Services Programs
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement
AFI 34-201, Services Programs and Use Eligibility
AFI 34-401, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs)
AFI 34-402, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets
AFI 34-408, Property and Casualty Insurance
AFI 36-2833, Safety Awards
AFI 37-124, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal, Pub-
lic, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections
AFI 51-501, Tort Claims
AFI 64-301, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Funds Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Programs and Nonappro-
priated Fund Instrumentalities
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual
AFMAN 34-232, Aero Club Operations
AFMAN 64-302, NAF Contracting
Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, Aeronautics and Space
Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 800, Notification and Reporting of Aircraft Accident or Inci-
dents and Overdue Aircraft, and Preservation of Aircraft Wreckage, Mail, Cargo, and Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSVA—Air Force Services Agency
AIG—address indicator group
CC—commander


                                                10
DoD—Department of Defense
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FARs—Federal Aviation Regulations
FSO—flight safety officer
FOUO—For Official Use Only
GSA—General Services Administration
HQ USAF/SV—Headquarters Air Force Services
MAJCOM—major command
NAF—nonappropriated funds
NTSB—National Transportation Safety Board
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SOP—Standard Operating Procedures
SV—Services Commander/Division Chief
SVXM—HQ AFSVA Management Support Division
SVPAR—Community Programs Division
TDY—temporary duty
VA—Veterans Administration

Terms
Club—The Aero Club
Manager—The Appointed Aero Club Manager




                                            11
