BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-701
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    27 JULY 1994

                                                                         DOBBINS AIR RESERVE BASE
                                                                                         Supplement
                                                                                             31 MAY 2007
                                                                    Certified Current on 13 November 2012
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                  LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFPOA/DPW                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-711, 30 September 1991                                                   Pages: 14

                                             (DOBBINSARB)
OPR: 94 MSG/DPC                                        Certified by: 94 MSG/DPC (W. D. Godfrey)
                                                                                       Pages: 1

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It contains the
Air Force procedures and guidance for managers and supervisors when dealing with employees repre-
sented by an exclusively recognized union. It assigns responsibilities to commanders, management offi-
cials, supervisors, civilian personnel officers (CPO), labor relations officers (LRO), and staff judge
advocates (SJA). It carries out the Federal Labor Relations Statute, 5 U.S.C. Chapter 71 (the Statute),
and DoD Manual 1400.25, Chapter 711, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual System, Jan
24, 78. It does not apply to the Title 32 Air National Guard Technician Work Force. The reporting
requirements in this instruction are exempt from licensing in accordance with AFI 37-124, Management
and Control of Information Reports Requirements.

(DOBBINSARB) This supplement extends the instructions of AFI 36-701, Labor Management Rela-
tions, 27 July 1994, to include the local procedures. This supplement applies to all units represented by
the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) at Dobbins Air Reserve Base. The prescrib-
ing directives for this publication are outlined in AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Rela-
tions.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 36-7 and Secretary of the Air Force Orders 111.1 and
111.5. It realigns responsibilities for third party filings from the personnel to the legal community. It dis-
continues the use of AF Form 1510.
2                                                    AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


Section A—Authorities and Responsibilities

1. HQ USAF. The Work Force Appeals and Relations Division (AFPOA/DPW) provides overall Air
Force policy and guidance on labor relations matters. Air Force Legal Services Agency, General Litiga-
tion Division (AFLSA/JACL), with the activity and the major command (MAJCOM) involved, prepares
and responds to appeals of arbitration awards made under 5 U.S.C. 7122 or other applicable provisions of
law or regulation. Only AFLSA/JACL authorizes written declarations of nonnegotiability.

2. MAJCOM. The major command director of civilian personnel will designate an individual as the
principal point of contact for labor relations with subordinate installations and AFPOA/DPW.

3. Commanders. Installation commanders:
    •   Provide overall direction in the execution of the Labor-Management Relations Program at the
        installation.
    •   Attend labor relations training as prescribed by DoD Manual 1400.25 (DoD CPM), Chapter 711,
        paragraph 2-3.
    •   Designate Civilian Personnel Officers (CPO) to act on their behalf in formulating local
        labor-management relations policy.
    •   Ensure sufficient resources to effectively manage the program.
    •   Confirm certification of a labor organization as the exclusive representative of a collective bar-
        gaining unit.
    •   Authorize subordinates to engage in collective bargaining with the duly elected representatives of
        the work force.
    •   Make lawful commitments on behalf of the installation by executing negotiated labor manage-
        ment agreements.
    •   Approve appropriate actions to resolve alleged unfair labor practices (ULP) filed by individuals
        or collective bargaining units.
    •   File ULP charges, as necessary, against collective bargaining agents when the MAJCOM has del-
        egated the authority to the installation.
    •   Post notices and implement orders as required by the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA).

4. CPO. Civilian Personnel Officers serve as principal advisors to commanders and their staff on labor
relations matters. They participate in all third-party proceedings involving labor relations matters and
coordinate with appropriate parties on any proposed settlements arising out of such proceedings. The
CPO designates an LRO as the principal point of contact in conducting labor relations matters with labor
organization representatives.

5. LRO. The Labor Relations Officer:
    •   Meets with labor organization representatives as necessary.
    •   Establishes a system for sharing information among management officials and supervisors on all
        aspects of the labor relations program. This system involves management officials and supervi-
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                                      3


       sors of tenant organizations serviced by the civilian personnel flight, regardless of whether the
       tenants are located on or off the installation.
   •   Contacts each new supervisor of bargaining unit employees within 60 days of appointment to dis-
       cuss their labor relations responsibilities.
   •   Trains management officials and supervisors in their duties, responsibilities, and obligations
       under the Air Force labor relations program, the Statute and the collective bargaining agreement.
   •   Distributes the approved collective bargaining agreement to all current and newly assigned man-
       agement officials and supervisors (military and civilian) responsible for its administration.
   •   Maintains an effective relationship with the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) on labor
       relations matters.
   •   Notifies employees in bargaining units of their representation rights set forth in section
       7114(a)(2)(B) of the Statute.

6. Management Officials. Management officials and supervisors remain neutral in matters concerning
labor organization membership and representation to the extent required by the law. They administer the
negotiated agreement in the day-to-day work relationship with local union officials and bargaining unit
members and deal with labor organization representatives on appropriate matters. If the matter is outside
the jurisdiction of a management official or supervisor, he or she refers the labor organization represen-
tative to the LRO.
   6.1. Management officials and supervisors participate in contract negotiations with labor organiza-
   tion representatives when designated by the commander. They keep records of significant dealings
   with labor organization representatives and participate in third party administrative proceedings, as
   required.

7. SJA. The Office of The Judge Advocate General and Staff Judge Advocates (SJA) at subordinate lev-
els of command provide legal support for the labor relations program. The CPO must coordinate with the
SJA on the terms of any proposed settlement agreement in third party proceedings involving conditions of
employment for civilian employees.

Section B—Administering the Labor-Management Relations Program

8. Threatened or Actual Strikes, Work Stoppages, Slowdowns, or Prohibited Picketing. As part of
their overall personnel management responsibilities, CPOs, management officials, and supervisors antic-
ipate, identify, and promptly initiate action to correct any conditions which could result in a threatened or
actual strike, work stoppage, slowdown or prohibited picketing. When such actions threaten or occur,
management officials and supervisors immediately notify the CPO, who, in turn, notifies the SJA and
takes other action under the local Work Stoppage Contingency Plan.

9. Strike Prevention and Contingency Plans. All MAJCOMs and their subordinate installations
develop and implement strike prevention and contingency plans. The plans outline management actions
to continue essential services if there is a work stoppage due to a strike, slowdown, sick-out, prohibited
picketing, or other form of illegal concerted activity. These plans are for official use only and are avail-
4                                                      AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


able on a need-to-know basis to those individuals directly involved in developing or implementing them.
Review and update the plans biennially and, following any concerted activity, revise as needed.

10. Conflict of Interest. When the union activities of an Air Force employee appear to conflict, or are
incompatible with, the employee's official duties and responsibilities, and either the employee or union
disagrees with this opinion, the installation may file a Clarification of Unit petition. The installation con-
sults with the MAJCOM/DPC before filing such a petition.

11. Air Force Elements Involvement in FLRA Pro-ceedings. There are several types of proceedings
which require AFPOA/DPW, AFLSA/JACL, MAJCOMs, and installations to deal with the FLRA or one
of its component elements (FSIP, General Counsel, regional offices). See attachment l for further details.

12. Representation Proceedings. When an installation or MAJCOM receives a representation petition,
notify both AFPOA/DPW and AFLSA/JACL immediately by telephone and forward a copy of the peti-
tion to those offices within one workday. AFLSA/JACL assigns a management representative to the case
and notifies the Regional Director, FLRA, of such assignment. The assigned representative issues or
coordinates on any further management correspondence concerning the case.
    12.1. When there is a change in a unit recognition or a negotiated agreement, the CPO sends a copy
    of all certifications and three copies of the negotiated agreement together with three copies of Office
    of Personnel Management (OPM) Form 913B, Change Form-Recognitions and Agreements to
    AFPOA/DPW.

Section C— Recording and Reporting Employee Use of Official Time for Representational Functions

13. Background Information. The OPM requires federal agencies to record or account for official time
for employee representational functions, both agency and union related. This requirement is not limited
solely to functions specifically required by the Statute.

14. Time and Attendance Reporting of Represen-tational Data. Supervisors record employee time
used for representation on the appropriate Time and Attendance form. The payroll office provides the
Timekeeper Guide and instructions. Supervisors enter official duty time in specified categories in
15-minute increments. Employees follow prescribed or negotiated procedures to absent themselves from
the worksite. Time and Attendance reporting forms or computerized reporting vary by payroll system and
location.
14. (DOBBINSARB) Time and Attendance Reporting of Represen-tational Data. Supervisors/des-
ignated supervisors of Dobbins employees designated as AFGE officials or stewards must record official
time used for representational functions on DARB Form 12, Request for Official Time. The employee
requesting official time must submit a DARB Form 12 for each requested absence. The DARB Form 12
will be submitted in duplicate to the immediate supervisor or designee. The requester will complete item
1, Name of Official/Steward; item 2, Reason for Request; and item 3, Date and Time expected absence
will begin. Reason for request should be stated as one of the following: Contract negotiations, Midterm
negotiations, Labor-Management Committees, Consultation, OSHA visit, FLRA proceedings, Labor
Relations training, Formal/Weingarten meetings, Grievance/Appeal (i.e. Arbitration, MSPB proceedings,
EEO complaint, or other complaint). Supervisor approves/disapproves request. Upon return to the duty
section, employee will annotate the time of return and submit to supervisor for signature. One copy of
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                                      5


completed form will be given to the employee and supervisor will maintain the original DARB Form 12
in accordance with AFR 4-20, Disposition of Air Force Records, Records, Disposition Schedule, Table
11-1, Rule 19.
   14.1. (Added-DOBBINSARB) Forms Prescribed. 94AW IMT 12, Request for Official Time.

15. Publicity on Recording Representational Data. Management provides all appropriated and nonap-
pro-priated fund supervisors of employees engaged in representational functions with information on
recording representational data. The Timekeeper Guide for the payroll system supporting the installation
contains reporting instructions.

16. Purpose of Record Keeping Requirements. These record keeping requirements do not establish
rights to official time or travel or per diem. The Statute, rule, regulation, and negotiated agreement estab-
lish the basis for granting official time, and payment of travel and per diem costs.

Section D—Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) Proceedings

17. General Information. The Statute, section 7116, describes ULPs. Process ULP charges or com-
plaints according to that Section; FLRA rules found in 5 CFR Part 2423; DOD Manual 1400.25 chapter
711; and the provisions of this section.

18. ULP Charges Filed With an Installation. After receiving a ULP charge, the installation LRO fur-
nishes all pertinent information to AFLSA/JACL. (See Attachment 2 for further details.) AFLSA/JACL
assigns a representative who issues or coordinates on any correspondence concerning the matter. The rep-
resentative provides copies of all material concerning the case to the MAJCOM/DPC and the installation
CPO. When the case involves an Air Force policy, the interpretation or application of an Air Force
Instruction, or a potentially precedent-setting issue, also provide copies to AFPOA/DPW.
   18.1. The CPO or LRO provides policy direction and technical advice to the JACL-designated repre-
   sentative in all phases of the case and attends the ULP hearing as a technical advisor. AFLSA/JACL
   represents Air Force management in all ULP proceedings brought by the FLRA against the US. Air
   Force.

19. ULP Charges Filed by Management. MAJCOMs have the authority to file ULP charges, in writ-
ing, with the FLRA. They may delegate the authority to their installations. MAJCOMs will notify
AFLSA/JACL and AFPOA/DPW when management files a ULP charge.

20. Decisions by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). Within one workday of receiving the ALJ
decision, the JACL-designated representative sends a copy to AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and
the installation CPO. The designated representative prepares any exceptions and supporting briefs as
explained in FLRA regulations, coordinates with the CPO, and files them with the FLRA. The represen-
tative sends information copies to the MAJCOM/DPC, HQ AFPOA/DPW, and the installation. On the
request of AFPOA/DPW, the representative will coordinate with AFPOA/DPW before filing an exception
to an ALJ decision which involves a precedential issue.
   20.1. When another party files an exception with the FLRA, the designated representative immedi-
   ately sends copies to AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and the installation. If necessary, the desig-
   nated representative prepares the opposition and supporting brief, coordinates with the CPO, and files
6                                                    AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


    them with the FLRA within appropriate time limits. The representative sends information copies to
    AFPOA/DPW, the MAJCOM/DPC, and the installation.

Section E—Negotiated Grievance and Arbitration Procedures

21. General Information. Section E, Section F, and Section G describe processing grievances under a
negotiated grievance procedure, arbitrating such grievances, and appealing of grievance arbitration
awards. These sections also discuss organizational and functional responsibilities and procedural require-
ments in such matters.

22. Exclusivity. The collective bargaining agreement includes procedures for settling grievances.
Except as provided by the Statute, section 7121(d) and (e), the grievance procedure negotiated by the par-
ties will be the exclusive procedure for resolving grievances which fall within its coverage.

23. Statutory Exclusions. The Statute, section 7121(c), specifically excludes certain matters from a
negotiated grievance procedure.

24. Negotiated Exclusions. Under the Statute, the negotiated grievance procedure must cover any griev-
able issue unless there is an agreement to exclude it. The parties can agree to exclude any matter from the
negotiated grievance procedure. If a party proposes to exclude an item, both parties must bargain on the
matter. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on a proposed exclusion, follow the procedures of
section 7119 of the Statute for the resolution of collective bargaining impasses, including referral to the
Federal Service Impasses Panel.

25. Representation. A labor organization granted exclusive recognition in a collective bargaining unit
has the statutory right, on its own behalf or on behalf of an employee in that bargaining unit, to present
and process grievances under the terms of the negotiated grievance procedure. A bargaining unit
employee who requests representation in pursuing a grievance may be represented only by the recognized
labor organization or by an individual approved thereby. By law, bargaining unit employees retain the
right to submit a grievance under the negotiated procedure on their own behalf and without representa-
tion. In that situation, management gives the recognized labor organization the opportunity to be present
during the grievance proceedings. Any grievance adjustment with bargaining unit employees represent-
ing themselves must not violate the governing collective bargaining agreement.
    25.1. At the installation level, the CPO processes grievances under the negotiated grievance proce-
    dure. The CPO, LRO and SJA coordinate their actions in grievance arbitration matters.
    25.2. Where an individual other than the CPO or LRO serves as management representative in arbi-
    tration proceedings, the CPO or LRO provides policy direction and technical advice to that manage-
    ment representative in all phases of the case. In preparing for arbitration, the CPO or the LRO, or a
    designee, jointly with the management representative, develops the theory of the case, the arguments
    and the facts management will present at the hearing. The CPO, the LRO, or designee also attends the
    arbitration hearing as a technical advisor. Using an attorney from the installation SJA office in arbi-
    tration proceedings is a matter of local discretion.
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                                       7


Section F—Arbitration Procedure

26. Questions and Issues. The initial issue in an arbitration is whether a matter is properly before the
arbitrator. The issue can be either procedural or substantive and either party presents it as a threshold
question. Unless the collective bargaining agreement specifies otherwise, the arbitrator has the option to
decide the issue before hearing the merits of the case, or to defer ruling on that threshold issue until after
hearing the merits.

27. Transmittal of Case File. Within three workdays after the union and management confirm a hearing
date with the arbitrator (or determine a date for submission of briefs in lieu of a hearing), the CPO mails a
copy of the case file to both AFPOA/DPW and the applicable MAJCOM office.
   27.1. Cases involving the following issues will not be sent to AFPOA/DPW unless questions of Air
   Force policy interpretation are raised in the case:
       •   Suspensions of 14 days or less.
       •   Reprimand.
       •   Oral Admonishment.
       •   Entries in Supervisor's Record of Employee.
       •   Leave Administration.
       •   Absence Without Leave (AWOL).
       •   Overtime.
       •   Performance Appraisal.
       •   Parking.
   27.2. Ordinarily, include the following items in the Arbitration Case File sent to AFPOA/DPW:
       •   Record of any grievance discussion and decision at the oral step of the grievance procedure.
       •   All written grievance submissions at each step of the grievance procedure.
       •   All responses to the written grievance submissions.
       •   Any other documents (for example, proposed notices of disciplinary actions, letters of deci-
           sion imposing discipline, investigation reports, regulatory excerpts, minutes of grievance dis-
           cussions, etc.) pertinent to the issues in the case.
       •   The request for arbitration.
       •   A copy of the completed AF Form 112, Arbitration Case Summary, which takes the place
           of a cover letter. (The LRO completes this form)
       •   Pertinent portions of the collective bargaining agreement.
       •   Do not send routine administrative correspondence in the arbitration case file.
   27.3. Report changes in case status (changed hearing date, settlement, withdrawal, etc.) and any other
   significant developments promptly on AF Form 112 and send to AFPOA/DPW and the appropriate
   MAJCOM. When updating the AF Form 112, the CPO may reproduce the previously submitted form,
8                                                     AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


    add new information, and send the requisite number of copies of the amended version to higher head-
    quarters, as long as all entries remain legible.

28. Submission Agreements. In preparing for the arbitration hearing, the management representative
attempts to reach agreement with the labor organization on the issues. Present the issues to the arbitrator
at the beginning of the hearing. Draft the submission agreement carefully. It determines the scope of the
arbitrator's authority and jurisdiction. Without a submission agreement (or some provision of the parties'
collective bargaining agreement which restricts the arbitrator's authority or jurisdiction), arbitrators gen-
erally have the power to frame and describe the issues before them as they see fit.

29. Dating of Arbitration Awards. Management representatives should specifically request arbitrators
date their awards no earlier than the date they place the awards in the mail. An installation may negotiate
such requirement in the parties' collective bargaining agreement, or it may be made part of a submission
agreement in a particular case.

30. Arbitration Awards. The CPO sends four legible copies of all arbitration awards to AFPOA/DPW,
and one to the appropriate MAJCOM within three workdays of receipt. The CPO uses AF Form 112 to
transmit each arbitration award to AFPOA/DPW.

31. Special Reporting Requirements. When a CPO receives an award (adverse or otherwise) involving
an action under 5 U.S.C. 4303 or 7512 immediately send two copies of the award to AFPOA/DPW and
one copy to each of the following:
    AFLSA/JACL
    Room 706
    1501 Wilson Blvd.
    Arlington, VA 22209


    US Office of Personnel Management
    Office of Labor Management Relations - Room 7623
    1900 E. Street, NW
    Wash DC 20415-0001


Use AF Form 112 to transmit the award to each of these addresses.

Section G—Appeal of Arbitration Awards

32. Grounds for Appeal. An arbitration award is normally final and binding on the installation and labor
organization involved. Compliance with an award is mandatory and enforceable under section 7116 of
the Statute. However, under section 7122(a) of the Statute, either party may appeal the award to the
FLRA on the grounds that it is contrary to any law, rule, or regulation, or on other grounds similar to those
applied by the federal courts in private sector labor-management relations. Only AFLSA/JACL files
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                                    9


exceptions together with supporting briefs on behalf of the Air Force. Installations send requests for fil-
ing exceptions to AFLSA/JACL. The FLRA has no jurisdiction, however, to review arbitration awards
which concern adverse actions taken under 5 U.S.C. 7512 or actions based on unacceptable performance
covered under 5 U.S.C. 4303.
   32.1. MAJCOMs may set additional processing require-ments for their installations for all arbitration
   awards.

33. Forms Prescribed
   AF Form 112, Arbitration Case Summary
   OPM 913B, Change Form-Recognition and Agreements



                                               BILLY J. BOLES, Lt. General, USAF
                                               DCS/Personnel

                                               (DOBBINSARB)

                                               HEATH J. NUCKOLLS, Colonel, USAFR
                                               Commander
10                                                AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


                                           Attachment 1

 SUMMARY OF INVOLVEMENT OF US AIR FORCE ORGANIZATIONAL ELEMENTS IN
                     THIRD PARTY PROCEEDINGS


     Type of Proceeding         FLRA Element      AF Element*        Examples of Actions
                                                  Involved           Taken by Air Force
                                                                     Elements in Third
                                                                     Party Proceedings
     A. Representation          Regional Office   Installation and   1. Post Notice.
     Question at Installation                     CLLO               2. File pre-hearing
     Level                                                           response.
                                                                     3. Gather and develop
                                                                     data in an organized
                                                                     manner.
                                                                     4. Provide witnesses
                                                                     and representatives for
                                                                     hearing.
                                                                     5. Present agency
                                                                     position at hearing.
                                                                     6. Prepare
                                                                     post-hearing brief.
                                                                     7. Provide observers
                                                                     and administrative
                                                                     support if an election is
                                                                     required.
                                                                     8. If appropriate, file
                                                                     objection to election
                                                                     results.
                                                                     9. Take appropriate
                                                                     action on final decision
                                                                     of FLRA.
     B. Representation          Regional Office   MAJCOM and         Same actions as taken
     Question at MAJCOM                           CLLO               by installation and
     level                                                           CLLO.
     C. Representation          Regional Office   AFPOA and CLLO     Same actions as taken
     Question at HQ USAF                                             by installation and
     level                                                           CLLO.
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                 11


  D. Negotiability Issue   FLRA Central   Installation and   1. Develop counter
                           Office         MAJCOM             proposal to contested
                                          AFLSA/JACL         language.
                                                             2. Obtain written
                                                             request for
                                                             non-negotiability.
                                                             3. Provide written
                                                             response to union
                                                             request.
                                                             4. Provide outline of
                                                             arguments supporting
                                                             declaration of
                                                             non-negotiability.
                                                             1. Determine whether
                                                             to authorize
                                                             declaration of
                                                             non-negotiability.
                                                             2. Work with
                                                             installation and
                                                             MAJCOM to develop
                                                             agency brief.
                                                             3. Obtain DoD
                                                             approval of Air Force
                                                             position.
                                                             4. Submit agency brief
                                                             to FLRA.
  E. Exception to          FLRA Central   Installation and   Provide outline of
  Arbitration Decision     Office         MAJCOMAFPOA        arguments which
                                          and CLLO           identify basis for
                                                             seeking exception to
                                                             arbitration award.
                                                             1. Work with
                                                             installation and
                                                             MAJCOM to develop
                                                             agency brief.
                                                             2. Obtain DoD
                                                             approval for Air Force
                                                             position.
                                                             3. File brief with
                                                             FLRA.
12                                              AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


     F. ULP at Installation   General           Installation and   1. Provide copy of
     Level                    Counsel           CLLO               charge to CLLO, and
                              Regional Office                      MAJCOM/DPC.
                                                                   2. Conduct
                                                                   preliminary
                                                                   investigation of charge.
                                                                   3. Respond to charge.
                                                                   4. Advise management
                                                                   officials during FLRA
                                                                   investigations.
                                                                   5. Make
                                                                   recommendations to
                                                                   installation
                                                                   commander as to
                                                                   reaching settlement
                                                                   agreement, if any.
                                                                   6. If complaint is
                                                                   issued, make necessary
                                                                   response. See G below.
                                                                   7. Provide copy of
                                                                   complaint and all
                                                                   subsequent material to
                                                                   installation CCPO, and
                                                                   MAJCOM/DPC.
     G. ALJ Hearing of        Administrative    Installation and   1. Furnish witnesses.
     Installation level ULP   Law Judge         CLLOAFPOA          2. Present agency case
                                                                   at hearing.
                                                                   3. Prepare
                                                                   post-hearing brief, as
                                                                   required.
                                                                   4. Make
                                                                   recommendations to
                                                                   installation
                                                                   commander at any step
                                                                   before completion of
                                                                   hearing.
                                                                   5. As necessary, file
                                                                   exceptions to ALJ
                                                                   decision with FLRA.
                                                                   6. Take appropriate
                                                                   action on decision by
                                                                   FLRA. Coordinate
                                                                   with installation,
                                                                   MAJCOM, and CLLO
                                                                   on precedential cases.
AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007                                                               13


    H. Judicial Review         Court of           MAJCOM and             Work with DoD and
                               Appeal             AFLSA/JACL             Department of Justice
                                                                         to develop and present
                                                                         Air Force position on
                                                                         FLRA decision.
    I. Impasse                 FSIP               Installation and       1. Develop position.
                                                  MAJCOMMAJCO            2. Present case.
                                                  M AFPOA                3. Determine if any
                                                                         proposed compromise
                                                                         should be accepted.
                                                                         4. Take appropriate
                                                                         action on decision by
                                                                         FSIP. Advise HQ
                                                                         USAF of precedential
                                                                         issues. Provide
                                                                         guidance and
                                                                         assistance concerning
                                                                         precedential issues.
*Although not specifically listed, organizational elements at all levels will keep other interested Air
Force elements apprised of case status.
14                                                     AFI36-701_DOBBINSARBSUP_I 31 MAY 2007


                                               Attachment 2

 GUIDELINE FOR INSTALLATION AND MAJCOM IN RECEIPT OF AN UNFAIR LABOR
                    PRACTICE CHARGE OR COMPLAINT

A2.1. Reporting. Report Unfair Labor Practice Charges and Complaints immediately by telephone tothe
Central Labor Law Office (CLLO). The person calling should provide the following information:
     A2.1.1. Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) docket number, if available. (If not available,
     provide the docket number separately by telephone as soon as it is known.)
     A2.1.2. Identification and addresses of the parties, as reflected in the charge or complaint.
     A2.1.3. The section(s) of 5 U.S.C. 7116 alleged to have been violated.
     A2.1.4. A summary of the allegations and dates involved, with a description of any supporting evi-
     dence.
     A2.1.5. The names and telephone numbers of management officials involved.
     A2.1.6. A summary of the results of management's investigation into the matter and efforts of the par-
     ties to resolve the dispute.
     A2.1.7. Management's perception of the issues, its position on the merits of the charge or complaint,
     and its views of the possibility of settlement.
     A2.1.8. The date the charge was served on management by the charging party.
     A2.1.9. The date the charge or complaint was received from the FLRA regional office.
     A2.1.10. Whether a grievance has been filed involving the same or similar matter.
     A2.1.11. Whether a negotiability request has been filed involving the same or similar matter.

A2.2. Correspondence.
     A2.2.1. Send one copy of the complete case file to the CLLO within one workday after notifying
     CLLO of the charge. Do not delay reports and submissions because any piece of information or evi-
     dence is lacking. Rather, file the report or submission, note the omission, and supply the missing
     material as soon as possible.
     A2.2.2. Send all correspondence received from the FLRA to the CLLO.
     A2.2.3. As soon as possible, following oral notification and transmission of the case file, send a writ-
     ten litigation report. Include in this report all matters previously summarized orally and forward any
     further information learned or developed subsequently. Include copies of documentary evidence.
     Obtain and include copies of statements from all management officials who have knowledge of the
     case. (Such statements must be taken by a judge advocate or other government attorney, to protect
     them from compulsory discovery.) Do not contact or interview bargaining unit employees without
     prior, express approval of the CLLO attorney assigned to the case. Finally, include the name(s) of the
     base personnel (Judge Advocate and personnelist) who will serve as the local point of contact. Such
     persons must continue to advise the CLLO (immediately) by telephone with follow-up by mail) as fur-
     ther information becomes available or case developments occur.
