Administrative Changes to AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I

OPR: OO-ALC/DPR has changed to OO-ALC/DPD

Reference to Attachment 2, A2.1.6. 84th Combat Sustainment Wing (84 CSW) should be
changed to A2.1.6. Aerospace Sustainment Directorate (OO-ALC/GH).

A2.1.8. DELETED.

21 APRIL 2011
BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            30 MARCH 1994

                                                                             HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                        Supplement
                                                                                25 SEPTEMBER 2008

                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                             MANAGING CIVILIAN
                                                                          PERSONNEL RESOURCES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                      e-Publishing website at www.epublishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-312, 20 February 1980 and                                               Pages: 8
           AFR 40-112, 25 October 1973.

                                                (HILL)
OPR: OO-ALC/DPR                                          Certified by: OO-ALC/DP (Andrew Flowers)
Supersedes AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP,                                                         Pages: 4
           4 June 2008

This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD 36-1,
General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for commanders, manag-
ers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees. Use this instruction with Air
Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of terms.

(HILL) AFI 36-502, 30 March 1994, is supplemented as follows:
(HILL) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.
(HILL) This revision updates text to coincide with the basic publication (paragraphs 2.2. and 2.4.) and
updates office titles and functional address symbols (Attachment 2 (Added)). This revision has elimi-
nated Advisors to the committee; only voting members are included.
2                                                AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008


1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while balancing:
    •   Mission needs.
    •   Operational economy and efficiency.
    •   Skills and career paths.
    •   Employee development and motivation.
    •   Recruitment and retention of competent people.

2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management responsibility is
assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of the Air Force to command-
ers of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to subordinate commanders on down
to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs civilian personnel within the chain of command
must manage civilian resources properly and is accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers
and supervisors at each level must evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their
civilian resources and take appropriate action to correct or reward managers' performance.
    2.1. All managers and supervisors:
        •   Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length of the
            workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis when execution
            year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian pay. Make sure that
            employee work schedules accommodate both the employees' needs and the efficient and
            effective accomplishment of the mission.
        •   Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of civilian
            pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans (decisions that com-
            mit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel management authority to minimize
            adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track civilian resource costs and take action to
            ensure successful budget execution.
        •   Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
        •   Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of each year.
        2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward personnel
        within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
            •   Applicable authorities.
            •   Sound management practices.
            •   The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
    2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation commanders estab-
    lish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most efficiently and effectively.
    The commander or designated representative chairs the board, which includes functional managers
    and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial management, and manpower communities.
    The board:
        •   Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation level.
AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                               3


     •   Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures against bud-
         getary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the civilian resource operat-
         ing budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes any surplus funds.
     •   Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
  2.2. (HILL) The OO-ALC Resource Allocation, Finance, and Human Capital, as chaired by the
  OO-ALC Commander, and co-chaired by the Director of Manpower and Personnel, and the Director
  of Financial Management, will serve as the corporate board primarily responsible for Civilian
  Resource Management. The organizations having representation on this committee are designated in
  Attachment 2 (Added) of this supplement. The OO-ALC Resource Allocation, Finance, and Human
  Capital meeting will convene as required at the call of the Director of Manpower and Personnel and
  the Director of Financial Management, who are responsible for preparing, disseminating and main-
  taining records of the committee meetings.
     2.2.1. (Added-HILL) The committee will review employment plans and recommend policy and
     strategy to the ALC Commander for accomplishing funding, manpower, or workload reprogram-
     ming decisions that involve the changes to the civilian workforce.
     2.2.2. (Added-HILL) Review and make recommendations on employment plans for Budget
     Activities (BA) 01-04.
     2.2.3. (Added-HILL) Establishes organizational targets and End of Year projections; approve
     over hires; review utilization and all activities necessary to assure that civilian pay is managed
     within funding, manpower authorizations and work-years.
     2.2.4. (Added-HILL) Reviews Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) targets and civilian
     strength figures but does not establish targets or make recommendations on employment plans
     developed for DMAG funded activities.
     2.2.5. (Added-HILL) Periodically the committee will review and make recommendations on
     base personnel management programs and practices such as: Performance Management; Affirma-
     tive Employment objectives; and Labor/Employee Relations activities. The Awards Program and
     allocations, jointly prepared by the Civilian Personnel and Budget officials, will be briefed and
     disseminated through the committee. Requests for approved over-hires to be included in the
     employment plans will be reviewed and approved each fiscal year. Other civilian pay cost factors
     such as compensation cost, environmental differential pay, and/or overtime cost will be reviewed
     as required.
  2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel jointly
  help managers and supervisors by:
     •   Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and projections for
         civilian resources.
     •   Allocating manpower resources.
     •   Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
     •   Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
  2.3. (HILL) The Workforce and Resource (OO-ALC/DPR) office together with budget and man-
  power officials will conduct meetings as required with organizational Resource Managers disseminat-
4                                                AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008


    ing reports tracking strength, authorization and targets, and providing information at the working level
    on policies and changes affecting civilian personnel resources.
    2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
       •   Helping them plan employment.
       •   Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding them to HQ
           USAF as required.
       •   Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
       2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration, and
       operational requirements, including:
           •   The costs of recruitment and staffing.
           •   The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
           •   Affirmative employment goals.
           •   The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
       2.4.1. (HILL) Develops employment plans and options to accomplish various workforce adjust-
       ments and realignments.
       2.4.2. (Added-HILL) Maintains data on the cost of personnel functions and services and cost
       implications of certain types of appointments/work schedules.
    2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
       •   Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the mission.
       •   Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower require-
           ments.
       •   Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
    2.5. (HILL) OO-ALC/DPR will provide base wide reports on manpower authorizations to the Direc-
    tor of Manpower and Personnel office for use in developing employment plans.
    2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
       •   Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs approved
           by the corporate board.
       •   Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their civilian
           resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.
    2.6. (HILL) The OO-ALC Budget office will provide funded work-years based on information pro-
    vided from Air Force Material Command. The Payroll office will provide monthly reports for utiliza-
    tion analysis. All parties will work together to ensure that civilian pay for assigned personnel is
    properly accounted in the correct Program Element Code, Resource Center/ Cost Center and BA.

3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS: HAF-DPC
[AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting requirement is desig-
nated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, precedence priority. Submit
AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                            5


data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any means to ensure arrival on the estab-
lished due dates.



                                             BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS/Personnel

                                             (HILL)

                                             KATHLEEN D. CLOSE, Major General
                                             Commander, Ogden Air Logistics Center
6                                              AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                            Attachment 1

                                      GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority dollars
and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational economy and
efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and recruitment and retention
of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish the
mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming, and
budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years. The process
uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of civilian
employment.
AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008                         7


                                    Attachment 1 (HILL)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-502 Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 Mar 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
DMAG—Depot Maintenance Activity Group
OO-ALC/DPR—Workforce and Resource Office
8                                          AFI36-502_HILLAFBSUP_I 25 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                 Attachment 2 (Added-HILL)

        RESOURCE ALLOCATION, FINANCE, & HUMAN CAPITAL MEMBERSHIP
A2.1. (Added-HILL) (Added Voting Members.)
    A2.1.1. (Added-HILL) Commander (OO-ALC/CC)
    A2.1.2. (Added-HILL) Executive Director (OO-ALC/CD)
    A2.1.3. (Added-HILL) Center Commander’s Action Group (OO-ALC/CCX)
    A2.1.4. (Added-HILL) Financial Management Directorate (OO-ALC/FM)
    A2.1.5. (Added-HILL) Directorate of Manpower and Personnel (OO-ALC/DP)
    A2.1.6. (Added-HILL) 84th Combat Sustainment Wing (84 CSW)
    A2.1.7. (Added-HILL) 309th Maintenance Wing (309 MXW)
    A2.1.8. (Added-HILL) 508th Aircraft Sustainment Wing (508 ASW)
    A2.1.9. (Added-HILL) Engineering Directorate (OO-ALC/EN)
    A2.1.10. (Added-HILL) Inspector General (OO-ALC/IG)
    A2.1.11. (Added-HILL) Information Technology Directorate (OO-ALC/IT)
    A2.1.12. (Added-HILL) Safety Directorate (OO-ALC/SE)
    A2.1.13. (Added-HILL) Contracting Directorate (OO-ALC/PK)
    A2.1.14. (Added-HILL) 75th Air Base Wing (75 ABW)
    A2.1.15. (Added-HILL) Plans and Programs Directorate (OO-ALC/XP)
    A2.1.16. (Added-HILL) Staff Judge Advocate Directorate (OO-ALC/JA)
NOTE: OO-ALC/FM and OO-ALC/DP are Committee Co-Chairpersons with the Commander.
