BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 38-501
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                  12 MAY 2010
                                                                             AIR UNIVERSITY
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                           20 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                       Manpower and Personnel

                                                             AIR FORCE SURVEY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMA/MAPP                                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/A1M
                                                                   (Mr. William H. Booth, SES)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2601, 1 February                                                Pages: 20
               1996
                                              (AU)
OPR: HQ AU/CFAE                                                        Certified by: HQ AU/CFA
                                                                           (Dr. Anthony C. Cain)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2601_AUSUP, 6                                                      Pages:6
               November, 2009


This instruction implements AFPD 38-2, Manpower, Mar 2, 1995, and DoDI 1100.13, Surveys
of Department of Defense Personnel, Nov 21, 1996. This instruction applies to individuals at all
levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, and/or disseminate, official attitude and
opinion surveys to members of the Air Force, which includes the Air Force Reserve, and Air
National Guard. It provides guidance on approving and conducting surveys within the Air Force.
The program’s objective is to assess the attitudes, opinions, and intentions of Air Force military
and civilian members, their families, and retired members, using questionnaires, polls, and
interviews. The program is structured to ensure individual responses are confidential and no
adverse actions will result from an individual’s response to an official Air Force survey. Do not
issue supplements without advance approval of the Air Force Manpower Agency, Performance
Management Division, AFMA/MAP, 550 E Street East, Randolph AFB TX 78150, and in
accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR),
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
 2                                               AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

(AU) This supplement implements AFI 38-501, Air Force Survey Program. It also addresses
guidance contained in CJCSI 1800.01, Process for Accreditation of Joint Education, and
AFMAN 36-2234, Instruction System Development. It establishes guidance to conduct the Air
University human subjects research program. This supplement complies with the Code of
Federal Regulations, 32 CFR 219, Protection of Human Subjects, and AFI 40-402, Protection of
Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research. Refer recommended changes and/or
corrections to this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Affected
organizations may develop local publications to implement/supplement guidance contained in
this instruction. Submit draft local publications to HQ AU/CFAE for coordination prior to
approval. Provide a copy of approved local publications to HQ AU/CFAE. Waivers to guidance
in this publication are not authorized.

(AU) Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication applies to all human subjects research and
program evaluation surveys conducted by Air University (AU) or Air Force Institute of
Technology (AFIT) students, faculty, staff or external researchers who seek to gather data from
participants who are under the purview of the AU Commander.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(AU) This document has only been modified to reflect the renumbering and redesignation of
AFI 36-2601 to AFI 38-501. No substantive changes were made.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              3



                                           Chapter 1

                                   SCOPE OF PROGRAM

1.1. Scope of the Program. The Air Force Manpower Agency (AFMA) controls and provides
all attitude and opinion surveys, polls, questionnaires, and telephone interviews to Air Force
members.
   1.1.1. Controls, conducts, and approves survey research and program evaluation at the Air
   Force level.
   1.1.1. (AU) NOTE: Definition of research: According to 32 CFR 219.102(d) and AFI 40-
   402, “research” is defined as a systematic investigation—including research development,
   testing and evaluation—designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge.
   Activities meeting this definition constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or
   not they are conducted or supported under a program considered research for other purposes.
   For example, some demonstration and service programs may include research activities.
   Purpose of research: AU ensures research involving human participants is conducted in
   accordance with federal law and Air Force published policies. This supplement provides
   detailed information to AU students, faculty, staff and others who intend to conduct research
   using data collected from participants under the purview of the AU Commander.
   1.1.2. Provides oversight by ensuring surveys meet mission requirements and fulfill the
   information needs of functional authorities.
   1.1.3. Issues Survey Control Number (SCN) for approved survey requests submitted by Air
   Force organizations, contracted individuals, or organizations.
1.2. (Added-AU) This instruction applies to all research conducted by AU or AFIT students,
faculty, staff or external researchers who seek to gather data from participants who are under the
purview of the AU Commander. All research that requires human participants or data on
students, faculty or staff should be approved through the Air University Institutional
Effectiveness office (HQ AU/CFAE).
 4                                                 AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                                            Chapter 2

                                      RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Responsibilities. All personnel shall maintain strict confidentiality concerning the identity
of individual survey respondents. Do not communicate, either verbally or in writing, information
that could reasonably allow identification of individual survey respondents to any individual or
agency, either within or outside the Air Force. Do not take any adverse or administrative action
against an individual as a result of his or her responses to an official Air Force survey.
2.2. Survey Participants. Provide responses to surveys accurately and honestly to provide the
best possible data for analysis. Classified information, however, may not be included in any
response to a survey. Survey participation is voluntary and personnel should be encouraged, but
not directed, to complete surveys.
2.3. HQ USAF/A1M, Director Manpower, Organization and Resources. Develop policies
for the Air Force Attitude and Opinion Survey Program within the scope of this instruction.
2.4. HQ USAF/A1PF, Director Force Management Division. Approve and conduct surveys
to support selection, classification and Force Management analysis.
2.5. MAJCOMFOADRU/A1M. Provide survey support to AF Survey Office such as
marketing, collection of data and distribution of final results.
2.6. AFMA/MAPP, AF Survey Office.
     2.6.1. Develop and implement procedures for survey operations, including Department of
     Defense (DoD) surveys conducted within the Air Force under DoDI 1100.13, Surveys of
     DoD Personnel.
     2.6.2. Plan, approve, evaluate, coordinate, and provide oversight of attitude and opinion
     surveys.
     2.6.3. Develop and administer attitude and opinion surveys.
     2.6.4. Analyze and report survey findings in appropriate formats as requested by HQ USAF
     functional authorities.
     2.6.5. Advise Air Force organizations on survey administration, processes, and analysis.
     2.6.6. Represent the Air Force on the Inter-Service Survey Coordinating Committee IAW
     DoDI 1100.13, Surveys of DoD Personnel.
     2.6.7. Inform survey requesters that all survey data collected may be releasable to the public
     under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and to consider OPSEC implications
     (paragraph 5.2.6).
     2.6.8. Provide advisory oversight on issues, such as over-surveying certain populations and
     creating possible survey fatigue.
     2.6.9. Review requests for surveys and, where appropriate, issue a SCN.
        2.6.9.1. Refer surveys in psychological assessment category to HQ USAF/A1PF for
        further action.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              5


      2.6.9.2. Refers activities that could constitute research with human subjects to an AF
      Research Reviewer or an AF Institutional Review Board (IRB), as appropriate, for further
      action prior to initiation. See paragraph 4.3.1.
2.7. Installation and Unit Commander.
   2.7.1. Approve administration of local surveys at his/her base, providing the commander has
   the authority to change the survey topics addressed. If the survey includes questions about
   policy or procedures mandated by HQ USAF and above, such as satisfaction with pay,
   benefits, or retention issues, etc., then forward the survey to the AF Survey Office for review
   and approval. If there are questions concerning the appropriateness of a survey, commanders
   should consult with the installation public affairs officer and/or the AF Survey Office.
   2.7.2. Coordinate surveys that include Air Force civilians with the Civilian Personnel Office
   to determine union impact.
   2.7.3. Disapprove requests from private individuals or organizations without federal funding
   or other support to conduct a poll, survey, or interview within his/her command, unless
   specific authorization is granted from the AF Survey Office. Exceptions are listed under
   paragraph 3.11.
   2.7.4. (Added-AU) Air University Responsibilities:
      2.7.4.1. (Added-AU) All surveys and other instruments administered within AU to
      students, faculty, staff, or others, must have a survey control number (SCN). Send
      research requests to HQ AU/CFAE for review, assignment of an AU SCN, and/or
      transmittal to HQ AFMA/MAPP for approval as required.
          2.7.4.1.1. (Added-AU) AFIT students should route instruments through the AFIT
          Plans and Programs Office. AFIT Graduate students should route instruments through
          the AFIT/EN Survey Control Panel. AFIT students will follow AFIT procedures
          unless they are conducting studies with students, faculty or staff at the other AU
          schools. Then, this supplement applies.
   2.7.5. (Added-AU) Approval Authority: The AU Commander and President is the final
   approval authority for determining whether or not the students, faculty, staff or others
   assigned to AU should be asked participate in a survey, focus group, interview, or be
   administered any other instrument for institutional, academic or other external research.
   These instruments must conform to the requirements of AFI 38-501. To ensure compliance,
   the Air University Commander appoints a survey control officer (SCO)
   2.7.6. (Added-AU) AU Survey Control Officer (SCO). The SCO is responsible for
   reviewing research requests and materials; providing assistance to instrument developers;
   assigning survey control numbers (SCN); monitoring approved research; maintaining copies
   of instruments and correspondence about surveys and instruments administered within AU;
   facilitating approval processes with the Air Force Survey Center, Institutional Review
   Boards, and other agencies; and acting as liaison for survey and instrument administration
   requests within AU and with external agencies. The Chief of Institutional Effectiveness (HQ
   AU/CFAE) is designated the Survey Control Officer for AU.
   2.7.7. (Added-AU) AU Academic Office. AU’s Chief Academic Officer (HQ AU/CF) is
   responsible for operational oversight of AU research program. HQ AU/CF provides support
6                                                 AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


    for research by ensuring the efficient and safe conduct of surveys and other research
    instruments within Air University.
       2.7.7.1. (Added-AU) Institutional Review Board. Research requiring approval of an
       Institutional Review Board should be coordinated with AU Academic Affairs through the
       Institutional Effectiveness office (AU/CFAE). Principle investigators should follow the
       guidance in paragraph 2.8 of this supplement and submit the package to AU/CFAE.
       Allow several months to complete the approval process.
    2.7.8. (Added-AU) Commander/Commandant of College/School. For all instruments that
    have been assigned a SCN, the school’s Commander or Commandant is the approving
    authority for determining whether or not the students, faculty, staff or others under his/her
    purview should participate in a survey, research, or be administered any other research
    instrument and will determine the appropriate timing for their administration.
    2.7.9. (Added-AU) Exceptions. Final approval authority for external studies and for
    institutional research, conducted by the AU Academic Office for the purposes of developing
    institutional effectiveness data, is the AU Commander.
    2.7.10. (Added-AU) Administration. HQ AU/CF-initiated institutional research studies will
    be conducted as required, but care will be taken to minimize the impact on students, faculty
    and staff throughout the university. Passive data collection will be done when possible.
    2.7.11. (Added-AU) Multi-school Studies. In cases where multiple schools are asked to
    participate, each commander/commandant should agree to the administration and timing.
    This should be coordinated by the chief program evaluation POC(s) of each participating
    academic center.
    2.7.12. (Added-AU) AU Schools/Programs. The following policies apply:
       2.7.12.1. (Added-AU) Functional OPR for administration of instruments within AU:
       The chief program evaluation POC at each AU school, academic center, or organization
       is designated the functional OPR for administration of surveys and other data collection
       instruments/methods. He/she coordinates and monitors unit-level approval, scheduling
       and data collection for surveys and other instruments bearing a USAF, AU, or OMB
       SCN. The program evaluation POC should have a letter of appointment on file with HQ
       AU/CFAE in accordance with AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment Programs. Only
       instruments with an SCN are authorized for administration and should have a USAF
       SCN, AU SCN, or OMB number as appropriate. NOTE: When surveying civilian
       employees, Civilian Personnel Officer and CPF for labor, union notification letters are
       required.
           2.7.12.1.1. (Added-AU) The OPR ensures the assigned SCN is placed at the top of
           the first page of the survey. Air Force SCNs should be displayed: USAF SCN # xx-
           xxx Expiration Date: dd/mmm/yy; Air University SCNs should be displayed: AU
           SCN # xx-xxx Expiration Date: dd/mmm/yy. HQ AU/CFAE will provide assistance
           for other authorizing control numbers.
           2.7.12.1.2. (Added-AU) The POC should ensure, at completion of the research
           study, that a copy of the raw dataset and report of results are forwarded to HQ
           AU/CFAE for archiving. (Electronic copies are preferred).
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                           7


        2.7.12.1.3. (Added-AU) Research instruments for administration to participants
        external to AU are approved by the Air Force survey control office (HQ
        AFMA/MAPP), since these participants are not under purview of the AU
        commander. This includes surveying spouses of students, unless they are assigned
        to/employed by AU. Originator should forward the survey request package, as
        outlined in paragraph 2.8 of this supplement, to HQ AU/CFAE for content/structural
        review and transmittal. HQ AFMA/MAPP will review the package for compliance
        with published policies, approval, and assignment of an Air Force SCN. Copies of
        these surveys should be kept on file with HQ AU/CFAE.
        2.7.12.1.4. (Added-AU) AFIT Student Research: AFIT students using instruments
        to gather data from participants assigned to AU campuses, excluding AFIT, should
        follow the procedures in paragraph 2.8 of this supplement. Research conducted on
        AFIT campuses should follow procedures published by AFIT/RPX.
        2.7.12.1.5. (Added-AU) Faculty/Administrators. Instruments developed by AU
        administrators, faculty, or staff, in support of program evaluation, including attitude
        or opinion surveys of AU students, faculty, staff, or others assigned to an AU
        school/unit, graduates and supervisors of graduates should be coordinated through the
        school’s program evaluation POC. The POC should send an electronic copy of
        surveys/instruments and a brief summary statement of the purpose of the study and
        how the results will be used, to HQ AU/CFAE for review and assignment of an AU
        SCN. The full requirements of paragraph 2.8 of this supplement are not required for
        internal program evaluation studies. Work this on a case-by-case basis with
        AU/CFAE.
        2.7.12.1.6. (Added-AU) Students. Instruments developed by AU students, in
        support of official research projects related to an AU/AFIT program of study,
        including attitude or opinion surveys of AU/AFIT students, faculty, staff, or others
        assigned to any AU school/unit should be coordinated through the originator’s
        college POC. The college POC will submit the instrument to obtain the appropriate
        SCN. Paragraph 2.8 of this supplement applies to academic projects.
        2.7.12.1.7. (Added-AU) Air University Student and Faculty Assistance. Inititate
        assistance in administering an approved survey from the academic center/college
        program evaluation POC. The POC will provide guidance and/or assistance for
        activities such as building electronic surveys, preparing participant lists, developing
        data collection systems, drawing data from existing databases, obtaining permission
        to conduct the survey, using analysis software, etc.
        2.7.12.1.8. (Added-AU) Communities of Practice and other tools. Communication
        technology is advancing too rapidly to include a definitive list with corresponding
        guidelines in a policy document. When opinions, knowledge or ideas are gathered as
        part of the activities undertaken by a professional development association or similar
        voluntary organization of peers, SCNs generally are not required. However,
        protection of individuals IAW AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties
        Program, compliance with AFI 38-501 and AFI 40-402 is mandatory. Persons
        administering instruments or websites are expected to have read and complied with
        these AFIs prior to gathering information from participants. If questionnaires or
 8                                                 AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


            surveys are used on sensitive topics and/or personal identifying information is
            collected, approval and an SCN are required in advance of administration of the
            instrument.
               2.7.12.1.8.1. (Added-AU) SCN Exemptions: AU-sponsored communities-of-
               practice engaged in knowledge generation and knowledge management activities
               for the benefit of its own members; message boards, blogs, threaded
               conversations or other on-line discussion forums that serve the needs of the
               participants providing the data, etc. If data is collected from participants outside
               the community, an SCN is required.
     2.7.13. (Added-AU) Externally developed surveys/instruments for administration within
     AU. Researchers or officials external to AU schools wishing to administer
     surveys/instruments within AU schools must first have their survey instrument approved by
     HQ AFMA/MAPP as outlined in AFI 38-501. Upon approval, forward the request package,
     including the USAF SCN approval notice, to HQ AU/CFAE who will review and log the
     USAF SCN. AU/CFAE will coordinate the package with the Chief Academic Officer and
     AU/CC, and if approved, will forward the package to the POC at the appropriate
     college/school for the Commandant/Commander’s approval and scheduling.
2.8. Mission Support Squadron/Force Support Squadron Commander (FSS/CC). Utilize
the Manpower and Organization Section of the Manpower & Personnel Flight for survey
support.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                9


                                           Chapter 3

                                 SURVEY DEVELOPMENT

3.1. Guidelines. The following guidelines are provided to assist survey requestors in
developing survey projects.
3.2. Pre-Development.
   3.2.1. Survey requestors should discuss survey plans with the AF Survey Office before
   developing a survey to avoid expenditure of monies and duplication of survey projects and to
   coordinate timelines/ schedules between survey efforts.
   3.2.2. All survey collection tools administered via the commercial internet (.net, .com, etc)
   must be in accordance with AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, Section 3.7.4.1.
   To maintain the security, integrity, and accountability of Air Force information on the Web,
   most public web sites are managed through the Air Force Public Information Management
   System and private Air Force Web sites through the Air Force portal. Any Air Force Web
   site hosted on a commercial server (outside the .mil community) requires SAF/XC approval.
       3.2.2.1. (Added-AU) . Surveys must be administered via the official AU enterprise
       survey software or through official AU learning management systems. Regardless of
       delivery platform, all surveys must have an AU SCN prior to administration.
3.3. Survey Utility. To ensure effective survey research, surveys should:
   3.3.1. Contribute significantly to the study of relevant Air Force policy or program issues.
   3.3.2. Not merely gather information to meet requirements for award of an academic degree
   or serve as a springboard for future research.
   3.3.3. Result in expected benefits to the Air Force clearly outweighing the potential costs
   (e.g., negative publicity, damage to morale or readiness, time burden on respondents).
   3.3.4. Contain questions and issues of an appropriate length to avoid survey fatigue. In
   addition, certain populations (e.g., deployed members) tend to be surveyed more; therefore,
   surveys of those populations may be disapproved for that reason.
   3.3.5. (Added-AU) Provide data required for improvement of AU’s educational, research,
   support, and public service programs.
   3.3.6. (Added-AU) Provide data that supports the academic research of students and faculty
   within Air University programs. The research must align with the mission of the university.
3.4. Respondent Anonymity and Confidentiality. Use administrative procedures that protect
participant’s responses and identity IAW AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
   3.4.1. (Added-AU) Confidentiality. Describe confidentiality procedures for how the
   researcher should maintain the data. Also, inform prospective participants that even if no
   personal identifying information will be collected, raw response data and a report of the
   results will be kept on file with Air University Institutional Effectiveness office (HQ
   AU/CFAE) and are subject to FOIA requests.
 10                                                 AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


   3.4.2. (Added-AU) Risk. Description of any risks or benefits participants may experience
   by participating.
3.5. Target Population. Identify demographics of the targeted population and calculate the
appropriate sample size from which to capture survey responses (i.e., military, civilian, skill sets,
rank, grade, etc.)
   3.5.1. Determine if survey-sampling techniques can be used to provide valid and reliable
   information at greatly reduced costs and time burdens on Air Force personnel. Surveys that
   include all members of a target population are discouraged.
       3.5.1.1. Select an appropriate sample size to ensure survey results represent the attitudes
       and opinions of the target population.
       3.5.1.2. Sample the minimum number of respondents necessary to reasonably achieve a
       satisfactory confidence interval.
   3.5.2. Exclude participation of contract employees, which is not authorized for government-
   sponsored surveys.
   3.5.3. Notify the Civilian Personnel Office at each participating Civilian Personnel Element,
   Manpower & Personnel Flight, for labor union notification prior to releasing an approved
   survey to civilian employees. For surveys of civilians at more than one base, HQ
   AFPC/DPIECC, Air Force Program Management and Evaluation, must be notified.
3.6. Survey Questions.
   3.6.1. Should not be of a sensitive nature, objectionable, or in bad taste.
   3.6.2. Should not require a lot of time and effort to respond.
   3.6.3. Should be grammatically correct and easily understood by the respondents.
   3.6.4. Do not include survey questions not intended for public release. Treat each survey
   question as though results will be released to the public. Consider the potential impact of
   public release on the following groups: Active duty personnel and their families; Air
   National Guard and Air Force Reserve members; Civilian employees; Service academy
   members; Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets and auxiliary; Retired military
   personnel and their families; Community organizations (including civic, trade, industrial,
   veterans, youth, ethnic, women, religious, environmental, and educational groups); The
   Congress; Local, state, and Federal Government officials; Professional organizations (e.g.,
   partnerships, associations, corporations, business trusts, legal representatives, organized
   groups of individuals); and Civic leaders.
3.7. Questionnaire Package, Format, and Structure.
   3.7.1. Cover letter or instructions should contain a statement that the survey is anonymous
   and that individual responses will be kept confidential, but summarized responses may be
   released to the public.
   3.7.2. If copyrighted scales, subscales, or questions are used, the requester must have
   permission from the author(s) (if required) and cite the author(s) in any subsequent report or
   summary. Questions concerning copyright issues can be directed to AFLOA/JACQ, Rosslyn,
   Virginia.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               11


   3.7.3. Each topic area should be covered adequately.
   3.7.4. Questions should be in a logical sequence.
   3.7.5. Questionnaire should present a neat, professional appearance.
   3.7.6. Obtain approval and endorsement on all survey requests from HQ USAF functional
   authority (minimum three-letter office). This ensures effective research is conducted across
   the Air Force while reducing duplication of similar efforts. Survey requests will not be
   approved without this endorsement.
   3.7.7. (Added-AU) To request research approval, provide the information outlined in AFI
   38-501 paragraphs 4.2.1.2 through 4.2.1.10. Exclude paragraph 4.2.1.4 and refer instead to
   paratraph 3.2.2.1 of this supplement for the use of survey software. Send the request to
   HQ/AU CFAE.
3.8. Response Scales
   3.8.1. When using response scales, they must be balanced (e.g., when positive and negative
   responses are called for, there should be equal numbers of responses on both sides of the
   neutral point, whether the neutral point is explicit or implied).
   3.8.2. Response scales should be complete, covering the full range of possible answers. An
   "I don’t know," "None of the above," "N/A," or "Neither/Nor" response may be necessary.
   3.8.3. Responses should be mutually exclusive and when covering a continuous variable
   such as time, weight, etc., they should be all-inclusive as well.
3.9. Prohibited Survey Topics. Surveys that might prove harmful to mission accomplishment
if the results are disclosed to the public, or surveys covering areas of possible intelligence value
are prohibited.
3.10. Inappropriate Survey Topics. Surveys on the following topics are normally prohibited
and will only be approved on a case-by-case basis.
   3.10.1. Political views.
   3.10.2. Knowledge or skill assessments.
   3.10.3. Opinions about specific individuals or their job performance.
3.11. Survey Projects Exempt or Not Supported.
   3.11.1. Occupational surveys which are assigned an Air Force Personnel Test number and
   controlled according to AFI 36-2623, Occupational Analysis.
   3.11.2. Internal reporting requirements, including statistical, summary, or status information
   which must be licensed and approved with a Reports Control Symbol (RCS) number in
   accordance with AFI 33-324, Management and Control of Information Reports
   Requirements.
   3.11.3. Surveys of course graduates, administered on-site, if the sole purpose is to ask about
   the course. Surveys administered after completion of course, and mailed to graduates or their
   supervisors, are subject to requirements outlined in Chapter 4.
   3.11.4. Post-audit surveys conducted by the Air Force Audit Agency, when the purpose is to
   obtain feedback on the official audit.
 12                                             AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


   3.11.5. Surveys requiring Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval. Surveys
   directed to the general public (non-Federal Government employees) require OMB approval.
   OMB                    guidance                is              located               at
   http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/assets/omb/inforeg/statpolicy/standards_stat_surveys.p
   df and http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/inforeg/pmc_survey_guidance_2006.pdf.
   3.11.6. Inspector General organizations completing surveys under the purview of United
   States Code Title 10, Sec 8020, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General
   and its implementing AF instructions are exempt from the control measures of this AFI but
   may utilize the AF Survey Program when appropriate.
   3.11.7. Single-base surveys initiated by the installation or unit commander only on issues
   under his or her control (see paragraph 2.5.).
   3.11.8. All surveys submitted by non-Federal employees and that have no Federal funding or
   other support will be returned without action.
   3.11.9. Surveys administered on non-dot mil web sites without SAF/XC approval in
   accordance with AFI 33-129, Section 3.7.4.1 will not be supported.
3.12. (Added-AU) Disposition of data. After administering the survey/instruments, a copy of
the raw data set should be provided to HQ AU/CFAE (electronic version preferred). A
summarized research report or analysis based on data collected from any survey conducted or
instrument administered at Air University should be sent to HQ AU/CFAE upon completion of
the research effort. This information becomes part of the Air University domain and should be
maintained in the HQ AU/CFAE office and/or data repository.
   3.12.1. (Added-AU) Data Archive. Filed data sets should be maintained and made
   available for future research efforts. A written request to HQ AU/CFAE using guidelines in
   paragraph 2.8 of this supplement should be submitted and reviewed by HQ AU/CFA before
   data will be released to a researcher.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              13


                                            Chapter 4

                                     SURVEY REQUESTS

4.1. Survey Request Categories. Survey projects may be submitted in two categories.
   4.1.1. Survey fully developed in all phases and requires an SCN.
   4.1.2. Survey not developed requiring partial or full-phased survey support.
       4.1.2.1. AF Survey Office will periodically announce a data call for survey projects
       requiring full-phased support. This ensures AF survey project efforts are not duplicated
       and minimizes survey overload on AF members.
4.2. Procedures.
   4.2.1. Submissions must follow the Survey Development Guidelines in Chapter 3 of this AFI
   and include the following:
       4.2.1.1. Written endorsement must be submitted from HQ USAF functional authority
       (three-letter office). For surveys that cross functional areas, endorsement must be
       obtained from each three-letter functional authority.
       4.2.1.2. Formal request for approval must:
          4.2.1.2.1. State the purpose, justification, and benefits of conducting the proposed
          research.
          4.2.1.2.2. Indicate how the results will be used (e.g., develop training, publication of
          results, policy implementation, or program evaluation).
          4.2.1.2.3. Specify a point-of-contact, e-mail address, and telephone number.
       4.2.1.3. Provide a copy of the proposed survey instrument, interview protocol,
       questionnaire, or other format, which contains at least one attitude/opinion question.
       4.2.1.4. Provide written coordination from SAF/XC regarding survey collection tool on
       non-dot mil website in accordance with AFI 33-129, Section 3.7.4.1
       4.2.1.5. Provide an analysis plan to identify population of survey participants (pilots,
       engineers, etc.), size of the proposed sample, and sampling strategy.
       4.2.1.6. Provide target confidence level and error rate.
       4.2.1.7. Indicate mode of data collection (e.g., computer administered, telephone
       interview, or face-to-face interview).
       4.2.1.8. Indicate statistical procedures employed in the analysis of results.
       4.2.1.9. Provide a reporting format (e.g., briefing, publication, slide presentation), and a
       plan for release of survey results.
       4.2.1.10. Provide project timeline containing milestones for significant research events
       (e.g., data collection start and end dates, release of findings).
       4.2.1.11. Send the completed            submission     to    the    AF     Survey   Office,
       af.surveys@randolph.af.mil.
 14                                             AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


4.3. Processing Time. Sufficient time should be allowed for the survey review process.
   4.3.1. Attitude and opinion survey requests must first be submitted to the AF Survey Office.
   Certified research reviewers will make a determination if the submission meets the criteria
   for human subject research and requires additional review by an Institutional Review Board
   (IRB). Criteria for IRB approval is established by 32 CFR 219, directed by DoDD 3216.02,
   Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to Ethical Standards in DoD-Supported
   Research, and implemented IAW AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Research.
   Forward the submission to an IRB if approval is necessary.
   4.3.2. AFMA approval is required prior to assignment of a SCN.
   4.3.3. AF Survey Office will process all requests promptly, depending on previous
   requirements and workload. Incomplete packages may result in additional processing time.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                          15


                                           Chapter 5

                             RELEASING SURVEY FINDINGS

5.1. Survey Results. All requests for survey results will be submitted IAW DoD 5400.7-R,
DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, and released if request meets all requirements.
   5.1.1. AFMA does not release record-level data.
   5.1.2. Requested survey results are released as aggregate data only.
5.2. Survey Results Not Released.
   5.2.1. Identifies individuals based on their response(s).
   5.2.2. Survey results may be released IAW DoD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information
   Act Program, AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, and AFI 10-701, Operations Security
   (OPSEC).
5.3. Commander Surveys. Commanders who conduct a survey may release the survey
instrument or results to the public or media by forwarding them through the unit Public Affairs
office. Unless requested and approved under the criteria of DoD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of
Information Act Program, commanders are not required to release surveys or survey results.
5.4. OPSEC Information. Any critical information or classified information as defined by AFI
10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), will not be released.
 16                                               AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                                           Chapter 6

                                UNAUTHORIZED SURVEYS

6.1. Unauthorized Surveys. An unauthorized survey is a non-local survey (e.g., non-
government organization or individual) that has been sent to an official Air Force address/email,
or through other forms of communication, and does not have a current AF Survey Control
Number, a RCS, or an OMB number. Personnel receiving an unauthorized survey should notify
the AF Survey Office to request further instructions.
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                                                17


                                       Chapter 7

                       PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS

7.1. Prescribed Forms. None.

7.2. Adopted Forms.

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                        RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS, Manpower and Personnel

                                        (AU)

                                        DAVID S. FADOK, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        Commander and President, Air University
 18                                               AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-701, Operations Security, 18 October 2007
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005 (w IC-2 30 October 2008)
AFI 33-324, Management and Control of Information Reports Requirements; Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 11 Jun 2009
AFI 36-2601, Air Force Personnel Survey Program, 1 February 1996
AFI 36-2623, Occupational Analysis, 25 May 2006
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Research, 5 May 2005
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 38-2, Manpower, 2 March 1995
DoD 5400.7-R, DoD Freedom of Information Act Program, 11 April 2006
DoDD 3216.02, Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to Ethical Standards in DoD-
Supported Research, 24 April 2007
DoDI 1100.13, Surveys of Department of Defense Personnel, 21 November 1996
The President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency, Quality Standards for Investigations,
December 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMA—Air Force Manpower Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—-Department of Defense Instruction
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
IRB—Institutional Review Board
AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014                     19


OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPSEC—Operational Security
PCIE—President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Corps
RCS—Reports Control Symbol
SCN—Survey Control Number
 20                                             AFI38-501_AUSUP_I 20 FEBRUARY 2014


                                    Attachment 1 (AU)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AUI 36-2312, Air University Assessment Programs, 16 November 2011
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 38-501 Air Force Survey Program, 12 May 2010
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005
AFMAN 36-2234, Instruction System Development
CJCSI 1800.01, Process for Accreditation of Joint Education
Code of Federal Regulations, 32 CFR 219, Protection of Human Subjects
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AU—Air University
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
POC—Point of Contact
SCO—Survey Control Officer
