BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7047
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE,
                                                  RELEASE, AND INSPECTION REPORTING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A7CAN                                                              Certified by: AF/A7CA
                                                                            (Col Barton Barnhart)
Supersedes:    AFI32-7047, 8 April 2004                                                  Pages: 27


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality.
It applies to tracking, reporting, and managing Enforcement Actions (EAs) and Host Nation
Enforcement Actions (HNEAs) issued by federal, state, local, and host nation regulatory
agencies. It also applies to reporting and tracking of spills or releases, regulatory inspections,
and compliance agreements (CAs). This Instruction defines the roles of applicable organizations
within the Air Force (AF) as they pertain to environmental compliance, release, and inspection
reporting. Unless otherwise noted, the procedures outlined in this Instruction apply to all AF
installations [including Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) installations] within the United
States (US), its territories, and in overseas locations. In the case of BRAC installations that have
been transferred or where AF is a tenant, the agency responsible for environmental management
shall also be responsible to report and track compliance. Additionally, the Instruction applies to
all Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), Direct Reporting Units
(DRUs), and the Air National Guard (ANG). Tenant organizations on AF installations and Joint
Bases with an AF supporting component shall also comply with this Instruction. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Recommendation for change of this
publication shall be submitted through the proper channels, to Headquarters, United States Air
Force (USAF), Office of the Civil Engineer, Asset Management and Operations Division,
Environmental           Branch         (AF/A7CAN),            at       AF/A7CAN           Workflow
A7CAQ.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil. Any MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or the ANG may
supplement this Instruction and shall send a final copy of each supplement to AF/A7CAN within
thirty (30) days of issue.
 2                                                                                        AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
supersedes Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7047, Environmental Compliance Tracking and
Reporting, 8 Apr 04, in its entirety and any associated policy memoranda and interim change
memoranda. The revisions in this AFI include updates to many of the roles, responsibilities, and
reporting requirements for EAs /HNEAs, spills or releases, regulatory inspections, and CAs.

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                        3
       1.1.   Introduction. ...........................................................................................................       3
       1.2.   Goals. .....................................................................................................................    3
       1.3.   Objectives. .............................................................................................................       3
       1.4.   Roles & Responsibilities. .......................................................................................               3

Chapter 2—MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                              12
       2.1.   Reporting and Tracking Inspections. .....................................................................                      12
       2.2.   Reporting and Tracking Spills/Releases. ...............................................................                        12
       2.3.   Reporting Non-Compliance Related Issues. ..........................................................                            13
       2.4.   Identifying EAs/HNEAs. .......................................................................................                 13
       2.5.   Reporting and Tracking of EA/HNEA. .................................................................                           15
       2.6.   Compliance Agreement (CA). ...............................................................................                     16
       2.7.   Fines and Penalties. ................................................................................................          17

Chapter 3—ENFORCEMENT ACTION, HOST NATION ENFORCEMENT ACTION, AND
            COMPLIANCE AGREEMENT RESOLUTION                                                                                                  18
       3.1.   Closing EAs. ..........................................................................................................        18
       3.2.   Closing HNEAs. ....................................................................................................            18
       3.3.   Closing CAs. ..........................................................................................................        19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES TERMS AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                                     20

Attachment 2—SAMPLE 60-DAY CLOSEOUT LETTER                                                                                                   27
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                      3



                                            Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. Introduction. This Instruction is intended to provide requirements to report, track, and
resolve non-compliance with environmental laws, regulations, and standards. It also provides
requirements for the reporting and tracking of environmental releases, inspections, and fines and
penalties associated with non-compliance. The Environmental Reporting Playbook is available
online to provide additional, non-directive guidance regarding implementation of this Instruction.
This Instruction is part of the Environmental Management System (EMS) mandated by
Executive Order (EO) 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, and expanded by EO 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and
Economic Performance; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4715.1E, Environment,
Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH); DoDI 4715.17, Environmental Management System;
and AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management. It also contributes to AF compliance with Title
10 United States Codes (U.S.C.) Section (§) 2706: Annual Reports to Congress, which requires
The Secretary of Defense submit to Congress each year, a report on the progress made in
carrying out activities under the environmental quality programs of the DoD and the military
departments.
1.2. Goals. For installations within the United States and its territories, achieve and maintain
compliance with applicable federal, state, local, and AF environmental laws and regulations. For
installations in overseas locations, achieve and maintain compliance with applicable international
agreement requirements and Final Governing Standards (FGS), or if no FGS exists, the Overseas
Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD). All AF installations shall acquire and
report accurate and reliable information on the status of AF compliance in order to help achieve
these goals. Key factors in attaining these goals are acquiring and reporting accurate and reliable
information on the status of AF compliance with such standards.
1.3. Objectives. Identify and proactively address circumstances that may lead to the issuance of
new Enforcement Actions (EAs) and Host Nation Enforcement Actions (HNEAs). Place
management emphasis on oversight and execution of proper practices. Encourage leadership to
vigorously pursue a return to compliance and closure of existing EAs/HNEAs. Achieve
objectives by providing standardized and timely information to leaders and program managers so
that they can assess the overall health of the AF environmental compliance program, demonstrate
progress made toward AF compliance goals, and identify areas for improvement.
1.4. Roles & Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment, &
   Logistics (SAF/IE) through the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
   Environment, Safety & Occupational Health (SAF/IEE):
       1.4.1.1. Promulgates and oversees implementation of policy for compliance reporting
       and tracking, including final settlement, throughout the AF as part of an integrated EMS.
       1.4.1.2. Serves as the principal AF representative on all compliance-related issues with
       the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) staff, other federal agencies, and Congress.
4                                                          AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


       1.4.1.3. Reports AF-wide compliance metrics and trends to the AF ESOHC and OSD as
       requested.
       1.4.1.4. Reviews and makes final EA decision in the event that existing policy is
       insufficient to allow A7CAN to make a final EA decision when consensus cannot be
       reached between MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG Civil Engineer (CE), Environmental
       Elements; Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation
       Division, Regional Counsel Office (AFLOA/JACE-RCO); and the Air Force Center for
       Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) Regional Environmental Office (REO).
       1.4.1.5. Coordinates AF compliance reporting and tracking procedures with the other
       Services to explore common areas of interest and prevent duplication of effort.
       1.4.1.6. Determines when notifications to congressional delegations are appropriate and
       approves the release of responses to congressional or media inquiries.
    1.4.2. The General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC), through the Deputy General
    Counsel, Environment & Installations (SAF/GCN):
       1.4.2.1. Serves as the principal legal adviser to SAF/IE and SAF/IEE on environmental
       compliance policy, including resolution of final enforcement action decisions, settlement
       of punitive fines and penalties and determinations of invocation or waiver of federal
       sovereign immunity.
       1.4.2.2. Serves as the principal AF legal representative on all compliance-related issues
       involving the OSD office of General Counsel or the General Counsel offices of other
       federal agencies.
    1.4.3. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF A4/7)
    through The Civil Engineer’s (AF/A7C) Asset Management and Operations Division
    (AF/A7CA), Environmental Branch (AF/A7CAN):
       1.4.3.1. Prepares and issues guidance for executing approved environmental compliance
       program policy and guidance, advocates for resources, and oversees execution of
       environmental reporting and tracking requirements throughout the AF as part of an
       integrated EMS.
       1.4.3.2. Coordinates environmental reporting and tracking guidance as required by AFI
       33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
       1.4.3.3. Prepares and provides a monthly report with current, detailed data for all new
       and outstanding High Visibility EAs by the end of the subsequent month, and forwards
       this report to SAF/IEE.
       1.4.3.4. Evaluates overall AF environmental performance and reports the results to the
       Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment)
       (ADUSD(I&E)) through SAF/IE. Ensures status and trends of established AF
       environmental metrics are regularly reported to the AF Environment, Safety, and
       Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) and corrective actions are implemented as
       necessary.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   5


     1.4.3.5. Identifies and prioritizes resources through the Planning, Programming, and
     Budgeting Execution (PPBE) process to implement environmental reporting and tracking
     procedures throughout the AF.
     1.4.3.6. Designates lead organizations for specific environmental reporting and tracking
     projects and studies.
     1.4.3.7. Reviews and makes final EA decision when consensus cannot be reached
     among: MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG Civil Engineer (CE), Environmental Elements;
     Air Force Legal Operations Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division,
     Regional Counsel Office (AFLOA/JACE-RCO); and the Air Force Center for
     Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) Regional Environmental Office (REO). If
     unable to make EA decision, notifies SAF/IEE for resolution and, when appropriate,
     notifies SAF/GCN if and why consensus was not achieved.
     1.4.3.8. Reports environmental compliance status, identifies trends, and reports results to
     the AF ESOH Steering Committee in support of scheduled ESOH Steering Committee
     meetings and to the AF ESOHC during annual EMS Management Review.
     1.4.3.9. Provides immediate notification upon discovery to SAF/IEE of spills over 1000
     gallons or violations with fines or penalties that have the potential to exceed $100,000.
  1.4.4. The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) through the Air Force Legal Operations
  Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division (AFLOA/JACE):
     1.4.4.1. Gives legal advice that promotes consistency throughout the AF regarding
     compliance with environmental obligations and resolving EAs/HNEAs.
     1.4.4.2. Provides legal advice on regional issues through the RCO that supports each
     REO. The RCO:
        1.4.4.2.1. Reaches consensus with MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
        Environmental Elements and REO to determine whether written notice of non-
        compliance from a regulatory agency meets the criteria identified in the EA
        definition. If it is an EA, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental
        Elements, RCO, and REO shall also designate the classification of the EA. If only
        two parties agree to track as an EA, the dissenting party may request a review of that
        decision by AF/A7CAN.
        1.4.4.2.2. Assists the installation legal offices by providing policy, guidance, advice,
        and representation on EAs.
        1.4.4.2.3. Consults with Environmental Law Field Support Center (ELFSC) and the
        Environmental Liaison Officer (ELO) embedded within the MAJCOM/JA, and when
        appropriate, the JACE Litigation Center, regarding significant legal issues and EA
        settlements to promote consistency throughout the AF. Where there are significant
        legal issues associated with a settlement, JACE shall consult with SAF/GCN before
        giving AF/JA advice.
     1.4.4.3. Provides legal advice and service in possible litigation, administrative actions,
     fines, and penalties resulting from EAs. The AFLOA/JACE Division Chief shall approve
     all payments of fines, penalties, and supplemental environmental projects (SEPs). When
6                                                           AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


       appropriate, the JACE Division Chief will consult SAF/GCN before approving payments
       of fines, penalties, and SEPs.
    1.4.5. The Surgeon General (AF/SG):
       1.4.5.1. Is the office of primary responsibility for Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)
       distribution system surveillance compliance.
       1.4.5.2. Ensures Air Force Medical Support Agency Bioenvironmental Engineering
       Division (AFMSA/SG3PB) support to A7/CAN with respect to SDWA compliance
       reporting and tracking.
       1.4.5.3. Adequately funds AFMSA/SG3PB to execute required SDWA or OEBGD
       drinking water distribution system compliance sampling, analysis and monitoring for AF-
       owned public water systems as per AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program.
    1.4.6. MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, and ANG:
       1.4.6.1. MAJCOM, DRU, and ANG Civil Engineer (CE), Environmental Elements:
          1.4.6.1.1. Executes guidance for and oversight of the implementation of compliance
          reporting and tracking, release reporting and tracking, and inspection programs at
          their installations.
          1.4.6.1.2. Assists installations in identifying and eliminating circumstances that may
          lead to situations of non-compliance.
          1.4.6.1.3. Reaches consensus with the REO and RCO to determine whether written
          notice of non-compliance from a regulatory agency meets the criteria identified in the
          EA definition and utilizes the Enforcement Actions, Spills, and Inspections (EASI)
          database (or current AF approved database) to record the decision. Notifies the
          installation of determination. If it is an EA, coordinate with RCO and REO to also
          designate the classification of the EA. If only two parties agree to track as an EA, the
          dissenting party may request a review of that decision by AF/A7CAN. For
          installations in overseas locations, Environmental Branch coordinates with
          MAJCOM/JA to determine whether written correspondence from host nation
          governmental authority (HNGA) meets the minimum criteria identified in the HNEA
          definition.
          1.4.6.1.4. Assists installations in the management of EAs/HNEAs.
          1.4.6.1.5. Assists installations in complying with all applicable federal, state, local,
          and AF environmental standards. Assists installations in overseas locations to
          comply with applicable international agreement requirements, FGS, and if no FGS
          exist, the OEBGD.
          1.4.6.1.6. Monitors compliance data posted on regulatory agency websites, such as
          EPA’s Online Tracking Information System (OTIS), Enforcement & Compliance
          History Online (ECHO) and other regulatory databases and tracking systems
          containing AF compliance data to include the SNC and HPV listings.
          1.4.6.1.7. Assists installations with resolving discrepancies of regulatory records and
          facilitating US Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) concurrence to remove the
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       7


         installation from the Significant Non-Compliance (SNC) list and/or the High Priority
         Violator (HPV) list.
         1.4.6.1.8. Notifies the REO and installations when inconsistencies exist between AF
         and regulatory records related to environmental compliance.
         1.4.6.1.9. Monitors open EAs/HNEAs through the EASI database and assists the
         installation with correcting and obtaining closure in a timely manner.
         1.4.6.1.10. Performs reviews of EAs/HNEAs (until closure) to ensure information is
         current and complete and validates data in the EASI database by the fifth (5th)
         business day of each month. This includes the status on federal, state, and local
         compliance agreements (CAs), settlement agreements, consent, and other orders
         pertaining to environmental compliance activity.
         1.4.6.1.11. Teams with representatives from the installation, REO, and RCO to
         represent the AF in all environmental compliance matters with local, regional, and/or
         federal environmental regulatory authorities.
         1.4.6.1.12. Programs, budgets, and allocates resources to execute this Instruction.
         1.4.6.1.13. Distributes all cross-feed information to installations as it is received.
         1.4.6.1.14. Reports environmental compliance status, identifies trends, and reports
         results to the MAJCOM ESOHC and during annual EMS Management Review.
     1.4.6.2. Command Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE):
         1.4.6.2.1. Assists in resolving AF drinking water violations and other potential health
         risk issues associated with the SDWA.
         1.4.6.2.2. Assists installations in identifying and eliminating circumstances that may
         lead to SDWA situations of non-compliance.
         1.4.6.2.3. Notifies AFMSA/SG3PB of non-compliance situations based on potable
         water quality sampling at installation level within one (1) business day of being
         notified by the installation Bioenvironmental Engineer (BEE) or other installation
         authority.
  1.4.7. Installations: The Installation Commander is ultimately responsible for ensuring
  compliance with all applicable environmental requirements, as well as timely reporting and
  tracking of environmental compliance inspections, releases, EAs/HNEAs, assessed fines and
  penalties, CAs, and orders entered into or agreed to as the result of non-compliance.
     1.4.7.1. Civil Engineer, Asset Management Flight, Environmental Branch (CEAN
     or equivalent):
         1.4.7.1.1. Assists organizations to identify and eliminate circumstances that may lead
         to situations of non-compliance. CEAN may fund elimination activities only when/if
         allowed by Environmental Quality (EQ) funding guidance.
         1.4.7.1.2. Notifies the Installation Commander (via chain of command), the
         installation Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), and MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
         Environmental Branch of any written notice of non-compliance from regulatory
         agencies.
8                                                       AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


       1.4.7.1.3. Creates a new entry, upon receipt of a written notice of non-compliance
       from a regulator, and uploads the written notice in the EASI database.
       1.4.7.1.4. Provides additional required data in the EASI database (once MAJCOM,
       DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch classifies the non-compliance as an
       EA/HNEA) and provides real-time status updates until officially closed or rescinded.
       1.4.7.1.5. Notifies the Installation Commander that the written notice of non-
       compliance is an EA/HNEA.
       1.4.7.1.6. Consults with installation SJA first, then MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG
       CE, Environmental Branch; BE; RCO; and REO, as appropriate, prior to providing a
       response to the regulatory agency.
       1.4.7.1.7. Initiates prompt action to ensure timely closure of all EAs/HNEAs, to
       include facilitating EPA concurrence to remove the installation from the SNC and/or
       HPV listings.
       1.4.7.1.8. Monitors installation compliance data posted on regulatory agency
       websites, such as EPA’s OTIS, ECHO and other regulatory databases and tracking
       systems containing AF compliance data to include the SNC and HPV listings and
       identifies and initiates resolution of inconsistencies in regulatory records.
       1.4.7.1.9. Reports environmental compliance status, identifies trends, and reports
       results to the installation ESOHC and during annual EMS Management Review.
       1.4.7.1.10. Conducts a detailed root cause analysis in accordance with Root Cause
       Analysis guidance provided in the Environmental Reporting Playbook.
    1.4.7.2. Staff Judge Advocate (SJA):
       1.4.7.2.1. Reports all actual or potential environmental litigation to the ELO for the
       appropriate MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG, and the appropriate RCO according to
       AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation.
       1.4.7.2.2. Reports the issuance of any written notice of non-compliance or
       knowledge of potential non-compliance to the installation CEAN and the RCO within
       one (1) business day.
       1.4.7.2.3. Provides the installation CEAN assistance on an appropriate response to
       the EA/HNEA and advises on all relevant enforcement issues.
       1.4.7.2.4. Coordinates with the RCO on all CAs/orders and other dispute resolution
       issues.
    1.4.7.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE):
       1.4.7.3.1. Jointly supports CEAN and CE Operations in resolving installation
       drinking water violations per AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program.
       1.4.7.3.2. Assists installations in identifying and eliminating circumstances that may
       lead to the issuance of new EAs/HNEAs related to drinking water.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  9


        1.4.7.3.3. Notifies installation CEAN and Command BE of non-compliant situations,
        including notices of violation, based on potable water quality sampling at installation
        level within one (1) business day.
            1.4.7.3.3.1. Consults with the Installation Drinking Water Working Group (or
            CEAN at minimum), and immediately implements the public notification
            procedures described by the primary agency when drinking water analytical
            results indicate a potential public health threat or result in non-compliance with
            applicable regulations and standards.
            1.4.7.3.3.2. Coordinates information with the Public Affairs Office in the
            preparation of Public Notifications.
  1.4.8. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA):
     1.4.8.1. Provides MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, ANG, and installations with infrastructure
     system, building system, installation operation, and pest management related technical
     guidance, field assistance, and consultant support.
     1.4.8.2. Finds technical solutions to recurring infrastructure and facility systems
     compliance problems and, working with other services, incorporates the appropriate
     requirements into Unified Facility Criteria (UFC) operations and maintenance
     documents.
     1.4.8.3. Finds management solutions to recurring installation operations and pest
     management compliance problems and seeks to have appropriate requirements
     incorporated into appropriate guidance documents.
     1.4.8.4. Provides guidance and information on performance work statements and service
     contract management to ensure environmental compliance.
     1.4.8.5. Analyzes deficiencies and develops corrective actions for civil engineering
     training and management related to compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
  1.4.9. Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE):
     1.4.9.1. Technical Division (TD): Supports AF/A7CAN in the collection and analysis
     of environmental data including reporting and tracking EAs/HNEAs, spills/releases, and
     inspections in order to achieve AF-wide objectives and targets and AF performance
     measures. Also provides AF/A7CAN direct support in preparing and issuing guidance
     for executing the environmental compliance program and associated tracking and
     reporting, advocating for resources, and overseeing environmental reporting and tracking
     requirements throughout the AF.
        1.4.9.1.1. Provides AF-wide standardized reporting capabilities.
        1.4.9.1.2. Supports Higher Headquarters (HHQs) data calls (e.g., Defense
        Environmental Programs Annual Report to Congress).
        1.4.9.1.3. Analyzes compliance data from the EASI database and other
        environmental information from MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, and ANG and reports as
        requested.
10                                                       AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


        1.4.9.1.4. Provides quarterly cross-feeds to pertinent AF organizations to prevent
        similar non-compliance at other installations.
     1.4.9.2. Regional Environmental Office (REO): Represents the AF, on a regional
     basis, in dealing with federal, regional, state, and local environmental regulatory
     agencies. The Eastern REO covers EPA Regions 1-4; the Central REO covers EPA
     Regions 5-8; and the Western REO covers EPA Regions 9-10. The REOs do not interact
     with host nation environmental regulatory agencies, but can provide technical assistance
     to overseas installations on HNEAs.
        1.4.9.2.1. Prepares Enforcement Vulnerability Assessments (EVAs) to assist in
        development of focused Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance
        Assessment and Management Program (ESOHCAMP) teams. It also helps identify
        and eliminate circumstances that may lead to situations of non-compliance.
        1.4.9.2.2. Reaches consensus with MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
        Environmental Branch and RCO to determine whether written notice of non-
        compliance from a regulatory agency meets the criteria identified in the EA
        definition. If it is an EA, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE Environmental
        Branch, RCO and REO shall also designate the classification of the EA. If only two
        parties agree to track as an EA, the dissenting party may request a review of that
        decision by AF/A7CAN.
        1.4.9.2.3. Assists MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, ANG, and installations in initiating
        actions to ensure timely closure of all EAs and assists in obtaining formal closure of
        EAs from the regulator.
        1.4.9.2.4. Produces monthly cross-feeds to AFCEE/TD to prevent similar non-
        compliance at other installations.
        1.4.9.2.5. Prepares and disseminates environmental-related alerts as well as
        legislative and regulatory activity summaries to SAF/IEE, AF/A7CAN, MAJCOM,
        DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Elements, and installations.
        1.4.9.2.6. Monitors compliance data posted on regulatory agency databases and
        notifies MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch, and
        installations of any inconsistencies discovered between AF and regulatory records.
        Upon request, provides installation with assistance to ensure resolution of
        inconsistencies in regulatory records and/or timely closure of all EAs/HNEAs, to
        include facilitating EPA concurrence to remove the installation from the SNC and/or
        HPV listings.
        1.4.9.2.7. Meets with federal, regional, state, and local regulatory agencies and
        legislators to discuss AF environmental status and other issues that may affect AF
        environmental programs.
        1.4.9.2.8. Advises SAF/IEE, AF/A7CAN, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
        Environmental Branch, and installations of federal, regional, state, and local
        regulatory proposals and other initiatives that may affect AF environmental programs.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                           11


        1.4.9.2.9. Analyzes compliance data from the EASI database and other
        environmental information from MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental
        Elements and reports as requested by AFCEE, AF/A7CAN, or SAF/IEE.
        1.4.9.2.10. Determines when EAs and CAs are complete and ready to close or has
        been rescinded by the issuing agency and indicates “closed” or “rescinded,” as is
        appropriate, in the EASI database. The REO makes these determinations in
        accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3.
 12                                                           AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


                                              Chapter 2

                  MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

2.1. Reporting and Tracking Inspections. Installations shall report regulatory inspections
within five (5) business days of the start of an inspection using the EASI database, Inspections
Module. Installations shall complete all data fields and upload all inspection reports to the EASI
database. A single media or multi-media inspection shall be tracked as one (1) inspection per
media area inspected regardless of length or duration.
2.2. Reporting and Tracking Spills/Releases. Installations and MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or
ANG CE shall execute all release notification and reporting requirements according to applicable
federal, state, and local laws and regulations and in accordance with AFI 10-2501, Air Force
Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, AFI 10-206, Operational
Reporting, and AFMAN 32-4013, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning & Response Guide.
For overseas installations, release notification and reporting requirements shall be accomplished
in accordance with the country-specific FGS, or if no FGS exists, the OEBGD. All installations
shall also report spills and releases within one (1) business day using the EASI database, Spill
Module (also known as the Spill Incident Release Internet System [SIRIS]).
   2.2.1. Immediate Release Notification. Installations shall report using the Air Force
   Operations Reporting System, Operational Event/Incident Report (OPREP-3) according to
   AFI 10-206. Installations shall report required information through the EASI database, Spill
   Module, within one (1) business day if any release meets one (1) or more of the following
   criteria. In addition, when releases meet one (1) or more of the criteria reported in
   paragraphs 2.2.1.1 through 2.2.1.6, the MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental
   Elements shall notify AF/A7CAN, by telephone or email as soon as possible but no more
   than one (1) business day after a spill/release is reported by the installation.
       2.2.1.1. Results in injury or loss of life.
       2.2.1.2. Results in loss of aircraft or facility.
       2.2.1.3. Causes interruption of flying operations.
       2.2.1.4. Causes environmental contamination extending beyond installation boundaries.
       2.2.1.5. Creates potential of financial impact exceeding $50,000.
       2.2.1.6. Results in or may result in litigation, publicity, or media coverage.
       2.2.1.7. Contaminates a body of water and/or waters of the US.
       2.2.1.8. Involves 25 gallons or more of petroleum, oils, or lubricants (POL) or the release
       of POL causes a film or sheen on nearby surface water.
       2.2.1.9. Is estimated to be equal to or greater than a Reportable Quantity (RQ).
       2.2.1.10. Involves sewage and one (1) or more of the following conditions apply:
           2.2.1.10.1. The release may cause imminent and substantial threat to public health,
           safety, or the environment.
           2.2.1.10.2. A release in any amount reportable to a regulatory or permitting authority.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   13


           2.2.1.10.3. A release of 1,000 gallons or more.
       2.2.1.11. Overseas installations shall also report as required in accordance with the
       country specific FGS, or if no FGS exists, the OEBGD.
   2.2.2. Follow-up Release Reporting. Installations shall provide follow-up reports on
   incidents meeting any of the criteria listed in paragraph 2.2.1 to their MAJCOM, DRU, FOA,
   or ANG CE, Environmental Branch by telephone, email, OPREP-3 (see AFI 10-2501), and
   updating the EASI database, as required by the situation. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG
   CE, Environmental Branch shall submit follow-up information to AF/A7CAN by telephone
   or email. Installations shall continue to update the Spill Module and close each incident upon
   completion of corrective action.
2.3. Reporting Non-Compliance Related Issues. Installations shall report all written notices,
e-mail messages, field citations, and other correspondence from regulatory agencies pertaining to
non-compliance within one (1) business day through the EASI database. Installations in
overseas locations shall report such correspondence from Host Nation (HN) officials as directed
in applicable country specific FGS, or if no FGS exists, the OEBGD, within one (1) business day
through the EASI database. All organizations shall utilize the EASI database to capture the
required data. In addition, installations shall aggressively pursue the closure of open
EAs/HNEAs while taking proactive measures to prevent any new EAs/HNEAs from being
issued.
2.4. Identifying EAs/HNEAs. MAJCOMs, DRUs, FOAs, or ANG CE, Environmental
Elements, RCOs, and REOs shall decide by consensus whether or not a written notice of non-
compliance issued by a regulatory agency shall be designated as an EA. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA,
or ANG CE, Environmental Branch, RCO and REO have one (1) business day to determine
whether written notice of non-compliance from a regulatory agency meets the criteria identified
in the EA definition. If it is an EA, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch,
RCO and REO shall also designate the classification of the EA. If only two parties agree to track
as an EA, the dissenting party may request a review of that decision by AF/A7CAN.
AF/A7CAN notifies SAF/IEE and, when appropriate, SAF/GCN if and why consensus was not
achieved. For overseas installations MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch
coordinates with the MAJCOM/JA to determine whether a written notice of non-compliance
issued by a HNGA meets the minimum criteria identified in the HNEA definition. The
responsibility for identifying HNEAs may be delegated to the Numbered Air Force
(NAF)/A7AV and NAF/JA upon approval of the MAJCOM ESOHC, but any delegation shall be
in writing and a copy of the delegation document shall be provided to MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or
ANG CE, Environmental Branch, MAJCOM/JA, AF/A7CAN, and ELFSC.
   2.4.1. Enforcement Action (EA). A formal, written notification by the EPA or other
   authorized federal, state, inter-state, regional or local environmental regulatory agency of
   violation of any applicable statutory or regulatory requirement. Sub-paragraphs 2.4.1.1
   through 2.4.1.7 shall be followed when determining what type of written notification does
   and does not constitute an EA.
       2.4.1.1. A formal, written notification may include letters, inspection reports, field
       citations, e-mail messages, unilaterally issued compliance orders, and other written
       correspondence sent from a regulatory agency by a person authorized to issue notices of
       violation and other incidences of non-compliance.
14                                                            AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


     2.4.1.2. The content of the letter (not the subject line or title on the letter) shall determine
     whether a formal, written notification is an EA. For example, if the subject line or title
     states “potential,” “possible” or “alleged” violation, but the text of the letter clearly states
     the installation is not in compliance with a regulatory requirement, then it shall be labeled
     an EA.
     2.4.1.3. The written notification need not cite the specific standard or criteria of the
     applicable statutory or regulatory requirement to be met. The written notification need
     not request or direct the installation take corrective action.
     2.4.1.4. EAs include notifications of violation of applicable permits, consent agreements,
     and compliance orders. They also include warning letters or similarly titled formal
     written notifications referring to violations of applicable permits, agreements, orders, or
     releases of contaminants onto the land, into water and/or to the atmosphere.
     2.4.1.5. EAs do not include warning letters that do not cite a violation of an
     environmental law or regulation, informal notices of deficiencies (e.g., field inspection
     notes versus field citations) or notices of deficiencies to permit applications.
     2.4.1.6. One (1) written notice, regardless of the number of individual violations,
     findings, or citations listed in it, counts as one (1) EA, if all violations cited relate to a
     single environmental law or regulation. If the written notification cites violations of more
     than one (1) environmental law or regulation then it is counted as multiple EAs, one (1)
     under each applicable environmental law or regulation.
     2.4.1.7. Internal or other DoD component review, compliance review, audit, or
     ESOHCAMP findings that identify a violation of any applicable statutory or regulatory
     requirement are not to be counted as an EA. Any written correspondence from a
     regulatory agency addressing Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA, 42
     U.S.C. §§ 6901 to 6992k) Corrective Actions or Comprehensive Environmental
     Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 to 9675)
     requirements which will be corrected using Environmental Restoration Account (ERA)
     funds are to be excluded from external EA reporting, but will be tracked internal to the
     AF. However, if RCRA or CERCLA cleanup activities themselves generate an EA that
     is issued under some authority other than CERCLA or RCRA's Corrective Action
     provisions, the EA shall be included in external EA reporting.
  2.4.2. Host Nation Enforcement Action (HNEA). A formal, written notification by the
  appropriate HNGA to an installation located outside the US and its territories indicating non-
  compliance with the requirements of a treaty, international agreement, host nation statute, or
  host nation regulation. Because of the sensitive nature of operating in a host nation,
  installations located outside the US and its territories shall report all notices of non-
  compliance from HNGAs. This does not mean the installation shall comply with all host
  nation requirements. Compliance with host nation requirements is determined by
  international agreements, OEBGD, country-specific FGS, and/or other applicable
  agreements. Installations should consult with the MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
  Environmental Branch and MAJCOM/JA to determine if compliance with specific host
  nation requirements is mandatory. Installations reporting outside of the AF should go
  through SAF/IE.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                        15


       2.4.2.1. One (1) written notice, regardless of the number of individual violations,
       findings, or citations listed in it, counts as one (1) HNEA if all violations cited relate to a
       single environmental media. If the written notification cites violations of more than one
       (1) environmental media (e.g., air, waste water, drinking water, hazardous waste, etc.),
       then count it as multiple HNEAs, one (1) under each applicable media area.
       2.4.2.2. Items found to be out of compliance during an internal or other DoD Component
       review, compliance review or audit, are not to be counted as (included in this definition
       of) HNEAs.
   2.4.3. Classification of EA/HNEA. The REO, RCO and MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG
   CE, Environmental Branch have one (1) business day to determine and report to the
   installation the classification of the written correspondence. These parties shall also
   determine if the EA meets the criteria for High Visibility as defined in the Environmental
   Reporting Playbook. For overseas installations, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
   Environmental Branch coordinates with the MAJCOM/JA to determine the classification and
   whether an HNEA meets the criteria for a High Visibility HNEA.
       2.4.3.1. Administrative (A): Any non-compliance relating to incomplete paperwork or
       lack of detail, such as, but not limited to, failing to: complete forms in their entirety; note
       dates on forms; note land-ban information; keep logs up to date; or document required
       training.
       2.4.3.2. Operational (O): Any non-compliance relating to how business is conducted,
       such as, but not limited to: failing to make proper notifications, obtain required permits
       before conducting operations that require permits, or submit required samples in a timely
       manner; storing hazardous waste beyond allowed timeframes; lacking training or
       certification required by law; or transporting hazardous waste without a manifest.
       2.4.3.3. Project (P): Any non-compliance requiring the initiation of a project to fund the
       work and/or significant construction and/or demolition, such as but not limited to when
       permit standards are exceeded and substantial facility repairs, modifications, or upgrades
       must be made to regain compliance.
2.5. Reporting and Tracking of EA/HNEA. Installations and MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or
ANG CE, Environmental Elements shall utilize the EASI database for data management,
reporting and tracking. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch shall input
the EA determination into the EASI database within one (1) business day after the consensus
designation that the written notice of non-compliance is an EA/HNEA. Once the installation is
notified by their MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch of the EA
determination, the installation shall immediately notify the Installation Commander and input all
required information into the EASI database within three (3) business days. Overseas
installations should consult the DoD Lead Environmental Component and Department DoDI
4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, for any additional
reporting requirements. Installations shall upload an electronic copy of any correspondence
between the AF and the regulating agency regarding the EA/HNEA into the EASI database
within three (3) business days of receipt to include closure documentation.
   2.5.1. EA/HNEA Status. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch, in
   consultation with the AFCEE REOs and the RCO shall determine the status of the EA and
 16                                                         AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


   report through the EASI database.       In overseas locations, MAJCOM/A7AV and
   MAJCOM/JA shall determine the status of an HNEA and report through the EASI database.
       2.5.1.1. Unresolved EA/HNEA. An EA/HNEA for which the deficiency(ies) is not yet
       corrected.
       2.5.1.2. Pending EA/HNEA. An EA/HNEA for which the deficiency(ies) has been
       corrected, but remains open pending agreement by the regulator that it is closed or
       rescinded.
       2.5.1.3. Disputed EA/HNEA. An EA/HNEA for which the AF disagrees that there is
       non-compliance or disagrees that the requirement is applicable to the installation and is
       working with the regulator toward resolution. A disputed EA/HNEA does not include an
       EA/HNEA in which only the fine or penalty is in dispute or being negotiated. A disputed
       EA/HNEA shall be tracked, but not reported outside of the AF until the dispute is
       resolved.
       2.5.1.4. Rescinded EA. Formal, written correspondence from a regulating agency
       classified as an EA that, for one reason or another, is revoked by the issuing agency.
   2.5.2. Updates to the EASI database. Installations shall provide real time updates to EA
   entries into the EASI database. In the event that no changes have occurred, this shall be
   annotated at least monthly. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch
   shall validate data in the EASI database by the fifth (5th) business day of each month. All
   offices shall meet the suspense date to their HHQ so that AF/A7CAN can review and
   forward monthly data to SAF/IEE. A root cause code and corrective action details resulting
   from the root cause analysis for the EA/HNEA shall be entered in the EASI database. The
   purpose of the codes is to identify the underlying cause for violations or incidents and to aid
   in trend analysis and creating solutions to prevent recurrence.
2.6. Compliance Agreement (CA). A multi-party agreement, consent order, interagency
agreement, or other compliance document negotiated between a regulatory agency located in the
US or a US territory and the installation. Upon receipt of a proposed CA, installation personnel
shall notify the installation SJA and CEAN immediately. Within one (1) business day, the
installation shall report receipt of the proposed CA to MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE,
Environmental Branch, REO and RCO of the CA. The REO shall initiate a CA entry in the
EASI database. Once a CA is signed by all parties, it in no way negates the need to close EAs, in
accordance with paragraph 3.1 of this Instruction, and complete corrective actions associated
with those EAs. The CA cannot be closed until the corrective actions are complete. Installations
track CA updates using the EASI database until all findings from the associated EA(s) are
closed. The REO shall close or, if applicable, rescind all EA entries and CA entries in the EASI
database. Paragraph 3.3 of this Instruction specifies closure requirements for CAs.
   2.6.1. Installation SJA and appropriate CEAN personnel negotiate CAs or orders in
   consultation with MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch, RCO, REO,
   and others (e.g., AF/A7CAN and ELFSC) as appropriate.
   2.6.2. To facilitate closing EAs, CAs or orders need to establish mutually agreeable
   milestones for resolving issues of non-compliance and clearly state criteria for closure of the
   EA.
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     17


   2.6.3. Proposed mutual CAs or orders, or their equivalent shall be consistent with
   agreements or orders signed by other AF installations and do not establish an unfavorable
   precedent. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch shall send initial and
   subsequent drafts of proposed CAs or orders, along with copies of other relevant
   correspondence, to the appropriate POC at the REO, RCO, ELFSC, and AF/A7CAN for
   review. AF/A7CAN (through AF/A7C or through counsel) shall coordinate the review of
   any precedent setting or contentious CAs/orders with SAF/IEE to ensure appropriate
   visibility. Installations shall not sign agreements until coordination with appropriate AF
   agencies has been completed. Only Installation Commanders may sign CAs on behalf of the
   AF. This authority may not be delegated.
   2.6.4. Installations provide real time updates to the EASI database. MAJCOM, DRU, FOA,
   or ANG CE, Environmental Branch shall validate data in the EASI database by the fifth (5th)
   business day of the month. All offices shall meet the suspense date to their HHQ so
   AF/A7CAN can review and forward monthly data by mid-month to SAF/IEE.
2.7. Fines and Penalties. Civil fines or penalties levied against AF installations as the result of
environmental EAs are the funding responsibility of that installation. Commanders shall
determine the specific internal funding realignment necessary to fund these costs. Commanders
shall ensure that the correct appropriation is used to fund these costs. Although environmental
Operation & Maintenance (O&M) funds may be used, funded Level 0 or Level 1 environmental
programs or projects shall not be displaced or deferred to fund fines, penalties, or SEPs. SEPs
are projects performed in-lieu of fines and penalties levied by the EPA or other regulatory
agencies. The Air Force views SEPs as equivalent to paying a fine; therefore, the funding
guidance for fines and penalties also applies to SEPs. Installations shall seek, through their
MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch and RCO, AFLOA/JACE Division
Chief approval a minimum of ten (10) business days prior to paying a fine or penalty (including
a SEP) to a regulatory agency as part of a mutual or unilateral compliance order or settlement.
Under no circumstance shall a fine or penalty (including a SEP) be paid until coordination with
the appropriate MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch, and AFLOA/JACE
Division Chief gives approval. When appropriate, the AFLOA/JACE Division Chief will
consult SAF/GCN before approving payments of fines, penalties, and SEPs.
 18                                                           AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


                                            Chapter 3

      ENFORCEMENT ACTION, HOST NATION ENFORCEMENT ACTION, AND
                COMPLIANCE AGREEMENT RESOLUTION

3.1. Closing EAs. An EA is considered closed or, if applicable, rescinded if any of these
conditions exist:
   3.1.1. Regulator revokes or rescinds the action in writing.
   3.1.2. Regulator issues written notice (to include email notification) that the action is closed.
   3.1.3. Regulatory agency who issued the EA does not respond within sixty (60) days
   following written notice (sent via certified mail or other delivery confirmation receipt
   method) informing the regulator that the installation is in full compliance concerning the
   matters cited in the EA. (See Attachment 2 for sample 60-day closeout letter).
       3.1.3.1. Sixty (60) day closeout letters may be sent after it is determined by the
       installation and MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch that all
       actions necessary to close the EA have been taken but a formal response by the regulator
       has not been received.
       3.1.3.2. If the regulator responds within the sixty (60) day window with additional
       requirements, the EA may need to stay open. If the regulator responds after sixty (60)
       days with additional requirements to close the EA, the original EA is reopened.
   3.1.4. Satisfaction of the terms of closure specified in a signed agreement or order. (See
   2.6.2)
   3.1.5. Discovery and verification by the REO that the EA is not open on regulatory agency
   records. The REO notifies the MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch
   and installation in writing if they learn the regulator has closed the EA or verifies with the
   issuing regulating agency that there is no further action required.
3.2. Closing HNEAs. An HNEA is considered closed or, if applicable, rescinded if any of these
conditions exist:
   3.2.1. HNGA issues written notification stating that it is satisfied with the actions taken to
   resolve the cited violation(s).
   3.2.2. The HNGA revokes or rescinds the action in writing.
   3.2.3. The HNGA does not respond within sixty (60) days following written notice (sent via
   certified mail or other delivery confirmation receipt method) that includes the following:
       3.2.3.1. Notification to the HNGA that the installation is in full compliance concerning
       the matters cited in the HNEA.
       3.2.3.2. Request written confirmation from the HNGA that the EA is closed. [NOTE:
       Installations shall consult with MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental
       Branch and the appropriate DoD Lead Environmental Component on the proper method
       to notify HNGA prior to sending a 60-day closeout letter to the HNGA. In many cases,
       this communication must be routed through a host nation military agency rather than
       being directly addressed to the HN Environmental Agency. Written notice (60-day
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       19


       closeout letter) is only sent after it is determined by the installation and their MAJCOM,
       DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch that any necessary project has been fully
       developed to correct all violations associated with an HNEA, and funding for the
       project(s) has been allocated in full.]
       3.2.3.3. Notification to the HNGA that, in absence of confirmation, the installation shall
       deem the EA closed within sixty (60) days of the HNGA receipt of the letter. [NOTE: If
       the HNGA responds to the 60-day window with additional requirements, the EA may
       need to stay open. If the HNGA responds after 60 days with additional requirements to
       close the EA, the original EA is reopened.]
3.3. Closing CAs. The REO shall close or, if applicable, rescind all CA entries in the EASI
database in accordance with this paragraph. A CA may not be closed until all corrective actions
associated with EAs covered by the CA are complete, all milestones under the CA have been
met, and at least one of the following occurs:
   3.3.1. Regulator issues written closure notice (to include e-mail notification).
   3.3.2. Discovery and verification by the REO that the CA is not open on regulatory agency
   records. The REO notifies the MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or ANG CE, Environmental Branch
   and installation in writing if they learn the regulator has closed the CA.
   3.3.3. Regulatory agency that signed the CA does not respond within sixty (60) days
   following written notice (sent via certified mail or other delivery confirmation receipt
   method) informing the regulator that the installation is in full compliance concerning the
   matters cited in the CA. (See Attachment 2 for sample 60-day closeout letter.) If the
   regulator does not respond within (60) days to the written notice that the installation is in full
   compliance regarding the matter cited in the CA, the REO will close the CA for internal AF
   reporting purposes.




                                              LOREN M. RENO
                                              Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 20                                                      AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 1
      GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES TERMS AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10 U.S.C. § 2706: US Code - Section 2706: Annual Reports to Congress
E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, 24
Jan 07
E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance, 8 Oct
09
DoDD 4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH), 19 Mar 05
DoDI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 22 Apr 96
DoDI 4715.6, Environmental Compliance, 24 Apr 96
DoDI 4715.05-G, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document, 1 May 07
DoDI 4715.17, Environmental Management Systems, 15 Apr 09
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 94
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 15 Oct 08
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
Jan 07
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, (publication imminent)
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 06
AFI 48-144, Drinking Water Surveillance Program, 28 Sep 10
AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, 01 Jul 02
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program, 24 Mar 10
AFMAN 32-4013, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning & Response Guide, 01 Aug 97
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 08
AF Civil Engineering Portal—https://cs.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/Pages/default.aspx
EPA’s Online Tracking Information System (OTIS) —http://www.epa.gov//idea/otis
EPA Enforcement and Compliance History Online (ECHO) —http://www.epa-echo.gov/echo/

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A7AN—Environmental Branch of MAJCOMs within the continental United States
A7AV—Environmental Branch of Overseas MAJCOMs
A7C—Air Force Civil Engineer
A7CA—Asset Management and Operations Division of the Air Force Civil Engineer
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                          21


A7CAN—Environmental Branch of the Air Force Civil Engineer
ADUSD(I&E)—Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and Environment)
AF—Air Force
AFCEE—Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLOA—Air Force Legal Operations Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
CA—Compliance Agreement
CE—Civil Engineer
CEAN—Civil Engineer, Asset Management Flight, Environmental Branch
CERCLA—Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EA—Enforcement Action
EASI—Enforcement Actions, Spills, and Inspections
ECHO—Enforcement & Compliance History Online
ELFSC—Environmental Law Field Support Center
ELO—Environmental Liaison Officer
EMS—Environmental Management System
EO—Executive Order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
EQ—Environmental Quality
ERA—Environmental Restoration Account
 22                                                       AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
ESOHC—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
EVA—Enforcement Vulnerability Assessment
FGS—Final Governing Standards
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSC—Field Support Center
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HN—Host Nation
HNEA—Host Nation Enforcement Action
HNGA—Host Nation Governmental Authority
HPV—High Priority Violator
JA—Judge Advocate
JACE—Environmental Law and Litigation Division
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
OPREP—3—Operations Event/Incident Report
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OTIS—Online Tracking Information System
POL—Petroleum, Oils, or Lubricants
PPBE—Planning, Programming, and Budgeting Execution
RCO—Regional Counsel Office
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
REO—Regional Environmental Office
RQ—Reportable Quantity
SAF/GC—General Counsel of the Air Force
SAF/GCN—Deputy General Counsel (Environment & Installations)
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment & Logistics)
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 23


SAF/IEE—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Environment, Safety & Occupational
Health)
SDWA—Safe Drinking Water Act
SEP—Supplemental Environmental Project
SG—Surgeon General
SG3PB—AFMSA Bioenvironmental Engineering Division
SIRIS—Spill Incident Release Internet System
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SNC—Significant Non-Compliance
TD—Technical Division
UFC—Unified Facility Criteria
US—United States
U.S.C.—United States Code
USAF—United States Air Force
USD(AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics

Terms
Compliance Agreement (CA)—A multi-party agreement, consent order, interagency
agreement, or other compliance document negotiated between a regulatory agency located in the
US or a US territory and the installation.
Crossfeeds—REO prepared and AFCEE provided monthly summary analysis of EAs and the
laws violated. This document is intended to be shared and disseminated AF-wide. Crossfeeds
provide lessons learned and attempt to help installations prevent and avoid EAs in specific
environmental media areas.
Enforcement Action (EA)—A formal, written notification by the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) or other authorized federal, state, inter-state, regional or local environmental
regulatory agency of violation of any applicable statutory or regulatory requirement.
Enforcement Actions, Spills [SIRIS (Spill Incident Release Internet System)], and
Inspections (EASI) database—An Air Force-wide data collection and reporting system that
houses three separate reporting modules: Enforcement Actions, Spills (SIRIS), and Inspections.
Enforcement & Compliance History Online (ECHO)—A publicly accessible database
maintained by the EPA, which provides similar data to the OTIS database. EPA updates this
database monthly (typically by the 21st of each month) with inputs from within the applicable
EPA Regional offices in consultation with the official State environmental compliance agencies.
Environmental Compliance—Conformity with current federal, state, and local environmental
laws and regulations. In overseas locations, maintain conformity with applicable international
requirements and Final Governing Standards (FGS), or if no FGS exists, the Overseas
Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD).
 24                                                          AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


Environmental Law Field Support Center (AFLOA/JACE—FSC)—A part of the
Environmental Law and Litigation Division, the ELFSC serves as reach back support in the form
of environmental expertise for base, MAJCOM, and Air Staff clients.
Environmental Liaison Officer (ELO)—The ELO serves as the primary interface between the
wing legal offices, the MAJCOM SJA, other MAJCOM clients and the ELFSC. The ELO
provides advice directly, coordinates reach-back to the appropriate experts at the Environmental
Law Field Support Center, arranges support for MAJCOM environmental auditing activities
(ESOHCAMPs), and helps the MAJCOM SJA prioritize issues that are forwarded to
AFLOA/JACE-FSC and the Regional Counsel Offices for action.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)—An agency of the federal government of the United
States charged with protecting human health and the environment, by writing and enforcing
regulations based on laws passed by Congress. The EPA was created by Executive Order issued
by President Nixon (Reorganization Plan No. 3, 35 Federal Register 15623, July 9, 1970) and
began operation on December 2, 1970.. The agency is led by its Administrator, who is appointed
by the president and approved by Congress.
Environmental Reporting (ER) Playbook—A non-directive guide developed to assist
installations and MAJCOMs in the execution of this AFI. The ER Playbook is available through
the AF Civil Engineering Portal.
Enforcement Vulnerability Assessment (EVA)—An assessment conducted by the REOs for
Air Force installations to determine current Federal, state and local regulator concerns and
enforcement trends. This information provides regulatory insight for MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or
ANG CE, Environmental Elements as they conduct Tier 3 ESOHCAMPs and helps installations
prepare for inspections. EVAs are picture-in-time analyses that are typically provided to
MAJCOM ESOHCAMP managers at least thirty (30) days in advance of the Tier 3 ESOHCAMP
visit. The MAJCOMs may provide EVA information to assessors and key installation
Environmental Branch personnel in advance of the Tier 3 visit.
Final Governing Standards (FGS)—The primary definitive set of environmental criteria and
standards applicable to DoD Components located overseas at permanent installations and
facilities. The FGS are developed by the Lead Environmental Component for a specific country,
and incorporate provisions of minimum standards established by the DoD in the OEGBD and
those of the Host Nation where the US installation or facility is located. Summarily, the FGS are
a set of country specific environmental standards developed via comparative analysis of
applicable Host Nation standards with those in the OEBGD. The FGS generally incorporate the
more protective standards and include appropriate hazardous waste definitions and criteria for all
DoD Components in a particular host nation.
High Priority Violator (HPV) List—A list generated by the EPA that is used to describe a
facility’s status in regard to Clean Air Act program compliance. HPV designation indicates
whether violations or non-compliance at a given facility pose a severe level of concern for the
environment or program integrity.
High Visibility—An EA that meets the criteria for High Visibility EAs as defined in the
Environmental Reporting Playbook.
Host Nation—A nation which permits, either by written agreement or official invitation,
government representatives and/or agencies of another nation to operate, under specified
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     25


conditions, within its borders. For purposes of this Instruction, a Host Nation is a country other
than the US in which DoD Components are stationed.
Host Nation Enforcement Action (HNEA)—A formal, written notification by the appropriate
HNGA to an installation located outside the US and its territories indicating non-compliance
with the environmental requirements of a treaty, international agreement, host nation statute, or
host nation regulation.
Inspection—An examination or survey of a facility or part of a facility to ensure compliance
with federal, state, or local environmental rules and regulations.
Lead Environmental Component—Also known as the DoD Environmental Executive Agent,
the Lead Environmental Component is the Commander of a DoD Component, DoD Component
command, Unified Combatant Command, or Joint Forces command specifically designated by
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (USD(AT&L)) to
perform specific duties regarding environmental matters in a foreign country as prescribed by
DoDI 4715.5.
One Business Day—The 24 business hours following notification, i.e. notification 3:00 pm
Friday one business day would be 3:00 pm Monday or Tuesday if Monday was a holiday.
Online Tracking Information System (OTIS)—An EPA maintained collection of search
engines that enables government agencies to access a wide range of data relating to enforcement
and compliance. This web application sends queries to the Integrated Data for Enforcement
Analysis (IDEA) system. IDEA copies many EPA and non-EPA databases monthly, and
organizes the information to facilitate cross-database analysis. OTIS can be used for many
functions, including planning, targeting, analysis, data quality review, and pre-inspection review.
Benefits include helping the regions and states to identify and clean up data errors; providing
report information on a cross media basis, leading to improved integration and targeting; and
enabling other government agencies to more efficiently monitor their facilities' compliance
records.
Overseas—A nation, territory, or geographic area that is located outside the US and any outside
territory, possession, or commonwealth of the US, a foreign country, or territory.
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD)—The OEBGD is a set of
objective criteria and management practices developed by the DoD, pursuant to DoDI 4715.5. It
specifies the minimum criteria for environmental compliance at permanent DoD installations at
overseas locations where no FGS have been established. It is designed to protect human health
and the environment and reflects generally accepted environmental standards applicable to DoD
installations and activities in the United States. The OEBGD is used to develop and update
country-specific FGS for all DoD components located in that host nation.
Permit—A written authorization, license, or equivalent control document issued by a regulator
allowing the holder authority to perform certain tasks or operate certain facilities or activities
prohibited without the authority of such document.
Real Time—Response to events as they occur.
Regional Counsel Office (RCO)—A part of AFLOA/JACE embedded with each AFCEE/REO.
The RCOs track environmental issues at a regional level, to include state legislative and
regulatory activity. The RCOs advises REOs on environmental compliance and restoration
 26                                                         AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012


matters. The RCOs are the chief legal advisors to the REO staff, but also provide environmental
law support to MAJCOMs and installations.
Release—Any accidental or uncontrolled spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging, escaping, or
leaching to soil, air, or water of a potentially hazardous substance.
Reportable Quantity (RQ)—The specific quantity or amount of a substance that, when present
in or released to the environment, triggers a reporting requirement under an environmental law,
regulation, or permit. See media specific definitions in associated laws and regulations.
Significant Non—Compliance List (SNC)—A list generated by the EPA used to describe the
facility status in regard to compliance with the Clean Water Act and Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act programs. It is the most serious level of violation noted in EPA databases. This
designation indicates whether violations or non-compliance events at a given facility pose a more
severe level of concern for the environment or program integrity.
Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEP)—Environmentally beneficial projects which a
defendant/respondent agrees to undertake as part of the settlement of an enforcement action, but
which the defendant/respondent is not otherwise legally required to perform. Like fines and
penalties, SEPs must be funded through the installations O&M budget.
Written Notice Of Non—Compliance—All written notices, e-mail messages, field citations,
and other correspondence from regulatory agencies pertaining to environmental non-compliance
(i.e. actual, potential or alleged, etc.).
AFI32-7047 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     27


                                          Attachment 2
                          SAMPLE 60-DAY CLOSEOUT LETTER

(MUST BE SENT VIA CERTIFIED MAIL OR OTHER DELIVERY CONFIRMATION
RECEIPT METHOD)
Date
Name of installation POC
Title
Name of Installation
Address
Name of Regulator
Title
Address
SUBJECT: Request for Written Confirmation of Closed Enforcement Action: [Reference the
name of the issued document, Date, Permit Number, etc.]
The purpose of this letter is to request your written confirmation that the Enforcement Action
(EA) [or other name of the issued document] [insert identifying number] issued on [insert date]
is closed. The EA [or other name of the issued document] listed the following violations:
[List the alleged non-compliance]
On [insert date], we took the following corrective actions: [Describe corrective actions taken].
We believe our actions have satisfactorily addressed your EA [or other name of the issued
document] and we are back in full compliance with respect to the applicable regulation[s].
Please send a written confirmation within 60 days of receiving this letter. If we do not hear from
you within 60 days of receipt of this letter, we shall consider the matter satisfactorily resolved.
We take our environmental stewardship seriously and look forward to continuing our cooperative
working relationship with you. Please call [insert POC, phone number, and e-mail address] for
any questions regarding this matter.
TOM JONES
Title
