BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-502
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            30 MARCH 1994

                                                                            MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
                                                                                     Supplement 1
                                                                                  5 AUGUST 2004

                                                                                             Personnel

                                                               MANAGING CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                                                 RESOURCES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally.


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCX (Ms Michele Pilipovich)                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC
                                                                                   (Mr John R. Graham)
Supersedes AFR 40-312, 20 February 1980 and                                                     Pages: 5
           AFR 40-112, 25 October 1973.                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD 36-1,
General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It includes instructions for commanders, manag-
ers, and financial management specialists who oversee civilian employees. Use this instruction with Air
Force 38- and 65-series publications. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of terms.

(MOUNTAINHOME) AFI 36-502, 30 March 1994, is supplemented as follows. Maintain and dispose
of all records, including system input/output, created as a result of prescribed processes in accordance
with the official Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (WebRIMS) at
https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm?fuseaction-ListSeries. Contact supporting records manag-
ers as required.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFI 36-502, substantially revising AFRs 40-312 and 40-112. It updates,
clarifies, and streamlines previous guidance on managing civilian personnel resources.

1. Objective. The Air Force needs to manage civilian human resources within budget while balancing:
   • Mission needs.
   • Operational economy and efficiency.
   • Skills and career paths.
   • Employee development and motivation.
   • Recruitment and retention of competent people.
2                                     AFI36-502_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP1_I 5 AUGUST 2004


2. Civilian Resource Management Responsibility. Civilian resource management responsibility is
assigned down through the Air Force chain of command from the Secretary of the Air Force to command-
ers of major commands (MAJCOM) or comparable organizations, to subordinate commanders on down
to first-level supervisors. Each manager who employs civilian personnel within the chain of command
must manage civilian resources properly and is accountable for their immediate supervision. Managers
and supervisors at each level must evaluate their subordinate supervisors on how well they manage their
civilian resources and take appropriate action to correct or reward managers' performance.
    2.1. All managers and supervisors:
        • Match civilian appointments (permanent, term, or temporary) to the projected length of the
           workload and the available funding. Appoint employees on a temporary basis when execution
           year dollars are used to fund the position from other than civilian pay. Make sure that
           employee work schedules accommodate both the employees' needs and the efficient and
           effective accomplishment of the mission.
        • Make sure the Air Force Resource Allocation process approves reprogramming of civilian
           pay funds prior to committing to long-term resource management plans (decisions that com-
           mit resources for more than 2 years). Exercise personnel management authority to minimize
           adverse impact on the civilian workforce. Track civilian resource costs and take action to
           ensure successful budget execution.
        • Tell the corporate board about surplus funds for redistribution (see paragraph 2.2.).
        • Prepare an employment plan for the following fiscal year, not later than March of each year.
       2.1.1. Managers and supervisors must set up positions and compensate and reward personnel
       within their civilian resource budget and in accordance with:
           • Applicable authorities.
           • Sound management practices.
           • The advice and assistance of manpower, comptroller, and personnel specialists.
    2.2. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, direct reporting units, and installation commanders estab-
    lish a corporate board to make sure that civilian resources are used most efficiently and effectively.
    The commander or designated representative chairs the board, which includes functional managers
    and representatives from the civilian personnel, financial management, and manpower communities.
    The board:
        • Reviews civilian resource management operating budget submissions at installation level.
        • Periodically reviews employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures against bud-
            getary targets. Provides managers and supervisors with targets for the civilian resource operat-
            ing budget, allocates directed adjustments, and redistributes any surplus funds.
        • Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the installation.
    2.2. (MOUNTAINHOME) The Civilian Employment and Cost Management Committee (CECMC)
    serves as the corporate body responsible for civilian employment planning and tracking against bud-
    getary targets. CECMC will assume the responsibilities as chartered for the Equal Employment
    Opportunity Committee and the hiring oversight for employees under the Federal Employees Com-
    pensation Act. CECMC membership is as follows:
       366th Fighter Wing Vice Commander                                            Chair
AFI36-502_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP1_I 5 AUGUST 2004                                                     3


       366th Operations Group Commander                                       Voting Member
       366th Medical Group Commander                                          Voting Member
       366th Maintenance Group Commander                                      Voting Member
       366th Fighter Wing Director of Staff                                   Non-voting Member
       366th Mission Support Group Commander                                  Voting Member
       366th Comptroller Squadron Commander                                   Advisor
       366th Mission Support Squadron Commander                               Advisor
       366th Mission Support Squadron, Civilian Personnel Officer             Advisor
       366th Fighter Wing, Manpower Chief (will be realigned under            Advisor
       366th Mission Support Squadron effective Oct 2004)
       366th Comptroller Squadron, Budget Officer                             Advisor
NOTE: The commander/chief may designate an alternate. The designee must have full authority to act
for the commander.
   2.3. Air Force civilian personnel, financial management personnel, and manpower personnel jointly
   help managers and supervisors by:
       • Developing, defending, and coordinating budgets, funding, utilization, and projections for
          civilian resources.
       • Allocating manpower resources.
       • Forecasting, executing, and adjusting civilian pay budgets.
       • Advising managers and supervisors on human resource issues.
   2.4. Civilian Personnel Flights (CPF) assist managers and supervisors by:
       • Helping them plan employment.
       • Consolidating installation employment plans not later than March and forwarding them to HQ
          USAF as required.
       • Advising managers on how best to use civilian human resources.
       2.4.1. CPFs help determine the costs of position management, personnel administration, and
       operational requirements, including:
           • The costs of recruitment and staffing.
           • The kinds of skills available in the local labor market.
           • Affirmative employment goals.
           • The use of flexible work schedules and appointment types.
   2.5. Manpower offices help managers and supervisors by:
       • Determining and validating manpower requirements needed to accomplish the mission.
       • Processing authorization change requests to the MAJCOMs for validated manpower require-
         ments.
       • Advising managers on how best to use manpower resources.
4                                    AFI36-502_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP1_I 5 AUGUST 2004


    2.6. Financial managers and comptrollers help managers and supervisors by:
        • Developing and defending civilian resource budget projections based on programs approved
           by the corporate board.
        • Advising managers on budgeting techniques and practices, on how to execute their civilian
           resource budget, and on how best to use civilian resource funds.

3. Reporting Requirements. Civilian Man-Year Cost Management Program Reports (RCS: HAF-DPC
[AR] 7401), is assigned any reports generated by this instruction. This reporting requirement is desig-
nated Status Code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, precedence priority. Submit data
requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any means to ensure arrival on the established due
dates.
4. (Added-MOUNTAINHOME) IMTs/Forms Prescribed: None
5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOME) IMTs/Forms Adopted: None




                                     BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                     DCS/Personnel
AFI36-502_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP1_I 5 AUGUST 2004                                                        5


                                            Attachment 1

                                      GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Terms
Civilian Pay Budget—The total obligation authority comprised of Direct Obligating Authority dollars
and earnings from reimbursements.
Civilian Resource Management—The practice of balancing mission needs, operational economy and
efficiency, skills and career paths, employee development and motivation, and recruitment and retention
of competent people within a civilian pay budget.
Employment Planning—Identifying employment levels and work years needed to accomplish the
mission within the civilian pay budget.
Resource Allocation Process—The Air Force corporate approach to planning, programming, and
budgeting the resources needed to execute Air Force programs now and for the next 6 years. The process
uses six functional teams who develop options and make recommendations to senior leadership.
Civilian Personnel Resources—The dollars allocated to an organization for the purpose of civilian
employment.
