BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-9002
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         22 NOVEMBER 1993

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                             USE OF REAL PROPERTY FACILITIES




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFREA/MI                                                                                 Certified by:
Supersedes AFR 87-2, December 1988,                                                             Pages: 11
           and AFR 87-22, March, 1989.

This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. It describes the process of study-
ing and surveying Air Force real property holdings (except industrial real property) to identify real prop-
erty that the Air Force does not need. It explains how to conduct EO 12512 Land Use Surveys and how
to prepare studies of government-owned and leased real property. It tells how to ensure the maximum use
of building space, facilities, and utilities; defines authority for approving changes in use; and explains
how to request approval of proposed use changes. This instruction implements Department of Defense
(DoD) Directive 4165.6, Real Property Acquisition, Management, and Disposal. EO 12512, 29 April
1985 and EO 12411, 29 March 1983.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction combines AFR 87-2 (December 1988) and AFR 87-22 (March 1989). It also updates and
presents procedures and guidance in a more concise manner. A | indicates revisions from the previous edi-
tion.
2                                                                      AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993


                                                  Chapter 1

                              USE AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY

1.1. Exemptions. Procedures for use and disposal of real property do not apply to installations that are:
    •   Classified as general purpose space (controlled by the General Services Administration (GSA).-
    •   Located in a foreign country (except for leased property).
    •   Scheduled for closure or sale.
    •   Currently classified as excess.
    •   Classified as industrial facilities.
    •   Classified as Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Sites or launch control facilities.
    •   Real property held under permit (unless the entire installation is under a permit).

1.2. Installation Commander Responsibilities. To make sure that real property resources are used
effectively, commanders:
    1.2.1. Design a base comprehensive plan showing optimum use of real property.
    1.2.2. Review their real property holdings annually and identify unused, underutilized properties and
    properties not being put to optimum use.
    1.2.3. Prepare and update real property study (see Attachment 2, paragraph A2.2.). The MAJCOM
    will monitor this study using the Annual Real Property Utilization Review, RCS: SAF-MII(A)930 and
    scheduled EO 12512 land use surveys.
    1.2.4. Prepare and submit a declaration of excess for areas that your study or EO 12512 land surveys
    find to be unnecessary to mission. AFI 32-9004 explains how to prepare a declaration of excess.
    1.2.5. Keep records of legislative jurisdiction and any significant changes in the installation such as
    mission changes or personnel transfers between MAJCOMs.
    1.2.6. Make periodic studies of all leased real property. To plan, commanders need to be familiar with
    all government-owned real property within the commuting area that other services control. Use this
    knowledge to relocate activities from leased space.
    1.2.7. Plan so as to be able to move quickly from leased space into US Government-owned space
    when it becomes available; coordinate this effort with the Corps of Engineers, Department of the
    Navy, and General Services Administration (GSA).

1.3. When to Retain US Government-Owned Real Property. Keep US Government-Owned property
only when:
    •   It supports current or planned missions authorized by the latest issue of the USAF Program,
        Bases, Units, and Priorities (PD).
    •   Its location is so important to the mission that no other available location can be used.
    •   The property is of such value to the operation that disposing of it would inhibit the Air Force mis-
        sion.
AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993                                                                            3


   •   The property is essential to future mission flexibility, operational changes, equipment changes,
       mobilization for a national security emergency, or research or development of future defense or
       weapons systems.
   •   You cannot meet your need using a property of less cost even though it provides equal or better
       working and operating conditions.
   •   The property must serve as a buffer zone for the local community or private interests.
   •   The property is an internal parcel and providing access to the public would disrupt installation
       operations.
   •   The cost of declaring real property excess would be more than the fair market value.
   •   The property is affected by security or safety restrictions.

1.4. When To Declare US Government-Owned Real Property as Excess. Declare government-owned
real property as excess when:
   •   Its location, size, or costs make continued use or ownership unjustifiable.
   •   It becomes so useless that renovation or continued spending for operation and maintenance
       impractical.
   •   Its resale value is greater than that of substitute property. Take into account all the costs of
       replacement.
   •   The property becomes inadequate because of changes in the mission, technological advances, or
       because the character and value of surrounding property makes expansion unfeasible.
   •   The location is vulnerable to attack and the mission is important to national defense. (Do not use
       this provision for installations that must defend such areas.)
   •   You can fulfill the mission economically by other means including:
       –   Using private enterprise or civilian activities.
       –   Jointly using other military real property.
       –   Using Interservice Support Agreements.

1.5. When To Retain Leased Property. Retain leased real property when you can't obtain govern-
ment-owned real property to meet mission requirements. Retain it when:
   1.5.1. The mission's function is essential and it requires property not owned by the US Government.
   1.5.2. Using leased real property provides clear economic benefits. Take into consideration the mov-
   ing and upkeep costs a government-owned facility requires. Compare that with the rental and other
   expenses a leased space incurs.

1.6. Fee Acquisition of Leased Real Property. Consider buying property that is currently leased when:
   1.6.1. The current value of the US Government-owned improvements built or scheduled for building
   on the leased property equals or exceeds the current fair-market value of the leased real property.
   1.6.2. The need for military use of the leased real property is continuous.
4                                                                     AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993


    1.6.3. The estimated period of need is such that the funds for rentals and restorations will exceed 50
    percent of the leased property's fairmarket value.

1.7. Overseas Leased Property. Each MAJCOM must prepare base studies and keep records on all
leased properties held overseas. Try to relocate activities into no-cost host nation facilities and dispose of
excess leaseholds.

1.8. How to Prepare for EO 12512 Land Use Surveys. When you receive notification that a GSA or
AFREA/MI survey team is to visit your installation, appoint a project officer, update your real property
study and prepare a mission and land use briefing.

1.9. What To Do After the EO 12512 Land Use Survey Is Complete. After the survey team has fin-
ished the survey, do the following:
    1.9.1. Notify AFREA/MI through the MAJCOM of any real property holdings the survey team has
    identified as not needed (excess).
    1.9.2. Prepare your report on the land you identified as excess and send it through the MAJCOM to
    AFREA/MI.
AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993                                                                                5


                                                Chapter 2

                               USING REAL PROPERTY FACILITIES

2.1. Managing Real Property Facilities. Under EO 12411, installation commanders must see that real
property facilities are efficiently used. The base civil engineer, facility user, base environmental and con-
tract planning office and the base Real Estate Management Office (REMO) must work together to:
   •   Identify and correct deficiencies.
   •   Keep records of facility use in comparison with facility requirements.
   •   Perform management analysis when deficiencies are identified.
   •   Make presentations to the Facilities Board (FB).
   •   Deactivate and dispose of excess facilities as described in AFI 32-9004.

2.2. MAJCOM Responsibilities. Ensure that bases use facilities and assets effectively by:
   •   Validating and evaluating information that bases develop on assets and requirements.
   •   Performing periodic facility use surveys to monitor whether facility use complies with criteria in
       AFI 32-1024.

2.3. Conversion Projects. Approval of a conversion project under AFI 32-1021 or approval of a waiver
or exception to criteria under AFI 32-1024 automatically includes approval of the conversion or change in
use. AFR 86-12 covers approval levels for AFRES-ANG-funded projects. Automatic approvals of a con-
version or change in use also apply when a MAJCOM approves a conversion project.

2.4. Criteria for Changes in Use of Facilities. All changes in use of facilities must be consistent with
the following:
   •   Long-range strategy for facility development.
   •   The base comprehensive plan (See AFI 32-7005).

2.5. Procedures for Requesting a Change in Use. The base REMO, using activity, and the base envi-
ronmental and contract planning office present the proposed change in use to the FB. Use the minutes of
the FB meeting to record approval or disapproval of the change. Fill out a request for change in use, AF
Form 123 and get approval from the appropriate authority.

2.6. Approval Authority. Installation commanders approve all changes in use except:
   2.6.1. Munitions and Maintenance Facilities. To request changes in use of munitions storage and
   maintenance facilities that would reduce clear zone siting for weapons or munitions and support
   items, forward AF Form 123 through these channels:
       •   For permanent changes: MAJCOM/LGW/LGM/SEW to HQ USAF/LGMW.
       •   For temporary changes (up to one year): MAJCOM/LGW/LGM/SEW.
6                                                                  AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993


    2.6.2. Family Housing. Facilities cannot be converted to family housing without statutory authoriza-
    tion unless they originally were constructed or acquired as family housing.
       2.6.2.1. To request a permanent conversion or a change in the use of family units, first get
       approval from SAF/MI. Then send AF Form 123 through the MAJCOM to the Directorate of
       Housing, The Civil Engineer (AF/CEH). Changes in use for more than three years are considered
       permanent.
       2.6.2.2. For temporary conversion (less than three years) with the exception of paragraph
       2.6.2.1., the MAJCOM may delegate approval authority to wing commanders or base command-
       ers. Note: Make only minor modifications on facilities approved for temporary change in use. It
       should be possible to change the facility back to what it was before.
    2.6.3. New Facilities. For new facilities, do not change the use that was justified on DD Form 1391,
    Military Construction Project Data, until two years after project completion and beneficial occupancy.
    However, if a change in use is necessary because of base mission or other overriding needs, send AF
    Form 123 through the MAJCOM to AF/CEP (or ANGRC/CEPR for ANG facilities) for approval and
    congressional notification.
    2.6.4. Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR). For recreation centers or facilities constructed or
    purchased with nonappropriated funds -- if the requested change in use doesn't directly support an
    MWR purpose-- send AF Form 123 through MAJCOM to HQ AFMWRSA/MWXF, 550 C Street
    West, Suite 56, Randolph AFB, TX 7815-4758.
    2.6.5. Religious Facilities. To change the use of religious facilities, send AF Form 123 through the
    MAJCOM to HQ USAF/HC, Bolling AFB, Wash DC 20332-5000.
    2.6.6. Delegation of Approval Authority. For facility changes in use needing higher approval (see
    paragraph 2.6.), MAJCOMs, AFRES and ANG may delegate authority to intermediate and installa-
    tion commanders, (United States Property and Fiscal Officers [USPFO] for the ANG).



                                               JAMES E. McCARTHY, Maj General, USAF
                                               The Civil Engineer
AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993                                                                                7


                                              Attachment 1

                                        GLOSSARY OF TERMS
A1.1. Beneficial Occupancy (BOD)—The date a facility is accepted for occupancy by the user.
A1.2. Changed Use.—A change in the use of a facility or part of a facility that does not need conversion.
Such a change in use exceeds one year.
A1.3. Continental United States (CONUS)—United States territory, including the adjacent territorial
waters, located within the North American Continent between Canada and Mexico.
A1.4. Conversion—For purposes of this instruction only, a structural alteration of a real property facility
to provide for a use other than the one it was originally designed (or later converted) for, thereby making
the original or converted Air Force design obsolete.
A1.5. Facility Designation—The sixdigit basic item number and nomenclature that identifies one of the
following:
   •   Original design.
   •   Original Air Force designation (for all facilities not constructed by or for the Air Force).
   •   Permanently converted design.
   •   Changed use.
A1.6. Fair Market Value—The amount in cash, or on terms reasonably equivalent to cash, for which the
property would be sold by an owner willing, but not obligated to sell, to a purchaser who desires, but is
not obligated, to buy.
A1.7. Highly Important to National Defense—A property whose loss or severe damage does one of the
following:
   •   Causes a serious delay or reduction in defense, retaliatory, or war capabilities.
   •   Requires a revision of the Military Operation War Plan.
A1.8. Industrial Facility—Any Air Force owned, leased, or controlled real property facility that a
contractor uses to fulfill government research, development, test, evaluation, production, maintenance, or
modification contracts, or to store production machinery and equipment in support of such activity.
A1.9. Legislative Jurisdiction—Authority to enact general municipal laws for an area of land. There are
four types of legislative jurisdiction:
   •   Exclusive.
   •   Concurrent.
   •   Partial.
   •   Proprietary.
A1.10. Not Being Put to Optimum Use—Property or part of a property whose nature, value, or location
is such that it could be put to a significantly better purpose, also includes properties with occupancy costs
that substantially exceed those of other properties available through transfer, purchase, or leases, and that
are suitable for the purpose. When computing total net savings to the government, consider property
8                                                                  AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993


values as well as costs of moving, occupancy, operation efficiency, environmental effects, regional
planning, and employee morale.
A1.11. Not Used—Any property or portion of a property that is not occupied for current program
purposes, or is occupied in caretaker status only (such properties will be considered for shelters for the
homeless according to the policy used in AFI 32-9003).
A1.12. Real Property—Lands, buildings, structures, utilities systems, improvements, and appurtenances
thereto. Includes equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures (such as heating
systems) but not movable equipment (such as plant equipment).
A1.13. Real Property Facility—A building, structure, or other real property improvement.
A1.14. Real Property Requirement—A valid military need for real property to support authorized
forces as documented in the PD. In determining need, consider the purpose to be served, the problem to
be solved, and the end to be achieved. A requirement does not necessarily identify or describe the needed
property; it states why the property is needed, and how the property is to be used.
A1.15. Remaining Economic Life—The value to the government in terms of time. (Such value ceases
when the property becomes unsuitable or uneconomical for its designed use because of depreciation or
obsolescence.)
A1.16. Substitute Real Property—Property that can serve or is economically suited to the use of the
property it replaces. (When determining the practicality of substituting real property, consider value,
suitability, cost of operation and maintenance, and physical condition.)
A1.17. Survey Team—Any team organized to identify unneeded Air Force real property holdings.
A1.18. Temporary Changed Use—A change in the use of a facility or part of a facility, in effect for three
years or less. Modifications must be clearly reversible to previous configuration.
A1.19. Underutilized—Any entire property or part of a property that is used only for irregular periods or
intermittently for current program purposes or whose use for current program purposes can be satisfied
with only a portion of the property.
AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993                                                                                9


                                             Attachment 2

                MISSION/LAND USE BRIEFING OF E.O. 12512 SURVEY TEAM

A2.1. To begin a land use survey, prepare a comprehensive mission and land use briefing. This briefing
familiarizes the survey team with the installation missions and land uses. It sets the stage for follow-up
questions and provides a map study, a physical tour of the base, and conclusions. Keep the briefing free
of technical jargon and acronyms. The briefing should:
   •   Describe the current mission of the host and tenant organizations.
   •   Explain how missions are accomplished.
   •   Include programmed and publicly announced mission changes.
   •   Explain how mission changes will affect base land requirements.
   •   Give a brief history of the base.
   •   Cite pertinent Real Estate Data (acres owned in fee, public domain, leased, and other interests).
   •   List major functional land uses
   •   Indicate whether any land is used by tenants or collectively with other agencies.
   •   Note any military construction program (MCP) projects.
   •   Outline local area population and growth patterns.
   •   Discuss any encroachment of or conflict with base missions.
   •   State any real estate actions pending resolution.
   •   Explain the Installation restoration program.

A2.2. For both the installation's real property study and the EO 12512 excess real property survey report,
follow this format:
   A2.2.1. Purpose. Under this heading use the following wording: "This study or survey of the (name
   and address of theactivity surveyed) was conducted pursuant to provisions of section 2 of Executive
   Order 12512 and as prescribed by Subpart 101-47.8 of the Federal Property Management Regulations
   (FPMR). This survey was made to identify, as appropriate, those areas of real property which were
   found to be not utilized, underutilized, or not being put to optimum use, as defined in FPMR
   101-47.801 (a), at this activity."
   A2.2.2. Usage.
       A2.2.2.1. Land. Following the holding agency's documentation, furnish the number of acres of
       feeowned land, easements, and other interests the activity holds in real property. Indicate whether
       the property is in an urban or rural location and describe surrounding land uses. Estimate area
       land values.
       A2.2.2.2. Outgrants and Ingrants. List all current outgrants and ingrants, including leases, per-
       mits, easements, licenses, and agreements granting temporary or longterm use of real property at
       the activity. For outgranted properties whose use, size, or value may have significance, land and
10                                                                    AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993


        improvements, purpose, utilization, termination date, and special considerations (monetary or ser-
        vices). Do not apply the latter rule to utility easements.
        A2.2.2.3. Mineral Activity. Describe any mineral development at or near the property site.
        A2.2.2.4. History. Provide a brief history of the fee land and other interest in land the activity
        holds. Indicate by what method the property was acquired, --- such as purchase contract, condem-
        nation, withdrawn Public Domain Land ---. Mention any prior disposals.
        A2.2.2.5. Improvements. List all buildings, structures and improvements, including available
        utilities. Append to the report an activity map that locates improvements and notes north with an
        arrow.
        A2.2.2.6. Mission or Purpose. State the assigned mission or purpose as defined by the activity.
        A2.2.2.7. Number and Type Personnel. Furnish the number of personnel currently assigned to the
        activity, broken down by civilian and military status.
        A2.2.2.8. Requirements. List of the activity's requirements to accomplish the mission at the sur-
        veyed property.
        A2.2.2.9. Current Use of Property. In describing current use of the property, be specific:
            •   Indicate whether current property use serves the designated mission.
            •   Define the activity's use of the property in relation to the improvements and land area.
            •   In a separate section, describe use by tenants.
            •   Indicate whether use is part or full time. If use is part time, define the extent of such use.
            •   Note any vacant space in significant buildings.
            •   Discuss buffer areas, safety or explosive quantity distances, Air Installation Compatible
                Use Zones (AICUZ), and other areas relevant to current use.
        A2.2.2.10. Prospective Use of the Property. Provide a realistic description of how the property
        could be used in the future, noting the status of any needed funding. State how long the property
        has been under consideration for such use.
        A2.2.2.11. Relocation Potential. If funds are available to reimburse the holding agency for relo-
        cation costs, explain whether the activity could perform its mission at another location using much
        less valuable property. If relocation is feasible, estimate the cost to relocate. If relocation is not
        feasible, say so.
     A2.2.3. Findings and Recommendations. Use the facts to support each finding or recommendation.
     When the finding requires relocation of facilities or activities before the property can be excessed,
     state cost and availability of funding for relocation. Identify the land and improvement areas as fol-
     lows:
        •   Not Utilized.
        •   Underutilized.
        •   Not Being Put to Optimum Use.
     A2.2.4. Recommendations for Excessing:
AFI32-9002 22 NOVEMBER 1993                                                                             11


       A2.2.4.1. Put any recommendations for excessing property under findings. Estimate the prop-
       erty's value and what it would cost to excess the property. Describe any excess or use restrictions.
       A2.2.4.2. Real Property Management Improvement. Sometimes a property is underutilized but
       an a recommendation for excessing is not indicated. Recommend any improvements that might
       make better use of the property.
   A2.2.5. Certification. Members of the agency's survey team sign the survey report, and the next level
   of supervision within the agency approves it. The supervisor signs the approval following the state-
   ment, "This survey report has been reviewed and approved."
   A2.2.6. List the people contacted during the course of the survey giving their addresses and phone
   numbers.

A2.3. As an appendix to the survey report, include the following:
   A2.3.1. A survey map outlining boundaries of real property holdings and identifying land recom-
   mended for excess. On the map indicate north with an arrow.
   A2.3.2. An activity map identifying existing and planned development and improvements. Give the
   map a legend and a north arrow.
   A2.3.3. A vicinity map identifying major roads, railroads, airports, cities, and towns.
   A2.3.4. Color photographs taken during the field inspection that identify various areas discussed,
   especially areas recommended for excess.
