BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2862
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                    14 MARCH 2003
                                                        Certify Current, 25 September 2014
                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                 TEST AND EVALUATION AWARDS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/TEP                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/TE (John T. Manclark)
       (C. Boyer Tye, Jr., Lt Col, USAF)
Supersedes AFI 36-2862, 29 April 1994                                                            Pages: 8
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations. It provides information on test and
evaluation (T&E) related awards in the Air Force. The awards covered include the Air Force T&E Team
Award, the Air Force Tester of the Year Award, the Chanute Flight Test Award, the Allen R. Matthews
Award, the Special Achievement Award, the Richard G. Cross Award, the Publication Award, the TSPI
E-O Award, and the Technical Achievement Award.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates the nomination process and eligibility standard for various awards. It revises award
criteria and agency sponsorship.


1. Purpose. The Air Force annually recognizes individuals and test teams with awards or nominations
from organizations sponsoring T&E awards for sustained superior achievement. Normally, awards are for
contributions either completed or acknowledged during the previous year. Named individuals either mili-
tary or civilian who are recipients of Air Force-level awards may wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon
IAW AFI 36-2805. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained and disposed of in accor-
dance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

2. Sponsors, Award Descriptions, and Eligibility Standards:
   2.1. Air Force Association (AFA). The Air Force T&E Team Award is issued annually for outstand-
   ing contribution by an Air Force Test Team. The Air Force award office of primary responsibility
   (OPR) is HQ USAF/TE.
2                                                                         AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003


       2.1.1. Eligible teams are subordinate units of a wing (or equivalent) and are smaller than a group
       (or equivalent).
       2.1.2. The Air Force Association presents a plaque and certificate to the winning team. The team
       is recognized at the annual AFA National Convention.
       2.1.3. HQ USAF displays a plaque containing the names of winning teams.
    2.2. National Defense Industrial Association (NDIA). The Air Force Tester of the Year Award is
    sponsored by the NDIA and recognizes the outstanding government civilian, contractor, and military
    testers from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Office of the Secretary of Defense. The
    Air Force award office of primary responsibility (OPR) is HQ USAF/TE.
       2.2.1. The award has three categories: Civilian Tester of the Year Award (a government employee
       GS or GM-13 and below); Military Tester of the Year Award (Lt Colonel and below); and Contrac-
       tor Tester of the Year Award (a contractor employee).
       2.2.2. The NDIA presents the award, a plaque, at its annual Test and Evaluation Symposium.
    2.3. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA). The Chanute Award honors
    Octave Chanute, pioneer aeronautical investigator, and it is presented for an outstanding contribution
    made by a pilot or test personnel to the advancement of the art, science, and technology of aeronautics.
    The award is generally presented biennially (in even-numbered years) at the AIAA Aircraft Technol-
    ogy, Integration, and Operations Forum. Nominations are due February 1. HQ 11th Wing/DPJ is the
    Air Force awards OPR for the Chanute Award.
       2.3.1. Active-duty Air Force officers and Department of the Air Force civilians are eligible.
    2.4. International Test and Evaluation Association (ITEA). ITEA sponsors the following annual
    awards with HQ USAF/TE as the Air Force awards OPR:
       2.4.1. The Allen R. Matthews Award. This award is for distinguished achievement in T&E.
           2.4.1.1. The award is named after the late Dr. Matthews, founder and first president of ITEA.
           2.4.1.2. A candidate is an individual who has made a lasting, significant contribution to the
           field of T&E. The contribution may have been made over the course of a distinguished career.
           2.4.1.3. The recipient need not be a member of ITEA, however contributions to ITEA and to
           other professional associations oriented towards T&E will be a factor in the selection process.
           Groups, organizations or institutions are not eligible for this award.
       2.4.2. The Special Achievement Award. This award is for a special act of achievement in T&E.
           2.4.2.1. A candidate is an individual who has made an immediate and significant contribution
           to the field of T&E, such as solving a major T&E problem, completing a successful project, or
           any other exceptional act.
           2.4.2.2. Candidates need not be a member of ITEA. The award may be presented to an indi-
           vidual, group or organization.
       2.4.3. The Richard G. Cross Award. This award is for educational achievement in T&E.
           2.4.3.1. This recognition of excellence is named after the late Major General Richard G.
           Cross, Jr., USAF (Ret), who was former director and senior advisor of ITEA.
AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003                                                                                  3


           2.4.3.2. Candidates are individuals, teams, or organizations that have made a significant con-
           tribution to education for T&E. The achievement may be in administration, teaching, or
           research.
       2.4.4. The Publication Award. This award is for contribution to the body of T&E literature.
           2.4.4.1. This award recognizes an author or co-author whose book, technical paper, or article
           is outstanding and adds to the general body of knowledge and understanding of T&E.
           2.4.4.2. Works must be original and adhere to the standards of scholarly research, fair public
           discourse, or journalism.
           2.4.4.3. Works must be in a published form available to the general T&E community, such as
           in the ITEA Journal of T&E or other professional, association publications.
       2.4.5. The Time-Space-Positioning Information and Electro-optics (TSPI/E-O) Award. This
       award is for individual achievement and significant contribution to the areas of time-space posi-
       tioning (TSPI) data collection and electro-optics (E-O) T&E.
           2.4.5.1. This award comes with a crystal trophy and a check for $1,000 from ITEA under the
           sponsorship of Brashear LP.
           2.4.5.2. The recipient of the TSPI/E-O Award must be an individual and need not be a member
           of ITEA.
       2.4.6. Technical Achievement Award. The theme of the technical achievement award changes
       annually, as determined by the ITEA Awards Committee. For example, in year 2003, use of infor-
       mation technology for T&E.
           2.4.6.1. An individual or team associated with the test is eligible to receive the award. They do
           not have to be a member of ITEA.

3. Nomination Procedures. Sponsoring organizations invite award OPRs to submit nominations for
awards at various times during the year. OPRs will provide additional information and award nomination
submission dates by message or letter and establish a selection board process for determining Air Force
nominees. Nomination packages are to include an AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, biography, cita-
tion, and cover letter. Additional information may be obtained by visiting the web site of each profes-
sional organization; e.g., http://www.organization.org.
   3.1. When submitting nominations, comply with the following requirements:
       3.1.1. Use AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. This form may be obtained from Headquarters
       Air Force web site, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/. Limit nomination narratives to two type-
       written pages.
       3.1.2. Use of a second AF Form 1206 as a continuation page is preferred, noting the team’s or
       individual’s accomplishments in the ”Specific Accomplishments“ area.
       3.1.3. Type only the individual’s or team’s name at the top of the second page. Do not sign the nar-
       rative.
       3.1.4. Limit the biography to one single-spaced typewritten page, as shown in Attachment 2.
       3.1.5. Refer to Attachment 3 as a sample citation for an individual and to Attachment 4 as a
       sample citation for a team.
4                                                                    AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003


    3.2. Award nominations for ITEA consideration should be submitted electronically. The ITEA award
    period is annually from October 1 to September 30. ITEA issues a memorandum each March
    announcing the awards program and specifies the nomination due date.

4. Awards Presentation. The organization sponsoring the award announces the winners and determines
the appropriate function for presentation of awards.

5. Funding. An award winner’s parent organization uses normal, temporary duty funds to pay for the
winner’s travel to and from the award presentation ceremony.

6. Forms Adopted. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award.



                                                  JOHN T. MANCLARK
                                                  Director of Test and Evaluation
AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003                                          5


                                         Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AIAA—American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics
AFA—Air Force Association
AMRAAM—Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile
Dr.—Doctor
E-O—Electro-optics
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
ITEA—International Test and Evaluation Association
NDIA—National Defense Industrial Association
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
Ret—Retired
T&E—Test and evaluation
TSPI E-O—Time-Space-Positioning Information and Electro-Optics
6                                                                          AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003


                                               Attachment 2

                           SAMPLE STANDARD BIOGRAPHY FORMAT
(Limit to one single-spaced typewritten page)
SENIOR AIRMAN JOHN Q. DOE
AFSC: 3A051, INFORMATION MANAGEMENT - JOURNEYMAN
Airman First Class John Q. Doe is an administrative specialist assigned to the 123rd Combat Support
Group, Jones Air Force Base, Kentucky. He is 24 years old.
Airman Doe was born in Lexington, Kentucky, on June 29, 1978. He attended Central High School and
excelled across the entire spectrum of school activities. As a three-year football letterman, his exceptional
performance earned him the team’s coveted Patterson Award for spirit, dedication, and leadership on and
off the field.
After graduating from high school in 1996, Airman Doe was employed locally and served as a
church-council officer for the Good Shepherd Church in Covington, Kentucky. He subsequently enlisted
in the Air Force under the Delayed Enlistment Program in 1996 and was called to active duty in 1997.
Upon completing basic military training at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas in 1997, Airman Doe began
technical training as an information manger at Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi where he was a distin-
guished graduate in February 1998.
Airman Doe is married. He is active in the local church where he is a youth counselor and a member of
the choir. He was selected as the Airman of the Quarter, 2nd quarter 1999, 3rd quarter 2000, and was the
Outstanding Airman of the Year for 2001 for the 123rd Combat Support Group. He is a recipient of the Air
Force Commendation Medal, and he has received several awards for his civic involvement.
AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003                                                                                  7


                                              Attachment 3

                     SAMPLE CITATION FOR INDIVIDUAL NOMINATION
CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE AWARD OF THE AIR FORCE MILITARY TESTER OF THE
YEAR AWARD for 2002
TO
CAPTAIN HENRY J. SMITH
Captain Smith distinguished himself through outstanding service to the United States as the chief test
engineer, Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM) Joint Test Force, 46th Test Wing, Air
Armament Center, Air Force Material Command, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida from 1 January - 31
December 2002. During this period, Captain Smith’s innovative management, dynamic leadership, and
untiring effort contributed significantly to the success of the $10 million combined Air Force/Navy
AMRAAM Validation Test Program. Throughout the test program numerous obstacles threatened to
delay this critical program to war fighting capability. In each case, Captain Smith’s ingenuity, acceptance
of challenges, and key decision-making produced imaginative solutions, which allowed the program to
move forward with uninterrupted testing that met critical test objectives. The distinctive accomplishments
of Captain Smith reflect great credit to himself and the United States Air Force.
8                                                                        AFI36-2862 14 MARCH 2003


                                              Attachment 4

                     SAMPLE CITATION FOR TEST TEAM NOMINATION
CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE AWARD OF THE AIR FORCE TEST AND EVALUATION
TEAM AWARD FOR THE YEAR 2002 TO THE INTEGRATED WEAPON SYSTEM COMBINED
TEST TEAM
The integrated Weapon System Combined Test Force, 412th Test Wing, Air Force Flight Test Center,
Edwards Air Force Base, California, distinguished itself in outstanding service to the United States from
1 January - 31 December 2002. During this period, the Combined Test Force conducted Development
Test and Operational Test activities of major importance to the strategic missile mission of the Air Force,
thereby directly contributing to national objectives. The leadership, technical, and managerial efforts of
the Combined Test Force in conducting the Air Launched Cruise Missile and the Offensive Avionics Sys-
tem test played a major role in securing the Air Combat Command’s First Alert Capability milestone. The
professionalism and devotion to duty of the test force members reflect great credit upon themselves and
United States Air Force.
