Administrative Change to AFI 32-7062, Comprehensive Planning

OPR: AF/A7CI

References to “UFC 2-00-02AN, Installation Master Planning, 15 May 2012” should be
changed to “UFC 2-100-01, Installation Master Planning, 15 May 2012” throughout publication.

6 November 2013
BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7062
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  27 JUNE 2013

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                              COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A7CI                                                               Certified by: AF/A7C
                                                                                (Maj Gen Byers)
                                                                                        Pages: 38
Supersedes:    AFI32-7062, 1 October 1997


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Air
Force Installations and Facilities, by establishing the Air Force Comprehensive Planning
Program for development of Air Force installations. It contains responsibilities and requirements
for comprehensive planning and describes procedures for developing, implementing, and
integrating an installation development plan (IDP) with activity management plans. This
publication applies to all Active, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) units. Major Commands (MAJCOM), HQ AFRC, and ANG may supplement this
guidance to revise roles and responsibilities for unit and headquarters functions and IDP
approval processes; such direct supplements do not require coordination by the OPR for this
publication prior to certification and approval. Additionally, ANG may supplement this
guidance with regard to changes in IDP content; however, such direct supplements must be
coordinated with the OPR prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
 2                                                                                                    AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision supersedes AFI 32-7062, 1 October 1997. The revised AFI specifies requirements
for Comprehensive Planning at Air Force installations; redefines planning roles and
responsibilities; provides requirements for the Installation Development Plan (IDP); identifies
geospatial mission data sets for installation planning; specifies planning products; provides
Sustainable Development Indicators (SDI); describes duties, qualifications and training to
perform the installation planning function; and links installation planning to strategic basing and
beddown planning.


Chapter 1—BACKGROUND AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                     4
       1.1.    Background. ...........................................................................................................        4
       1.2.    Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4

Chapter 2—AIR FORCE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING                                                                                                    8
       2.1.    Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    8
       2.2.    Comprehensive Planning Foundations. .................................................................                          8
       2.3.    The Environmental Impact Analysis Process. .......................................................                             9

Chapter 3—THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS                                                                                                 10
       3.1.    Objective. ...............................................................................................................    10
       3.2.    Process steps. .........................................................................................................      10
       3.3.    Relationship to Other Major Processes. .................................................................                      11
Figure 3.1.    IDP/Investment Planning Integration. ...................................................................                      12

Chapter 4—COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                14
       4.1.    The Installation Development Plan Format. ..........................................................                          14
       4.2.    Planning Products. .................................................................................................          15
       4.3.    Plan Updating & Approval. ...................................................................................                 15
       4.4.    Plan Evaluation. .....................................................................................................        15
       4.5.    Plan Maintenance. ..................................................................................................          15

Chapter 5—GEOSPATIAL MAPPING                                                                                                                 17
       5.1.    Definition. ..............................................................................................................    17
       5.2.    Data Layers (DL). ..................................................................................................          17
       5.3.    Information Security. .............................................................................................           17

Chapter 6—QUALIFICATIONS, TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                              18
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                                                                   3


     6.1.   Qualifications. ........................................................................................................      18
     6.2.   Training. .................................................................................................................   18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            19

Attachment 2—GEOSPATIAL VISUALIZATION                                                                                                     27

Attachment 3—SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS (SDI) USED IN
             PLANNING                                                                                                                     33
 4                                                                  AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


                                           Chapter 1

                         BACKGROUND AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Background. This instruction provides guidance on implementing the Air Force
Comprehensive Planning Program. It improves and integrates installation physical development
with the investment planning process, legal requirements, and DoD/AF policies. The cross-
functional teaming concept is a critical component in plan development.
1.2. Responsibilities. This instruction defines Headquarters United States Air Force (HAF),
MAJCOM, Field Operating Agency (FOA), and installation-level development and management
requirements and responsibilities for executing the Air Force Comprehensive Planning program.
     1.2.1. Secretary of the Air Force.
        1.2.1.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and
        Logistics (SAF/IE). Promulgates and oversees policy for the Air Force Comprehensive
        Planning Program, environmental planning, energy, real estate, housing, Base
        Realignment and Closure, strategic basing and all related civil engineer activities
     1.2.2. Headquarters United States Air Force.
        1.2.2.1. The Air Force Civil Engineer (AF/A7C). Issues guidance, allocates resources,
        and oversees execution of comprehensive planning to support installations, infrastructure,
        and facilities.
            1.2.2.1.1. Strategic Plan Development. Coordinates with SAF/IE, Deputy Chief of
            Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5), Deputy Chief of Staff,
            Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8), and other organizations as appropriate to
            develop an AF/A7C Strategic Plan consisting of Air Force priorities, weapons
            systems roadmap, and AF/A7C priorities and initiatives.
            1.2.2.1.2. Oversight and Management. Develops specific implementation guidance
            for comprehensive planning. Formulates additional guidance and supporting
            materials, as necessary, to ensure that existing Air Force programs and requirements
            are addressed by the comprehensive planning process, along with additional subjects.
        1.2.2.2. The Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC). AFCEC is the single,
        integrated Civil Engineer FOA. Responsibilities related to Comprehensive Planning will
        be performed within AFCEC’s Planning & Integration Division (AFCEC/CP), which has
        responsibility for both Comprehensive Planning and activity integration across the
        enterprise, to include the investment planning process. AFCEC/CP:
            1.2.2.2.1. Blends strategic guidance from HAF; applicable requirements from
            MAJCOM Comprehensive Asset Management Plans (MCAMPs); information from
            planning, noise, encroachment, and Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)
            programs; with knowledge of available resources and other key factors to develop and
            enable feasible installation development plans and executable investment strategies.
               1.2.2.2.1.1. Consolidates and publishes key objectives to be considered in the
               current planning cycle, and directs performance against these objectives to be
               assessed and reported within the IDP.
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        5


        1.2.2.2.2. Provides a comprehensive planning framework to enable strategic and
        long-term planning for “installation complexes” in support of the Corporate Air Force
        and its wide-range of customers at the Combined, Joint, MAJCOM and Installation
        levels.
        1.2.2.2.3. Provides guidance, processes, and procedures Air Force-wide ensuring
        standardization, efficiency, and economy of effort.
        1.2.2.2.4. Provides guidance, support, tools, and analytical capability for use at the
        strategic, operational, and tactical levels to help ensure installation planning complies
        with all applicable legal requirements as well as DoD and Air Force policies.
        1.2.2.2.5. Objectively measures progress and tracks data/trends to monitor progress
        against key objectives.
        1.2.2.2.6. Ensures installations (through MAJCOMs) develop plans and programs to
        optimize capabilities, space, and the efficient use of resources.
        1.2.2.2.7. Provide technical support and subject matter expertise to the installation
        comprehensive planning program for the development of the IDP and coordinates for
        the preparations of IDPs and plan refresh rates as necessary across the AF CE
        community.
  1.2.3. MAJCOMs. Oversee installation level implementation of the comprehensive
  planning standards and procedures established in this instruction. Provide supplemental
  policy and guidance to support effective installation-level implementation. Review and
  approve new or substantially revised IDPs, as well as subsequent periodic IDP updates.
  MAJCOM Civil Engineers will perform the activities listed below:
     1.2.3.1. Provide the AF/A7C Strategic Plan to installation planners for use in the
     development of installation development plans.
     1.2.3.2. Incorporate tenets of the AF/A7C Strategic Plan in the development of
     MAJCOM strategic weapons system basing and IDPs. Ensure installations develop and
     maintain consistent, uniform planning products to facilitate one-stop leadership
     information and oversight.
     1.2.3.3. Provide guidance, planning management, and planning technical support to
     installations. MAJCOM A7 (or A4/7, CE, as applicable) consults with a cross-functional
     team consisting of appropriate MAJCOM and FOA representatives to develop
     information for use in the Comprehensive Planning Program as it informs strategic basing
     and beddown actions.
     1.2.3.4. Ensure installation comprehensive planning documents are completed,
     maintained, and implemented; and issue guidance to supplement this AFI, as needed.
     1.2.3.5. Review and approve IDP and major IDP changes as defined in paragraph 4.3 of
     this Instruction to ensure they comply with applicable legal requirements, DoD and Air
     Force criteria and standards, and effectively support mission goals and objectives.
     MAJCOM/A7s will develop MAJCOM specific guidance for the IDP approval process as
     necessary.
     1.2.3.6. MAJCOM Planning staff will participate in Investment Planning processes.
6                                                                   AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


    1.2.4. Installation Commander. The Installation Commander will ensure appropriate
    comprehensive planning documents are developed and maintained. Additionally, the
    Installation Commander: (T-2)
       1.2.4.1. Provides the mission and installation development vision to the Base Civil
       Engineer (BCE). (T-2)
       1.2.4.2. Approves the installation’s BCAMP. (T-2)
       1.2.4.3. Annually validates the IDP. (T-2)
       1.2.4.4. Approves integrated priority lists (IPL). (T-2)
       1.2.4.5. Chairs the Facilities Board (FB), which, IAW AFI 32-1010, The Facilities
       Board: (T-2)
          1.2.4.5.1. Reviews and approves the vision, goals, objectives, and component plans
          within the IDP. (T-2)
          1.2.4.5.2. Reviews, sets priorities for, and approves all long and short range facility
          investment plans. (T-2)
          1.2.4.5.3. Approves all facility actions and ensures that facility location and design
          comply with sustainable concepts and the IDP. (T-2)
    1.2.5. BCE. The BCE is responsible for development, maintenance and implementation of
    installation Comprehensive Planning documents. (T-2)
       1.2.5.1. Ensures that the IDP is prepared, maintained, and implemented for the
       installation. (T-2)
       1.2.5.2. Ensures that qualified personnel are available to develop and maintain the IDP.
       The Position Classification Standards for Community Planner Series (0020) should be
       used. (T-2)
       1.2.5.3. Establishes a cross-functional team consisting of major installation organizations
       and critical stakeholders necessary to develop, maintain, and implement the IDP. This
       team will be led by the BCE, or his or her delegate, and will meet on a recurring basis as
       deemed necessary to execute the program. (T-2)
       1.2.5.4. Collects, interprets, integrates and presents the vision of the Installation
       Commander and other senior installation leadership for mission requirements and
       installation development. (T-2)
    1.2.6. Base Community Planner (BCP). The BCP manages the installation comprehensive
    planning process.
       1.2.6.1. Installation Development Plan. The BCP facilitates the development and
       maintenance of the IDP and related products. (T-2)
       1.2.6.2. Installation Siting Process Management. The BCP performs all actions
       related to siting, including but not limited to site analysis, development of siting
       documentation packages, and presentation for FB approval. (T-2)
       1.2.6.3. Area Development Plans (ADP). The BCP develops ADPs for all applicable
       areas on an installation, and will integrate ADPs into the IDP. When external support is
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        7


     required to develop these documents, the BCP will coordinate AFCEC support or manage
     contractor support as required, to include requirements identification and programming,
     statement of work development, and funding coordination. (T-2)
     1.2.6.4. Off-Base Planning Coordination. The BCP acts as the main point of contact
     for off-base local and regional land use planning and zoning activities, unless this role is
     specifically assigned to another office. Within this role, the BCP will coordinate with the
     Installation Commander, Public Affairs and Staff Judge Advocate offices, as needed, to
     promote positive base and community relationships. (T-2)
     1.2.6.5. Airfield Obstructions Management. The BCP is responsible for the Airfield
     Waiver Program in accordance with (IAW) UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport
     Planning and Design. (T-2)
     1.2.6.6. Asset Management Integration. The BCP conveys the installation strategic
     vision, goals, objectives and the IDP Capital Improvements Plan (CIP) for consideration
     during the investment planning process by participating in Activity Management Plan
     (AMP) and BCAMP development. Within this role, the BCP both ensures that planning
     activities integrate requirements identified during the development of AMPs and the
     BCAMP, and informs the investment planning process by ensuring identified
     requirements align with the IDP. (T-2)
     1.2.6.7. New Mission Beddown Planning. The BCP provides planning support to the
     MAJCOM and installation basing and beddown team. (T-2)
     1.2.6.8. Project Review. The BCP participates in design review and other activities
     related to siting and planning actions including the management of planning contracts.
     (T-2)
     1.2.6.9. Technical Expertise. The BCP provides technical advice on a variety of
     planning issues and special studies including planning-related GeoBase Data Layers. (T-
     2)
     1.2.6.10. Environmental Impact Analysis. The BCP coordinates with the local
     Environmental Planning Function (EPF) to ensure projects and major actions identified in
     the IDP are assessed using the Air Force EIAP. (T-2)
     1.2.6.11. Programming. The BCP coordinates with programming staff to identify
     planning requirements for the physical development of the installation, and to ensure
     projects in the IDP are programmed and aligned with the IPL. (T-2)
 8                                                                   AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


                                            Chapter 2

                        AIR FORCE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING

2.1. Purpose. Comprehensive Planning establishes a systematic framework for informing
decision-making on the physical development of Air Force installations and their environs. It
provides an integrated context and advocacy for the multiple Air Force processes that support
and sustain current and future missions. It relies on active Air Force stakeholder participation in
the development of a sustainable plan and promotes compliance with applicable federal, state,
and local laws, regulations, and policies.
2.2. Comprehensive Planning Foundations. The following concepts should be applied when
conducting Comprehensive Planning:
     2.2.1. Planning Districts (PD). Installations shall be divided into identifiable PDs based on
     geographical features, land use patterns, building types, and/or transportation networks
     (Community Center, Airfield, Warehousing, etc.).
     2.2.2. Sustainable Planning. The concepts and principles of sustainable planning shall be
     incorporated into all installation development planning and infrastructure projects. The goal
     is to satisfy mission requirements while maintaining a safe, healthy, and high quality
     environment for current and future generations. Key principles of sustainable planning
     include:
        2.2.2.1. Compact Development. Installations must conserve land resources. This can
        be achieved through compact development patterns that support an appropriate mix of
        uses, encourage walking and other alternative modes of transportation, accommodate
        appropriate residential and commercial densities, and incorporate a more integrated grid
        network of streets and sidewalks. Installations may have to reconfigure current land use
        patterns and transportation systems within their developed areas to create opportunities
        for future development. Compact development patterns may include multi-story
        buildings, greater densities, mixed-uses, and minimal spacing between buildings while
        maintaining consideration of Antiterrorism/Force Protection (AT) requirements, Air
        Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) impacts, and other constraints.
        2.2.2.2. Infill Development. To conserve limited land resources, planners will, to the
        maximum extent possible, plan development within the installation core (existing
        cantonment area) and on previously developed land. Planners should place buildings in
        gaps between existing developed areas and buildings. Such infill development results in
        greater density at the core of the installation and supports more integrated land use and
        transportation networks. Removal/replacement of aging low-density development with
        higher density development may also be appropriate.
        2.2.2.3. Mixed-Uses. To make compact development feasible, compatible uses should
        be integrated into horizontal and vertical mixed-use development. Incompatible land
        uses must be appropriately segregated.
        2.2.2.4. Transportation Networks. Ensure that uses within each district as well as the
        districts themselves are connected via a network of streets and pedestrian pathways based
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                         9


       on modified grid patterns that afford route options for motor vehicles, bicycles, and
       pedestrians.
       2.2.2.5. Landscape Development. Integrate regionally-appropriate native or indigenous
       vegetation and inert materials across the installation to conserve water resources, control
       erosion, increase aesthetics, reduce heat island effects, utilize storm water, and mitigate
       antiterrorism concerns where practical. Effectively incorporate landscape materials to
       improve the human experience through increased recreational opportunities and
       encouraging walking and bicycle use while mitigating impacts to air quality and facility
       energy consumption.
       2.2.2.6. Low Impact Development. Use on-site natural features to control storm water
       runoff quantity and quality in lieu of traditional “end-of-pipe” solutions. Implement
       engineered small-scale hydrologic controls to replicate the pre-development hydrologic
       regime of watersheds through infiltrating, filtering, storing, evaporating, and detaining
       runoff close to its source.
       2.2.2.7. Energy Efficiency. Include opportunities for production of renewable energy
       and use of nuclear energy, improvement of energy security, energy conservation, and
       enhancement of energy efficiency. Identified opportunities should reduce dependence on
       energy from outside sources and enhance energy security.
       2.2.2.8. Natural & Cultural Resource Conservation. Consider installation cultural
       and natural resources to ensure protection of these resources, including appropriate
       information and maps from the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan (INRMP)
       and the Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan (ICRMP). Consultation and the
       development of enduring relationships with cultural entities is a significant component of
       cultural resource stewardship.
       2.2.2.9. Antiterrorism (AT). Planning will incorporate provisions for AT per UFC 4-
       010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings.
2.3. The Environmental Impact Analysis Process. Planners shall alert the EIAP Program
Manager as early in the planning process as possible to initiate requirements of the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Planning activities must integrate the NEPA processes; to
ensure that planning and decisions reflect environmental values; to identify alternatives
considered, document which alternatives would be carried forward for full analysis and the
rationale for those dismissed; to avoid delays later in the process, and to head off potential
conflicts. Additionally, EIAP supports the formulation of strategies to avoid or mitigate adverse
environmental impacts. Planners can better implement the IDP by reaching out to stakeholders
and decision makers associated with the environmental analysis process.
 10                                                                   AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


                                            Chapter 3

                     THE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS

3.1. Objective. The objective of the Comprehensive Planning Process (CPP) is to synthesize
data and information to enable commanders to make effective development decisions affecting
their installation and the surrounding community. CPP is a multidisciplinary process involving
all stakeholders associated with management, use and development of Air Force lands, facilities,
and resources. CPP includes analysis of the installation’s development capability to perform
current, programmed, and potential future missions. The summary product of the CPP is the
IDP. The IDP provides a developmental path forward that incorporates known and projected
mission requirements, developmental constraints and opportunities, and recommended courses of
action to achieve optimal use of lands, facilities, and resources in support of installation
performance. The IDP also synthesizes the results of relevant studies, analyses, and functional
plans prepared by members of the cross-functional planning team.
3.2. Process steps. The CPP takes place at all levels and includes five main steps:
   3.2.1. Identification. The installation mission is the most important element affecting the
   future direction of base development. Assigned missions dictate functional requirements and
   the physical layout of the installation. Planners must understand the mission and its effect on
   land, facilities, built and natural infrastructure, and the way of life of the installation
   community. Within the Identification step, the BCP identifies shortfalls in the existing
   capability, capacity, or relationship of installation resources with respect to their contribution
   to successful accomplishment of installation missions.
   3.2.2. Evaluation. The BCP assesses the information collected in the first step, and relate it
   to relevant installation development opportunities and constraints. The evaluation process
   also further quantifies the deficiencies highlighted in the Identification step.
   3.2.3. Development. IDP development occurs when preliminary (mission, installation,
   environmental, etc.) and projected (future mission plans, off base encroachment projection
   models, vegetation growth, etc.) information is collected, assessed, and development
   alternatives are shaped. Plan development is “top down” with the IDP prepared first, then
   area development plans, then site specific plans.
   3.2.4. Implementation. IDP implementation is accomplished through improvement
   projects. The plan identifies projects necessary to meet mission requirements and execute
   the plan’s vision, goals and objectives. These projects become the foundation for the
   installation Capital Improvements Plan (CIP). Funding constraints typically inhibit
   simultaneous funding of all projects in the CIP. This fosters long-range, deliberate, capital
   investment decision making. An installation’s physical development evolves at a pace
   necessary to meet mission needs; yet accommodates responses to short-term problems such
   as swing space for renovations or construction project completion.
   3.2.5. Maintenance. After an IDP is developed and approved, it must remain useful,
   current, and relevant to the installation’s mission. This is achieved during annual review and
   validation or when major development changes are proposed. U.S. national security and
   defense reviews may impact military posture, force structure, and installation configuration,
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        11


   and any of these strategic drivers can impact installation requirements. Comprehensive
   planning is a continuous process.
3.3. Relationship to Other Major Processes. Comprehensive Planning is an integral element
in resource allocation (such as strategic basing, requirements, acquisition, programming,
environmental and budgeting). The CPP requires data from other processes as inputs. Likewise,
outputs from the CPP are used as process inputs elsewhere in informing leadership on planning
actions and resource allocation. The following are basic processes and process outputs integral
to comprehensive planning, but do not represent an all-inclusive list:
   3.3.1. Component Plans. The comprehensive planning process evaluates and balances a
   spectrum of issues: environmental, land use, operational, engineering, transportation, safety,
   security, design, and quality of life that determine the installation’s future physical
   development. These issues are addressed in component plans, studies, databases, documents,
   and graphics required to be prepared and maintained by the BCP and other functional
   experts. Examples include Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Study, Integrated Natural
   Resources Management Plan, Housing Community Profile, Privatized Housing Initial
   Development Plans, Dormitory Master Plans, Integrated Cultural Resources Management
   Plan, Architectural Compatibility Plan, Encroachment Action Plan, Investment Planning
   (AMPs, BCAMPs), and Traffic Engineering Studies. Elements of component plans and
   special studies are generally used in preparing the IDP. All of these component plans and
   special studies may not be appropriate or desirable for all installations. Other specialized
   component plans or special studies may also be desirable and necessary. When relevant, all
   of the cited plans, and others as appropriate, must be evaluated with respect to the IDP.
   Planned resource stewardship actions, opportunities and constraints within each program
   must be evaluated with respect to the others to identify potential impacts on future
   development.
   3.3.2. Investment Planning. The CIP identifies development actions needed to support
   current and projected mission activities. As the Investment Planning process proceeds from
   the longer-range Program Objective Memorandum view, to the budget cycle, and finally to
   current-year execution, changes in anticipated and actual resource allocation can impact the
   IDP when proposed projects are or are not funded in the years where need has been
   identified. These changes, in addition to the insertion of unanticipated requirements resulting
   from near-term mission changes and/or other legislation or regulatory change, can drive
   changes in proposed project scope or timing. Consequently, the IDP must be evaluated in
   terms of these factors, and the investment plan may in turn need to be revised to reflect
   changing priorities and fiscal constraints. Figure 3.1 below reflects the interaction of the
   Comprehensive Planning and Investment Planning processes.
 12                                                                  AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


Figure 3.1. IDP/Investment Planning Integration.




   3.3.3. Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP). The Air Force has established the
   EIAP to ensure the potential environmental impacts of Air Force actions are considered and
   inform decision-making processes. Planners must coordinate with the installation EPF for
   analysis of planning proposals for environmental effects. The two key elements in the EIAP
   are (1) early identification of proposed actions and (2) completion of the entire EIAP process
   before decisions are made. EIAP embodies the goals and objectives of the NEPA process
   with emphasis on environmental awareness, sustainable development, historic preservation
   and protection of archeological and natural resources. The proponent is responsible for
   initiating the AF Form 813 by completing Section 1 and submitting it to the EPF. The EPF
   conducts the EIAP for projects within its capacity. For EIAP actions that exceed installation
   capacity, the AFCEC NEPA Center of Excellence will serve as the EPF. For overseas
   installations, DODD 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense
   Actions, and 32 CFR §989, Part 187 apply.
   3.3.4. Encroachment Management. Encroachment is any deliberate action by any
   governmental or non-governmental entity or individual that does, or is likely to, inhibit,
   curtail, or impede current or future military activities within the installation complex or
   mission footprint; or deliberate military activity that is, or is likely to be, incompatible with
   the community’s use of its resources and reasonable quality of life. Identified encroachment
   must be evaluated in terms of how it impacts current installation layout and operation, and
   constrains future development. Proposed military and community development actions must
   also be evaluated with respect to how the development will mitigate or conflict with known
   or projected encroachment. IDPs shall consider encroachment with regard to recommended
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                         13


  planning actions to ensure proposed development actions are consistent with encroachment
  prevention objectives.
  3.3.5. Explosive Safety. Proposed facilities that are intended for the storage, maintenance,
  processing, and handling of explosives, to include facilities and roadways to be constructed
  within explosives safety clear zones as defined in AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety
  Standards, require special siting. These facilities must be approved at the appropriate Air
  Force and DOD level before expending funds on any construction activity. Proposed
  development actions must be evaluated to ensure they do not conflict with existing or
  planned explosives-related facilities and their required separation distances.
  3.3.6. Infrastructure Planning. Address all infrastructure systems (to include utility
  delivery and conveyance systems and all base pavements to include roadways, taxiways, and
  runways) and infrastructure investments to provide an overview of the state of these systems
  throughout the installation. Emphasis is placed on capacity analysis, systems details, age,
  location, and condition of facilities, and location of facilities with a clear and understandable
  graphic presentation. This macro view of these detailed engineering infrastructure systems
  provides the decision-maker with the information necessary to clearly comprehend the
  linkages between these critical engineering systems and the capability to support
  development identified in the other component plans. Infrastructure planning should also
  addresses communications systems and navigational aids as they affect development
  opportunities.
  3.3.7. Interagency Planning Coordination. Many Federal, State, regional, and local
  agencies have established planning processes that would benefit from Air Force participation,
  and whose input would in turn benefit Air Force installation planning. Planning issues
  arising from encroachment, noise, population growth and transportation are examples of the
  need for direct Air Force participation in external planning processes. It is important that Air
  Force installations develop reciprocal planning relationships that help ensure such
  discussions on a continuing basis. A proactive inter-governmental planning process provides
  an integrative planning framework that can respond to both Air Force mission requirements
  and local planning actions. Air Force representatives attending local, state, and regional
  planning groups should contact their Public Affairs and Staff Judge Advocate offices for
  consultation prior to commenting on official Air Force positions regarding projects occurring
  outside of the installation complex or mission footprint.
  3.3.8. Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) coordination. AFI 10-2501,
  Air Force Emergency Management Program, describes the Installation Emergency
  Management Planning process. The IEMP provides comprehensive guidance for emergency
  response to physical threats resulting from major accidents, natural disasters, severe weather
  events, conventional attacks, terrorist attacks, or Chemical/Biological/Radiological/Nuclear
  attacks. It is important for the BCP to maintain situational awareness of and coordinate on
  the IEMP.
 14                                                                AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


                                          Chapter 4

                      COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS

4.1. The Installation Development Plan Format. The IDP summarizes the results of the Air
Force Comprehensive Planning Process at a given point in time. It provides the strategic goals
and supporting geospatial and written information to advocate for resources through project
programming, evaluate energy initiatives, provide documentation on encroachment issues on and
off the installation, promote airfield safety, and enhance the general health and welfare of the
natural and built environment. The IDP shall contain, at a minimum, the following sections:
1.     Commander’s Cover Letter
2.     Table of Contents
3.     Executive Summary (summarizing elements 4-10)
4.     Strategic Vision Alignment
4.1.   DOD
4.2.   AF
4.3.   A7C
4.4.   MAJCOM
4.5.   Installation
5.     Installation Setting (Installation & Regional)
6.     Planning Constraints (operational, natural and built constraints to development)
7.     Installation Capacity Opportunities
7.1.   Mission Operations
7.2.   Built Infrastructure
7.2.1. Existing Land Use
7.3.   Mission Support
7.4.   Quality of Life
8.     Sustainability Development Indicators (See Attachment 3)
8.1.   Air Quality
8.2.   Energy Use
8.3.   Water (Quality and Quantity)
8.4.   Encroachment
8.5.   Land Utilization
8.6.   Waste Reduction-Non HAZ
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                       15


8.7.   Renewable Energy
8.8.   Space Optimization
8.9.   Natural/Cultural Resources
9.     Future Development Planning
9.1.   Future Land Use Plan
9.1.1. Planning Districts
9.1.1.1.      Area Development Plans
9.2.   Future Transportation Plan
9.3.   Future Alternative Scenarios
10.    Plan Implementation
10.1. Short Range Development Plan (1-5 years)
10.1.1. Plan Achievement Matrix
10.2. Medium Range Development Plan (6 to 10 years)
10.3. Long Range Development Plan (11-20 years)
10.4. Installation Development Map (color coded by development timeframe)

4.2. Planning Products. The IDP will be web-based.
4.3. Plan Updating & Approval. The IDP will be reviewed and updated annually, or as needed
if conditions change before the annual review. The IDP will be briefed to the installation
Facilities Board and endorsed by the Wing Commander annually. All major changes to the IDP
will be forwarded from the installation to the MAJCOM/A7 before the IDP can be revised.
(Major changes are defined as the insertion or deletion of a Military Construction (MILCON)
requirement within the Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP), re-siting of a MILCON project, or
other threshold event as defined in MAJCOM supplemental guidance.) New IDPs and major
changes to existing IDPs will be briefed to the MAJCOM/A7 as part of a Base-to-Command
briefing, or forwarded for approval by the MAJCOM/A7 or as delegated not later than 30 April
of each calendar year. MAJCOM/A7s will develop MAJCOM-specific guidance for the IDP
approval process. (T-2)
4.4. Plan Evaluation. The aggregate effect of the projects proposed in the IDP should be
evaluated with respect to how the projects enable progress toward the objectives established in
Federal, Defense, Air Force, MAJCOM and installation policy and guidance in Chapter 2. The
Sustainability Development Indicators (SDI) provided in Attachment 3 illustrate many
installation performance measures that can help the BCP identify and quantify this progress, as
well as the source of the data. With this information, the BCP will then include a Plan
Achievement Matrix in the IDP, explicitly identifying the plan’s contribution to progress against
key objectives as defined by AFCEC.
4.5. Plan Maintenance. Routine updates and maintenance of the IDP are the responsibility of
the BCP. Resourcing for significant studies or component plan development outside the
 16                                                            AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


capability of the BCP will be programmed and funded by the BCE. When the need for specific
studies or analyses is driven by a new weapon system beddown or by a mission change for a
tenant organization, the weapon system or tenant chain of command may need to program for
and fund the requirement.
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        17


                                           Chapter 5

                                  GEOSPATIAL MAPPING

5.1. Definition. Geospatial Mapping is the spatial data component of comprehensive planning,
and refers to the compilation and consolidation of spatial data to create maps to support planning
decisions.     AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information and Services, defines the
mapping requirements for the common installation picture and the data layers. Spatial data
collected and created while doing comprehensive planning must adhere to the specified common
standards.
5.2. Data Layers (DL). DLs are required in order to perform analysis of development
constraints and opportunities across the installation and within PDs. Data for current and
proposed mission requirements are used to establish limitations and conditions affecting an
installation’s capabilities to execute mission support.
   5.2.1. Origination. Many DLs necessary for comprehensive planning are created by
   multiple external agencies. The comprehensive planning process and the IDP integrate and
   analyze these data layers to build situational awareness of the installation and its regional
   setting. Attachment 2 lists the basic DLs required for preparing the IDP.
   5.2.2. Data Maintenance. Data stewards will review DLs on no less than an annual basis,
   and will revise when necessary. Data stewards will coordinate DL updates with their Geo-
   Integration Office. (T-2)
5.3. Information Security. To address information security concerns, installation security
managers will review the IDP for suitability for public release. The IDP is intended to be
releasable to outside contractors and other external agencies as required to facilitate planning,
coordination, mutual aid, and future construction. DLs deemed to be classified at the SECRET
level or higher should not be included in the IDP. Access to DLs classified as For Official Use
Only (FOUO) or Sensitive but Unclassified should be restricted to individuals having appropriate
need to know. Installation security managers have the authority to withhold the release of any
information, as the situation dictates.
 18                                                                  AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


                                            Chapter 6

       QUALIFICATIONS, TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

6.1. Qualifications. The BCP position requires knowledge, skills, and abilities in the practice of
comprehensive planning and successful completion of a full 4-year course of study from an
accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in a major appropriate to
the community planning field. The Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) will ensure that
qualified personnel are appointed as BCPs, as well as adherence to all of the Office of Personnel
Management standards for this profession. Commanders will ensure these qualified personnel
perform the installation comprehensive planning function. (T-2)
6.2. Training.
   6.2.1. Installation Development Plan Training. Upon initial appointment, BCPs shall be
   scheduled to attend the next available offering of the Air Force Institute of Technology
   (AFIT) educational course Comprehensive Planning Development (WENG-520). (T-2)
   6.2.2. Continuing Education. BCPs are strongly encouraged to attend related AFIT
   courses as a part of a formal Individual Development Plan. Suggested AFIT coursework in
   asset management and sustainability, such as WMGT 101, WMGT 416, WMGT 420, WENV
   450, and WMGT 580 is highly recommended.
   6.2.3. Training Plan. Proficiency in the practice of comprehensive planning is vital to
   representing Air Force interests before community and regional agencies. BCPs shall work
   with supervisors to develop and implement training plans to maintain proficiency in the
   tactics, techniques and procedures of contemporary comprehensive planning. The training
   plan should indicate continuing education opportunities to include workshops, seminars and
   courses conducted by DOD, Air Force, national, regional, or state associations, educational
   institutions, or other organizations affiliated with city/comprehensive planning. BCP
   proficiency training includes the recurring Air Force Planners Training Workshop conducted
   by AFCEC. The Training Plan may also incorporate cross-training and broadening
   experiences such as participation in the Assistance Team program.




                                             JUDITH A. FEDDER
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                       19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C. 2667, Leases: non-excess property of military departments and Defense Agencies, 3
Jan 2012
10 U.S.C. 2911-2925, Energy performance goals and plan for Department of Defense, 7 January
2011
16 U.S.C. 470, National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 15 October 1966
32 CFR 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP), 15 July 1999
33 U.S.C. 1251, Clean Water Act, 27 November 2002
42 U.S.C. 300, Safe Drinking Water Act, 31 December 2002
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 1 January 1970
42 U.S.C. 6901, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 3 January 2007
42 U.S.C. 7401, Clean Air Act, 7 August 1977
Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands, 24 May 1977
Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, 24 May 1977
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, 24 January 2007
Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic
Performance, 5 October 2009
DOD Directive 6050.7, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Department of Defense Actions,
31 March 1979
DOD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism (AT) Standards, DoD Standard 15, AT Measures
for Off-Installation Facilities, Housing, and Activities, 2 October 2006
DOD Instruction 4165.70, Real Property Management, 6 April 2005
DOD Instruction 4170.11, Installation Energy Management, (Implements Public Law 110-140,
Energy Independence and Security Act ), 11 December 2009
Energy Independence and Security Act, Section 438, 19 December 2007
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 24 January
2007
AFI 13-201, Airspace Management, 1 December 2006
AFI 32-1012, Reserve Component Facilities Programs, 22 July 1994
AFI 32-1021, Planning and Programming Military Construction (MILCON) Projects, 14 June
2010
 20                                                              AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


AFI 32-1023, Designing and Constructing Military Construction Projects, 21 April 2010
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance, Repair, and
Construction Projects, 15 October 2003
AFI 32-7040, Air Quality Compliance and Resource Management, 27 August 2007
AFI 32-7041, Water Quality Compliance, 10 December 2003
AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 15 April 2009
AFI 32-7044, Storage Tank Compliance, 13 November 2003
AFI 32-7060, Interagency and Intergovernmental Coordination for Environmental Planning, 25
March 1994
AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process (Promulgates CFR 989), 12 March
2003
AFI 32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program, 13 September 2005
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFI 32-7065, Cultural Resources Management Program, 1 June 2004
AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property, 27 July 1994
AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information and Services, 19 October 2007
AFI 32-10142, The Facilities Board, 14 May 2013
AFI 38-301, Productivity Enhancing Capital Investment Program, 20 November 2009
AFI 65-501, Economic Analysis, 29 August 2011
AFMAN 32-1084, Facility Requirements, 20 April 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, 12 January 2011
TI 809-04, Seismic Design for Buildings, 31 December 1998
UFC 03-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17 November 2008
UFC 2-00-02AN, Installation Master Planning, 15 May 2012
UFC 3-210-01A, Area Planning, Site Planning, and Design, 16 January 2004
UFC 3-701-01, DoD Facilities Pricing Guide, Ch. 3, September 2012
UFC 3-710-01A, Code 3 Design with Parametric Estimating, 1 March 2005
UFC 4-010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings, 8 October 2003
UFC 4-030-01, Sustainable Development, 21 December 2007
UFC 1-200-01, General Building Requirements, 16 August 2010
Federal Aviation Regulations, Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace, 1 May 1965
Public Law 109-58, Energy Policy Act, 8 August 2005
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                        21


OMB Circular A-76, 29 May 2003
MIL-HDBK-1165, Water Conservation, 7 April 1997
Other Supporting Documents
OSDPP 403-01, Building Design Guides
USAF Project Manager’s Guide for Design and Construction
Federal Facilities Pollution Abatement Report A-106
Guidelines of the United States Water Resources Council
Interagency Sustainability Working Group Guidance on HPSB Guiding Principles
Environmental Quality Protection Planning Bulletin/Manual
Communications Systems Planning Bulletin
Planning Airbases for Combat Effectiveness
Utility Systems Planning Bulletin
Transportation Planning Bulletin
Comprehensive Planning Approach and Process
Comprehensive Planning Data Sources and Applications
Long Range Facilities Development Planning Bulletin
Quality of Life Planning Bulletin
Fire Protection Planning Bulletin
Landscape Planning and Design Bulletin
Area Development Planning Bulletin
AFCEC Web Site- Planning Primer
Comprehensive Planning Playbook
EIAP Playbook
Airfield Obstructions Playbook
Siting Playbook
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP—Area Development Plan
AF/A7C—The Air Force Civil Engineer
AF/A7CI—Air Force Installations Division
AFI—Air Force Instruction
 22                                                      AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AICUZ—Air Installations Compatible Use Zones
AMP—Activity Management Plan
ANG—Air National Guard
AT—Assistance Team (formerly Planning Assistance Team)
AT—Antiterrorism/Force Protection (formerly AT/FP)
BCAMP—Base Comprehensive Asset Management Plan
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BCP—Base Community Planner
CIP—Capital Improvement Plan
CIP—Common Installation Picture
DL—Data Layer
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
EIAP—Environmental Impact Analysis Process
EPF—Environmental Planning Function
FB—Facilities Board
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GIS—Geographic Information System
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
ICRMP—Integrated Cultural Resources Management Plan
IDP—Installation Development Plan
INRMP—Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan
LEED—Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LID—Low-Impact Development
MAJCOMs—Major Commands
MCAMP—MAJCOM Comprehensive Asset Management Plan
MDS—Mission Data Sets
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        23


MILCON—Military Construction
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NEPA—National Environmental Policy Act
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PD—Planning District
SAF/IE—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment, and Logistics)
SAF/IEI—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
U.S.C.—United States Code
VMT—Vehicle Miles of Travel

Terms
Area Development Plan—This plan elaborates on the proposed development of a specific area.
It illustrates the functional as well as physical and human aspects of areas to be developed. This
plan may be short range but could show proposed long-range (10-15 yr.) physical changes. It
generally includes roadways, pedestrian paths, parking, utility alignments, landscaping, cost and
schedule information, etc. Common applications are the community center, flight line,
administration complexes, etc.
Air Installation Compatible Use Zone—This program is designed to assist local, regional,
state, and federal officials in protecting and promoting the public health, safety, and welfare by
promoting compatible development within the AICUZ area of influence. The AICUZ program
also protects Air Force operational capability from the effects of land use which are incompatible
with aircraft operations.
Activity Management Plan—A plan developed for an activity that uses multi-disciplinary
management techniques (including financial, engineering, planning, programming,
environmental, IT, risk management, and administration) over the lifecycles of the assets (when
built assets are involved) and applies them, in the most cost effective manner, to achieve
specified Air Force levels of service.
Asset Management—A structured approach to managing Air Force assets based on business
case principles standardizing levels of service and balancing cost, risk, and benefits to maximize
the value of assets to the Air Force mission.
Base-to-Command Briefing—Refers to management oversight procedure and protocols for
MAJCOMs to review and approve installation planning programs and products to include the
Installation Development Plan.
Capital Improvements Plan—Integrates all the primary elements of traditional physical
planning, current land use, vicinity land use, existing base layout and facilities, existing
transportation systems, and each of the corresponding future plans into one document. Land use
and transportation significantly influence development of the CIP. The CIP identifies in more
detail the physical location of projects approved for funding or programmed for funding. The
 24                                                                     AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


CIP integrates MILCON; Operations and Maintenance (O&M); Military Family Housing
(MFH); Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF); Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs;
industrially-funded depot maintenance; and other source-funded projects that significantly affect
facilities and land development. All CIP projects should reflect in their appropriate AMP, but
only key development projects should be included in the CIP.
Component Plan—A separate plan or special study required by other Air Force programs
focusing on functional areas that support the Installation Development Plan and the overall
comprehensive planning effort. Preparation of Component Plans is not specifically required by
this instruction. Component Plan information is incorporated into the Installation Development
Plan at an appropriate level of detail.
Comprehensive Planning Process—The ongoing, iterative, participatory process addressing the
full range of issues affecting or affected by an installation's development. Through this process,
goals and objectives are defined, issues are identified, information is gathered, alternative
solutions are developed, and a sound decision-making process is employed to select a preferred
alternative for implementation.
Current Planning—This phase covers active construction programs, extending approximately
one year into the future. This phase can be viewed as the implementation phase, where the Long-
Range and Short-Range Plans are translated into physical development. While the information
will be the most detailed available, the opportunity to accommodate changes becomes limited
and potentially costly.
Data Set—A defined, documented, and approved set of Data Layers which can be used in
conjunction with separately maintained business data to complete a recurring task or mission. A
Mission Data Set is created in order to provide a standardized data model and consistent process
for mapping and analysis. The Data Layers within a Mission Data Set can be obtained from
across multiple, different functional groupings. The Data Layers within a Mission Data Set are
selected based on relevance to a specific mission. Each Mission Data Set will address potential
conflicts arising from the interaction of the composite Data Layers, to include topology,
symbology and vocabulary. An example of a Mission Data Set is the Common Installation
Picture (CIP).
Digital Electronic Data and Systems—Examples include Geographic Information Systems
(GIS), Computer Aided Design and Drafting (CADD), Automated Facility Mapping (AF/FM),
Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM), Multimedia (MM), databases, spreadsheets,
graphic interfaces, and other distributed multimedia systems such as the Internet and World
Wide Web (WWW). These tools are used in managing, manipulating, and maintaining
comprehensive planning information.
Encroachment—Any deliberate action by any governmental or non-governmental entity or
individual that does, or is likely to, inhibit, curtail, or impede current or future military activities
within the Installation Complex or Mission Footprint,; or deliberate military activity that is, or is
likely to be, incompatible with the community’s use of its resources and reasonable quality of
life.
Environmental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP)— The process required by the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA); the implementing regulations of the President’s
Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) in 40 CFR Parts 1500 - 1508; and Air Force
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                          25


implementing regulations contained in 32 CFR Part 989. The NEPA established the CEQ and a
national policy designed to encourage consideration of the influences of human activities (e.g.,
population growth, high-density urbanization, industrial development) on the natural
environment. The CEQ implementing regulations established procedures requiring, among other
things, that environmental information about major federal actions with the potential to
significantly impact the environment be made available to the public before decisions are made
and that federal agencies promulgate their own regulations to ensure those procedures are
followed. The Air Force EIAP regulations establish the procedural framework to implement the
legal requirements of NEPA and the CEQ’s implementing regulations. In short, EIAP ensures
that impacts of proposed Air Force actions are analyzed and considered in the decision-making
process, and before any final decision or irretrievable commitment of resources is made.
Installation Complex—The land, facilities, airspace, and ranges providing direct mission
support to and/or are managed by the installation. This includes a combination of land and
facilities comprised of a main installation and its noncontiguous properties (auxiliary air fields,
annexes, and missile fields) that provide direct support to, or are supported by, that installation.
Installation complexes may comprise two or more properties, e.g., a major installation, a minor
installation, or a support site, each with its associated annex(es) or support property(ies).
Installation Development Plan—The document that provides the installation commander and
other decision-makers a condensed picture of an installation's capability to support the mission
with its physical assets and delivery systems. It is a general assessment of the installation’s
infrastructure and attributes for the purpose of gauging development potential.
Integrated Priority List—A list of requirements falling within a specific funding category, and
prioritized within each fiscal year.
Investment Planning—The process of using AF strategic drivers, AF mission objectives/needs
and installation requirements along with defined levels of service to develop requirements across
the FYDP+2 that informs the POM; and to develop and prioritize projects/opportunities for
implementation in the CY+1 budget.
Long-Range Planning—The planning phase that offers the widest view and the broadest level
of detail. This planning phase typically covers a period extending to 20 years in the future. It is
the most dynamic phase where the greatest amount of change can be introduced and absorbed
with the least expense. Long-Range planning is accomplished through requirements analysis, and
the development of future land use and transportation plans.
Map—A graphic representation, usually on a plane surface, and at an established scale, of
natural or built features on the earth surface, that generally encompasses the installation,
surrounding area, and region. The features are positioned relative to a coordinate reference
system. Maps in most cases will be computer generated. Maps support the Installation
Development Plan, Component Plans, Special Plans and Studies.
Mission Footprint—The installation complex plus any land, facilities, airspace, or ranges that
are not managed by the installation, but provide direct, routine support to the mission.
Plan Achievement Matrix—A summary table or spreadsheet showing CIP-proposed projects
aligned with major planning objectives provided within HAF, MAJCOM, and Installation vision
and guidance materials.
 26                                                                 AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


Planning District—A subdivision of an installation, greater in scope than an Area Development
Plan, discerned by defining characteristics such as geography, mission, land use, building types,
that entail a unifying theme for focused analysis on mission, command priorities, and facility
requirements.
Short-Range Planning—The planning phase which coincides with the lead time for facility
construction programs, generally extending 5 years into the future. It is at this phase that
planning decisions are integrated with the appropriate construction and funding programs.
Site Plan—A site plan is a detailed plan for a specific project. It shows the relevant natural and
built features of the site, including precise locations of buildings, parking areas, driveways,
landscaping, fencing, walkways, signs, lights, etc. The site plan is a graphic representation of
exactly what a site would look like when complete. Site plans are usually completed in a pre-
construction design phase.
Special Plans and Studies—A source of planning information on a functional area required by a
specific Air Force program. Examples include Housing Community Profiles, Integrated Natural
Resources Management Plans, Air Quality Studies, and Transportation Studies.
Sustainable Installation—An installation that efficiently supports current operations with
minimal impact on the built and natural environments without compromising the ability to meet
future mission requirements.
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                             27


                                           Attachment 2
                               GEOSPATIAL VISUALIZATION

A2.1. Intent. The Installation Development Plan aligns geospatial information from a wide
variety of sources in order to depict the installation as it currently exists, define constraints and
opportunities, and illustrate future development plans.
   A2.1.1. The following table highlights the majority of geospatial Mission Data Sets and Data
   Layers that are central to installation planning efforts. Refer to the Comprehensive Planning
   Playbook for current definition of relevant planning-related data. Installation planners may
   identify other information that is relevant and required to fully define the situation at their
   bases, and should coordinate with the responsible data steward for access to current versions
   of that information.
   A2.1.2. Various communities continue to expand their geospatial data libraries, and to define
   standards for the representation of their geospatial data layers. Refer to the appropriate Geo-
   Integration Office or AFI 32-10112, Installation Geospatial Information and Services, for
   more information on geospatial data.
   A2.1.3. The following table identifies data sets and layers as either “Internal” (I) or
   “External” (E) in terms of whether they are generated within the comprehensive planning
   process (internal), or are developed within other processes and serve as source information
   for the comprehensive planning process (external). For external data, the table also identifies
   the organizational elements within the host Wing that likely produce and maintain these data,
   although assigned responsibilities may vary. The data sets and layers listed within each
   category may be supplemented with additional information as required.

Table A2.1. Geospatial Data.

Data Set                      I/E       Data Steward                             Detail

A. Common Installation Picture

                                           CES/GIO         Existing facilities, streets, roads and airfield
Installation Layout            E                           pavements
                                          (CENME)

Geographically                             CES/GIO         Layout of existing GSU facilities, streets,
Separated Unit (GSU)           E                           roads and airfield pavements
                                          (CENME)

Regional Location                          CES/GIO         Reference to nearest major city
                               E
                                          (CENME)

Vicinity Location                          CES/GIO         Within 5 miles of the installation
                               E
                                          (CENME)
 28                                                         AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


Data Set                   I/E   Data Steward                         Detail

                                   CES/GIO       Current over flight photography rectified with
Aerial Photography         E
                                  (CENME)        the CIP

B. Land Use

                                  Community       Area depiction by boundary and name of all
Planning Districts          I      Planner       planning districts
                                   (CENPP)

                                  Community      Current land uses delineated in color or
Existing Land Use           I      Planner       pattern, including GSU sites.
                                   (CENPP)

                                  Community      Future land uses delineated in color or pattern,
Future Land Use             I      Planner       including GSU sites.
                                   (CENPP)

                                  Community      Existing land use plan and transportation plan
Vicinity Existing Land             Planner
                            I                    that defines and governs the growth of the
Use
                                   (CENPP)       adjacent vicinity in color or pattern

                                  Community      Existing zoning of the adjacent vicinity in
Vicinity Existing Zoning    I      Planner       color or pattern
                                   (CENPP)

                                  Community      Areas identified as capable of development or
Developable                        Planner       redevelopment
                            I
Opportunity Areas
                                   (CENPP)

                                 Real Property   Parcels, rights of way, in-grants, out-grants,
Real Estate                E       Officer       easements (to include AICUZ/2684a real estate
                                                 interests), leases
                                   (CEIAP)

C. Airfield Operations

On-base Obstruction to            Community      Identified physical violations of
Airfield and Airspace       I      Planner       airfield/airspace criteria within the boundaries
Criteria                                         of the installation IAW UFC 3-260-01
                                   (CENPP)
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                    29


Data Set                  I/E   Data Steward                            Detail

                                 Responsible
Approach & Departure              Terminal        Identified physical violations of
Zone - Obstructions to    E      Instrument       airfield/airspace criteria exterior to the
10,000 ft                        Procedures       installation to 10,000 feet
                                  (TERPS)
                                   function
Approach & Departure                              Identified physical violations of
Zone - Obstructions       E        TERPS          airfield/airspace criteria exterior to the
Beyond 10,000 ft                                  installation beyond 10,000 feet

                                                  Identified physical violations of
Airspace Obstructions –
                          E        TERPS          airfield/airspace criteria within 5 miles of the
Vicinity
                                                  installation

                                Engineering Flt   Layout, type of pavement, and bearing
Airfield Pavement Plan    E                       capacity, as well as condition of runways,
                                    (CEN)         taxiway and aprons by color or symbol

                                  Airfield
Aircraft Parking Plan     E                       Aircraft parking positions by block or figures
                                 Management

                                Engineering Flt   Approach, runway, taxiway, threshold,
Airfield Lighting
                          E                       distance-to-go, and ramp lighting locations and
Systems                             (CEN)         supporting electrical lines

D. Transportation

                                 Community        Functional street system classification
Community Network                 Planner         showing Interstate, arterials, collectors, bike
                           I
Access to Base                                    lanes, bus routes, gates & feeders providing
                                  (CENPP)         entrance/exit to base

                                 Community        Functional street system classification
On-base Street Network     I      Planner         showing arterials, collectors, sidewalks, gates
                                                  and feeders on base
                                  (CENPP)

                                 Community        Planned/programmed modifications to the
                                  Planner         functional street system showing proposed
Future Transportation                             arterials, collectors, gates and feeders on base
                           I      (CENPP)
Plan
 30                                                         AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


Data Set                   I/E   Data Steward                         Detail

E. Constraints

                                 Environmental
                                   Element       Single point or area boundary depiction of
Cultural Resources         E
                                                 historic facilities and archaeological sites
                                    (CEIE)

                                                 Area boundary depiction of
                                 Environmental   threatened/endangered species habitat,
Natural Resources          E       Element       wetlands, 100-year floodplains, lakes, rivers,
                                    (CEIE)       streams, water bodies, and Installation
                                                 Restoration Program sites

                                 Environmental
Installation Restoration                         Area boundary depiction of restoration sites
                           E       Element
Program                                          (to include environmental use restrictions)
                                    (CEIE)

                                 Environmental
Waste Water Discharge              Element
                           E                     Single point of generating source
(NPDES)
                                    (CEIE)

                                 Environmental
Storm Water Discharge              Element
                           E                     Ground plane drainage flow pattern
(NPDES)
                                    (CEIE)

                                 Environmental
Fuel/Chemical Storage              Element       Below and above ground tanks being 10,000
                           E
Tanks                                            gallons or greater
                                    (CEIE)

                                 Environmental
Drinking Water Supply              Element       Single point or boundary depiction of potable
                           E
Sources                                          water sources
                                    (CEIE)

                                 Environmental   Single point locations for installation emitters
Electromagnetic &                  Element       and boundary depiction for zones of potential
                           E
Radiation Sources                                hazard; clear areas required for transmission or
                                    (CEIE)       reception look angles

                                  Community      Primary Surfaces, Transitional Surface (7:1),
Airfield & Airspace                Planner
                            I                    Approach & Departure Surface (50:1),
Clearance Criteria
                                   (CENPP)       Approach & Taxiway Clearances
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                  31


Data Set                  I/E    Data Steward                          Detail

Antiterrorism/ Force                              All AT elements IAW UFC 4-101-01 for the
                             E   AT Function
Protection                                        installation and off-base sites

                                  Community
                                   Planner        APZs I and II, CZ, noise contours at 5dB
AICUZ                        I
                                                  increments (60-85 dB)
                                   (CENPP)

Explosive Safety
                             E   Wing Safety              Quantity-Distance (Q-D) Arcs
Quantity-Distance

F. Future Development Plan

                                                  Physical location of those projects approved or
Short-range                       Community       programmed for funding including
Development Plan (1-5        I     Planner        construction, addition, demolition/
year)                              (CENPP)        consolidation or alteration over the next five
                                                  (5) years

                                                  Physical location of those projects approved or
Medium-range                      Community       programmed for funding including
Development Plan (6-10       I     Planner        construction, addition, demolition/
year)                              (CENPP)        consolidation or alteration over the next ten
                                                  (10) years

                                                  Physical location of those projects approved or
Long-Range                        Community       programmed for funding including
Development Plan (20-        I     Planner        construction, addition, demolition/
year)                              (CENPP)        consolidation or alteration over the next twenty
                                                  (20) years

                                  Community       Potential facility/utility /infrastructure
Alternative Scenario               Planner        development or re-development providing
                             I
Plan(s)                                           alternative installation options to accommodate
                                   (CENPP)        future added or deleted missions

G. Utilities

Water Distribution               Operations Flt   Wells, storage locations, and distribution lines
System                       E
                                    (CEO)         six inches in diameter and above

Sanitary Sewerage                Operations Flt
System                       E                    Main trunk line and lift stations
                                    (CEO)
 32                                                                AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


Data Set                     I/E      Data Steward                          Detail

Storm Drainage System                 Operations Flt
                              E                         Main trunk line
                                          (CEO)

Electrical Distribution               Operations Flt    Above and underground primary distribution
System                        E
                                          (CEO)         lines and substations

Central Heating/Cooling               Operations Flt
System                        E                         Above-ground and underground distribution
                                          (CEO)

Natural Gas Distribution              Operations Flt
                              E                         Storage and primary/secondary distribution
System                                    (CEO)

Liquid Fuels System                   Operations Flt
                              E                         Primary/secondary lines
                                          (CEO)

Industrial Waste &                    Operations Flt    Lines, manholes, pumping stations, treatment
Drain System                  E
                                          (CEO)         plants, and outfalls

H. Communications


Basewide                                            Government and non-government major cable
                                     Communications
Communications,                                     routes (data and voice); manholes, hand-holes,
                              E        Sq. Weather
NAVAIDS, and                                        equipment rooms, vaults, antennae, and
                                        Function
Weather Systems                                     repeaters


I. Energy

                                         Energy         Solar arrays, wind turbines, tidal generators,
Existing Generation                    Coordinator      fuel cells, geothermal systems and associated
                              E
Facilities                                              transmission lines or pipe systems
                                        (CENPE)

                                         Energy         Solar arrays, wind turbines, tidal generators,
Future Generation                      Coordinator      fuel cells, geothermal systems and associated
                              E
Facilities                                              transmission lines or pipe systems
                                        (CENPE)

Note: The IDP is intended to be releasable to outside contractors and other external agencies as
required to facilitate planning, coordination, and future construction. Data layers deemed to be
classified at the SECRET level or higher should not be included in the IDP. Access to data
layers deemed to be FOUO or Sensitive but Unclassified should be restricted to individuals
having appropriate need to know.
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                        33


                                         Attachment 3
    SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS (SDI) USED IN PLANNING

The use of SDI introduces sustainability into the planning process. SDIs establish the existing
installation sustainability profile for the IDP. The SDIs can also be used as measurement and
predictive tools to assess the impacts of planning actions. The SDIs represent quantitative values
and must be used in conjunction with other quantitative and qualitative information used to
inform the planning process. The SDI comprise planning ratios, e.g. Use/Sq. Ft, Use/Per Capita,
and qualitative description, e.g. professional assessment, in nine sustainability categories: Air
Quality, Energy Use, Water (Quality & Quantity), Encroachment, Land Use, Waste Reduction-
Non Hazardous, Renewable Energy, Space Optimization and Natural/Cultural resource areas,
and include inside and outside-the-fence Indicators. These categories are required elements of
the Installation Development Plan. Table 3.1 below shows those required categories along with
a list of suggested measures and data sources. The list of measures and sources is not all
inclusive. Other measures and sources may be used where applicable.

Table A3.1. SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS & DATA SOURCES.

IDP Sustainability
                                 Sustainability Indicators & Measures                 Source
Categories

A. Energy Use

                                                                                   AF Energy
                                         Facility Energy Intensity                Almanac/Base
                                              (MBTU/Sq Ft)                           Energy
                                                                                   Coordinator

                                                                                   AF Energy
                                           Facility Energy Cost                   Almanac/Base
                                                 ($/Sq Ft)                           Energy
                                                                                   Coordinator

B. Renewable Energy

                                                                                   Base Energy
                                                                                   Coordinator/
                                                                                     Air Force
                                             Feasibility Study                       Facility
                                                 (Yes/No)                         Energy/Utility
                                                                                     Program
                                                                                  Community of
                                                                                  Practice (CoP)
 34                                                        AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


IDP Sustainability
                        Sustainability Indicators & Measures             Source
Categories

                                                                      Base Energy
                                                                      Coordinator/
                                Opportunity Assessment                  Air Force
                                                                         Facility
                                      (Yes/No)                        Energy/Utility
                                                                      Program CoP


C. Water

                       Water Supply Availability During Average          Natural
                                      Demand                          Infrastructure
                                   (Avg. Gal/Day)                      Assessment
                                   (% Headroom)                           (NIA)
                                                                         AFCEC

                     Water Supply Availability During Peak Demand
                                                                          NIA
                                 (Avg. Peak Gal/Day)
                                   (% Headroom)                          AFCEC

                                 Water Supply Quality                     NIA
                                    (NIA Rating)                         AFCEC

                          Storm Water Receiving Body Quality              NIA
                                    (NIA Rating)                         AFCEC
                                                                          NIA
                          Wastewater Receiving Body Quality
                                                                         AFCEC
                                    (NIA Rating)

D. Air Quality

                                                                          NIA
                                  Air Quality Status                     AFCEC
                              (Attainment/Nonattainment)                  State
                                                                     Implementation
                                     (Tons/year)
                                                                       Plan (SIP)
                                                                       Designation
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                               35


IDP Sustainability
                             Sustainability Indicators & Measures            Source
Categories

E. Waste Reduction

                                                                             Enterprise
                                                                           Environmental
                                                                             Safety, &
                                      Construction waste                    Occupational
                                                                               Health
                                        (# of Tons/Yr)                      Management
                                      (% Diversion Rate)                    Information
                                                                              System
                                                                          (EESOH-MIS)-
                                                                          Non Haz Waste

                                        Non-Haz Waste
                                                                          EESOH-MIS-
                                        (# of Tons/Yr)                    Non Haz Waste
                                      (% Diversion Rate)

F. Land Use

                                   Acres by Planning District
                            (Undeveloped Acres without Constraints)
                         (Undeveloped Acres with Constraints Allowing      Community
                                         some Uses)                         Planner
                        (Undeveloped Acres with Constraints Allowing no
                                            Uses)

G. Space Optimization

                                     Admin Usable Space                    S-File-Real
                                         (Gross Sq Ft)                      Property

                                     Admin Vacant Space                    S-File-Real
                                            (Sq Ft)                         Property

                                                                              Base
                                                                           Programmer
                                        20/20 By 2020
                              (% reduction reported to MAJCOM)
 36                                                            AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


IDP Sustainability
                          Sustainability Indicators & Measures               Source
Categories

H. Housing

                                Availability of dorm rooms                 Installation
                                                                          Dorm Master
                                       (# of rooms)                            Plan

                                                                          AF Portfolio
                                                                           and Asset
                                                                          Control and
                                                                           Evaluation
                             Availability of privatized housing
                                                                            System
                                   (# of Existing Units)
                                                                          (AFPACES)
                                                                           (AFCEC
                                                                           Database)

                                                                            Housing
                                                                          Requirements
                                                                           and Market
                               Availability of Gov't Housing                Analysis
                                   (# of Existing Units)                  (HRMA) and
                                                                            Housing
                                                                           Community
                                                                          Profile (HCP)

I. Encroachment

                     Incompatible land use in CZ, APZs, & Noise Zones
                                                                              NIA
                                (Total Incompatible Acres)
                                                                         AICUZ Report
                                   (% Incompatibility)

                                                                           Measuring
                                                                         Sprawl and Its
                                                                          Impact Vol I-
                                                                           USA Today
                                      Urban Sprawl                       Report (2000),
                                                                         Ewing, Pendall
                                   (% Land Urbanized)
                                                                            & Chen
                                                                          US Census or
                                                                             Local
                                                                          Information
AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013                                                                 37


IDP Sustainability
                            Sustainability Indicators & Measures              Source
Categories

                                                                            Sustainable
                                                                            Installations
                                                                              Regional
                                                                              Resource
                                  Regional Land Urbanization
                                                                            Assessment
                            (10-year % Change Population Growth)              (SIRRA)
                                                                           US Census or
                                                                              Local
                                                                           Information

                                  Regional Population Growth               US Census or
                        (% Change for Last 5 Years in Population Growth       Local
                                             Rate)                         Information

J. Natural / Cultural

                                                                             Integrated
                                                                              Cultural
                                                                             Resources
                                                                            Management
                                      Archaeological sites                 Plan (ICRMP)
                            (# and % Acres of Listed / Eligible Sites)      Installation
                                                                             GIS layer /
                                                                              Cultural
                                                                              Resource
                                                                            Coordinator

                                                                             ICRMP /
                                                                            Installation
                                        Historic facilities                 GIS layer /
                           (# and Acres of Listed / Eligible Facilities)      Cultural
                                                                             Resource
                                                                            Coordinator
 38                                                          AFI32-7062 27 JUNE 2013


IDP Sustainability
                          Sustainability Indicators & Measures                Source
Categories

                                                                             Integrated
                                                                              Natural
                                                                             Resources
                                         Wetlands                           Management
                                                                           Plan (INRMP)
                                        (# of acres)
                                                                            Installation
                     (% of Acres of Wetlands to Total Installation Area)    GIS layer /
                                                                              Natural
                                                                             Resource
                                                                            Coordinator

                       Sikes Act compliant with required Interagency         INRMP /
                                       Coordination                           Natural
                                                                             Resource
                                         (Yes/No)                           Coordinator

                                                                             INRMP /
                                        T&E Species                         Installation
                                       (# of Species)                       GIS layer /
                      (# of Acres of Designated Critical Habitat Areas)       Natural
                                                                             Resource
                                                                            Coordinator
