 BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1065
AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND

                                                   AIR FORCE GLOBAL STRIKE COMMAND
                                                                        SUPPLEMENT

                                                                               1 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                                       GROUNDING SYSTEMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
 ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

 RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

 OPR: HQ AFGSC/A7OI                                                Certified by: HQ AFGSC/A7O
                                                                           (Col Crinley S. Hoover)
                                                                                          Pages: 3

 AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 1 October 1998, is supplemented as follows. This supplement
 implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-1065, Grounding
 Systems. This supplement describes Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) procedures for
 use in conjunction with the basic AFI. It applies to AFGSC organizations that design, develop,
 modify, evaluate, or maintain grounding systems. Specifically, this guidance pertains to all
 storage and maintenance facilities to include igloos, underground and above ground structures.
 It applies to Air Force Reserve Units and Air National Guard Units who operate as part of
 AFGSC. Refer recommended changes or questions regarding this supplement to the Office of
 Primary Responsibilities (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
 Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
 command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
 are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
 Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
 System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
 af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 1.1.5. (Added) Ensure that all personnel testing, inspecting, repairing, modifying, or maintaining
 lightning and grounding systems are qualified or that their work is inspected by a person who is
 qualified.
 1.1.6. (Added) Ensure there is a minimum of one qualified lightning and grounding system
 certifier at all times.
2                                                 AFI32-1065_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010


1.1.6.1. (Added) Maintain a current designation letter appointing the lightning and grounding
system certifier/s.
1.2.1. (Added) Contract Support. When contract support is used to maintain, modify, or install
lightning and grounding systems the contract shall require the contractor personnel to have
standard commercial certifications (such as Underwriter’s Laboratories) and to maintain the
systems in accordance with industry standards, NFPA 780, Standard for Installation of Lightning
Protection Systems, AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, and AFI 32-1065_AFGSCSUP,
Grounding Systems. The contractor is not required to receive or maintain qualifications through
the Air Force Qualification program. Contractors who attend AFGSC approved lightning
protection systems course and receive the required certificate of completion still are required to
maintain all standard commercial certificates. The contractor shall provide a copy of all test
records to the unit Chief of Operations (CEO) for review and trend analysis. Records will be
maintained within CEO as required in AFI 32-1065. Facilities maintained through contract
support will be subject to surveillance and compliance inspections at the discretion of the
supporting installation Civil Engineer Squadron and Safety Organization. Air Force and HQ
AFGSC personnel may also conduct and direct surveillance and compliance inspections.
1.2.2. (Added) Lease Agreements and Contracts. Facilities on Air Force installations leased to
outside agencies or contractors are subject to the requirements of para 1.2.1.
2.1. (Added) Personnel shall comply with all portions of NFPA 780, Standard for Installation of
Lightning Protection Systems, to include the Appendices. If there is a conflict with publications
listed in Attachment 1 of AFI 32-1065, the more stringent criteria will apply.
6.1. (Added) Qualification Requirements: Pass the Air Force Global Strike Command sponsored
lightning protection course and receive the required certificate of completion.
6.1.1. (Added) Demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities to effectively administer the
requirements of referenced codes and standards to their lightning and grounding system certifier
during daily work.
6.1.2. (Added) Personnel who have not worked in lightning and grounding for at least two full
consecutive years must repeat the requirements of 6.1. and 6.1.1. to be considered qualified.
6.1.3. (Added) Contractors maintaining lightning and grounding systems do not need to meet the
requirements of 6.1. through 6.1.2. However, the contract and contractor must meet the
provisions of section 1.2.1.
6.2. (Added) Lightning and Grounding System Certifier Qualification Requirements.
6.2.1. (Added) Pass the Air Force Global Strike Command approved lightning protection course
and receive the required certificate of completion.
6.2.1.1. (Added) Repeat the course as a refresher at intervals no greater than six years.
7.1. (Added) Procedures shall require AFGSC checklists for Explosives Safety, Hoists,
Emergency Power, and Lightning Protection for Weapons Areas to be run against each structure
with lightning protection. Each lightning protection system must be considered independently to
ensure guidance is properly implemented.
9.11. (Added) Safety shall not be degraded to enhance aesthetic appeal of LPS system.
AFI32-1065_AFGSCSUP 1 JANUARY 2010                                                               3


14.1.1. (Added) New Construction. Facilities shall be designed with:
14.1.1.1. (Added) Ground wells at corner ground rods. This will provide easy access to the
corner ground rods for more convenient testing.
14.1.1.2. (Added) U.L. listed high compression or exothermic-weld type connectors provided
they are commercially available. This will provide for a high degree of mechanical and electrical
integrity for connections.
14.7. (Added) Lightning Protection For Above Ground Launch Structures. Above ground launch
structures shall be provided the same protection as explosive facilities (see para 14.4. in AFI 32-
1065, Grounding Systems) with the following additions:
14.7.1. (Added) The system will be designed in accordance with NFPA 780, AFI 32-1065, and
this Supplement. Base the design on top 100 feet of the structure.
14.7.2. (Added) All structural metal shall be bonded.
14.7.3. (Added) When practical, structural steel members will be made electrically continuous
and used as down conductors.
14.7.4. (Added) The structure will have an interconnecting ring conductor installed every 200
feet in height when the structural members do not form a ring every 200 feet. In some cases, it
will be necessary to attach temporary conductors between the fixed and moveable portions of the
launch structure to ensure potential equalization.
14.7.5. (Added) All antennas, radomes, and dishes mounted external to the structure will have
surge suppression installed where the conductor enters the launch structure.




                                                     ANN L. MITCHELL, SES, DAF
                                                     Director of Logistics, Installations,
                                                     and Mission Support
