BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-6004
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
(USAFE)                                                 UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                                                  Supplement
                                                                                      4 JANUARY 2007
                                                                  Certified Current on 28 February 2013
                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                                     FURNISHINGS MANAGEMENT


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A7CPH                                                   Certified by: HQ USAFE/A7CPH
                                                                                    (Mr. John S. Busca)
Supersedes AFI32-6004_USAFESUP1,                                                              Pages: 8
           12 March 1997

AFI 32-6004, 3 March 2006, is supplemented as follows: This supplement outlines policy, procedures,
and responsibilities in United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) and applies to all USAFE units and
supported personnel. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard
(ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994 and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Dispo-
sition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS (AF Portal). This instruction requires collecting and maintain-
ing information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 9775. Privacy Act system
of record F032 AF CE D, On/Off-Base Housing applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Extensive changes in poli-
cies and procedures of the basic Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-6003 required a complete revision of this
supplement.
1.3.6.1. (Added) Requests to permanently transfer furnishings/appliances to/from the Military Family
Housing (MFH) account must be submitted in writing to Mission Support Directorate, Civil Engineering,
Program Division, Housing Branch (HQ USAFE/A7CPH). Requests must include (minimum) a justifica-
tion, item details, nomenclature, stock number, new item value/replacement cost and current (depreciated)
item value, quantity, condition, age and pertinent inventory background of losing and gaining accounts.
1.9.1. (Added) General officers, their spouses, an adult member of the household, or an aide will person-
ally sign an AF Form 228 Furnishings Custody Receipt and Condition Report computer generated reprint
product provided by the Automated Civil Engineer System (ACES), for all furnishings in their General
Officer Quarters (GOQ).
2                                                             AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007


2.1.2.1. (Added) Chief, Furnishings Management Office may submit a written waiver request to HQ
USAFE/A7CPH to purchase items (Operations and Maintenance (O&M)) that are not included in the
allowance authorization document. Waiver requests must include justification, quantities, cost and
description of item (Example: brochures, sketches, and photographs).
2.1.3.1. (Added) Chief, Furnishings Management Office may submit a written waiver request to HQ
USAFE/A7CPH to purchase items (MFH) that are not included in the allowance authorization document.
Waiver requests must include justification, quantities, cost and description of item (Example: brochures,
sketches, and photographs).
2.1.5. (Added) When eligibility status of a customer changes (i.e. unaccompanied member marries or
after divorce), furnishings originally issued as either O&M or MFH may remain in the original account
and physically in place for the remainder of the customer’s assignment period provided the following con-
ditions are met:
2.1.5.1. (Added) Avoids additional workload for Furnishings Management Office (FMO), saves pick-up/
delivery run solely to swap items between accounts.
2.1.5.2. (Added) Currently used assets are interchangeable and meet customer’s need.
2.1.5.3. (Added) No other customer demands are jeopardized. If there is an existing waitlist (backorder)
for the subject items, all items above the authorization level must be returned to the FMO for redistribu-
tion.
2.2.5. (Added) USAFE addition to paragraph 2.2. Submit the furnishings budget to the base financial
analysis office through the Base Civil Engineer (BCE) resource management flight with information cop-
ies to the base supply funds manager for the stock fund authority and HQ USAFE/A7CPH.
2.2.6. (Added) Numbers of authorized customers and military population forecast information will be
documented for accompanied and unaccompanied personnel (i.e. number of persons living off base).
2.4.6. (Added) USAFE addition to paragraph 2.4. Computation documents reflecting calculation fac-
tors for furnishings requirements on backup stock must be kept on file at FMO and updated upon comple-
tion of each budget submittal.
2.10.6. (Added) USAFE addition to paragraph 2.10. Computation documents reflecting calculation
factors for appliance requirements on backup stock must be kept on file at FMO and updated upon com-
pletion of each budget submittal.
3.2.1.1.1. (Added) Warehousing depends on locally available space and best use. Physical segregation of
O&M, Non-appropriated Fund (NAF), and MFH items in the warehouse is recommended, but is not a
mandatory requirement for interchangeable items, provided there is proper accounting of each item.
3.3.1.1. (Added) The requirement to monitor every delivery or pick up service may be waived if local
random Quality Assurance Evaluation (QAE) inspection schedules are specified in the contract.
4.3.2.1. (Added) Automated Civil Engineer System (ACES) for FMO must be used when available. A
manual accounting system must be used for issues, turn-ins, and status of furnishings in the absence of an
automated system. When used, the manual system must include the following functions:
4.3.2.1.1. (Added) Track customers’ personnel data, address, and Date Estimated Return from Overseas
(DEROS) to ensure members clear their accounts prior to permanent change of station (PCS), separation,
or retirement.
AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007                                                                          3


4.3.2.1.2. (Added) Furnishing Waiting List. A backorder list of items not available at the time customer
placed their order.
4.3.2.1.3. (Added) 90-Day Suspense Report. List all temporary loaner kit items that have exceeded the
authorized loan limit of 90 days.
4.3.2.1.4. (Added) Salvage Report. List all items awaiting transport to Defense Reutilization Marketing
Office (DRMO).
4.3.2.1.5. (Added) Repair Report. List all items currently under repair.
4.3.2.1.6. (Added) Maintain paperwork for any pending or processed claim actions in customer’s folder.
4.3.2.1.7. (Added) Use of USAFE Form 391, Household Furnishings Record -Pickup and Delivery Ser-
vice, and USAFE Form 392, Transportation of Housing Supply Furnishings - Service Certificate, are rec-
ommended when equivalent automated scheduler documents in ACES are not available.
4.4.3. (Added) AF Form 228 (or computer generated equivalent) reflecting quantity, totals and condition
(NF1-NF3-XB3) of items must be signed by the customer.
4.5.1. (Added) Normally only serviceable excess, in new-in-box condition, should be considered for
major command (MAJCOM) redistribution. Prior to reporting excess items to MAJCOM, Base FMO will
prepare short, written economic justification to determine if future use of excess items can be made with-
out costly repairs or refinishing and transport is possible without severe damage. Transportation cost must
be economically feasible and supported by a comparison of item value and the remaining useful lifecycle
of items (include wrapping and packing). If excess items do not warrant MAJCOM redistribution, or no
longer meet USAFE standards, the Base Civil Engineer (BCE) may determine best use of items locally.
The BCE may offer excess furnishings to units for use in authorized break rooms. Economic justification
documentation and a waiver letter must be kept on file. Accountability is transferred to the facility man-
ager signing for the assets. The following conditions apply:
4.5.1.1. (Added) Furnishings normally identified for salvage may be issued to organizations. The organi-
zation’s squadron commander must sign the request for furnishings. FMO will keep an itemized receipt,
signed by the customer at time of pick up, on file.
4.5.1.2. (Added) Units will be responsible and accountable for these furnishings. FMO will remove items
from their inventory.
4.5.1.3. (Added) No replacements will be issued. Organizations will provide their own transportation to
pick up furnishings and turn in to DRMO when no longer needed.
4.5.1.4. (Added) This program is intended to maximize the use of existing government resources.
4.6.3.2.1. (Added) Annotate shortages on USAFE Form 432, Loss and/or Damage of Government
Owned Furnishings Report, when equivalent automated documents in ACES are not available. Maintain
USAFE Form 432s for 5 years.
4.6.4. (Added) USAFE addition to paragraph 4.6. Accomplish inventories with minimum disruption of
customer service. Recommend perpetual single item or block of item inventory method to promptly iden-
tify discrepancies and isolate specific groups of assets. Avoid conducting inventories during the peak PCS
season (May-Aug).
5.2.1.1. (Added) When establishing customer furnishings accounts, provide the following documenta-
tion:
4                                                              AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007


5.2.1.1.1. (Added) Housing assignment documentation for government quarters moves or rental contract
for community housing moves.
5.2.1.1.2. (Added) A letter must be signed by the landlord for community housing moves stating that
government-owned furnishings and supplies will not be held in case of debts by the tenant towards the
landlord. In addition, the letter will contain the landlord agreement to permit a military representative to
enter the premises and remove United States (U.S.) property in cases of emergency. This requirement can
be met if contained within the rental contract.
5.2.1.1.3. (Added) Copy of PCS orders and amendments. Number of dependents must be identified on
PCS orders and amendments before FMO support is authorized.
5.2.1.1.4. (Added) Letter of authorization to reside off base with basic allowance for quarters for unac-
companied members in pay grades E-1 to E-3 and E-4 with less than 3 years in service.
5.2.1.1.5. (Added) Authorization documents when support derives from a support agreement or installa-
tion commander special approval.
5.2.2.1. (Added) Personnel who miss an appointment without first notifying the FMO may be held finan-
cially liable for the actual cost to the U.S. government for the missed appointment.
5.2.2.1.1. (Added) Document and distribute local policy in a customer brochure. For FMO customer
checklist use of the following statement is recommended: "I understand that I may be held financially lia-
ble for the cost the government incurs as a result of a missed appointment."
5.2.3.1. (Added) Per AFI 32-6003, General Officers Quarters additional adult household members or
aides are authorized to sign to receive furnishings for general officers.
5.2.5.1. (Added) Delivery representatives will speak sufficient English to be able to advise customers on
the proper care and use of furnishings/appliances at the time of delivery.
5.2.8.1. (Added) To save transportation costs, furnishings and appliances may remain in community
rental quarters not to exceed 45 days from vacancy to occupancy. In this case, the landlord must sign for
and assume full responsibility for the furnishings, using USAFE Form 112, Landlord Certification or in
Germany use USAFE Form 113, Landlord Certificate (Vermieter Bescheinigung). FMO will monitor
these accounts thoroughly and pick up all government furnishings if the quarters are not occupied by
Department of Defense (DoD) personnel within the 45-day timeframe.
5.2.8.1.1. (Added) The following accountability procedures apply to sponsors assigned to one installation
while occupying quarters in an area supported by another housing flight. The FMO of the base responsi-
ble for providing support (in most cases, this is the location to which the sponsor is assigned) will monitor
the monthly departure notification listing. The installation to which the sponsor is assigned will notify the
supporting FMO 30 days prior to the member’s port call.
5.2.10.1. (Added) Authority to determine an extenuating circumstance (such as landlord executing termi-
nation of lease beyond control of customer) resides with the Housing Flight Chief or FMO flight chief
when FMO is a designated flight and the FMO flight is not subordinate to the housing flight. Authority
can be delegated. Note: Local procedures may apply for government directed moves (i.e. transportation
may be performed by Transportation Management Office (TMO) rather than by FMO).
5.2.12. (Added) Make all effort to meet a customer’s request for delivery or pick up. The recommended
period of time between a customer’s request and the actual pick up or delivery should not exceed 10 work-
ing days for delivery, and 14 working days for pick up. A customer on temporary lodging allowance
AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007                                                                          5


(TLA) has the highest priority for delivery. Meeting a customer’s request for scheduling should be a high
priority. Advertise in the local paper, daily bulletin, and on radio and TV to inform members of the impor-
tance of timely arrangements.
5.3.1.1. (Added) Typical duration-of-tour items quick reference list (See AFI 32-6004, paragraph 8.6.):
Note: FMO items are only authorized if not provided by landlord or built-in.

Table 5.1. (Added) Typical duration-of-tour items.
Item                                Basis of Issue
Refrigerator                        1
Stove                               1
Washer                              1
Dryer                               1
Wardrobe                            2 per person, minimum 1 per person if FMO
                                    inventory is limited.
Transformers                        2 (1,000 or 2,000 watts)
*Microwave oven                     1
*Portable dishwasher                1
*Kitchen cabinets                   2
*Smoke detectors                    As required
*Fire extinguisher                  As required
*Area carpet                        As required (when not wall-to-wall)
NOTE: *Optional items. May not be available at all installations.

5.3.2.1. (Added) Approval to retain loaner kit items past 90 days may be delegated by installation com-
mander but no lower level than the chief of FMO level.
5.3.2.1.1. (Added) Typical loaner kit items (90 days) quick reference list to support in and out processing
periods. (See AFI 32-6004, paragraph 8.6.) Note: FMO items are only authorized if not provided by land-
lord or built-in.
6                                                              AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007


Table 5.2. (Added) Typical loaner kit items.
Items                                       Basis of Issue
Sofa                                        1
Easy chair                                  2
End table                                   2
Coffee table                                1
Dining table                                1
Dining room chairs                          As required
Dining room buffet                          1
Complete double or queen bed                1 (sponsor and spouse)
Complete single bed                         1 for each family member (excluding spouse)
Dresser                                     1 for each family member
Chest of drawers                            Interchangeable with dresser
Nightstand                                  2 per double bed; 1 per single bed
Lamps                                       1 for each nightstand and end table
*Mirror                                     1 for each dresser or chest
*Desk                                       1
*Straight chair without arms                1 per desk
*Steel step stool                           1
NOTE: *Optional items. May not be available at all installations. Small items (i.e. steel step
stool) may be provided for tour duration if adequate FMO stock is available and if there is a
justified local demand for the item.

6.2.1. (Added) Unaccompanied Housing and Lodging Appliances. Whenever possible, purchase the
same size and type as used in MFH.
7.2.1. (Added) Assignment of leading management functions for organizing the Quarters Improvement
Committee (QIC) may be designated by the BCE to best fit local organizational structures, (i.e. Dormitory
Management or Housing Management members may assume leadership role).
8.4.14. (Added) Suitable substitute items may be provided when authorized item is temporarily not avail-
able and customer agrees to the substitute. Suitable substitute items are issued only to fill temporary back-
order requirements. If customer agrees, substitute items may be issued as permanent replacements. Local
circumstances may demand lower authorization numbers to warrant fair share of existing stock shortages
among all customers.
9.1.1. (Added) Forms Prescribed.
USAFE Form 112, Landlord Certification
USAFE Form 113, Landlord Certificate (Vermieter Bescheinigung)
USAFE Form 391, Household Furnishings Record - Pickup and Delivery Service
AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007                                                      7


USAFE Form 392, Transportation of Housing Supply Furnishings - Service Certificate
USAFE Form 432, Loss and/or Damage of Government Owned Furnishings Report
8                                                        AFI32-6004_USAFE 4 JANUARY 2007


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 9775
Privacy Act System of Record: F032 AF CE D, On/Off-Base Housing
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe



                                            DANNY K. GARDNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Director, Installations & Mission Support
