BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-580
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           17 JANUARY 2013
                                                              KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                         3 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                               SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for download or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSMO/XP                                                          Certified by: SAF/A6W
                                                                    (Brig Gen Jeffrey Kendall)
Supersedes:   AFI33-118, 18 July 2005                                                 Pages: 82
                                     (KIRTLANDAFB)
OPR: 377 MSG/SCOT                                                  Certified by: 377 MSG/SC
                                                          (Hoang X. Nguyen, GS-14, Director)
                                                                                      Pages:4


This instruction establishes guidance and procedures for Air Force-wide management and use of
the electromagnetic spectrum and implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic Spectrum;
DoDI 8320.05, Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Sharing; National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (NTIA) Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio
Frequency Management; Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-5, Warfighting Integration; and
the procedures established by the Joint Staff J65A United States Military Communications-
Electronics Board (USMCEB). It identifies various levels of responsibilities for Air Force (AF)
management of the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum and provides procedures for implementation.
This publication applies equally to the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG)
operating under Title 10 or developing and/or using Title 10 spectrum dependant equipment.
Refer technical questions about this publication to the Air Force Spectrum Management Office
(AFSMO), 6910 Cooper Avenue, Fort Meade, MD 20755-7088. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Send recommended changes or
comments to Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC/ESPL), 203 West Losey Street,
Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF)
 2                                             AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the AF. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

(KIRTLANDAFB) This publication supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-580, Spectrum
Management, and establishes procedures at Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) for effective radio
spectrum management. The guidance in this document will be followed by all Mission Partners
and Contractors. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the
Air National Guard (ANG). It also applies to all Army, Navy, Marine Corp, and Department of
Defense (DoD) units training or testing on KAFB. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). No waivers may be granted for any
part of the publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: realignes publication number in accordance with SAF/A6 guidance, updates spectrum
guidance found in DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the
Electromagnetic Spectrum, adds policy on Windmills, and implements new DoD spectrum data
guidance found in DoDI 8320.05, Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Sharing.

       1.      Overview. ...............................................................................................................    3
       2.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................             3
Figure 2.1.    DoD Spectrum Management. .................................................................................                   5
       3.      Air Force Spectrum Management. .........................................................................                     7
       4.      Spectrum Certification. ..........................................................................................          15
Figure 4.1.    Spectrum Certification Flowchart. .........................................................................                 16
Table 4.1.     Submission Lead Times. ........................................................................................             19
       5.      Frequency Actions. ................................................................................................         22
Table 5.1.     Joint Base Locations. .............................................................................................         27
       6.      Guidance for Specific Cases of Frequency Usage. ................................................                            29
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                                   3


Table 6.1.     SSV. .......................................................................................................................   34
Table 6.2.     Emergency Frequencies. ........................................................................................                38
Table 6.3.     FRS Frequency Pool. .............................................................................................              44
Table 6.4.     FCC Part 25 Certification. .....................................................................................               51
       7.      Windmill Operations. .............................................................................................             59
       8.      Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Sharing ...............................................................                          59

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                61

Attachment 2—FREQUENCY ASSIGNMENT CLASSIFICATION REFERENCE                                                                                    74

Attachment 3—MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF
             DEFENSE AND DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION REGARDING
             THE 960-1215 MHZ FREQUENCY BAND                                                                                                  78


1. Overview.
   1.1. Managing the Radio Frequency (RF) Spectrum. National and international regulatory
   bodies require effective and efficient use of the EM spectrum. Effective and efficient use is
   defined as applying design or operational techniques that conservatively use EM spectrum in
   a compatible (i.e., non-interference) manner.
   1.2. Allocation. The EM spectrum is allocated between federal and non-federal users with
   portions of the spectrum shared (see NTIA Manual). Federal users must utilize frequency
   bands allocated for government or shared use. A government frequency assignment may be
   authorized in a non-government band provided the request is coordinated and granted
   approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
   1.3. International Spectrum Management. The International Telecommunications Union
   (ITU) is the international body responsible for international frequency allocations, worldwide
   telecommunications standards and telecommunications development activities.
       1.3.1. ITU Membership. The United States (US) is one member of the nations that make
       up the ITU. International agreements signed by the President and ratified by the US
       Senate gain treaty status.
       1.3.2. Host Nation (HN) Approval.         The EM spectrum is a natural resource
       independently managed by each sovereign nation within their boundaries. This basic
       consideration of international spectrum management becomes extremely important when
       US military forces operate abroad. Units must obtain HN approval to use frequencies
       before US forces can legally operate.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Authority.
       2.1.1. US National Spectrum Management. The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
       Title 47 United States Code (U.S.C.), Telegraphs, Telephones, and Radiotelegraphs,
       Section 151 et seq., The Communications Act of 1934, established separate control of
4                                 AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


       federal (government) and non-federal (civilian) use of the EM spectrum. Under this act,
       the only government agencies that assign and control the use of frequencies in the US are
       the NTIA and the FCC.
    2.2. Organizations.
       2.2.1. The NTIA. The NTIA assigns and regulates frequencies for federal users. The
       NTIA Manual of Regulations for Federal Radio Frequency Management (hereafter
       “NTIA Manual”) governs all federal (including military) use of the EM spectrum within
       the United States and its Possessions (US&P).
       2.2.2. FCC. The FCC assigns and regulates frequencies for non-federal users. Non-
       federal users include private citizens, companies, and state and local government users.
       2.2.3. Department of Defense (DoD) Spectrum Management. The Under Secretary of
       Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD [AT&L]) sets policy for
       acquiring systems that use the EM spectrum and ensures compliance with EM spectrum
       support procedures. The Assistant Secretary of Defense develops overall DoD policy for
       managing and using the EM spectrum. DoD activities involved in frequency
       management (see Figure 2.1.) are:
           2.2.3.1. USMCEB. The USMCEB, or hereafter “MCEB”, develops joint policy and
           provides direction in military communications-electronics (C-E) matters.
           2.2.3.2. The MCEB Joint Frequency Panel (JFP). The MCEB JFP provides expert
           technical advice to the MCEB in the areas of RF engineering and EM spectrum
           management. Through the Equipment Spectrum Guidance (ESG), it reviews the
           characteristics of major C-E equipment purchased or developed by the DoD. This is
           known as the Joint Frequency Equipment Allocation Process (also called the J/F-12
           Process) and is defined by requirements established by the NTIA, the Spectrum
           Planning Subcommittee (SPS), and military joint or allied system review groups. The
           MCEB, through the Frequency Panel’s (FP) Spectrum Operations Working Group
           (SOPWG), establishes procedures for submitting frequency assignment requests
           according to requirements established by the NTIA, the Frequency Assignment
           Subcommittee (FAS), and military joint or allied frequency assignment groups.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                5


Figure 2.1. DoD Spectrum Management.




         2.2.3.3. DoD Area Frequency Coordinator (AFC). The DoD AFCs are responsible
         for ensuring successful frequency coordination in the areas that lie within, are
         adjacent to, or are within radio line-of-sight (LOS) to any range spectrum dependent
         system, including all systems brought to a national test range or other designated
         complex. Activities must coordinate all military frequency use within a DoD AFC
         area of responsibility (AOR) with the appropriate DoD AFC before starting
         operations. DoD AFCs are directly responsible to their military department for
         administrative purposes and to the MCEB for policy guidance. The Allied
         Communications Publication (ACP) 190 (US SUPP-1), Guide to Frequency
         Planning, contains specific policy guidance. Refer to the NTIA Manual, Annex D
         and Table 3 for a list of the DoD AFC geographic descriptions, addresses, and phone
         numbers.
            2.2.3.3.1. AF-Sponsored DoD AFCs. The AF provides DoD AFC services at the
            following locations:
                2.2.3.3.1.1. Gulf AFC. Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command (HQ
                AFMC) provides support to the Gulf AFC at Eglin AFB FL.
                2.2.3.3.1.2. Eastern AFC. Headquarters Air Force Space Command (HQ
                AFSPC) provides support to the Eastern AFC at Patrick AFB FL.
6                          AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


           2.2.3.3.1.3. Nellis AFC. Headquarters Air Combat Command (HQ ACC)
           provides support to the Nellis AFC at Nellis AFB NV.
       2.2.3.3.2. AFC Responsibilities. AF-sponsored DoD AFCs will:
           2.2.3.3.2.1. Manage coordinate, and assign frequencies for the range
           commanders according to ACP 190 (US SUPP-1) and the NTIA Manual.
           2.2.3.3.2.2. Ensure compliance with the DoD Electromagnetic (EM)
           compatibility (EMC) program.
           2.2.3.3.2.3. Ensure compliance of range and range-hosted spectrum
           dependent systems with national and DoD spectrum management regulations,
           policies, and procedures.
           2.2.3.3.2.4. Review new or changed DD Form 1494, Application for
           Equipment Frequency Allocation, for impact on range EM spectrum use and
           provide comments to AFSMO, when appropriate.
           2.2.3.3.2.5. Advise the range or area commander, and all affected
           organizations, of RF interference that may result from scheduled operations
           and tests, and recommend solutions. Mutual resolution of conflicts is the
           responsibility of the commanders concerned.
           2.2.3.3.2.6. Review and evaluate frequency assignment requests proposed for
           use within their areas of responsibility. The evaluation will establish the
           compatibility of proposed frequencies with national and service test and
           training ranges within line-of-sight of any operations.
           2.2.3.3.2.7. Refer unresolved problems on EM spectrum management
           practices, technical comments, or recommended operating conditions for
           resolution through AF command channels to AFSMO according to AFI 10-
           707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program.
           2.2.3.3.2.8. Coordinate and de-conflict all range EM spectrum operations
           under their purview with military, federal, or civil spectrum users, to include
           within LOS of any ground or airborne system. Resolve all Range Radio
           Frequency Interference (RFI) incidents within the cognizant AOR and take
           appropriate action to remove all unauthorized military RFI sources or contact
           the local FCC office if the source is determined to be a commercial source
           impacting the military.
           2.2.3.3.2.9. Coordinate spectrum use for any airborne system operations
           where the LOS radio horizon can extend over multiple DoD AFC
           geographical boundaries.
    2.2.3.4. Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). A Combat Support Agency,
    engineers and provides command and control capabilities and enterprise
    infrastructure to continuously operate and assure a global net-centric enterprise in
    direct support to joint warfighters, National level leaders, and other mission and
    coalition partners across the full spectrum of operations.
       2.2.3.4.1. Defense Spectrum Organization (DSO). The DSO, under DISA, is the
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  7


             center of excellence for EM spectrum analysis and the development of integrated
             spectrum plans and long-term strategies to address current and future needs for
             DoD spectrum access. DSO provides direct operational support to the Chairman
             of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Combatant Commanders, Secretaries of Military
             Departments, and Directors of Defense Agencies to achieve national security and
             military objectives.
                2.2.3.4.1.1. Joint Spectrum Center (JSC). The JSC is a field office of the
                DSO and supports the Combatant Commands (COCOMs), services, and
                agencies by providing spectrum planning guidance, system integration, system
                vulnerabilities and analysis, environmental analysis, test/measurement
                support, operational support, spectrum management software development,
                spectrum certification support, and maintains the DoD Frequency Resource
                Records System (FRRS) and Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR)
                database.
                2.2.3.4.1.2. Strategic Planning Office (SPO). The SPO, formerly the Defense
                Spectrum Office, is responsible for developing comprehensive and integrated
                spectrum planning and long-term strategies for DoD spectrum access. The
                SPO is the DoD focal point for participation in national spectrum issues,
                international spectrum coordination, and for pursuing emerging spectrum
                efficiency technologies in DoD acquisitions. The purpose of the SPO is to
                maximize global spectrum access for US forces both now and for the future.
         2.2.3.5. COCOM Joint Frequency Management Office (JFMO). All DoD frequency
         requirements outside the CONUS must be submitted to the appropriate JFMO where
         operations will be conducted. The JFMO coordinates all HN spectrum certifications:
         no spectrum dependent equipment will be operated in the COCOM’s AOR without
         JFMO approval.
         2.2.3.6. Military Department Spectrum Management Offices (SMO). There are three
         offices responsible for carrying out spectrum policy within the military services, the
         US Army SMO, the Navy/Marine Corps Spectrum Center, and AFSMO.
3. Air Force Spectrum Management.
   3.1. AF Spectrum Management. Chief Warfighting Integration and Chief Information
   Office, (SAF/CIO A6) is the senior AF officer responsible for EM spectrum management.
   SAF/CIO A6 sets policy for managing EM spectrum use to support the AF mission and
   exercises control over the frequency management process.
      3.1.1. AFSMO Roles and Responsibilties. AFSMO represents the AF spectrum user at
      the national level. AFSMO processes frequency requests through NTIA for use within
      the US&P while performing these additional roles.
         3.1.1.1. Carry out AF EM spectrum management policy.
         3.1.1.2. Evaluate AF plans for needed EM spectrum support.
         3.1.1.3. Represent and defend AF EM spectrum technical interests in committees,
         groups, and organizations that address EM spectrum management matters.
8                             AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


      3.1.1.4. Negotiate at the departmental, national, and international levels to obtain
      frequency allocations and assignments to satisfy AF exercises, crises, contingencies,
      wartime, and day-to-day RF requirements for use of the spectrum.
      3.1.1.5. Provide functional guidance to AF sponsored DoD AFCs.
      3.1.1.6. Assist in resolution of interference problems with AF assigned frequencies.
      3.1.1.7. Provide guidance on using the EM spectrum to developers and users of all
      AF systems that requires EM spectrum access or whose performance can be
      influenced by RF energy. This includes communications and information systems,
      electronic warfare (EW) operations, intelligence and weapons systems, commercial-
      off-the-shelf (COTS) equipment, and any other equipment that relies on the EM
      spectrum.
      3.1.1.8. Perform staff assistance visits (SAVs) and installation emitter surveys.
      3.1.1.9. Determine the impact of EM spectrum dependent systems on current or
      planned operational use of the EM spectrum.
      3.1.1.10. Provide assistance to AF activities requiring JSC services.
      3.1.1.11. Assist AF activities in obtaining frequency services.
      3.1.1.12. Provide curriculum input and support to the EM Spectrum Management
      Course and the Joint Task Force (JTF) Spectrum Management Course under the Air
      Education and Training Command (AETC).
      3.1.1.13. Provide spectrum management support to the following COCOMs (US
      Transportation Command, US Strategic Command, US Central Command, US
      Northern Command, and US Special Operations Command) IAW DoDD 5100.3,
      Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Command.
    3.1.2. MAJCOM Spectrum Management             Responsibilities.     MAJCOM Spectrum
    Management:
      3.1.2.1. Carries out AF policy, practices, and procedures for managing the use of the
      EM spectrum.
      3.1.2.2. Ensures compliance with the NTIA frequency assignment review program as
      outlined in paragraph 5.10. Is actively involved in communications/information
      planning and assists in coordinating and obtaining frequency support to meet the
      MAJCOM mission.
      3.1.2.3. Ensures incorporation of wartime and contingency EM spectrum
      management procedures into the appropriate operation plan/contingency plan
      appendices.
      3.1.2.4. Provides EM spectrum guidance to the MAJCOM acquisition, logistics,
      intelligence, operations, and communications planning staffs.
      3.1.2.5. Manages EM spectrum use in the concept, planning, deployment, operation,
      and evaluation phases of MAJCOM supported exercises and operations.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                9


        3.1.2.6. Processes and obtains frequency assignments and allocations for spectrum-
        dependent (S-D) systems in support of operational requirements.
        3.1.2.7. Provides guidance on using the EM spectrum early in the concept,
        exploration, demonstration, and validation phases of the acquisition process.
        3.1.2.8. Ensures coordination with the appropriate agencies (Federal Aviation
        Administration (FAA), FCC, DOD Area Frequency Coordinators, etc.) is
        accomplished prior to frequency assignment.
        3.1.2.9. Reviews the subordinate unit EM spectrum management programs.
        3.1.2.10. Performs SAVs and emitter surveys.
        3.1.2.11. Assists organizations from degrading friendly systems or operations during
        command, control, and communications countermeasures training activities.
        3.1.2.12. Ensures subordinate entities (Numbered AF, Wing, Center, Installation
        Spectrum Manager [ISM], etc.) provide appropriate spectrum and guidance to users.
        3.1.2.13. Provides ISMs with the necessary spectrum management training resources
        required to perform as the ISM.
        3.1.2.14. Ensures ISMs have current spectrum data.
        3.1.2.15. Provides AFSMO with curriculum input recommendations for the EM
        Spectrum Management Course and the JTF Spectrum Management Course.
        3.1.2.16. Provides assistance to MAJCOM IG in inspecting subordinate units or
        activities. Helps ensure Critical Compliance Items (CII) are identified and complied
        with when accomplishing self-inspections and compliance inspections.
     3.1.3. Numbered Air Force (NAF) Spectrum Management Office Responsibilities. NAF
     spectrum management carries out Air Force policy, practices, and procedures for
     managing use of the EM spectrum. NAF spectrum management will:
        3.1.3.1. Be actively involved in communications and information planning, and
        assists in coordinating and obtaining frequency support to meet the MAJCOM or
        COCOM mission.
        3.1.3.2. Provide MAJCOM RF spectrum guidance to the NAF planning staff,
        including logistics, intelligence, operations, communications, and subordinate units.
        3.1.3.3. Consider and coordinate RF spectrum use during the conceptual, planning,
        deployment, operation, and evaluation phases of exercises and operations.
        3.1.3.4. Forward all frequency requests to the MAJCOM or COCOM, as appropriate,
        spectrum management office for coordination and approval. Obtain frequency
        assignments and allocations for spectrum-dependent systems as directed by
        Commander, MAJCOM or COCOM in support of exercises, contingencies, or
        wartime operations requirements.
        3.1.3.5. Obtain frequency assignments and allotments for S-D systems as directed by
        the Commander, MAJCOM or COCOM in support of exercises, contingencies, or
        wartime operational requirements.
10                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


        3.1.3.6. Maintain, as a minimum, the current edition of the frequency management
        publications applicable to the NAF AOR.
        3.1.3.7. Maintain an accurate SPECTRUM XXI database of all frequency
        assignments within the NAF AOR.
     3.1.4. Installation Commander Responsibilities.
        3.1.4.1. Responsible for all EM radiation emanating from the installation and from
        those outlying activities hosted by the installation.
        3.1.4.2. Ensures a viable RF management program is in place and supports
        installation requirements. The installation commander can prohibit any RF emitter
        from operating (cease and desist) when anticipating or resolving interference to
        mission essential EM equipment.
        3.1.4.3. Appoint in writing, a primary and alternate ISM to organize and carry out the
        spectrum management program and notify the appropriate MAJCOM. Review
        program and appointments annually.
     3.1.5. Spectrum Managers assigned to Wings, DoD Ranges, Groups, and Squadrons
     Overview and Responsibilities. Wing, DoD Ranges, Groups, and Squadron Spectrum
     Managers Will:
        3.1.5.1. Carry out AF policy, practices, and procedures for managing the use of the
        EM spectrum with their AOR.
        3.1.5.2. Assist    organizations  and    users     within    their    control   in
        communications/information planning, coordinating, and obtaining frequency support
        to meet the mission.
        3.1.5.3. Ensure incorporation of Wing, DoD Range, Group, and Squadron
        contingency EM spectrum management procedures are appropriately placed in
        operational plans/contingency plans and appendices as needed.
        3.1.5.4. Provide EM spectrum guidance to users in acquisition, logistics, intelligence,
        operations, and communications planning staffs.
        3.1.5.5. Manage EM spectrum use in the concept, planning, deployment, operation,
        and evaluation phases of Wing, DoD Range, Group, or Squadron supported exercises
        and operations under their control.
        3.1.5.6. Provide guidance to users (program/project offices) of the EM spectrum
        early in the concept, exploration, demonstration, and validation phases of the
        acquisition process.
        3.1.5.7. Review and update frequency assignment records under control of the Wing,
        DoD Range, Group, or Squadron areas of responsibility.
     3.1.6. Communications Commander or Director Responsibilities.
        3.1.6.1. Ensure the ISM serves a minimum of 12 months in the position unless
        mission requirements dictate otherwise.
        3.1.6.2. Ensure the ISM maintains the necessary spectrum management training.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 11


        3.1.6.3. Ensure the ISM has Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)
        access.
     3.1.7. Installation Spectrum Manager Responsibilities. The ISM will:
        3.1.7.1. Ensure using activities understand the parameters of their assigned
        frequencies.
        3.1.7.2. Maintain current frequency management records of all frequencies assigned
        to the installation and outlying activities hosted by the installation. Provide using
        activities with an approved Radio Frequency Authorization (RFA).
        3.1.7.3. Meet with all using activities annually to discuss current spectrum
        management issues and conduct customer education. Conduct site visits as necessary
        or perform emitter surveys every 5 years with assistance from MAJCOM.
        3.1.7.4. Process frequency proposals and applications for equipment frequency
        allocations and ensure submission through the appropriate command channels.
        3.1.7.5. Provide spectrum management assistance and interpret guidance to host
        installation and tenant activities.
        3.1.7.6. Review installation operation plans and requirements documents, and obtain
        frequency support through command channels. Additionally, ISMs must regularly
        contact:
            3.1.7.6.1. Deployable units to identify upcoming exercises and contingencies.
            3.1.7.6.2. Installation planning offices to obtain information about S-D
            equipment.
        3.1.7.7. Ensure contractor activities using AF frequencies to support AF
        requirements follow AF policies for EM spectrum use (see Chapter 3.7.).
        3.1.7.8. In cooperation with using activities, verify frequency assignment
        requirements, validate existing frequency assignment parameters, and submit
        appropriate modifications, renewal, or deletion actions through the appropriate
        MAJCOM.
        3.1.7.9. Be responsible for updating and maintaining their records in the FRRS.
        3.1.7.10. Draft spectrum management portion of any memorandum of understanding
        (MOU) or memorandum of agreement (MOA) and maintain a copy.
        3.1.7.11. Maintain a current point of contact (POC) listing (name, unit, e-mail
        address, and phone number) for all using activities. This listing will be updated
        annually at a minimum.
        3.1.7.12. Write and publish installation instructions or supplements to this
        instruction, as required. Draft copies should be sent to the parent MAJCOM for
        review before publishing. Once published, a copy of the final publication should be
        sent to the MAJCOM and kept on file as long as it is valid.
12                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


        3.1.7.13. Educate using activities, program/project offices, etc. on the importance of
        obtaining spectrum supportability guidance and validation prior to entering into a
        contractual obligation for all EM spectrum dependent systems.
        3.1.7.14. Comply with the requirements of the Frequency Review Program (see
        Chapter 3).
        3.1.7.15. Coordinate with FAA Service Areas and DoD AFCs on aeronautical
        radionavigation spectrum matters to include the following:
            3.1.7.15.1. For all aeronautical radionavigation frequencies prior to use. The
            FAA coordinates on the required service volume, the desired-to-undesired signal
            protection (in decibels [dBs]), nominates channels/frequencies for the Instrument
            Landing System (ILS), Very High Frequency (VHF) Omnidirectional Range
            (VOR), Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN) and Air Traffic Control (ATC)
            operations, and provides the Pulse Repetition Rate (PRR) for radars.
            3.1.7.15.2. The FAA coordinator provides a coordination serial number that must
            be entered in Standard Frequency Action Format (SFAF) Item 520.
            3.1.7.15.3. AF installations having an ATC support agreement with a FAA
            facility for local control of civil aircraft will be assigned suitable VHF frequencies
            for control of civil aircraft.
            3.1.7.15.4. Agencies requiring frequencies in the bands listed in the NTIA
            Manual, Annex D, will coordinate all actions with the appropriate FAA frequency
            coordinators listed in Table 1 of that Annex.
            3.1.7.15.5. Review MCEB JFP host-nation supportability comments. Report all
            MCEB JFP host-nation supportability findings to program/project offices before
            they enter into a contractual obligation for the full-scale development, production,
            or procurement of RF systems.
     3.1.8. Program/Project/Acquisition Offices, Operating Units, Test Organizations, Tenant
     Units, and other using activities will:
        3.1.8.1. Ensure the appropriate spectrum supportability requirements are met prior to
        purchasing any RF equipment or entering into any contractual obligations involving
        the use of RF dependent devices to include providing correct technical data for
        systems not downward directed by higher level organizations.
        3.1.8.2. Obtain a frequency assignment prior to operation of any S-D devices that
        intentionally emit RF energy.
        3.1.8.3. Maintain a copy of frequency authorizations received from the ISM.
        3.1.8.4. Request the minimum number of frequencies necessary to accomplish the
        mission.
        3.1.8.5. Request the minimum transmitter power and antenna gain/height necessary
        to ensure adequate coverage.
        3.1.8.6. Ensure EM radiating equipment operations comply with authorized
        parameters identified in the frequency assignment notification.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                               13


       3.1.8.7. Act promptly to report and resolve incidents of interference according to AFI
       10-707.
          3.1.8.7.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Report               electromagnetic interference
          (EMI) as soon as possible not to exceed 24 hours of the first known incident of
          interference. Provide additional information which amplifies any previously
          submitted reports or notify the ISM when the interference is resolved, when the
          interference stops, or when no further action is required.
          3.1.8.7.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Reports of EMI for Classified systems
          must be submitted via Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET);
          ensure each item is appropriately marked and classify only those items which
          contain classified data. Contact the ISM or the alternate to receive additional
          instructions before submitting classified reports.
       3.1.8.8. Use radiation-suppression devices (dummy loads) as much as possible when
       tuning, testing, or experimenting with any equipment that emits radio frequencies.
       3.1.8.9. Provide, in writing to the ISM, the name, e-mail address, and phone number
       of a POC for unit frequency matters and provide updated information immediately
       when the POC information changes.
          3.1.8.9.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure that the radio frequency (RF) point
          of contact (POC) will be available to discuss current frequency matters and can
          attend spectrum education when provided by the ISM.
       3.1.8.10. Notify the ISM, in writing, immediately when frequencies are no longer
       required.
       3.1.8.11. Obtain approval through the ISM before modifying any existing emitters or
       antennas (i.e., increase power, change antenna height or gain), if outside of the
       assigned parameters of the frequency authorization.
          3.1.8.11.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Obtain approval through the ISM before
          submitting an electronic Command, Control, Communications, and Computer
          Systems Requirements Document (eCSRD) to the 377th Communications
          Division for the installation/modification of any spectrum dependent (S-D)
          system.
       3.1.8.12. Assist the ISM in reviewing and verifying equipment parameters during
       mandatory and periodic reviews.
          3.1.8.12.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Inform the ISM during periodic reviews
          if there is a continued need for each frequency assigned to the organization/unit.
          3.1.8.12.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) RF POC’s will provide the location of a
          RF device that has a frequency authorization by providing a grid coordinate or
          building number. When required by the ISM; ensure that viewing and access to
          the RF device is available.
       3.1.8.13. Contact the ISM for interpretation or guidance of any spectrum
       management policy.
14                             AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


        3.1.8.14. Complete Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessment per DoDI 4650.01,
        Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic Spectrum, 9
        January 2009, Enclosure 3, paragraph 3 and Table 1, Acquisition Oversight of
        Spectrum Supportability Risks.
        3.1.8.15. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Schedule RF devices that have been identified
        as requiring frequency scheduling and/or notification.
           3.1.8.15.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) When required, contact the Weapons
           Safety Office to schedule tests and training through the Controlled Firing Area
           Committee (CFAC) in accordance with KAFBI 91-203, Safety and Scheduling of
           Field Activities and Test Site Operations.
           3.1.8.15.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Notify the ISM 48 to 72 hours prior to
           using RF devices that require frequency notification.
     3.1.9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard and DoD
     organizations on Kirtland Air Force Base will:
        3.1.9.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Obtain a frequency assignment before using S-
        D devices that intentionally emit RF energy.
           3.1.9.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Contact the ISM to obtain a frequency
           assignment when transmitting on KAFB.
           3.1.9.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Contact the agency’s Military Department
           Spectrum Management Office (MILDEP SMO) or the ISM to obtain a frequency
           assignment when transmitting outside of KAFB in the continental United States
           (CONUS) or outside the continental United States (OCONUS).
        3.1.9.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure electromagnetic (EM) radiating
        equipment operations comply with authorized parameters identified in the frequency
        assignment notification.
        3.1.9.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Act promptly to report and resolve incidents of
        interference IAW Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 3320.02 – Joint
        Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR) Program.
        3.1.9.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Obtain approval from the established Area
        Frequency Coordinator (AFC) through the host ISM before modifying any existing
        emitters or antennas (i.e., increase power, change antenna height or gain), if outside
        of the assigned parameters of the frequency authorization.
        3.1.9.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Provide, in writing to the ISM, the name, e-mail
        address, and phone number of a POC for unit frequency matters and provide updated
        information immediately when the POC information changes.
           3.1.9.5.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure that a RF POC will be available to
           discuss current frequency matters and attend spectrum education when provided
           by the ISM.
        3.1.9.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Schedule RF devices that have been identified
        as requiring frequency scheduling and/or notification.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                      15


              3.1.9.6.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) When required, contact the Weapons
              Safety Office to schedule tests and training through the Controlled Firing Area
              Committee (CFAC) in accordance with KAFBI 91-203, Safety and Scheduling of
              Field Activities and Test Site Operations.
              3.1.9.6.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Notify the ISM 48 to 72 hours prior to
              using RF devices that require frequency notification.
4. Spectrum Certification.
   4.1. Process and Guidance. Spectrum certification is the process of reviewing the equipment
   characteristics to determine realistic supportability expectations to include conformance with
   the international and national allocation tables, and EMC standards (see Figure 4.1.). This
   process, often referred to as equipment certification, is required for all RF emitters
   (transmitters or receivers) including COTS and non-developmental items purchased, unless
   specifically exempt, as stated in section 2.4. The successful completion of the certification
   process provides the ability to obtain a frequency assignment for each discrete frequency
   required in order to have authority to operate within the guidelines developed for the certified
   system. The policies and procedures for S-D equipment are defined in DoDI 4650.01.
      4.1.1. DoDI 4650.01. Requires all DoD components to obtain spectrum guidance for S-
      D systems from the NTIA and/or the MCEB. Spectrum guidance including spectrum
      certification, frequency assignments, and spectrum supportability risk assessments
      (SSRAs) should be developed prior to authorization for operations being granted.
      Components must also obtain guidance before assuming contractual obligations for the
      full-scale development, production, or procurement of those systems. Guidance must be
      obtained through the spectrum certification process.
   4.2. Allocation Tables. Frequency allocation tables provide the guidance for general EM
   spectrum use both nationally and internationally (each nation that manages their RF
   resources has a national table). The allocation tables delineate proper use of the spectrum by
   the type of service (i.e., fixed service, aeronautical mobile service, etc.). Every effort should
   be made to ensure equipment design, and use of the EM spectrum by the system is in
   accordance with the allocation tables (e.g., planned frequency use matches preexisting station
   classes in those bands). Specific exemptions can be made for operation outside of designated
   bands providing that the system be coordinated with the appropriate governing body and
   proof that the system will cause no harmful interference. Use of non-federal bands must be
   justified (beyond cost and convenience) and assessed to guarantee non-interference to the
   current and future systems operating in that band. Justification consists of two parts: 1) why
   the non-allocated frequencies are needed in the first place; and 2) how the system will
   operate in the requested band(s) without causing harmful interference to systems operating in
   established services.
      4.2.1. Out-of-Band Operations.
          4.2.1.1. Within the continental Untied States (CONUS).             If an out-of-band
          justification is accepted by the NTIA for the system, system certification and use will
          be on a strict non-interference basis (NIB), not only to systems presently operating in
          the established services, but to any future systems operating in established services
          that may be certified at some later date. Systems that do not comply with the US
 16                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


          Table of Frequency Allocations, with an out-of-band justification acceptable to
          NTIA, may be permitted to operate on an unprotected, NIB. Lacking such
          justification, programs should not expect NTIA certification for such non-compliant
          systems.
      4.2.2. Outside the continental United States (OCONUS). Out-of-band justifications are
      host nation dependant and are coordinated via the Combantant Command responsible for
      that reason or area of operation.

Figure 4.1. Spectrum Certification Flowchart.




   4.3. EMC Standards. AF agencies developing, procuring, or modifying equipment using the
   EM spectrum must do everything possible to meet applicable international, national, military,
   and HN EMC standards. Noncompliance may result in the denial of frequency authorization
   or severe operational restrictions. Furthermore, the penalty for nonconformance to the EMC
   standards set forth by the NTIA are described in chapter 5, section 5.1.2, Consequences of
   Non-conformance with the Provisions of this Chapter: “In any instance of harmful
   interference caused by nonconformance with the provisions of this chapter, the responsibility
   for eliminating the harmful interference normally shall rest with the agency operating in
   nonconformance.”
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                17


     4.3.1. National EMC Standards. The NTIA Manual contains the RF Spectrum
     Standards. All C-E systems will comply with the standards in the NTIA Manual. If
     compliance is not technically possible, proof that noncompliance will not cause
     unintended EM interference (EMI) is required. Operations may be authorized on a non-
     interference basis. The NTIA Manual states, “In any instance of harmful interference
     caused by nonconformance with the provisions of this chapter, the responsibility for
     eliminating the harmful interference normally shall rest with the agency operating in
     nonconformance.”
     4.3.2. Military EMC Standards. Include military EMC standards in equipment design
     specifications according to the EMC guidance and DoD 4120.24-M, Defense
     Standardization Program (DSP) Policies and Procedures. Request waivers to EMC
     standards through program management channels according to DoDD 3222.3/AFPD 33-
     5, Department of Defense Electromagnetic Compatibility Program (EMCP) (Air Force
     Electromagnetic Environmental Effects Program).
     4.3.3. HN EMC Standards. HN authorities consider HN EMC standards during the DD
     Form 1494 coordination process.
  4.4. Equipment Exempt from Spectrum Certification. The following categories of
  equipment in the US&P are exempt from the spectrum certification process. If any devices
  listed below are to be used outside US&P, spectrum certification may be required by the HNs
  prior to procurement.
     4.4.1. CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 15, Radio Frequency Devices. This manual includes
     equipment procured or developed for federal use, that meet Part 15 (or NTIA Manual,
     Annex K) standards despite not having FCC Part 15 certifications, as specified in
     Sections 7.8 and 7.9 of the NTIA Manual. Refer to Section 4.2 of this instruction for
     additional information.
     4.4.2. CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 18, Industrial Scientific and Medical Equipment.
     4.4.3. CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Personal Radio Services.
     4.4.4. RF devices and built-in test equipment that does not exceed the technical criteria
     outlined in the NTIA manual with the exception of GPS re-radiating equipment.
     4.4.5. Signal generators.
     4.4.6. Bench test or antenna-testing equipment.
     4.4.7. Electronic fuses that activate detonation devices.
     4.4.8. Unmodified COTS Family Radio Service (FRS) transceivers.
     4.4.9. Unmodified COTS Citizens’ Band radios and low power radios that operate for
     short distances on the frequencies 27575 and 27585 kilohertz (kHz).
     4.4.10. Unmodified COTS low power cordless telephones.
     4.4.11. COTS cellular telephones used to access a commercial service provider.
     4.4.12. International Maritime Satellite (Inmarsat™) terminals.
18                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     4.4.13. Airborne Radio Telephone System radios that operate on leased channels in the
     800 megahertz (MHz) band.
     4.4.14. Infrared and ultraviolet systems used, among other things, to measure heat
     intensity and spectral signatures of various targets.
     4.4.15. Lasers and other systems that operate above 3000 gigahertz (GHz).
     4.4.16. Global Positioning System receivers universally marketed for civil, industrial,
     private, and/or military applications.
     4.4.17. Radio receivers used for reception of radio navigation signals from licensed
     ground stations, such as Distance Measuring Equipment (DME), VOR, ILS, etc.
     4.4.18. Unmodified COTS airborne transceivers certified and registered for radio
     navigation operations within the civil national and international airspace management
     systems.
     4.4.19. Radio and radar control heads, buss units, and software/hardware devices that
     interface with transmitting and receiving equipment but, by themselves, do not radiate or
     receive EM energy, except RF modem devices.
     4.4.20. Requirements for systems submitted directly to AFSMO for processing that are
     not owned by an agency of the military service (e.g., radio, radar, and telemetry sets), but
     are owned by or leased from a contractor or provider, and those networks owned or
     leased by the contractor or provider to meet any corporate requirements.
  4.5. Spectrum Application Submission. Using activities, program/project offices, or
  acquisition activities must generate and submit either a DD Form 1494 or an Equipment
  Location-Certification Information Database (EL CID) file to their local system centers,
  logistics centers, installation, or facility SMO for further processing in support of the
  development, modification, or acquisition of wireless RF devices including COTS,
  government-off-the-shelf, or non-developmental items. Data for the application can be
  obtained from the originator through any available sources, i.e., contractor support,
  manufacturer, etc. The local SMO will submit a complete and accurate application to their
  applicable MAJCOM SMO. The MAJCOM SMO will then send the completed application
  directly to AFSMO/DON. Using activities, program/project offices, or acquisition activities
  without local or MAJCOM SMOs will submit the application directly to AFSMO/DON.
     4.5.1. Spectrum support application is processed in stages that closely parallel standard
     AF acquisition milestones via four stages. The System Program Office (PO), with
     contractor support, submits the DD Form 1494 or an EL CID file for the appropriate
     stage as it matures into an operational status. These four stages are:
         4.5.1.1. Stage 1. Conceptual: Initial system planning has been completed. This
         stage advises on the feasibility of getting spectrum support and recommends
         modifications or changes in frequency bands.
         4.5.1.2. Stage 2. Experimental: Preliminary system design has been completed.
         Certification at this stage provides guidance for assuring spectrum support in later
         stages, and is needed before obtaining frequency assignments for experimental
         testing.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   19


          4.5.1.3. Stage 3. Developmental: Major system design has been completed. As the
          system design is nearly finalized, this stage provides guidelines for assuring spectrum
          support needed before obtaining frequency assignments for developmental testing.
          4.5.1.4. Stage 4. Operational: System development is complete. Certifies
          availability of spectrum support and identifies operating restrictions before making
          operational frequency assignments.
       4.5.2. DD Form 1494 or an EL CID submissions: Submit DD Form 1494 or EL CID
       application for each stage of development using the lead times found in Table 4.1. below:

Table 4.1. Submission Lead Times.
                        Space Systems                            Other Systems
Stage 1 (Conceptual)    Not earlier than seven years and not     Not less than one year before
                        later than (NLT) two years before        initial testing begins.
                        satellite launch.
Stage 2                 Not less than one year prior to          Not less than one year before
(Experimental)          planned operation.                       procuring equipment.
Stage 3                 No later than three years before         Not less than one year prior to
(Developmental)         satellite launch.                        the Milestone B Decision or
                                                                 contractual obligations for
                                                                 development, or modification
                                                                 activities involving wireless
                                                                 RF devices.
Stage 4 (Operational)   No later than two years before satellite Not less than nine months
                        launch.                                  prior to the Milestone C
                                                                 Decision or contractual
                                                                 obligations for operational
                                                                 procurement or acquisition
                                                                 activities involving wireless
                                                                 RF devices.
   4.6. Note-to-Holder (NTH). Use the MCEB NTH for amendments and updates to approved
   DD Form 1494 or EL CID file documents and MCEB memoranda. Send requests for NTH
   through established frequency management channels to the AFSMO.
   4.7. Acknowledgment of MCEB Guidance. The PO or using activity must acknowledge
   receipt of the MCEB guidance within 60 duty or business days of receipt and notify the
   supporting MAJCOM of any concerns. Silence is concurrence.
   4.8. Additional Guidance for use Outside the US&P.
       4.8.1. Foreign Disclosure. Obtain foreign disclosure approval in advance of coordinating
       HN spectrum support for AF systems designed or planned to operate outside the US&P.
       The field-level foreign disclosure office (FDO), the MAJCOM FDO, or the SAF/IAPD
       disclosure office provides disclosure guidelines according to AFI 16-201, Air Force
       Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program.
20                           AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     4.8.1.1. Mark the DD Form 1494 Foreign Coordination page with the appropriate
     release statement provided by the FDO. Reference AFI 16-201, Section 4.4.2.2 for
     specific language.
     4.8.1.2. The local SMO ensures that foreign disclosure approval is obtained,
     including the field-level FDO case number and provides a copy of the approval
     release with the DD Form 1494 through the chain of command to AFSMO. If field
     level disclosure approval is not received due to lack of delegated disclosure authority
     at the field level, notify the MAJCOM SMO.
     4.8.1.3. HN Coordination. Each government has its own rules for using the
     spectrum. US military use of the spectrum has varying priority from nation to nation.
     Submitters must consider US forces that are garrisoned in other nations and must use
     equipment on a day-to-day basis for training. Equipment that has not obtained HN
     approval is not authorized for use. This loss of capability can have serious mission
     impact.
        4.8.1.3.1. Similar to the US process, the submitters of DD Form 1494s coordinate
        with their local spectrum manager in preparing the HN coordination package.
        The process for gaining authorization to use equipment in other nations is separate
        and distinct from the US procedure. All equipment that will be used by deploying
        or garrisoned forces in another nation must obtain spectrum support using the HN
        coordination process. The processing time for this HN coordination can take
        from months to years.
        4.8.1.3.2. To ensure timely program implementation, HN coordination should
        begin with sufficient lead time to allow for completion of the coordination process
        prior to operational deadlines.
        4.8.1.3.3. Contents of the HN Coordination Package. A submission package that
        is separate from the US package must be prepared. The first step is to determine
        the locations where the equipment will likely operate. Each nation is aligned
        under a COCOM AOR IAW the Unified Command Plan. The COCOMs have
        unique processes and some require more detailed information than others.
        However, any HN coordination package requires a Foreign Disclosure Letter be
        submitted to AFSMO.
        4.8.1.3.4. Foreign Disclosure Letter.        Determine the locations where the
        equipment will be used. If this determination is uncertain, use the best
        approximation available. The data on a DD Form 1494 must be deemed
        releasable to these nations. To begin the process, the submitter must coordinate
        the DD Form 1494 with the appropriate AF FDO. The appropriate MAJCOM
        FDO will determine whether the information contained on the DD Form 1494 is
        releasable. If the FDO cannot make the decision, the DD Form 1494 will be
        forwarded through the disclosure channels to SAF/IAPD. Once foreign
        disclosure is granted, the submitter of the DD Form 1494 must provide a letter
        indicating the release approval including the case number to their local SMO with
        the foreign coordination DD Form 1494 package. The releasable data must
        accompany the appropriate foreign disclosure release letter. The foreign
        disclosure release letter indicates the nations that can receive the different data.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                21


            Alternatively, the FDO may specify that the DD Form 1494 may not be released
            to a HN for spectrum supportability coordination, but that individual data items
            may be released to that nation for the purpose of coordinating frequency
            assignments for operations within the country.
            4.8.1.3.5. HN Coordination Package. AFSMO will review the HN coordination
            request. Once the United States Air Force (USAF) HN coordinator at AFSMO
            has approved, the request will be uploaded to HN Spectrum Worldwide Database
            Online (HNSWDO) for further review by the MCEB ESG Steering Member.
            Once the ESG Steering Member has approved release of the request to COCOM
            for HN coordination, AFSMO will upload the MCEB cover letter for the request
            to HNSWDO. AFSMO will then release the request to COCOM for coordination
            of the request with HNs as specified. This coordination ends with HN comments
            being received by COCOM and entered into HNSWDO for review by AFSMO.
            With the DoD acceptance of HNSWDO as the official HN coordination database,
            HN comments no longer are included in NTH requests for appendage of such
            comments to MCEB memos. Instead, these comments can be approved directly
            by AFSMO in HNSWDO, as AFSMO is authorized to accept HN comments on
            behalf of the USAF. HNSWDO serves as the repository for all HN comments
            received by COCOMs.
            4.8.1.3.6. Unique HN Coordination. Some countries may have unique HN
            process for example Japan and Korea. These countries do not allow equipment to
            be coordinated for possible future deployments. Coordination for notional
            equipment use is not permitted. As a result, HN coordination with Japan and
            Korea has an associated timeline of 90 duty days after HN comments are received
            to submit a frequency proposal. If no frequency proposal is submitted in that time
            frame then the HN coordination will have to be reinitiated.
            4.8.1.3.7. Submission Procedures. As in the DD Form 1494 process, the
            submitter’s local spectrum manager will distribute the completed HN
            coordination package to the spectrum manager in the next level of the chain of
            command. AFSMO will provide the foreign coordination package to the MCEB
            for tasking to the appropriate COCOM, or to the Defense Attaché Office for
            foreign coordination.
  4.9. SPS Review. All major systems used in the US receive MCEB review and NTIA
  certification. AFSMO determines which DD Form 1494s or EL CID files require SPS
  review, with the exception that the systems listed below must go through SPS review.
  NOTE: As of November 1, 2009 all spectrum certification applications submitted to the SPS
  by AFSMO are required to be in EL CID format.
     4.9.1. New systems or subsystems and major modifications to existing systems,
     including all systems operating in the space services or radio determination
     (radiolocation, radionavigation) services.
     4.9.2. All new systems or subsystems and major modifications to existing systems
     previously reviewed by the SPS if there is a significant impact on the EM spectrum when
     considering geographical location and frequency availability.
 22                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


      4.9.3. Land mobile radio (LMR) trunked systems.
      4.9.4. Other systems or facilities that the NTIA, Interdepartment Radio Advisory
      Committee (IRAC), or other government agencies refer to the SPS.
      4.9.5. Systems referred for SPS submission by the MCEB FP ESG Permanent Working
      Group (PWG).
   4.10. Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessment. Certification of spectrum support shall be
   obtained as required prior to authorization to operate. An integral part of this process is the
   Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessment (SSRA). SSRA suggested tasks are listed in DoDI
   4650.01, Enclosure 3, Table 2.
5. Frequency Actions.
   5.1. Frequency Assignment Guidance. The installation commander can prohibit use of any
   RF emitter (cease and desist) when anticipating or resolving interference to mission essential
   S-D equipment. All RF emitters must have a frequency assignment prior to operation.
   Before making a permanent assignment, the MCEB must review the RF equipment via a DD
   Form 1494 unless specifically exempted in paragraph 2.4. Before making a temporary
   assignment or special temporary authorization a DD Form 1494 must be submitted to
   AFSMO and a J/F-12 number assigned. Frequency assignment parameters must match the
   technical characteristics of the equipment as listed in the DD Form 1494 or as recommended
   in the MCEB guidance (reference Attachment 6, Frequency Actions).
   5.2. Types of Frequency Assignments. There are three types of frequency assignments:
      5.2.1. Permanent: A frequency assignment for an unspecified period of time; however, a
      periodic review of the assignment is required. Permanent assignments will have a SFAF
      Item 142 (review date).
      5.2.2. Temporary: A frequency assignment for a specified period of time, more than 90
      calender days but less than five years. Temporary assignments with a SFAF Item 141
      (expiration date) may be renewed for additional periods, if necessary. Coordinate this
      type of assignment at the national level and submit to the FAS for approval and
      recommendation to the NTIA for assignment. The assignment with an appropriate
      expiration date is entered into the Government Master File (GMF).
      5.2.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) Stage 2 (Experimental) systems which have completed
      preliminary system design or Stage 3 (Development) systems that have completed major
      system design can only apply for temporary frequency assignments.
          5.2.2.1. Special Temporary Authorization (STA): AF users may apply for a STA for
          up to 30 calender days. This type of temporary assignment is not entered into the
          GMF. STAs should be limited to urgent/no-notice requirements.
      5.2.3. Group: A frequency assignment made only to terrestrial stations and provides
      authority to operate but does not represent continuing operations, or provide an
      assignment for planning purposes. There are two types:
          5.2.3.1. Authority to operate - this type does not represent continuing operations.
          NOTE: S322 shall be used in SFAF line number 500.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                23


         5.2.3.2. Planning - this type represents continuing or definitely anticipated
         requirements. NOTE: S321 shall be used in SFAF line 500. The following applies
         to such assignments:
            5.2.3.2.1. Such assignments shall not exceed three years.
            5.2.3.2.2. The technical particulars of these assignments shall describe the
            intended use of the frequency to the maximum extent practical at the time of this
            application.
            5.2.3.2.3. Operations conducted under the authority of this type of assignment
            shall be limited to such uses as site surveys and path testing associated with the
            intended use. This type of assignment shall not be considered operational but
            strictly as a planning assignment set aside to satisfy an identified future
            requirement. However, all S321 assignments are accorded protection and may be
            coordinated with Canada at the option of the applicant.
  5.3. Frequency Applications. An application is used for the following frequency assignment
  actions (SFAF 010):
     5.3.1. New (N): To apply for a new frequency assignment.
     5.3.2. Modification (M): Used to apply for the addition, subtraction, or removal of
     information contained in an existing frequency assignment.
     5.3.3. Serial Replace Action (N): Used to delete an existing assignment from GMF and
     simultaneously replacing it with a new one.
     5.3.4. Renewal (R): To apply for the extension of a TEMPORARY assignment and to
     simultaneously update other particulars of the assignment.
     5.3.5. Administrative (A): This action is similar to a Modification (M) action; however,
     it is used to make three specific types of changes. The review date (Data Item 142) will
     not be automatically changed if an Administrative Modification action is used.
         5.3.5.1. Changes due to typographical errors in the authorizing document.
         5.3.5.2. Changes in administrative data items (e.g., 200 series).
         5.3.5.3. Mass changes required for compliance with international, national, or DoD
         rules and regulations.
     5.3.6. Deletion (D): To apply for the cancellation of a frequency assignment and the
     removal of all its particulars from the GMF and FRRS database.
     5.3.7. Temporary (N): To apply for a STA.
  5.4. Lead-times. Lead-times provide federal agencies and overseas commands and host
  countries with the time necessary to coordinate and process applications for frequency
  actions. If the following lead-times are not met, the frequency request must include a
  mission impact statement if the assignment is not granted by the date requested. Limit such
  requests to safety of life or urgent matters of national security. In all cases, requesting
  commands must provide justification/operational impacts statements when the requirement
  does not meet the required lead-time.
24                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     5.4.1. AFSMO lead-times for operations in the US&P. The lead-times below start when
     AFSMO receives the request and does not include time required by the MAJCOM or
     intermediate agencies.
         5.4.1.1. Permanent Assignments. Sixty (60) business days. In most cases, additional
         lead-time is required for actions requiring coordination with the FCC or the FAA.
         Requirements that are not in accordance with the national table of allocations, or have
         unusual technical parameters, may require additional engineering time or study. It is
         not uncommon for such requests to take more than six months at the national-level.
         5.4.1.2. Temporary and Group Assignments. Sixty (60) business days. These
         assignments are described as those temporary assignments requiring more than 90
         calender days but less than five years for entry into the GMF. Additional lead-time is
         needed for all actions requiring coordination with the FCC or FAA. Requirements
         not in accordance with the national table of allocations, or have unusual technical
         parameters may require additional engineering time or study, consequently requiring
         even longer lead-times.
     5.4.2. For operations outside the US&P. Unified commands set lead-times for frequency
     actions based on agreements with host governments. Generally, theater COCOM JFMOs
     require a minimum of 90 business days lead-time to process overseas requirements. The
     90-day time starts when the COCOM JFMO receives the request. Refer to theater
     instructions for specific lead-times.
     5.4.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Lead time for frequency processing by the ISM is ten
     (10) business days. Additional lead-time is required when coordinating spectrum with a
     MILDEP SMO, with non-DoD federal agencies or when S-D devices do not have an
     approved spectrum certification.
  5.5. Frequency Coordination. The DoD does not own spectrum exclusively for military use.
  In fact, spectrum is not owned by any organization, it is “allotted” and assigned. The DoD,
  through the Military Assignment Group (MAG), manages the spectrum between 225 MHz
  through 328.6 and 335.4 MHz through 399.9 MHz for the federal government (NTIA).
  When it is necessary for the AF to use frequencies managed by another federal department or
  agency, the AF must coordinate with the appropriate agency prior to submitting a frequency
  request to the NTIA for assignment action. Coordinate frequency actions as outlined in
  paragraphs 3.5.1 through 3.5.9 and include a statement of completed coordination and
  comments with the frequency action.
     5.5.1. FCC. Refer to the NTIA Manual for the civil frequency bands requiring
     coordination. AFSMO completes final coordination with the FCC national office before
     submitting the request to the FAS for assignment action.
     5.5.2. FAA. The FAA manages certain frequency bands through the Aeronautical
     Assignment Group (AAG), a working group of the FAS. Coordination with the FAA
     Service Area is required for all new and existing assignment modifications with changes
     in technical parameters prior to submitting the proposal to the AFSMO for national-level
     approval. AFSMO, a member of the AAG, completes final coordination with the AAG
     before submitting the request to the FAS for assignment action.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 25


        5.5.2.1. If after three attempts to coordinate with the FAA Service Area fails, add the
        following 520 SFAF line item: “Attempted coordination with (XXXX) regional
        office on (list dates) and have failed.” Process this SFAF through AFSMO.
     5.5.3. DoD AFC. Coordinate frequency actions at, among, and within radio LOS of
     ranges according to ACP 190 (US SUPP-1) and the NTIA Manual, Annex D.
     5.5.4. Aerospace and Flight Test Radio Coordinating Council (AFTRCC). Coordinate
     all frequency requirements that fall within the 1435-1525 and 2360-2390 MHz band with
     the appropriate AFC prior to submission. The AFC coordinates with the AFTRCC
     coordinator.
     5.5.5. Army. Coordinate all AF frequency requirements on an Army installation with the
     appropriate Army frequency coordinator prior to submission.
     5.5.6. Navy. Coordinate all AF frequency requirements on a Navy installation with the
     appropriate Navy frequency coordinator prior to submission.
     5.5.7. Canadian border. Coordination prior to assigning frequencies is required with
     Canada within 80 kilometers (km) (approximately) of the US/Canadian border for
     terrestrial communications requirements and 250 nautical miles (nmi) for aeronautical
     communications requirements.       The NTIA coordinates the frequency proposal
     requirements with Canada. Refer to the NTIA Manual for specific guidance.
     5.5.8. Mexican border. Coordination prior to assigning frequencies is required with
     Mexico within 75 km (approximately) of the US/Mexican border for terrestrial
     communications requirements and 250 nmi (approximately) for aeronautical
     communications requirements. The NTIA coordinates the necessary requirements with
     Mexico. Refer to the NTIA Manual for specific guidance.
     5.5.9. Outside US&P. MAJCOMs coordinate frequency actions according to theater
     policies and procedures through the appropriate AF component command.
  5.6. Frequency Application and Approval Channels.
     5.6.1. AF Organizations in the US&P.
        5.6.1.1. ISM. The ISM is responsible to the installation commander for managing all
        frequency use on the installation. Therefore, all units/organizations assigned to the
        installation submit their frequency applications/requirements to the ISM. The ISM
        will:
            5.6.1.1.1. Submit proposals for host installation units to the host MAJCOM.
            5.6.1.1.2. Submit proposals for tenant units supporting the host installation
            mission to the host’s and tenant’s MAJCOMs respectively.
            5.6.1.1.3. Submit proposals for tenant units not supporting the host installation
            mission to the supported unit’s MAJCOM with a copy to the host and tenant unit
            MAJCOMs, e.g., as described below:
               5.6.1.1.3.1. Submit frequency requirements for a HQ ACC maintenance
               expediter net on a Headquarters Air Mobility Command (HQ AMC)
               installation to HQ ACC with a copy to HQ AMC.
26                          AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


            5.6.1.1.3.2. Submit frequency requirements for a HQ AFMC unit in support
            of HQ ACC on a HQ AMC installation to HQ ACC with a copy to HQ AFMC
            and HQ AMC.
     5.6.1.2. ANG and Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC) units will:
        5.6.1.2.1. Submit actions to support day-to-day operations, training requirements,
        fixed ATC, and navigational aids (NAVAIDs) at operating bases and permanent
        training sites, through appropriate channels to the ANG Readiness Center
        (ANGRC) or HQ AFRC, respectively. The ANGRC or HQ AFRC sends the
        actions to AFSMO.
        5.6.1.2.2. Submit requests in support of exercise or readiness inspections through
        the tasking agency to AFSMO.
        5.6.1.2.3. The ANG units will submit actions to support state-levied mission
        requirements through their State Level Joint Force Headquarters (JFHQ-J6
        Spectrum Manager’s Office) for action, then route a copy to National Guard
        Bureau (NGB) (HQ ANG-A6 Operations) for necessary adjudication. The
        Adjutant General (TAG) endorses JFHQ-J6 Spectrum Manager Directives and
        routes them to FCC Safety and Special Radio Services Bureau.
     5.6.1.3. MARS activities:
        5.6.1.3.1. Submit actions for MARS VHF nets on a military installation or on
        outlying locations hosted by an installation through the host ISM to the host
        MAJCOM. MAJCOMs coordinate with the Chief, USAF MARS (AFNIC/ESLI,
        203 West Losey Street, Room 3100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222) to ensure the net
        is authorized before sending the action to AFSPC who in turn will submit to
        AFSMO.
        5.6.1.3.2. Civilian affiliate stations send frequency actions to the state MARS
        director. The state MARS director sends actions to the region communications
        manager, who, in turn, sends it to the Chief, USAF MARS (AFNIC/ESLI). If
        approved, the Chief, USAF MARS sends the frequency action through AFSPC to
        AFSMO.
        5.6.1.3.3. The Chief, USAF MARS and AFSPC coordinate HF actions. HF
        assignments are made on a regional basis. The authority for station operation is
        found in AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless
        Communication Systems, and the Military Affiliate Radio System. No formal
        action is required.
     5.6.1.4. Civil Air Patrol (AFAUX/CAP). The CAP is an auxiliary of the AF under
     Title 10 U.S.C., Armed Forces, Chapter 909, Civil Air Patrol. AFI 10-2701,
     Organization and Function of the Civil Air Patrol, outlines AF support to the
     AFAUX/CAP. CAP units submit frequency actions that support AF operations and
     training, whether in whole or in part, to AFAUX/CAP National Headquarters
     (AFAUX/CAP-DOSF), 105 South Hansell Street, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6332.
     AFAUX/CAP National Headquarters sends the frequency actions to HQ AETC
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   27


          CSS/SCMC, 61 Main Circle, Suite 3, Randolph AFB TX 78150- 4546, who in turn,
          sends them to AFSMO.
              5.6.1.4.1. AFSMO may assign AFAUX/CAP frequencies for AF units to
              communicate with the AFAUX/CAP during operational missions.
              5.6.1.4.2. AF units may allow AFAUX/CAP to use their assigned frequencies to
              communicate with other AF units during operational missions.
              5.6.1.4.3. AFAUX/CAP units give the ISM a list of frequencies used on the
              installation. A number of these should appear in the installation data pull.
      5.6.2. AF Organizations Outside the US&P. Overseas units submit frequency requests
      according to unified command policy. The geographical COCOM is responsible for
      military use of frequencies within the command’s geographical area.
   5.7. Contractor Use of Frequencies.
      5.7.1. AF Contracts. Contractors must submit frequency requests in direct support of AF
      contracts through the AF representative (normally the ISM if on an AF base or if at an
      Acquisition Center, the PO responsible for the contract), to the MAJCOM responsible for
      administering the contract. The contractor must obtain frequency assignments from the
      FCC for requirements not in direct support of the contract.
      5.7.2. Multiple Service Contracts. Contractors must submit frequency requests in
      support of a multiple service contract through the appropriate spectrum management
      channels to the military department that is the executive service for the contract. The
      contractor must obtain frequency assignments from the FCC for requirements not in
      direct support of the contract.
      5.7.3. Foreign Military Sales (FMS), Direct Commercial Sales (DCS), and Hybrid
      programs. If the intention is to radiate within the US&P, requirements must go through
      the US&P process (e.g., certification and assignment). However, Hybrid programs will
      be handled case-by-case.
   5.8. Shared-Use Facilities. Users submit frequency requests for shared-use facilities through
   the spectrum management channels of the agency that owns the mission requirement.
   5.9. Joint Bases. With the implementation of Joint Bases throughout DoD, the following is
   provided for those AF units designated as the lead service to provide spectrum management
   support for a Joint Base. Table 5.1 lists all of the locations currently affected by the Joint
   Basing program and the identified lead service designated to provide overall spectrum
   management support for those locations:

Table 5.1. Joint Base Locations.
Joint Base Installations                                             Lead Service
Naval Station Pearl Harbor/Hickam AFB, HI                                    Navy
Navy Base Guam/Andersen AFB, Guam                                            Navy
Anacostia Annex/Bolling AFB, District of Columbia                            Navy
Naval Amphibious Base Little Creek/Ft Story, VA                              Navy
Ft Lewis/McChord AFB, WA                                                     Army
 28                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Ft Myer/Henderson Hall, VA                                                   Army
Charleston AFB/Naval Weapons Station Charleston, SC                         Air Force
McGuire AFB/Ft Dix/Naval Air Engineering Station, Lakehurst, NJ             Air Force
Andrews AFB/ Naval Air Facility Washington                                  Air Force
Elmendorf AFB/Ft Richardson, AK                                             Air Force
Lackland AFB/Randolph AFB/Ft Sam Houston, TX                                Air Force
Naval Air Station Fort Worth Joint Reserve Base                              Navy
      5.9.1. The Lead Service will designate a spectrum management office (SMO) to provide
      SM support of the Joint Base electromagnetic environment (EME). The Military
      Services will ensure that the Joint Base SMO is cognizant of their S-D
      equipment/systems within the boundaries of the Joint Base and the operators of any S-D
      devices obtain and maintain frequency assignments for those systems.
          5.9.1.1. The Joint Base SMO will process Joint-Service temporary and permanent
          frequency actions through established channels.
          5.9.1.2. In Joint Base environments, the Services are responsible to:
              5.9.1.2.1. Pre-coordinate all temporary and permanent frequency proposals with
              the Joint Base SMO prior to submission to the national-level for processing.
              5.9.1.2.2. Conduct periodic reviews of their frequency assignments and pre-
              coordinate updated information with the Joint Base SMO prior to submission to
              the national-level for further processing.
              5.9.1.2.3. Obtain an approved equipment certification prior to submitting any
              frequency proposal. Equipment certification is obtained using the DD Form
              1494, Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation.
   5.10. Frequency Review Program. The purpose of the Frequency Review Program is to
   ensure the GMF and FRRS accurately reflect current operations. Users should submit
   reviews NLT 90 business days before the expiration date shown in the frequency assignment
   record and is updated by the review date.
   5.11. Non-licensed Devices.        A non-licensed device is a low power intentional,
   unintentional, or incidental radiator or device that meets the technical specifications
   prescribed in CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 15, or the NTIA Manual, Annex K. Non-licensed
   devices are afforded no protection from interference; if interference is caused to an
   authorized service the non-licensed device must cease operation. Because of this, AF
   activities must exercise caution in procuring and using non-licensed devices. Examples of
   non-licensed devices are wireless local area networks, wireless microphones, and cordless
   telephones. Using activities are strongly advised not to use non-licensed devices for critical
   command and control applications essential for mission success, protection of human life, or
   high value assets. It is highly recommended that frequency registration be coordinated and
   documented at the local spectrum management level when the device directly supports an AF
   mission.
   5.12. Frequencies Not Requiring Specific Assignment. International distress and emergency
   frequencies do not need specific assignments for use. Table 6.2 lists frequencies not
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                    29


   requiring assignment for use in the US&P. Outside the US&P, theater commanders and HNs
   determine frequencies that do not need specific assignment.
   5.13. Emergency Frequency-Sharing Notification. Under emergency conditions, several
   government agencies (i.e., Federal Emergency Management Agency operations) may operate
   on, or near, frequencies assigned to AF organizations. When this occurs, one of the involved
   agencies should coordinate with the affected AF organization to arrange frequency sharing
   during the emergency. AF units will cooperate fully during emergencies unless frequency
   sharing would jeopardize mission-essential operations. To properly coordinate at the
   national level, a representative for the local AF units must up-channel the information
   concerning the emergency situation. Ideally, this information should flow through command
   channels to notify AFSMO.
   5.14. Air Force Spectrum Interference Resolution (AFSIR) Program. EMI is any EM
   disturbance that interrupts, obstructs, or otherwise degrades or limits the effective
   performance of electronics and electrical equipment. It can be induced intentionally, as in
   some forms of EW, or unintentionally, as a result of spurious emissions and responses,
   intermodulation products, and the like. The AFSIR program, discussed in AFI 10-707,
   contains guidance for units experiencing EMI that must be resolved on a case-by-case basis.
   The 85th Engineering Installation Squadron (85EIS), Keesler AFB, MS can provide technical
   assistance to AF units to resolve interference. Units that experience interference and require
   on-site assistance may request Quick Fix Interference Reduction Capability assistance IAW
   AFI 10-707.
6. Guidance for Specific Cases of Frequency Usage.
   6.1. General. This chapter lists permissible frequency usage within the US&P. Unless
   otherwise noted, frequency assignments are necessary for the specific frequencies.
   6.2. Non-Licensed/Annex K Devices. The Purchase and Use of Federal and FCC Non-
   Licensed Devices is outlined in Para 7.8 of the NTIA Manual. The following AF caveats and
   warnings apply:
      6.2.1. AF activities are strongly advised not to use non-licensed equipment for critical
      tactical or strategic command and control applications essential for mission success,
      protection of human life, or protection of high-value assets, as they offer no protection of
      spectrum use in support of operational requirements. Non-licensed devices operate on a
      not-to-interfere basis, which includes accepting interference.
          6.2.1.1. Upon notification by cognizant spectrum management personnel that the
          device is causing interference, the operator of the non-licensed device shall cease all
          radiation from the device until the interference is eliminated.
          6.2.1.2. Users will not modify, modernize, enhance, or change the equipment’s
          power, antenna, waveform, or information transfer characteristics in any manner that
          would cause it to violate the NTIA criteria for non-licensed devices or the device’s
          FCC type certification.
      6.2.2. US&P Operations. Non-licensed devices (e.g. devices meeting CFR Title 47
      U.S.C, Part 15) operating within the US&P do not require NTIA certification or an
      approved NTIA frequency assignment; however, the DoD requires a frequency
30                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     assignment registered in the FRRS and either a J/F-12 or an EL CID file is necessary for
     information purposes. This is accomplished through the local SMO.
     6.2.3. Outside US&P Operations. Theater commanders and HNs decide if frequency
     support is available and the requirements for frequency assignments. Users must submit
     a DD Form 1494 through the supporting spectrum manager for equipment that
     intentionally radiates and will be deployed outside the US&P. After obtaining favorable
     HN guidance, users may request frequency assignment. US non-licensed devices, like
     wireless phones, baby monitors, or walkie talkie radios require HN approval to operate.
     6.2.4. Use of Ionospheric Sounders. Reference paragraph 8.2.21 of the NTIA Manual.
     SFAF Instructions: in addition to the minimum information required in the SFAF include
     the following: pulses per channel, sweep rates, sweep intervals, pulse width (duration),
     PRR, antenna type, antenna orientation, and the statement, “No existing authorized
     ionospheric sounder system is capable of meeting this requirement.” Also, include on
     line SFAF 500, special note - S383.
     6.2.5. Chirpcomm™.        Chirpcomm™ is a low-power, highly reliable message
     transmission capability system used in conjunction with sounders. The system sends
     nonsecure narrative messages up to 38 characters, with a two-character transmit station
     identifier. This subsystem supplements and sustains existing HF communications circuits
     by enhancing the sounder capability. However, EMC differs significantly from the
     sounder-only mode. You must consider potential interference to other HF circuits and
     meet the following conditions:
         6.2.5.1. US military Chirpcomm™ systems are authorized only for critical or
         contingency requirements when standard methods of communication are not feasible.
         6.2.5.2. Obtain specific frequency assignments for the Chirpcomm™ mode in
         addition to those for the chirpsounder.
         6.2.5.3. AFSMO coordinates Chirpcomm™ systems within the US&P with the
         NTIA.
  6.3. AF Considerations for use of HF in the Continental United States (CONUS). AF
  activities satisfy new requirements by using time and geographical sharing with existing
  assignments. The use of HF for domestic, point-to-point service within the CONUS is
  limited to the following:
     6.3.1. For instantaneous transmission of emergency, command and control, and alerting
     traffic of such importance as to affect the immediate defense and survival of the nation.
     In such cases, the following apply:
         6.3.1.1. To protect frequency assignments for such circuits according to the
         importance of the communications requirement.
     6.3.2. When required for emergencies where life, public safety, or important property is
     jeopardized and other communications means are nonexistent, temporarily disrupted, or
     inadequate. Use a non-radiating (dummy) load as much as possible to test frequencies in
     this category. Keep tests using a radiating antenna to a minimum. Do not conduct
     operator training on these frequencies. These assignments are considered Category 2
     assignments and will include record note L012 or L113.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   31


     6.3.3. When there is a need for a communications system staffed by fully qualified
     operators who are military reservists, MARS affiliates, or personnel in tactical or training
     systems. Do not use these frequencies for traffic routinely handled by other means.
     These assignments are considered Category 3 assignments and will include record note
     S012.
     6.3.4. When other telecommunications facilities, such as the Defense Information
     Infrastructure (DII) and MARS, do not exist or are not practical for the installation and
     the use of frequencies above 30 MHz is not practical. These assignments are considered
     Category 4 assignments and will include record note S206.
  6.4. VHF Air/Ground (30-50, 118-136, 138-144 MHz). VHF air-to-air and air-to-ground
  communications supports both ATC and tactical operations.
     6.4.1. VHF ATC. VHF ATC operations are conducted in the 118-136 MHz band. The
     AAG controls these frequencies. The FAA considers normal ATC operations at a
     location to consist of: 1 ground, 1 local, 2 approach, 1 departure, and 1 Automatic
     Terminal Information Service (ATIS)/Automated Surface Observation System
     (ASOS)/Automated Weather Observation System (AWOS). NOTE: If additional
     frequencies are required, justification must be provided in SFAF Item 520. This
     justification will be considered by Headquarters (HQ) FAA to determine the need for the
     additional frequencies. All requirements must be coordinated first with the applicable
     FAA Service Area. A service volume must be included on all ATC assignments (SFAF
     Item 503). FAA Service Area coordination information must be listed in the
     Supplementary Details (SFAF Item 520). Additionally, in certain RF saturated regions
     not all normal ATC operations can be supported with a FAA VHF band assignment.
     6.4.2. VHF Tactical Operations. VHF tactical operations are normally conducted in the
     30-50 or the 138-144 MHz bands.
     6.4.3. VHF Pilot to Dispatch. This function cannot reside in the 108-136 MHz
     frequency band. Place this function into the band of 138-144 MHz. Use 139.3 MHz
     when feasible, to standardize AF operations.
  6.5. Ultra High Frequency (UHF) (225-399.9 MHz). The 225-399.9 MHz band, referred to
  as the UHF band, supports fixed, mobile, aeronautical radionavigation, and satellite
  operations. Assignments to support the various functions must be in accordance with the
  channeling plan. The following are various AF functions supported in the 225-399.9 MHz
  band:
     6.5.1. Aeronautical Operations. Within the US&P, the MAG recommends assignment
     action used to support aeronautical operations. Frequencies are channeled in 25 kHz
     increments and must be used in accordance with the USMCEB-M-001-04, 225-399.9
     MHz allotment plan. The use includes both air-to-air and air-to-ground operations.
     Typical uses include ATC, squadron operations, etc. When processing assignment
     requests for aeronautical operations, a service range and height must be included.
        6.5.1.1. Air-to-Air Refueling. All frequencies used for air-to-air refueling must
        contain the track number, exit and entry points on the track, and the names of the sites
        with the track geographical coordinates.
32                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


         6.5.1.2. ATC Frequencies. ATC frequencies are used solely to control the movement
         of aircraft. ATC services include approach control, departure control, clearance
         delivery, en route control, ground control, and local control. The AAG controls all
         frequencies used for ATC and must coordinate prior to an assignment being made.
         ATC communications support is provided by military and civilian FAA certified
         facilities in direct support of the National Airspace System (NAS) and conducted
         under a MOU between the facility and applicable FAA Service Area. Coordination is
         required with the applicable FAA Service Area for all ATC requirements.
             6.5.1.2.1. Communications between military stations and aircraft operating
             within a military operating area, after being handed over by FAA control, are not
             considered ATC operations.
     6.5.2. Wideband Operations. Any bandwidth greater than 25 kHz is considered a
     wideband requirement. Frequencies used must conform to the designated wideband
     allotments in the UHF allotment plan.
         6.5.2.1. Fixed Multichannel Radio Relay. Fixed multichannel radio relay is not
         permitted to operate in this band within the US&P, except for tactical exercises or
         training, or unless demonstrated that its use is the only effective way to satisfy a
         communications requirement. Multichannel radio relay is normally a duplex
         operation; therefore, make sure frequencies are requested for both locations.
     6.5.3. Satellite communications. The 225-399.9 MHz band is used to support Fleet
     Satellite Communications (FLTSAT) and AF Satellite Communications (AFSAT). Per
     USMCEB-M-001-04, Allotment Plan for the 225-399.90000 MHz Frequency Band,
     Annex D provides the plan for satellite communications.
  6.6. NAVAID Frequencies. NAVAIDs help provide safe and efficient operation of civil and
  military aircraft. All frequency assignments for NAVAIDs are under the control of the AAG
  and require FAA Service Area coordination except the long-range aid to navigation
  (LORAN) system. There are many radio frequencies used to support airfield operations at a
  typical AF installation. Periodically, the ISM should compare assigned frequencies against
  the DoD flight information publications (FLIP). Errors should be brought to the attention of
  the airfield manager so the FLIP can be corrected, or frequencies changed to those assigned.
  Aeronautical NAVAIDs and their allocated frequency bands are:
     6.6.1. Low Frequency (LF) and Medium Frequency (MF) Non-Directional Beacons
     (NDB). Frequencies for LF or MF radio beacon operations range from 70 to 2000 kHz.
     AF NDBs normally operate in the 200-415 and 510-535 kHz band within the US&P. A
     Station Class of ALB, emission of 2K04A2A, and service volume (SFAF Item 503) are
     required for each proposal.
     6.6.2. ILS. The ILS consists of three components: marker beacon, localizer, and
     glideslope. The ILS provides guidance for an aircraft on final approach to a runway. The
     runway number that the ILS will service must be documented in the frequency
     assignment.
         6.6.2.1. Marker Beacon. The marker beacon operates on a standard frequency of 75
         MHz. The marker beacon indicates a specific location along the final instrument
         approach. Station Class: ALA; Emission 6K00A2A.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                        33


         6.6.2.2. Localizer. The localizer operates in the 108.1-111.95 MHz band and
         transmits horizontal guidance signals to direct the aircraft to the runway centerline.
         The localizer also transmits a Morse code airfield identifier consisting of the letter "I"
         followed by a Runway number (SFAF Item 503) and NAVAIDS Identifier (SFAF
         Item 304) that must be included in the proposal. Station Class: ALL; Emission
         2K04A1A (without voice).
         6.6.2.3. ILS Glideslope. The frequency band 328.6-335.4 MHz transmits vertical
         guidance signals for descent to the runway. The Glideslope is allocated for
         aeronautical radionavigation and is used to support ILS Glideslope. Glideslope and
         localizer frequencies are paired according to the channeling plan shown in the NTIA
         Manual. The AAG controls these assignments. Coordination is required with the
         applicable FAA Service Area for all ATC requirements.
     6.6.3. Microwave Landing System (MLS). The MLS operates in the 5031-5090.7 MHz
     band and is the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) approved replacement
     for the current ILS system. The MLS is based on time-referenced scanning beam,
     referenced to the runway, allowing aircraft to determine precise azimuth angle and
     elevation angle. The FAA engineers support the MLS and associated precision Distance
     Measuring Equipment (DME) operating in the band 972-1143 MHz.
         6.6.3.1. Mobile Microwave Landing System (MMLS). The AN/TRN-45 is a tactical
         military precision approach and landing system that is compatible and interoperable
         with the national and international MLS systems. It is designed as a tactical landing
         guidance for military aircraft and provides azimuth, elevation data, and range
         information at off-base landing sites. The AN/TRN-45 has two transmitters. The
         first transmitter is in the 979-1143 MHz frequency range and is used for DME. A
         second transmitter is in the 5031-5090.7 MHz frequency range and is used to transmit
         data, azimuth, and elevation as specified by the ICAO. Coordination is required with
         the applicable FAA Service Area as they engineer the frequency support for MMLS
         systems. This system is highly transportable as it is deployed to off-base landing
         sites.
     6.6.4. Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN). The TACAN provides short-distance range
     and azimuth information to the aircraft. The TACAN system consists of an airborne
     interrogator operating in the 1025-1150 MHz band and a ground transponder operating in
     the 962-1024 MHz or 1151-1213 MHz band. In some cases the transponder is on an
     airborne platform. This configuration is referred to as air-to-air TACAN. This
     configuration is used, for example, during air refueling. The band 962-1024 MHz is
     referred to as low band and 1151-1213 MHz is referred to as high band. This is
     important when supporting tactical equipment because many systems have a low band
     antenna and a high band antenna; therefore, know which is in use in order to request
     frequency supportability. When making assignments normally only the ground transmit
     frequency (SFAF Item 110) is assigned and its paired airborne frequency is assumed.
     TACANs are classified into three categories depending on their operational use: terminal
     facility, local enroute facility, or high enroute facility. The classification of the facility is
     important because it determines the level of protection afforded the facility. The standard
     service volume (SSV) (SFAF Item 503) is required on all assignments.
 34                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


          6.6.4.1. Standard Service Volume (SSV). Ground stations are classified according to
          their intended use. These stations are available for use within their service volume.
          Outside the service volume, reliable service may not be available. For standard use,
          the airspace boundaries are called SSVs. They are defined in Table 6.1. for the three
          station classes.

Table 6.1. SSV.
SSV Class Designator Altitude and Range Boundaries
T (Terminal)             From 1000 feet (305 m) above ground level (AGL) up to and including 12,000
                         feet (3,658 m) AGL at radial distances out to 25 nmi (46 km).
L (Low Altitude)         From 1000 feet (305 m) AGL up to and including 18,000 feet (5,486 m) AGL at
                         radial distances out to 40 nmi (74 km).
H (High Altitude)        From 1000 feet (305 m) AGL up to and including 14,500 feet (4,420 m) AGL at
                         radial distances out to 40 nmi (74 km).

                         From 14,500 feet (4,420 m) AGL up to and including 60,000 feet (18,299 m) at
                         radial distances out to 100 nmi (185 km).

                         From 18,000 feet (5,486) AGL up to and including 45,000 feet (13,716 m) at
                         radial distances out to 130 nmi (241 km).
          6.6.4.2. TACAN Channels. Airborne and ground TACAN frequencies are paired to
          form 126 "X" channels and 126 "Y" channels as shown in the NTIA Manual. In the
          "X" configuration, the ground reply frequency is 63 MHz less than the airborne
          frequency for channels 1-63 (low band) and 63 MHz higher for channels 64-126
          (high band). In the "Y" configuration, the ground reply frequency is 63 MHz higher
          than the airborne frequency for channels 1-63 and 63 MHz lower than the airborne
          frequency for channels 64-126. The AF primarily uses "X" channels within the
          US&P, except for certain air-to-air TACAN operations.
               6.6.4.2.1. TACAN channels 1-16 and 60-69 are reserved for military tactical and
               training operations, while the remaining 100 "X" channels are used by the NAS.
          6.6.4.3. Air-to-Air TACAN Channels. The following applies to AF units that need to
          use TACAN channels for air-to-air operations:
               6.6.4.3.1. TACAN frequency assignments are normally for a 10-year period, with
               renewal, after coordination with the FAA.
               6.6.4.3.2. TACAN operations using the azimuth mode are authorized only within
               areas bounded by specific geographical coordinates. Send frequency proposals in
               SFAF to AFSMO through the appropriate MAJCOM. Include in SFAF Item 531
               the geographical coordinates that enclose the desired area of operation. If several
               states are involved, insert "USP" in Items 300 and 400 and list all states in SFAF
               Item 530. Coordinate with all FAA Service Areas involved. Ask for "Y"
               channels if technically possible. State the number of channels needed and justify
               their use in SFAF Item 520.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                    35


     6.6.5. Distance Measuring Equipment (DME). DME operates on frequencies in the UHF
     spectrum between 962-1213 MHz in a LOS principle and furnishes distance information
     with a high degree of accuracy. In the operation of DME, paired pulses at a specific
     spacing are sent out from the aircraft (this being the interrogation) and are received at the
     ground station. The ground station (transponder) then transmits paired pulses back to the
     aircraft at the same pulse spacing but on a different frequency. The time required for the
     round trip of this signal exchange is measured in the airborne DME unit and is translated
     into distance (nmi) from the aircraft to the ground station.
        6.6.5.1. Air-to-air DME operations are authorized on an area-wide basis (e.g., state or
        states, US, or US&P). Submit frequency proposals for DME operations in SFAF
        through command channels to AFSMO. Give the number of channels needed, the
        maximum number of aircraft involved in the operation and justification for use of the
        civil channels. Apply for “Y” channels if technically possible. Include in SFAF Item
        520 the statement, “Required for DME operations only; will not use the azimuth
        mode.”
     6.6.6. VOR. VOR facilities provide bearing information to aircraft and operate in the
     108-117.95 MHz band as shown in the NTIA Manual. Most VORs use voice and Morse
     code transmissions to identify the ground facility.
     6.6.7. VOR Tactical Air Navigation (VORTAC). The VORTAC is a facility consisting
     of a collocated VOR and TACAN. The VORTAC is the most common unified aid within
     the AF. Both facilities are located in the same place, transmit simultaneously on a paired
     channel and share the same three-letter identifier. If the facilities do not meet the
     following antenna separation criteria, they are not considered a single NAVAID and must
     use unpaired channels and different identifiers. Only the FAA may waive these
     requirements.
        6.6.7.1. For stations used in terminal areas for approach procedures, the separation
        for a standard VOR antenna and the associated DME or TACAN antenna will not
        exceed 100 feet. For a Doppler VOR antenna and associated DME or TACAN
        antenna, separation will not exceed 260 feet.
        6.6.7.2. VOR and DME or TACAN antenna separation will not exceed 2,000 feet for
        facilities providing only enroute services. Refer to the NTIA Manual for complete
        table.
     6.6.8. ATC Radar Beacon (ATCBS) System Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) and
     Selective Identification Feature (SIF). The IFF/SIF consists of a ground interrogator that
     operates on 1030 MHz and an airborne transponder that replies to the interrogations on
     1090 MHz. Frequency assignments are only processed for the ground interrogator. The
     airborne reply is assumed and no assignment is required. The IFF/SIF is normally paired
     with the airport surveillance radar (ASR). If the IFF/SIF is paired with an ASR, SFAF
     Item 506 must cross reference the ASR. For example: P/W AN/TPX-42, PRR250.
        6.6.8.1. The transmitter power of beacon interrogators used with terminal
        surveillance radars is normally 300 watts.
        6.6.8.2. IFF/SIF ramp tester units will use a PRR of 230 pulses per second (PPS),
        triggered for stability and limited to 4 watts of transmitter power to the antenna.
36                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


         6.6.8.3. PRRs for IFF/SIF may be the same as, or submultiples of the ASR PRR.
         Also, if the ASR operates with a staggered PRR, the IFF/SIF may also operate with a
         staggered PRR, normally below 400 PRR.
  6.7. Radar. Radar systems operate in various portions of the spectrum.
     6.7.1. Aeronautical Radio Navigation Radar. Only ground-based radars performing an
     ATC function may use these frequency bands. Use includes associated airborne
     transponders activated by radars operating in the same band. Coordinate with the
     applicable FAA Service Area before sending frequency proposals. Radar equipment
     performing a function other than listed below will not normally have frequency
     assignments in these bands.
         6.7.1.1. Long-Range Radar (LRR). The 1240-1370 MHz band is used for LRR.
         6.7.1.2. Air Surveillance Radar (ASR). ASRs operate in the 2700-2900 MHz band.
         The FAA controls the frequencies and PRR. In certain areas of the US it is difficult
         to accommodate new radars in the 2700-2900 MHz band. Radar systems complying
         with Criteria D of the Radar Spectrum Engineering Criteria (RSEC), under the NTIA
         Manual, shall incorporate additional EMC features when intended for use in
         designated heavily used areas, or for collocated operations with other radars. The
         applicable FAA Service Area and the agency asking for the assignment assess the
         need for these additional EMC features when coordinating a frequency assignment in
         the 2700-2900 MHz band. Frequency assignments for those radars with the
         additional EMC features installed will contain record note S373.
         6.7.1.3. Precision Approach Radar (PAR). PARs operate in the 9000-9200 MHz
         band.
     6.7.2. Aircraft Control and Warning (AC&W). The military AC&W radars operate in
     the 2900-3100 MHz band. The FAA does not control this frequency band; however,
     since the AC&W radar is normally paired with an IFF/SIF, the FAA will need to know
     the PRR of the AC&W radar so they can properly coordinate on the PRR for the IFF/SIF.
  6.8. Radar Speed Guns. Police radar speed guns operate on either 10525 or 24150 MHz.
  Frequency assignments are required.
  6.9. Commercial Satellite Use. All satellite terminals capable of accessing commercial
  satellites in the Fixed Satellite Service (FSS) must comply with the CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part
  25, Satellite Communications. Submit proof of Part 25 compliance as part of the DD Form
  1494 or EL CID file package through frequency management channels to AFSMO. Request
  required frequency assignments once the NTIA and the FCC have granted support.
  6.10. Spacecraft and Balloon Systems. Spacecraft and balloon systems developed or
  operated by the AF must be capable of on and off control of emissions by telecommand.
  6.11. Electronic Fuses. Installation commanders set local coordination procedures for
  installation and tenant activities that develop, design, or use electronic fuses. Electronic
  fuses that activate detonation devices do not require a DD Form 1494 or an EL CID file.
  Units that develop, design, or use electronic fuses must:
     6.11.1. Research, determine, and evaluate existing frequency assignments for
     compatibility with the intended RF environment.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 37


     6.11.2. Contact the applicable spectrum managers (MAJCOM or DoD AFC) to select
     fuse frequencies.
     6.11.3. Limit fuse-triggering transmitter emissions to the narrowest bandwidth possible.
     6.11.4. Reduce the level of unnecessary emissions.
     6.11.5. Use equipment tunable on more than one frequency.
     6.11.6. Provide protection from accidental triggering by other RF emissions through
     coding, improving receiver selectivity, shielding components, or other techniques.
  6.12. Weather Radars. Weather radars normally operate in the 2700-2900 and 5350-5650
  MHz bands. Spot frequency assignments are required.
     6.12.1. Weather radars that use conventional magnetron output tubes have inherent
     spurious emission levels that may cause RF interference to digital radio-relay microwave
     systems. Existing radars in the category include the WSR-57, WSR-74S, WSR-74C,
     AN/FPQ-21, and the AN/FPS-77. Users must install RF waveguide filters that reduce the
     spurious emission levels by at least 40 dB before using these radars at a new location.
  6.13. Telemetry Frequencies. The following bands are allocated for telemetry operations of
  aeronautical vehicles, upper atmosphere research devices, guided missiles, space system
  boosters, and space vehicles subject to compliance with NTIA 4.3.4, Telemetry Frequency
  Plan and Standards, cited in Section 5.3.7 of the NTIA Manual.
     6.13.1. The 1435-1535 MHz and 2360-2390 MHz bands. These frequencies are
     designated for telemetry and associated telecommand during flight-testing of manned and
     unmanned aircraft, missiles, or their major components. Coordinate all operations in
     these bands with the AFTRCC and the applicable AFC. The NTIA Manual provides
     detailed AFTRCC procedures. Refer to Chapter 5 of the manual for the AFTRCC
     coordination agencies.
         6.13.1.1. Assignments in both bands are centered on frequencies at standard intervals
         of 1 MHz, beginning at 1435.5 and 2310.5 MHz respectively, and are allowed
         bandwidths of 1, 3, or 5 MHz. Assignments with bandwidths greater than 1 MHz are
         centered so they do not extend outside the allocated bands. Emissions with
         bandwidths greater than 5 MHz may be approved by NTIA on a case-by-case basis.
         6.13.1.2. The 1435-1525 MHz band consists of ninety-nine (99) 1-MHz channels
         designated for telemetry.
            6.13.1.2.1. Frequencies 1444.5, 1453.5, 1501.5, 1515.5, 1524.5, and 1525.5 MHz
            are shared with flight telemetry mobile stations. Use limited to 1 MHz bandwidth
            except for frequencies 1524.5 and 1525.5 MHz where a bandwidth of 2 MHz is
            permitted.
         6.13.1.3. The 2310-2390 MHz band consists of seventy-three (73) 1-MHz channels
         designated for telemetry.
            6.13.1.3.1. Frequencies 2312.5, 2332.5, 2352.5, 2364.5, 2370.5, and 2382.5 are
            shared on a coequal basis with operations of expendable and reusable launch
            vehicles. Such use is limited to 1 MHz bandwidth.
 38                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


           6.13.1.4. Telemetry associated with launching and reentry into the earth's
           atmosphere, as well as incidental orbiting before reentry of occupied objects
           undergoing flight tests, is also allowed within these bands.
           6.13.1.5. Telecommand stations authorized to operate in these bands must directly
           support telemetry functions. Assignments are limited to 1 MHz bandwidth and must
           use antennas having a half-power beamwidth of no more than 8 degrees and a front-
           to-back ratio of at least 20 dB.
           6.13.1.6. Channels designated for aeronautical telemetry in the 1435-1525 MHz band
           are also available for space telemetry on a shared basis.
           6.13.1.7. The 1530-1535 MHz band is allocated primarily to Maritime Mobile (MM)
           satellite services (MSS); mobile aeronautical telemetry is secondary.
       6.13.2. The 2025-2100 MHz and 2200-2290 MHz bands. These frequencies are
       designated for telemetry and associated telecommand for launch vehicles, missiles, and
       upper atmosphere research rockets, in addition to space missions (of extended duration).
       Such use is on a coequal shared basis with fixed and mobile LOS operations. All (space-
       related) operations in these bands must be coordinated with DoD and National
       Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
           6.13.2.1. The 2200-2290 MHz band consists of ninety (90) 1-MHz narrowband
           channels beginning at 2200.5 MHz in 1-MHz increments through 2289.5 MHz.
           6.13.2.2. Emission bandwidths greater than 1 MHz are permitted, provided the
           assigned frequencies are centered on the center frequencies of narrowband channels
           and do not extend outside the allocated band.
           6.13.2.3. No provision is made in the 2200-2290 MHz band for flight-testing of
           piloted aircraft.
   6.14. International Distress and Emergency Frequencies. The U.S. Government and DoD
   have adopted the international distress and emergency frequencies shown in Table 6.2.
   Frequency assignments are not required.

Table 6.2. Emergency Frequencies.
SERVICE             FREQUENCY         COMMUNICATION                 FUNCTION
                    (EMISSION)        SERVICE
International       500 kHz           Aeronautical, Maritime,       Distress (Telegraphy)
Distress and                          Survival Craft
Emergency
                    2182 kHz          Aeronautical, MM,             Distress
                                      Survival Craft
                    3023 kHz          Mobile                        Search and Rescue (SAR)
                    5680 kHz          Mobile                        SAR Operations
                    8364 kHz          Aeronautical, MM              SAR
                    40.5 MHz          Mobile                        Military Joint Common
                                                                    (US&P only)
                    121.5 MHz         Aeronautical                  Emergency and Safety
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  39


                    123.1 MHz         Aeronautical, Mobile          SAR, Scene of Action
                    156.3             Aeronautical, MM              SAR Operations
                    156.8 MHz         MM                            Call, Reply and Safety
                    243.0 MHz         Military Aeronautical         Emergency and Survival
                    406-406.1         Mobile-Satellite              Emergency Position-
                    MHz                                             Indicating Radiobeacon
Radio Amateur       3997 kHz          RACES Stations                Civil Emergency
Civil Emergency     (6K00A3E)
Service (RACES)
                    3998.5 kHz
                    (3K00H3E)
                    53.3 MHz
                    (36K00F3E)
      6.14.1. Any mobile station experiencing an emergency may use the frequencies listed in
      Table 6.2. If a mobile station in distress is unable to make contact on emergency
      frequencies, it may use any available means to obtain help. Policies for using these
      frequencies are:
          6.14.1.1. Send distress calls or messages only on the authority of the person
          responsible for the ship, aircraft, or other vehicle carrying the mobile station.
          6.14.1.2. The frequencies are used only for actual emergencies, not for simulated
          emergency training.
          6.14.1.3. Do not radiate when testing an emergency frequency during experimental,
          production, or maintenance operations.
          6.14.1.4. Do not make operational checks to ensure proper system operation
          (confidence checks) more than once in any 24-hour period and keep them as short as
          possible.
          6.14.1.5. Activities completing a communications contact on equipment used for
          emergency purposes will consider the contact the confidence check for that period.
          6.14.1.6. Only make confidence checks with stations authorized to operate on the
          particular emergency frequency. Do not transmit "in the blind" for confidence
          checks.
   6.15. Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Services (RACES). AF activities may use the
   RACES station frequencies listed in Table 6.3. to make initial contact with RACES
   personnel to coordinate on emergency or disaster related matters. Additional information can
   be found in the NTIA Manual.
   6.16. Standard Frequency and Time Broadcasts.              Frequencies are nationally and
   internationally allocated and assigned for specific stations to broadcast time and frequency
   signals. The following are key points about the national standard broadcasts:
      6.16.1. US Standard Broadcasts. The National Institute of Standards and Technology of
      the DoC operates three radio stations providing highly accurate frequency and time
      signals:
40                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


         6.16.1.1. WWV near Fort Collins CO broadcasts on frequencies 2.5, 5, 10, 15, and
         20 MHz.
         6.16.1.2. WWVB, also near Fort Collins CO broadcasts on frequency 60 kHz.
         6.16.1.3. WWVH, on the island on Kauai HI broadcasts on frequencies 2.5, 5, 10,
         and 15 MHz.
         6.16.1.4. These stations provide government and private agencies precise time and
         accurate frequency signals for setting chronometers and calibrating frequency-
         sensitive equipment.
  6.17. DoD Use of Frequencies in Non-Federal Government Bands. The military may use
  some frequencies allocated for non-federal government use on a secondary, NIB as outlined
  below. These frequencies may be used to meet peacetime tactical and training requirements
  as well as military test range operations. The frequencies are used only when government
  bands will not satisfy frequency needs and when use does not cause interference to non-
  federal government users. The military must accept any interference caused by non-federal
  government authorized users. Military use of a frequency will not bar new non-federal
  government assignments on that or adjacent frequencies.
     6.17.1. The 4-27 MHz MM and Broadcasts Bands. AF activities may use frequencies
     allocated to the Maritime Mobile service and broadcast services for peacetime military
     tactical and training purposes within the US&P. Refer to the NTIA Manual.
         6.17.1.1. MAJCOM SMOs are delegated assignment authority in these bands to
         exclude use of long haul communications. No assignment in either the GMF or the
         FRRS is required.
         6.17.1.2. MAJCOMs will implement procedures to track assignments within their
         respective command to include unit, location, and inclusive dates (not to exceed 1
         year). Either spot frequency or band assignments are authorized.
         6.17.1.3. MAJCOMs may not use this authority to circumvent standard frequency
         assignment procedures for fixed terrestrial systems or HF networks.
         6.17.1.4. This authority is to support training and field operations around an
         installation or exercise area where the type of equipment used is either portable or
         transportable. Aeronautical mobile operations are strictly prohibited.
         6.17.1.5. Users will limit transmitter power to the minimum necessary for reliable
         communications and will not exceed the power for specific types of emissions. Refer
         to the NTIA Manual for the allowable frequencies, emissions, and power levels in the
         4-27 MHz band.
         6.17.1.6. When notified by the FCC or other authority that AF transmissions are
         interfering with a MM or broadcast station, the identified station will immediately
         cease operation.
         6.17.1.7. Users may receive interference on these bands and will not try to obtain
         relief from such interference; however, they can request a replacement frequency
         through command spectrum management channels.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 41


         6.17.1.8. AFSMO reserves assignment authority for those frequencies listed in
         Chapter 7 of the NTIA Manual for long haul HF operations. Request use of these
         frequencies through command channels.
     6.17.2. Military use of non-federal government bands above 25 MHz.
         6.17.2.1. The military services may use frequencies in the non-federal government
         bands above 25 MHz for tactical and training operations in the US&P as shown in the
         NTIA Manual. AF activities will coordinate use with their host MAJCOM SMO and
         the local FCC through the FCC Watch Officer.
         6.17.2.2. Military use of these frequencies will not bar present or future assignments
         of non-federal government frequencies to non-military government agencies through
         normal IRAC and FCC coordination.
         6.17.2.3. The military will protect specific non-federal government frequencies
         authorized for government agencies.
     6.17.3. Military Test Range Operations. The FCC and the military services have
     arranged for the military use of non-federal government bands at the military test ranges
     shown in the NTIA Manual. The authorized frequency bands are listed in the NTIA
     Manual. The following procedures apply to use of these non-federal government bands:
         6.17.3.1. Do not use these frequencies if government bands can satisfy the
         requirement.
         6.17.3.2. Limit use to those intermittent operations that can be stopped immediately
         upon notification that they are causing harmful interference.
         6.17.3.3. Select frequencies to avoid harmful interference to known non-federal
         government operations.
         6.17.3.4. Where practical, the military station identifies itself using a call sign or
         periodic interruption according to a prearranged schedule.
         6.17.3.5. Do not use non-federal government bands to develop military systems that
         may need a new frequency allocation.
  6.18. Amateur Frequencies. The military services may not use amateur frequencies within
  the US&P during normal peacetime conditions, except as authorized by the NTIA or FCC.
  6.19. Citizen Band (CB) Radio Service. AF CB stations must operate in accordance with
  FCC Rules and Regulations, Part 95, Subpart D (CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Personal
  Radio Services). AFSMO maintains frequency assignments within this band authorized by
  the FCC for AF CB operations. Frequency proposals for CB frequency assignments are
  considered on a case-by-case basis based on justification and operational concept.
  Assignments will include record note S348 in SFAF Item 500 and results of national level
  coordination with the FCC.
     6.19.1. Law enforcement agencies may communicate with the motoring public on and
     around an installation for the purpose of providing emergency assistance to the public.
     Use CB Channel 9 for this purpose.
42                                 AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     6.19.2. Emergency vehicles using public highways for travel or guarding military
     convoys may communicate with the motoring public and civil authorities.
     6.19.3. Convoys traveling on public highways may communicate with the motoring
     public and civil authorities.
     6.19.4. Only US government personnel may operate the equipment.
     6.19.5. Do not use CB radios to conduct military-related communications, or instead of
     obtaining a frequency assignment to operate on an appropriate military system.
     6.19.6. Users will not submit frequency requests for CB assignments and will only grant
     authorization to users in accordance with the above rules.
  6.20. Broadcasting Service Frequencies. The military services are not authorized to operate
  any broadcast facility within the US&P, except in select circumstances. Exceptions are
  Travelers Information System Amplitude Modulation (AM) broadcast stations that are
  licensed through the FCC. These stations are non-commercial and are generally restricted to
  bulletin board-type information such as available installation facilities, travel restrictions, and
  driving hazards. Submit requirements for broadcast facilities through command channels to
  AFSMO for FCC coordination.
  6.21. Cellular Telephone Systems. These systems operate on non-federal government
  frequencies. National regulations do not permit assignment of these frequencies to
  government agencies (including DoD). AF activities requiring cellular service must contract
  through a local carrier. Frequency authorization for cellular service is a FCC and local
  carrier function, and federal frequency assignments are not required.
     6.21.1. Frequency assignments are not required for cellular service leased according to
     AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management.
     6.21.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Consumer Signal Boosters can be authorized after
     obtaining some form of licensee consent to operate the booster; register the booster with
     their provider; use a booster that meets the Network Protection Standard and is Federal
     Communications Commission certificated; and operate the booster on a secondary, non-
     interference basis and shut it down if it causes harmful interference. Using activities will
     have to provide documentation to the ISM in which the using activity has the consent of
     their provider and registers the booster with that provider.
  6.22. Pager Systems. The 138-144 MHz band is used for AF pager systems, unless another
  band is required for operational reasons. AF activities will study shared use of existing
  paging systems in the area before asking for a frequency assignment and obligating funds for
  equipment. Ensure a pager frequency authorization is available before deploying pager
  equipment overseas.
  6.23. Maritime Mobile (MM) Frequencies. The 156-162 MHz band is allocated primarily
  for non-federal government MM communications.
     6.23.1. The channels in the MM band are reserved for communications between vessels
     and designated commercial marine operators and for non-federal government ship-to-
     shore and inter-ship operations.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  43


     6.23.2. Government stations may request the use of specific channels on a case-by-case
     basis if they have a valid need to communicate with the affected non-federal government
     licensees. AF activities will submit requirements through command channels to
     AFSMO.
         6.23.2.1. When using MM frequencies, regulations in the NTIA Manual must be
         adhered to.        Channel 6, 156.3 MHz, may be authorized for inter-ship
         communications. This channel is authorized for coordinated operation at the scene of
         a SAR incident (refer to the NTIA Manual). Coast stations may use this channel
         during emergencies affecting life or property when other means of communications
         are not practical. Channel 22, 157.1 MHz, is the primary frequency for liaison
         communications between ship stations and the US Coast Guard stations. AF
         activities will submit requirements through command channels to AFSMO. Channels
         81A and 82A are allocated for “US Government Only” and can be requested to
         support AF operations.
  6.24. AF Experimental Radio Stations. AF experimental radio stations are listed in the
  NTIA Manual and are authorized to use any RF except those bands listed in the NTIA
  Manual for short or intermittent periods without prior authorization of specific frequencies
  for short or intermittent periods under the following conditions:
  6.24. (KIRTLANDAFB) The Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) Phillips Research
  Site, 3550 Aberdeen Avenue, S.E. on Kirtland AFB is identified as an Air Force
  Experimental Radio Station authorized to use any RF except those bands listed in the NTIA
  Manual for short or intermittent periods without prior authorization of specific frequencies
  for short or intermittent periods under the following conditions:
     6.24.1. Operations are confined to the immediate vicinity of the station.
     6.24.2. The nature or duration of the requirement makes assignment of specific
     frequencies impractical.
     6.24.3. All reasonable measures are taken before such frequencies are used to ensure that
     harmful interference will not be caused to authorized services. Otherwise, operations
     must terminate.
     6.24.4. This authority is limited to RF usage, which is an integral part of an experimental
     operation and shall not be construed as authorizing frequency usage for administrative or
     operational use.
     6.24.5. Experimental operations conducted pursuant to this authority shall be terminated
     immediately upon receipt of notice of harmful interference being caused to an authorized
     service.
  6.25. Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Equipment. Industrial, scientific, and medical
  (ISM) equipment is defined as the operation of equipment or appliances designed to generate
  and use RF energy for ISM, domestic or similar purposes, excluding application in the field
  of telecommunications. Assignments are not required to operate ISM equipment within the
  US&P under the following conditions:
     6.25.1. Operate on the designated Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Equipment
     equipment frequencies (see Para. 7.10.1 of the NTIA Manual).
 44                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


      6.25.2. Terminate use of Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Equipment equipment, or
      take steps to resolve interference, when interference to authorized frequency users occurs
      outside the ISM equipment frequency limits.
      6.25.3. Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Equipment equipment operations are
      prohibited on the following SAR frequency bands: 490-510 kHz, 2170-2194 kHz, 8354-
      8374 kHz, 121.4-121.6 MHz, 156.7-156.9 MHz, and 242.8-243.2 MHz.
      6.25.4. Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Equipment equipment must meet conditions in
      the NTIA Manual.
   6.26. Family Radio Service (FRS). FRS is a FCC unlicensed low powered service that
   provides coverage up to 2 miles using frequencies within the FRS frequency pool (see Table
   6.3.). FRS radio may be used on any of the 14 FRS channels, which are shared between all
   FRS users. Thirty eight privacy codes allow the FRS users to limit the transmissions
   received to those users on the same channel and privacy code. This reduces confusion
   between multiple conversations on the same channel. A reminder that any FRS user can
   listen to any ongoing conversation and can legally break into that conversation. No FCC
   license or permanent frequency assignment is required and no FRS channel may be assigned
   to any specific individual or organization.

Table 6.3. FRS Frequency Pool.
FRS Frequency Pool (MHz)
462.5625             462.5875                   462.6125                 462.6375
462.6625             462.6875                   462.7125                 467.5625
467.5875             467.6125                   467.6375                 467.6625
467.6875             467.7125
      6.26.1. AF entities are authorized to purchase and operate FRS radios pursuant to Part
      95, Subpart B of the FCC Rules and Regulations (CFR Title 47 U.S.C.). AF users will be
      accorded the same privileges as non-federal users. FRS users must share each channel
      and no user is assured protection from interference caused by another authorized user.
      User assumes those limitations when this equipment is purchased and operated. AF
      entities may not purchase and operate FRS radios for planned communications operations
      that safeguard human life or property and should not be used for military missions. No
      license or frequency assignment is required or can be obtained in the US&P. AF FRS
      users must comply with the following conditions:
          6.26.1.1. Comply with CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Subpart 95.191, Eligibility and
          Responsibility; Subpart 95.192, Authorized Locations; Subpart 95.193, Types of
          Communications; Subpart 95.194, FRS Units.
          6.26.1.2. Use of FRS devices outside the US&P is subject to host country and
          international regulations. AF members or employees are not authorized to use FRS
          radios outside the US&P without HN approval. Unified command directives apply.
          Coordinate FRS use with the appropriate AF component SMO.
          6.26.1.3. AF members and employee users are responsible for all communications
          using FRS radio equipment. Use must comply with federal, state, and local law.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  45


         6.26.1.4. The installation commander may prohibit FRS when interference to mission
         essential EM equipment is anticipated or to resolve a suspected RFI problem.
         6.26.1.5. AF members and employees using FRS radios must relinquish channel use
         for emergency communication messages concerning the immediate safety of life or
         the immediate protection of property.
         6.26.1.6. Use only FCC certified FRS. Any modification to the equipment to boost
         power, add a different antenna, or to increase the gain of the current antenna, cancels
         the FCC certification and voids authority. Illegal FRS equipment is subject to
         confiscation.
         6.26.1.7. FRS devices are not authorized for classified, sensitive but unclassified,
         command and control, squadron operational, aircraft/flight line maintenance, fire
         crash, explosive ordinance disposal, security forces, emergency/disaster response,
         tactical or training operations, and/or medical communications.
         6.26.1.8. Under no circumstance will FRS radios be permitted for use in controlled
         areas without express written consent of the installation commander and full
         compliance with all security directives.
         6.26.1.9. Use of FRS cannot be protected from harmful interference. FRS radios
         may not cause interference to any licensed device and must accept all interference
         from licensed devices.
         6.26.1.10. The FCC may restrict use of the FRS radios if the station is located within
         the National Radio Quiet Zone (areas of MD, VA, and WV bounded by 39°15’N
         78°30’W, 39°15’N 80°30’W, 37°30’N 78°30’W, 37°30’N 80°30’W).
         6.26.1.11. AF members and employees assigned to non-appropriated fund activities
         and some appropriated fund activities may use FRS radios, as follows: to
         communicate with non-government users during AF supported or sponsored
         community activities, i.e., scouts, Special Olympics, youth activities/sporting events,
         civil disasters, funeral details for deceased military veterans, etc. In addition, FRS
         radios may be used for administrative purposes when communicating in warehouses,
         commissaries, base exchanges, billeting areas, work crews, etc. FRS radios may also
         be used on AF installations where the public is permitted entrance and in family
         housing areas.
  6.27. Inter-Squad Radio (ISR). The ISR is the military FRS radio operating in the 380-
  399.975 MHz sub-band and is recommended over the commercial FRS for AF members and
  employees. Because it is in the government frequency band and the potential for EMI is less,
  it can be used for tactical or training operations unlike the FRS that uses civil spectrum.
  Other operations permitted with the ISR are cantonment areas and roving/walking guard
  posts. Unless appropriately encrypted, ISRs cannot be used to transmit classified, sensitive,
  command and control, fire/crash, security, and/or emergency response/medical
  communications. Refer to AFI 33-201, Communications Security, for guidance on protecting
  these types of communication.
     6.27.1. Do not modify the ISR.
46                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     6.27.2. Only AF members, employees, and contractors providing support to military
     operations will use the ISR.
     6.27.3. IRS will not be used for personal business.
     6.27.4. Possession and use of ISR devices outside the US&P is subject to host country
     and international regulations. AF members, employees, or contractors are not authorized
     to use ISR devices outside the US&P without HN approval. COCOM directives apply.
     Coordinate ISR use with the appropriate AF component SMO. Additional restrictions
     may be imposed in different AORs (i.e., Tactical and Training LMRs require National
     Security Agency type 1 encryption).
  6.28. General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS). The GMRS is an FCC licensed personal two-
  way voice communications service used to facilitate the activities of an individual and their
  immediate family providing coverage up to 5 miles. GMRS cannot be used by government
  agencies under any circumstances. CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95 provides regulatory
  guidance.
  6.29. Multi-Use Radio Service (MURS). The FCC established MURS in 2002 as a Citizens
  Band Radio Service. This equipment cannot be used by government employees in the line of
  duty, or as an employee of any government entity, including non-appropriated fund activities.
  6.30. Terrestrial and Space Systems within Shared Bands. The following information
  applies to those bands between 1 GHz and 50 GHz equally shared by space and terrestrial
  services:
     6.30.1. AFSMO determines whether a proposed fixed or mobile station in these bands
     will be within the normal coordination distance of an earth station listed in the NTIA
     Manual.
     6.30.2. If the location is within the coordination distance, AFSMO coordinates the
     request with the agency operating the earth station.
     6.30.3. Begin coordinating earth stations during the system review using procedures
     outlined in the NTIA Manual. Indicate on applications for frequency assignments the
     status of coordination with agencies that have terrestrial operations in the same band and
     within the coordination area of the earth stations.
     6.30.4. AFSMO does not take final assignment action until national-level coordination is
     complete.
  6.31. Space and Balloon Systems. Include with each frequency request to radiate EM
  energy from spacecraft or balloon systems, either a detailed description of the methods for
  on-off telecommand capability, or a justified request for an exception.
  6.32. Space-Ground Link Subsystem (SGLS) and Unified S-Band (USB). Satellite
  operations for military satellites are authorized for SGLS uplinks in the band 1761-1842
  MHz and USB uplinks in the band 2025-2110 MHz and SGLS and USB downlinks in the
  band 2200-2290 MHz. Spectrum managers at Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)
  located at Los Angeles AFB CA; Eastern Space and Missile Center (ESMC) located at
  Patrick AFB FL; and Western Space and Missile Center (WSMC) located at Vandenberg
  AFB CA manage and issue discrete frequency assignments on a program-by-program basis
  for all operations in these bands and coordinate with Federal Satellite Operations (per
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  47


  DoD/NASA MOU, 23 October 2003) and also the Electronic News Gatherers for uplink
  operation in the 2025-2110 MHz band. NOTE: Dual-Band satellite operations policy
  requires shared AF, NASA, and National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
  operation in the 2025-2110 and 2200-2290 MHz bands.
  6.33. Antenna Testing Frequencies Above 30 MHz. Include the following information in
  SFAF Item 520:
     6.33.1. Effective radiated power. If unknown, give a reasonable estimate.
     6.33.2. Profile of the surrounding terrain by description or other means. If testing within
     shielded enclosures, so state and give the attenuation (in dB) provided by the enclosure.
     6.33.3. Antenna configuration, to include:
         6.33.3.1. Whether full scale or less than full scale.
         6.33.3.2. The estimated hours of use in local time (e.g., 0800 to 1700 daily, Monday
         through Friday; daytime only, Monday through Friday).
  6.34. Requests for Restricted Frequencies. Except in unusual circumstances, do not ask for
  bands where regulations prohibit assignments (e.g., radio astronomy bands, standard
  frequency bands, some space bands, etc.). If a frequency is needed in a prohibited band,
  fully explain in SFAF Item 520 why operation is necessary in the prohibited band. Include
  type of service for which the antenna test is intended, (e.g., radiolocation, radionavigation,
  fixed, space). Give the government agency and contract number if testing supports a
  government contract. Explain the mission impact if you are not provided an assignment.
  6.35. Line-Of-Sight Frequency Diversity. Justify the use of frequency diversity for new
  LOS transmission systems in 1755-1850, 2200-2290, 4400-4990, 7125-7250, 7300-7975, and
  8025-8400 MHz bands. Explain the need for such a high degree of systems reliability and
  cite the engineering study showing that frequency diversity is necessitated by the required
  reliability. Existing systems using frequency diversity may continue until frequency
  congestion requires reevaluation.
  6.36. Operating FCC-Licensed Stations on AF Installations.
     6.36.1. CBs, amateurs, taxi companies, and other FCC licensed radio stations may
     transmit on AF installations but are subject to limitations imposed by the installation
     commander. Limitations should not unnecessarily infringe on the rights of the individual
     to operate a radio according to FCC Rules and Regulations (CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 73,
     Radio Broadcast Services).
     6.36.2. Based on need, commanders may require registration of FCC-licensed station
     operating on an AF installation. Registration instructions should be included within
     installation introduction materials.
     6.36.3. If FCC licensed stations are involved in interference:
         6.36.3.1. Report interference from a FCC licensed station to AF operations according
         to AFI 10-707. The installation commander may direct an on-installation offending
         station to cease operations and will notify AFSMO, through host MAJCOM, of
         details of the action within 3 duty days. AFSMO will give this information, including
48                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


         action taken, to the FCC, Washington DC if appropriate, and the local FCC through
         the FCC Watch Officer.
         6.36.3.2. Licensees report interference between two FCC licensed stations to the
         FCC Watch Officer.
         6.36.3.3. Report AF operations interference to FCC licensed stations according to
         AFI 10-707.
         6.36.3.4. The FCC resolves interference by a FCC licensed station to the reception of
         commercial broadcast stations or the use of home entertainment units. Victims of
         such interference report the problem to the FCC Watch Officer.
  6.37. Joint Tactical Information Distribution System (JTIDS)/Multifunctional Information
  Distribution System (MIDS). JTIDS is a communications, navigation, and identification
  component of the Link 16 system intended to exchange surveillance and command and
  control information among various airborne and ground platforms. It operates in the 960-
  1215 MHz band using advanced synchronous time division multiple access, spread spectrum
  technology, frequency hopping, and cryptographic security. JTIDS randomly hops on 51
  center frequencies and also uses 1030 and 1090 MHz for identification. The system is jam
  resistant, providing joint interoperability, battlefield situational awareness, and information
  superiority through the exchange of tactical digital information link (TADIL) J and Link 16
  messages among JTIDS and MIDS terminals. JTIDS is a joint program and the USAF is the
  lead service; MIDS is a joint/international program and the US Navy is the lead service.
     6.37.1. Users will process frequency requirements for JTIDS through command channels
     to the AFSMO JTIDS action officer. All JTIDS frequency actions will be coordinated at
     the national level with the FAA, military services, and affected military operating area
     spectrum managers. Frequency requests follow the normal IRAC/FAS process and
     require a minimum of 60-90 business days to complete.
     6.37.2. JTIDS/MIDS Terminals. JTIDS/MIDS terminals operate within the frequency
     band allocated worldwide for aeronautical radionavigation. The FAA controls use of this
     band in the US&P. The DoD must operate within the strict guidelines set by the FAA to
     ensure flight safety.
     6.37.3. Frequency assignments and operations must be in strict adherence to Chairman of
     the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6232.01D, LINK-16 Spectrum, and the
     JTIDS/MIDS Spectrum Users Guide (JSUG).
     6.37.4. Due to increased reliance on this portion of the spectrum, the DoD and the
     Department of Transportation (DoT) entered into a MOA to protect continued use of this
     vital spectrum. Details of the MOA are at Attachment 5.
  6.38. Station Keeping Equipment (SKE) (AN/APN-169 & AN/APN-243). SKE provides
  transport aircraft (C-130, C-141, and C-17) the ability to fly safely in close formation in all
  weather. This is accomplished by presenting the aircrew with a situational display that
  shows the relative position of the other formation members in reference to the lead aircraft
  and alerts the crew via audiovisual proximity warning when aircraft come too close to each
  other. The system transmits high-powered pulses on one of four frequencies (3350, 3390,
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                     49


  3470, 3510 MHz). When used with the zone maker (AN/TPN-027B), the system provides
  for precision guidance to the drop zone.
     6.38.1. The AMC Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC). SMO maintains four
     frequency assignments for SKE usage within the US&P. The TACC SMO deconflicts
     SKE usage to ensure safe passage of multiple formations and drop zones.
     6.38.2. Station Keeping Equipment Follow-On (SKEFO) (AN/APN-243A) provides
     transport aircraft (C-17) the ability to fly safely in close formation in all weather. This is
     accomplished by presenting the aircrew with a situational display that shows the relative
     position of the other formation members in reference to the lead aircraft and alerts the
     crew via audiovisual proximity warning when aircraft come too close to each other. The
     system allows interoperation of up to 100 aircraft in 100nmi range, utilizing a low
     probability of detection spread spectrum waveform in the 3100-3600 MHz band. The
     frequency hop set is programmable based on HN authorizations. Multiple hop sets may
     be loaded in to the system depending on each nation’s authorizations. The lead aircraft
     coordinates the manual switching of the hop sets at country borders. When used with the
     zone maker (AN/TPN-027B), the SKEFO system operates in high-powered pulsed mode
     on one of four fixed channels and the system provides for precision guidance to the drop
     zone.
  6.39. Single Channel Ground and Airborne Radio System (SINCGARS). The AF acquires
  ground SINCGARS radios from the Army. This program encompasses the following
  program elements: Airborne SINCGARS Jam Resistant VHF radio (AN/ARC-222) and the
  Ground SINCGARS Jam Resistant VHF Communications. The increased usage of tactical
  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) and other Airborne Communications Node platforms
  requires a thorough understanding of the request procedures as well as potential limiting
  factors when considering employing the SINCGARS radio in ground based and/or airborne-
  based operations, hopping or nonhopping mode. The guidance below applies to CONUS
  only.
     6.39.1. Ground Based SINCGARS. The objective of ground SINCGARS is to obtain a
     jam-resistant VHF ground radio capability.
         6.39.1.1. Hopping and Non-hopping Modes.                Frequency assignments and
         coordination for use are subject to the spectrum resources available in the local area.
     6.39.2. Airborne Based SINCGARS. The objective of Airborne SINCGARS is to
     achieve a jam-resistant VHF voice radio capability for AF aircraft.
         6.39.2.1. Hopping mode:
            6.39.2.1.1. 30-88 MHz - Below 1,000 feet elevation AGL, hopping operations are
            coordinated with the supporting AFC.
            6.39.2.1.2. 30-50 MHz - Above 1,000 feet elevation AGL, all frequencies must
            be coordinated with the supporting AFC.
            6.39.2.1.3. 50-54 MHz - Above 1,000 feet elevation AGL, any and all use of this
            radio amateur band must be coordinated through the supporting AFC.
            6.39.2.1.4. 54-88 MHz - Above 1,000 feet elevation AGL, the SINCGARS
            hopping mode may be permitted at selected sites within CONUS. Use can
50                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


             potentially interfere with commercial television, operational use is based on a
             case-by-case noninterference basis. This requires national level coordination with
             the FCC through proper frequency management channels. Refer to NTIA Manual
             for sub-bands authorized for usage when training with ground-based SINCGARS.
  6.40. Military Aircraft Collision Avoidance System (MILACAS). MILACAS is the current
  generation technology version and replacement of Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance
  System (TCAS) and Enhanced Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System (ETCAS). The
  system has advanced surveillance functions to support improved overall performance.
  MILACAS-FR supports improved TCAS performance and extended range coverage, while
  MILACAS-FR supports formation rendezvous capability utilizing Mode “S” data link and
  ultimately replacing SKE on C-130 and C-17 platforms.
  6.41. HAVE QUICK. The basic HAVE QUICK (HQ) radio is a single channel UHF radio
  system modified to include a slow frequency hopping capability to counter jamming threats
  encountered in the early 1980s. During the mid to late 1980s, HAVE QUICK II evolved as a
  minimal cost modification of the basic HAVE QUICK that provided additional anti-jam
  protection, improved frequency hopping algorithms, and expanded hopsets. With an
  anticipated increase in jamming threats in the late 1980s and in an effort to refine the
  system’s capabilities, the development of HAVE QUICK IIA was initiated. HAVE QUICK
  IIA was designed to provide faster frequency hopping rates, additional hop set’s capability
  resulting from narrower channel bandwidth, and support for the transmission of digital data.
  Per STANAG 4372, HAVE QUICK IIA was designated as SATURN, the Second-generation
  Anti-jam Tactical UHF Radio for NATO. Although the US supports STANAG, SATURN
  remains an unfunded requirement and is not presently part of our radio inventory. The AF
  uses many different types of equipment for HAVE QUICK operations. For example:
  (AN/ARC-164/171/204/210/215/225; AN/GRC-171B (V) 4/206(V) 3/240; AN/PRC-113;
  AN/TRC-176; AN/TSQ-198; AN/URC-98A/99A; AN/VRC-83 (V) 3). Frequencies for AF
  operations are set-aside in Annex C of the MCEB 225-399.9 MHz channeling plan for
  HAVE QUICK I and HAVE QUICK II operations. Additional information for HAVE
  QUICK requirements can be found in AFTTP(I) 3-2.49, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques,
  and Procedures for HAVE QUICK Radios.
  6.42. Commercial Satellite Communications. The use of commercial satellite services is
  becoming more and more prevalent within DoD. DoD policy and guidance are described in
  CJCSI 6250.01B, Satellite Communications.
     6.42.1. Once the requirement is defined the type of radiocommunication service must be
     identified. These services are either FSS or Mobile-Satellite Service (MSS).
         6.42.1.1. FSS uses fixed earth stations and one or more space stations to route radio
         signals between fixed locations. FSS provides users with a leased transponder from a
         commercial satellite provider.
             6.42.1.1.1. Refer to USMCEB-M-008-03, DoD Spectrum Procedures for the Use
             of Commercial Satellite Earth Terminals Outside United States and Possessions,
             for procedures and guidance regarding DoD users of earth terminals utilizing
             commercial FSS outside of the US&P.
             6.42.1.1.2. Users must contact DISA, through command channels, for guidance
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                    51


              on leased FSS under the DISN Satellite Transmission Services – Global (DSTS-
              G) contract.
           6.42.1.2. MSS provides for communications between mobile earth stations by means
           of one or more space stations. (A mobile earth station is an earth station operating
           while in motion on land, at sea or in the air, or when halted at an unspecified
           location.) MSS provides users a service at a monthly fee similar to telephone service.
              6.42.1.2.1. Refer to Assistant Secretary of Defense/Command, Control,
              Communications and Intelligence (ASD[C3I]) (now ASD/Networks and
              Information Integration [NII]) Policy Letter, DoD Policy Letter on Managing
              MSS.
              6.42.1.2.2. Since the DoD is considered as just another user, the service provider
              is responsible for all spectrum supportability issues, including HN coordination.
           6.42.1.3. In some cases, the FSS and the MSS include satellite-to-satellite links,
           which also may be operated in the Inter-Satellite Service (ISS). Also, these services
           may include feeder links necessary for their operation.
       6.42.2. All equipment used to access a commercial satellite must conform to FCC Rules
       and Regulations (CFR Title 47 U.S.C, Part 25). One of two situations must apply. Either
       the government owns and operates the terminal equipment, or the terminal equipment is
       leased.
           6.42.2.1. If the equipment is leased or commercially owned, the commercial provider
           is responsible for securing FCC Part 25 certifications and the frequency assignments.
           6.42.2.2. If the equipment is DoD owned, DoD must request FCC Part 25
           certification in order to obtain spectrum certification. When processing the DD Form
           1494 or EL CID file, the user must also submit the information in Table 6.4.

Table 6.4. FCC Part 25 Certification.
Operational Description         Include an operational description and any supporting
                                information you feel the FCC may need to understand your use.
FCC Radio License               If the assignment was supported by a commercial license,
                                include the owner of the license, locations authorized on the
                                license, the call sign, and the file number.
Location of Earth Station       Include the site ID, city, state, coordinates, and site elevation
                                (meters) for each earth station. NOTE: The site ID is a name
                                used to identify a specific earth station. This name will be used
                                any time the site ID is requested.
Points of Communications        Include the satellites you desire to use and their location.
                                NOTE: If the requirement will be for any US domestic
                                satellite, you may enter ALSAT (All US Domestic Satellites).
Destination Points for          Include the satellite name and all destination points for any
Communications Using Non-       requirements using non-US satellites.
US Licensed Satellites
Earth Station Antenna           Include the site ID; antenna ID, quantity, manufacturer, model,
Facilities                      antenna size (meters), and the antenna transmit/receive gain
 52                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                 (____dB referred to an Isotropic Antenna [dBi] at ____GHz) for
                                 all earth station antennas. NOTE: As with the site ID, the
                                 antenna ID is also a name used to identify a particular antenna
                                 and will be used any time the antenna ID is requested.
Antenna Heights and              Include the antenna ID, maximum antenna height AGL
Maximum Power Limits             (meters), maximum antenna height above mean sea level
                                 (meters), building height AGL (meters), maximum antenna
                                 height above rooftop (meters), total input power at antenna
                                 flange (watts), and total Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
                                 (EIRP) for all carriers (dB referred to 1 Watt [dBw]) for all
                                 antennas.
Frequency Coordination           Include the antenna ID, frequency limits (MHz), range of
Limits                           satellite arc eastern limit, range of satellite arc western limit,
                                 antenna elevation angle eastern limit, antenna elevation angle
                                 western limit, earth station azimuth angle eastern limit, earth
                                 station azimuth angle western limit, and maximum EIRP
                                 density toward the horizon (dBw/4kHz) for all antennas.
Particulars of Operation         Include the antenna ID, frequency bands (MHz), mode of
                                 operation (transmit/receive), antenna polarization (H, V, L, R),
                                 emission designator, maximum EIRP per carrier (dBw),
                                 maximum EIRP density per carrier (dBw/4kHz) and a
                                 description of the modulation for all antennas. NOTE: All
                                 frequency bands and all emission designators must be listed for
                                 each band.
           6.42.2.3. The FCC requires the following information for federal government use of
           commercial satellite spectrum:
               6.42.2.3.1. A letter of acceptance or agreement from the satellite service provider.
               6.42.2.3.2. A letter from the commercial satellite regional coordinator (for the
               earth station location) that indicates the earth station operations are accepted.
               6.42.2.3.3. Documentation that the earth station terminal complies with Part 25 of
               the FCC Rules and Regulations.
               6.42.2.3.4. A letter of request from the federal agency for use of the commercial
               spectrum (it must include the information in Table 4.7.).
       6.42.3. Use outside of the US&P is subject to restrictions set forth by HN governments.
       Equipment use must be coordinated through the appropriate spectrum management
       channels. Users must verify HN supportability for equipment use and satellite service
       before deploying overseas with the service.
   6.43. Inmarsat. Inmarsat is a commercial satellite system, operating in the Mobile-Satellite
   Service using geosynchronous satellites. It is subject to international law and treaty and can
   only be used for peaceful purposes. Inmarsat uses a satellite link to interface with terrestrial
   telephone systems or other Inmarsat terminals. Neither spectrum certification nor frequency
   assignments are required; however, special procedures exist for the purchase and use of
   Inmarsat terminals. Users must contact HQ AFNIC/ECMV, through command channels, for
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                53


  guidance. Additional information may be obtained at https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/,
  Annex E of the NTIA Manual, or contact the various vendors of Inmarsat compatible
  terminal equipment.
     6.43.1. Per the MSS web page, https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/, send the completed
     Inmarsat application to AFNIC/ECMV (ATTN: MSS LCM, 203 West Losey Street,
     Scott AFB IL 62225-5222) through command channels for coordination and processing
     with the COMSAT Corporation. Do not submit applications directly to AFSMO,
     COMSAT Corporation, NTIA, the DoC or the FCC.
     6.43.2. Use outside of the US&P is subject to restrictions set forth by HN governments.
     Equipment use must be coordinated through the appropriate spectrum management
     channels. Users should contact the Inmarsat POC to negotiate HN approval coordination.
     Refer to AFI 33-134, Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) Management, for procedures
     regarding MSS resources.
  6.44. Iridium®. Iridium is a commercially available, satellite-based, global wireless
  personal communications network designed to permit any type of narrow band wireless
  transmission. It operates in the Mobile-Satellite Service using a non-geosynchronous
  satellite constellation. Per Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information
  Integration) ASD (NII) policy, Iridium is approved for use as a commercial leased service
  without a waiver. Neither spectrum certification nor frequency assignments are required;
  however, special procedures exist for the purchase and use of Iridium service and equipment.
     6.44.1. Users must contact AFNIC/ECWM and DISA, through command channels, for
     guidance. Additional information is located at https://private.afca.af.mil/mss/. Refer to
     AFI 33-134 for procedures regarding MSS resources. Refer to DISA Circular 310-130-1,
     Submission of Telecommunications Service Requests, for the provisioning procedure.
     6.44.2. Use outside of the US&P is subject to restrictions set forth by HN governments.
     Equipment use must be coordinated through the appropriate spectrum management
     channels. Users should contact AFNIC/ECWM to determine whether the HN has
     authorized the use of Iridium. Contact the Iridium POC to negotiate HN approval
     coordination.
  6.45. Frequency Requests in Canada or along the US/Canadian Border. The US and Canada
  have made arrangements to coordinate frequency requests for radio transmitters operating
  close to both countries. AFSMO obtains licenses using the data from frequency actions sent
  by the MAJCOMs. Include in SFAF Item 520 the approximate number of civilian and
  military personnel assigned to the radio station on a yearly basis that directly operate and
  maintain transmitter and receiver stations.
     6.45.1. Permanent and Temporary Assignments. The US and Canada have made
     arrangements to coordinate frequency requests for radio transmitters operating in Canada
     or near the US/Canadian border. All assignments required for longer than 90 days that
     conform to the arrangements will be coordinated by the IRAC with the Canadian
     Government according to the NTIA Manual.
         6.45.1.1. Assignments for AF Radio Stations in Canadian Territory. The Canadian
         Government (in agreement with the US Government) licenses US military radio
54                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


         stations in Canada. The Canadian-US defense agreement must authorize each station;
         however, these radio stations do not need individual licenses.
            6.45.1.1.1. The following procedures apply to US military activities within
            Canada:
            6.45.1.1.2. A Canadian-US defense agreement must authorize each installation or
            activity.
            6.45.1.1.3. US military radio stations that support a US activity need a Canadian
            license.
            6.45.1.1.4. Multiple equipment installations, such as communications complex
            transmitter sites, are licensed as individual stations.
            6.45.1.1.5. Airborne radio stations do not need a Canadian license for
            communications with a licensed ground station, but do require frequency
            coordination and approval from the Canadian Frequency Allocation Coordinating
            Subcommittee and the Joint Telecommunications Committee for airborne radio
            operations. AFSMO processes the coordination and clearance through the MCEB
            FP for AF airborne radio stations operating in Canada.
            6.45.1.1.6. Licenses issued to parent fixed stations include associated vehicular
            radio stations.
         6.45.1.2. STAs. All STAs for 90 days or less will be coordinated by AFSMO with
         National Defence Headquarters, Ottawa, Canada.
     6.45.2. Amendments to Licenses. Review frequency assignments before 1 December of
     each year to determine if any changes are needed. If so, send a frequency modification
     through command channels to reach AFSMO before 1 January of each year. Include in
     SFAF Item 520 the reason for the change. AFSMO coordinates the changes with the
     National Defence Headquarters, Director General Information Management
     Technologies//Director Information Management Technologies, Products and Services 5
     (NDHQ DGIMT OTTAWA//DIMTPS 5).
     6.45.3. Renewal of Licenses. The National Defence Headquarters, Director General
     Information     Management       Technologies//Director  Information    Management
     Technologies, Products and Services 5 (NDHQ DGIMT OTTAWA//DIMTPS 5)
     automatically renews radio licenses not requiring amendments on 1 April of each year,
     without any action by the applicant.
  6.46. Mutual Aid. When the equipment is owned by the civil agency and is given to the
  government agency for the purpose of mutual aid, a government frequency assignment does
  NOT require entry into the GMF. When the government entity owns fixed station equipment
  and the purpose of the frequency usage is "mutual aid," then the frequency assignment must
  be registered into the GMF. Government owned mobile or portable assets, unless used in a
  fixed station mode that is specifically intended to provide "mutual aid" support under a
  licensed non-federal government fixed station operating environment, does not have to be
  registered into the GMF. During the registration process, the FCC performs coordination
  required in the NTIA Manual. In addition, a Letter of Agreement must be on file and have
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                55


  been signed by the non-federal government or government parties requesting the aid
  agreement.
  6.47. Spectrum support for RF-Dependent Foreign Military or Direct Commercial Sales
  (FMS/DCS) . Before AF spectrum support can be provided, a determination must be made
  by the FMS officer and the program manager that AF spectrum support is required. This
  determination depends in part on how the sale is being processed.
     6.47.1. Foreign Military Sales (FMS). With regard to FMS, if the US government owns
     the equipment and will transfer the equipment directly to a foreign government, but has
     never operated the equipment in the US&P and never intends to operate the equipment in
     the US&P, then no DD Form 1494 is required and the US government may apply for a
     temporary frequency assignment. The frequency proposal application will clearly state,
     using S-Note 303, that there is no intent to use the equipment in the US&P and a remark
     in SFAF Item 503 should state: “FMS.” If the US government owns the equipment and
     has operated or intends to operate the equipment in the US&P, then the normal DD Form
     1494 or EL CID file and frequency assignment process must be followed. If the
     equipment is currently in the AF inventory there should be an existing DD Form 1494/J-
     12 or EL CID file already on file.
     6.47.2. Direct Commercial Sales (DCS). If a US manufacturer owns the equipment to be
     transferred directly to a foreign government, that process is called DCS. Unlike FMS
     sales, DCS are negotiated directly between the foreign government and the US
     manufacturer without the Pentagon serving as an intermediary. The equipment involved
     is typically slightly different from the equipment that same US manufacturer built for or
     sold to the US government. The US manufacturer must obtain any required spectrum
     support from the FCC for developmental and operational tests, if needed. Essentially,
     neither the US manufacturer nor the foreign government intends to operate the equipment
     within the US&P on a permanent basis.
     6.47.3. However, there exists a hybrid scenario whereby a US manufacturer makes a sale
     to a foreign government via the DCS process with FMS support. The foreign
     government is accepting equipment directly from the US manufacturer but training on
     that equipment will occur in the US&P through a DoD systems PO. For example, US-
     type aircraft/equipment being sold to an allied country with training on that new
     aircraft/equipment being provided by the USAF. These equipments may have RF-
     dependent equipment on board that operates similarly to that of the AF. In these
     instances, spectrum support must be obtained through AF channels for developmental
     testing and eventually, operational testing and training.
     6.47.4. AFSMO will challenge ownership on all “Experimental/Temporary” frequency
     assignment proposals. If the AF does not have clear ownership, then AFSMO will ask
     for clarification.
  6.48. Contractor-Owned Equipment. According to the NTIA Manual, a determination of
  responsibility; whether the radio station/equipment is owned or operated by the Government
  or the Contractor, must be made prior to requesting spectrum support.
     6.48.1. If the AF has accepted and taken possession/ownership of the equipment then the
     AF must apply for spectrum support through the NTIA process. If the equipment is being
56                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


     manufactured under direct AF contract, the AF must provide spectrum support through
     the NTIA process.
     6.48.2. If the equipment being supported is not in direct support of an AF contract, then
     the contractor must apply to the FCC for the license to develop/test/operate the
     equipment.
  6.49. Air Force Auxillary (AFAUX)/Civil Air Patrol (CAP). AFAUX/CAP, an auxiliary of
  the AF under Title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 909, is a nonprofit, civilian corporation under Title 36
  U.S.C., Chapter 403. It receives support from DoD and other departments or agencies of the
  US under Title 10 U.S.C.
     6.49.1. The AFAUX/CAP function and organization is contained in AFI 10-2701. The
     processing of spectrum interference reports is outlined in AFI 10-707. AFAUX/CAP
     follows AF procedures for processing their spectrum support requirements:
     AFAUX/CAP will process spectrum requirements through AETC; AETC will process
     AFAUX/CAP requirements in accordance with the current level guidance.
     6.49.2. AFAUX/CAP may use frequencies as needed to support daily operations in
     addition to AF assigned operations.
     6.49.3. AFSMO will maximize the use of regional and the US&P frequency assignments
     to meet AFAUX/CAP spectrum requirements and registration in the GMF. Exceptions
     will encompass requirements, which require GMF registration as defined or required by
     the NTIA for management of spectrum use in the US, most notably, stations within
     border zone areas (Canada and Mexico), on federal real estate, at civil airports and
     stations in proximity to high-density metropolitan or military area facilities. Other
     location specific stations operating under the auspices of regional or US&P assignments
     will be registered in FRRS.
  6.50. Land Mobile Radio (LMR) 30-88, 138-144, 148-150.8, 162-174, 380-399.9, and 406-
  420 MHz. Because of extreme congestion in the 162-174 MHz band, new LMR frequency
  assignments are usually made in the 138-144, 380-399.9, or 406.1-420 MHz bands unless use
  of another band is needed for operational reasons. No one solution works everywhere;
  therefore, to ensure LMR frequencies are available before deploying equipment overseas,
  MAJCOMs must contact the appropriate service component for guidance. The following
  conditions, restrictions and special provisions apply:
     6.50.1. 30-88 MHz, refer to the Supplement to the NTIA Manual for complete guidance
     pertaining to use in this band. This band can only be used when approved by FCC.
         6.50.1.1. 29.89-50 MHz band. Government and non-government agencies share this
         band and available frequencies are very limited. Frequency channels begin with
         29.90 MHz and move up the band in 20 kHz increments.
     6.50.2. 138-144 MHz band. The military services are the primary users in this band.
     Channels begin with 138.0125 MHz and move up the band in 12.5 kHz increments.
         6.50.2.1. All equipment in this band must operate within a 12.5 kHz narrowband
         channel.
     6.50.3. 148-150.8 MHz band. This band is allocated for non-government mobile-
     satellite (earth-to-space) operations, on a shared basis with government stations.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                             57


        6.50.3.1. All equipment in this band must operate within a 12.5 kHz narrowband
        channel.
     6.50.4. 162-174 MHz band. Please refer to the Supplement to the NTIA Manual for
     complete guidance pertaining to use in this band. This band is used primarily by non-
     military government agencies. AF users will satisfy new LMR and pager requirements
     from other frequency bands. Channels begin with 162.000 MHz and move up the band in
     12.5 kHz increments.
        6.50.4.1. All equipment in this band must operate within a 12.5 kHz narrowband
        channel.
        6.50.4.2. AF assignments in the 162-174 MHz band are only made when:
            6.50.4.2.1. The frequency is needed for dual-channel operation with an existing
            net.
            6.50.4.2.2. The frequency of an existing net must be changed because of
            interference problems.
            6.50.4.2.3. An existing assignment is shared with another unit at the same
            location.
     6.50.5. 406.1-420 MHz band. Please refer to the Supplement to the NTIA Manual for
     complete guidance pertaining to use in this band. This band is used primarily by non-
     military agencies. Channels begin with 406.0125 MHz and move up the band in 12.5
     kHz increments.
        6.50.5.1. All equipment in this band must operate within a 12.5 kHz narrowband
        channel.
     6.50.6. Off-channel Assignment. AF users will adjust existing off-channel assignments
     within the US&P that do not conform with the MCEB channeling plan (e.g., 148.065 or
     150.195) as soon as possible.
        6.50.6.1. Spectrum managers at all levels should look for practical, economical
        opportunities to realign such off-channel frequency assignments.
        6.50.6.2. The following special provisions apply to AF users of LMR frequencies not
        conforming to the MCEB channeling plan:
            6.50.6.2.1. When an AF unit is planning to replace off-channel equipment, the
            commander must determine whether to obtain an on-channel frequency
            assignment before the equipment is ordered.
            6.50.6.2.2. When an off-channel LMR net is receiving interference from an on-
            channel system and a frequency change is the most economic way to solve the
            problem, change the off-channel net.
            6.50.6.2.3. If all the equipment on an off-channel net is turned in, delete the
            frequency assignment immediately. Do not reserve the off-channel frequency
            assignment for a new unit.
  6.51. Narrowbanding. AF owned or leased LMR systems operating in the US&P in the
  bands in the 138-150.8, 162-174, 380-399.9, and 406.1-420 MHz bands must be narrowband
58                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


  capable. Any AF system that is not narrowband compliant will operate on a NIB to all other
  narrowband users.
  6.52. Trunked Land Mobile Radio (TLMR) Systems. All TLMR systems require SPS
  approval prior to the application for frequency assignment. Installation of a TLMR requires
  consolidation of all TLMR nets. Federal agencies managing TLMRs shall allow access by
  other federal agencies where such access is technically and operationally feasible. All
  TLMR proposal requests for operation in the US&P must include a current SPS and IRAC
  docket number. Delete conventional frequencies as you receive approval for the new
  narrowband frequencies.
  6.53. Receive-Only Systems. Though these systems do not require MCEB allocations,
  submit a DD Form 1494 or EL CID file to:
     6.53.1. Provide interference protection, update the SXXI, and conduct EMC studies.
     6.53.2. Process coordination contours for the NTIA Manual for operational (Stage 4)
     receive-only satellite communications terminals.
  6.54. Commercial Antennas on Federal Property. Commercial vendors may request the
  installation of commercial antennas on AF property. To ensure no adverse impacts to DoD
  systems, commanders and/or agency directors shall coordinate requests through the Base
  Civil Engineering Real Property Office for the placement of new telecommunications
  services on AF property. The vendor will provide information to JSC for an EMI radiation
  hazard analysis at their own expense. The ISM may facilitate in these procedures. Refer to
  AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property, for additional
  information.
  6.55. Built-In Test Equipment. With the exception of GPS re-radiating equipment, this
  equipment does not require a DD Form 1494 or an EL CID file unless it exceeds the
  technical criteria in the NTIA Manual or if the intended use is outside the US&P. Frequency
  assignments are required for built-in test equipment.
  6.56. Electronic Warfare (EW). EW is a military action involving the use of electromagnetic
  and directed energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy. EW
  consists of three aspects: electronic attack (EA), electronic protection (EP), and electronic
  warfare support (EWS).
     6.56.1. EW, in general, and EA, in particular, is not recognized as an authorized service
     by the National Level approval authority, (i.e. NTIA and FCC). Additionally, there are
     strict controls for the use of frequency bands controlled or shared with the FAA because
     of safety-of-life issues relating to commercial aviation flight routes and terminals. With
     proper coordination, EA may be performed under the condition that harmful interference
     will not be caused to authorized services.
     6.56.2. Performing EA for Testing, Training and Exercies in the U.S. and Canada.
     Frequency bands are not allocated for EW operations, testing or training. Therefore, it
     will be necessary to coordinate planned EW testing and training events using the EA
     approval process defined in CJCSM 3212.02B, Performing Electronic Attack in the
     United States and Canada for Tests, Training, and Exercises, and CJCSM 3212.03,
     Performing Tests, Training, and Exercises Impacting the Global Positioning System
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  59


      (GPS) in the United States and Canada. These procedures are recognized by the NTIA
      as the official guidance for coordination and frequency clearance procedures for
      performing EA.
      6.56.3. AFSMO is the Air Force approval authority for EA and jamming requests for AF
      EW events within the US&P and Canada. EA requests for frequency clearance outside of
      the US&P and Canada is accomplished by submitting the EA request according to theater
      policies and procedures.
   6.57. Commercial off-the-Shelf (COTS). COTS devices must remain unmodified as
   procured to maintain the definition. Paragraph 2.4.18 identifies COTS exempt from
   frequency process. Process all others through the normal DoD spectrum approval process.
   DoD requires a frequency assignment registered in the FRRS.
7. Windmill Operations.
   7.1. The advent of large (250-foot-tall and greater) wind turbines, or “windmills” for power
   production has raised the issue of possible effects on the performance of ATC radars.
   Windmills with heights up to 700 feet above ground level are being installed on sites
   throughout the United States. As noted in the NTIA Technical Report TR-08-454,
   Assessment of the Effects of Wind Turbines on Air Traffic Control Radars, radar reflections
   can mask the true radar return. http://www.its.bldrdoc.gov/pub/ntia-rpt/08-454/.
   7.2. Because of potential flight obstruction concerns, windmill site developers are required
   to coordinate proposed site locations near or close to ATC facilities with the FAA. Figure
   7.1 describes the coordination process following this notification to notify affected
   MAJCOMs of proposed windmill sites with the affected area of operation.
   7.2.1. AFSMO will receive the notification from NTIA and will forward to all affected
   MAJCOMS. If a MAJCOM has concerns regarding the proposed location of a wind turbine
   site, it will return a proposed rebuttal and contact information to AFSMO. The NTIA will
   compile concerns and prepare an official Response Letter to the Windmill developer. As
   required, the involved MAJCOM/ISM will be required to directly engage the Windmill
   developer to resolve conflicts. If the MAJCOM/ISM cannot resolve the identified concerns
   with the Windmill developer, then these concerns should be elevated through appropriate
   chain of command to the local Congressman or State Senator for intervention or resolution.
8. Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Sharing
   8.1. The electromagnetic environment (EME) is a critical shared joint-use environment that
   must be effectively controlled in order to enable successful military operations. In order to
   effectively share spectrum data, it must be timely, comprehensive, relevant, accurate, and
   trusted.
   8.2. DoDI 8320.05, Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Sharing, 18 August 2011, establishes
   policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides procedures for the collection, provision,
   maintenance, and sharing of timely, comprehensive, relevant, accurate, and trusted data used
   to characterize spectrumdependent systems and define the EME.
   8.3. Electromagnetic Spectrum Data Community of Interest (COI): A COI is a strategic
   approach for developing the agreements necessary for meaningful information exchange, and
   doing so collaboratively across the community of stakeholders who share a common interest.
60                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


  The spectrum data COI is established and functions, in accordance with DoD 8320.02-G, to
  ensure spectrum-related data identification, standardization, collection, provision, and
  maintenance is provided for meeting the needs of the DoD.
  8.4. AF spectrum stakeholders and spectrum dependent system developers shall:
     8.4.1. Implement procedures to ensure that all data generated at each state of the
     spectrum certification process is complete, accurate, and in conformance with published
     spectrum-related data standards.
     8.4.2. Ensure that all spectrumdependent system(s) acquisition submit spectrum-related
     data via the DoD data capture, supportability tracking and data maintenance capabilities
     throughout the spectrumdependent system life cycle
     8.4.3. Provide AFSMO with operational lessons learned and spectrum-related data
     feedback.
     8.4.4. Ensure that all current and future spectrum-related data assets are made consistent
     with DoDI 8320.05.




                                          Michael J. Basla, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief of Warfighting Integration and
                                          Chief Information Officer

                                          (KIRTLANDAFB)

                                          TOM D. MILLER, Col, USAF
                                          Commander, Kirtland Air Force Base
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                  61


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, U.S.C., Section 552, (b) (1), Government Organizations and Employees
Title 10 U.S.C., Armed Forces, Chapter 909, Civil Air Patrol
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Telegraphs, Telephones, and Radiotelegraphs, Section 151 et seq., The
Communications Act of 1934
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 15, Radio Frequency Devices
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 18, Industrial Scientific and Medical Equipment
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 25, Satellite Communications
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 73, Radio Broadcast Services
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Personal Radio Services
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Subpart 95.191, Eligibility and Responsibility
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Subpart 95.192, Authorized Locations
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Subpart 95.193, Types of Communications
CFR Title 47 U.S.C., Part 95, Subpart 95.194, FRS Units
ACP 190 (US SUPP-1), Guide to Frequency Planning
NTIA Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management, May
2011
CJCSI 6232.01D, LINK-16 Spectrum Deconfliction, 20 December 2007
CJCSI 6250.01D, Satellite Communications, 17 February 2010
CJCSM 3212.02C, Performing Electronic Attack in the United States and Canada for Tests,
Training, and Exercises, 20 March 2011
CJCSM 3212.03, Performing Tests, Training, and Exercises Impacting the Global Positioning
System (GPS) in the United States and Canada, 15 December 2008
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) CJCSM 3320.02, Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution (JSIR)
Procedures, 28 January 2011
DISA Circular 310-130-1, Submission of Telecommunication Service Requests, 4 April 2000
DoDI 4650.01, Policy and Procedures for Management and Use of the Electromagnetic
Spectrum, 9 January 2009
DoD 4120.24-M, Defense Standardization Program (DSP) Policies and Procedures, 9 March
2000
DoDD 3222.3_AFPD 33-5, DoD Electromagnetic Environmental Effects (E3) Program , 26
September 2006
 62                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


DD Form 1494, Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation, August 1996
USMCEB-M-001-004, Allotment Plan for the 225-339.9000 MHz Frequency Band, 1 April 2004
USMCEB-M-008-03, DoD Spectrum Procedures for the Use of Commercial Satellite Earth
Terminals Outside United States and Possessions, 18 August 2003
USMCEB-M-019-98, DoD Frequency Assignment Classification Reference, 17 November 1998
USMCEB PUB 7, Frequency Resource Record System (FRRS) Standard Frequency Action
Format (SFAF), 31 December 2003
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) KirtlandAFBI 91-203, Safety and Scheduling of Field Activities
and Test Site Operations, 30 August 2012
AFI 10-706, Electronic Warfare (EW), 3 November 2010
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 June 2005
AFI 10-2701, Organization and Function of the Civil Air Patrol, 29 July 2005
AFI 16-201, Air Force Foreign Disclosure and Technology Transfer Program, 1 December 2004
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 32-9003, Granting Temporary Use of Air Force Real Property, 19 August 1997
AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems, and
the Military Affiliate Radio System, 9 January 2002
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 24 March 2005
AFI 33-134, Mobile Satellite Services (MSS) Management, 10 February 2005
AFI 33-201, Communications Security (COMSEC), 1 May 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFTTP(I) 3-2.49, Multi-Service Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for HAVE QUICK Radios,
May 2004
Assistant Secretary of Defense/Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
(ASD[C3I]) Policy Letter, DoD Policy Letter on Managing MSS, August 29, 2001
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22
September 2009
DD Form 1494, Application for Equipment Frequency Allocation
USMCEB Pub 7, Standard Frequency Action Format (SFAF)
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                       63


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAG—Aeronautical Assignment Group
AC&W—Aircraft Control and Warning
ACP—Allied Communications Publication
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFAUX/CAP—Air Force Auxilliary/Civil Air Patrol
AFC—Area Frequency Coordinator
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSAT—Air Force Satellite Communications
AFSIR—Air Force Spectrum Interference Resolution
AFSMO—Air Force Frequency Management Agency
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTRCC—Aerospace and Flight Test Radio Coordinating Council
AGL—Above Ground Level
AM—Amplitude Modulation
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC—ANG Readiness Center
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ASD (NII)—Assistant Secretary of Defense (Networks and Information Integration)
ASOS—Automated Surface Observation System
ASR—Airport Surveillance Radar
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information System
AWOS—Automated Weather Observation System
 64                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


CB—Citizen Band
C-E—Communications-Electronics
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) CFAC—Controlled Firing Area Committee
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
COCOM—Combatant Command
CONUS—Continental United States
COTS—Commercial-off-the-Shelf
DAO—Defense Attaché Office
dB—Decibel
dBi—dB referred to an Isotropic Antenna
dBw—dB referred to 1 Watt
DCS—Direct Commercial Sales
DII—Defense Information Infrastructure
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DME—Distance Measuring Equipment
DoC—Department of Commerce
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoT—Department of Transportation
DSN—Defense Switched Network
DSO—Defense Spectrum Organization
DSP—Defense Standardization Program
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ECSRD—Electronic Command, Control, Communications, and
Computer Systems Requirements Document
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) EM—Electromagnetic
E-mail—Electronic Mail
EA—Electronic Attack
EIRP—Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EL CID—Equipment Location-Certification Information Database
EMC—Electromagnetic Compatibility
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                   65


EMCP—Electromagnetic Compatibility Program
EME—Electromagnetic Environment
EMI—Electromagnetic Interference
ESG—Equipment Spectrum Guidance
ESMC—Eastern Space and Missile Center
EUCOM—United States European Command
ETCAS—Enhanced Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System
EW—Electronic Warfare
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAS—Frequency Assignment Subcommittee
FCC—Federal Communications Commission
FDO—Field Disclosure Office
FLIP—Flight Information Publications
FLTSAT—Fleet Satellite Communications
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FP—Frequency Panel (MCEB)
FRRS—Frequency Resource Records System
FRS—Family Radio Service
FSS—Fixed Satellite Service
GHz—Gigahertz
GMF—Government Master File
GMRS—General Mobile Radio Service
HF—High Frequency
HN—Host Nation
HNSWDO—Host Nation Spectrum Worldwide Database Online
HQ—Headquarters
HQ ACC—Headquarters Air Combat Command
HQ AETC—Headquarters Air Education and Training Command
HQ AFMC—Headquarters Air Force Material Command
HQ AFRC—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command
HQ AFSPC—Headquarters Air Force Space Command
HQ AMC—Headquarters Air Mobility Command
 66                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) IAW—In Accordance With
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
IFF—Identification Friend or Foe
ILS—Instrument Landing System
IMT—Information Management Tool
Inmarsat™—International Maritime Satellite
IRAC—Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee
ISM—Installation Spectrum Manager
ISR—Inter-Squad Radio
ISS—Inter-Satellite Service
ITU—International Telecommunications Union
J/F-12—MCEB ESG Permanent Working Group process
JFMO—Joint Frequency Management Office
JFP—Joint Frequency Panel
JSC—Joint Spectrum Center
JSIR—Joint Spectrum Interference Resolution
JSUG—JTIDS/MIDS Spectrum Users Guide
JTF—Joint Task Force
JTIDS—Joint Tactical Information Distribution System
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) KAFBI—Kirtland Air Force Base Instruction
kHz—Kilohertz
km—Kilometer
LF—Low Frequency
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
LORAN—Long-Range Aid to Navigation
LOS—Line-of-Sight
LRR—Long-Range Radar
MAG—Military Advisory Group
MAJCOM—Major Command
MARS—Military Affiliate Radio System
MF—Medium Frequency
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                  67


MHz—Megahertz
MIDS—Multifunctional Information Distribution System
MILACAS—Military Aircraft Collision Avoidance System (XR = Extended Range, FR =
Formation Rendezvous)
MILDEP SMO—Military Service Spectrum Management Office
MLS—Microwave Landing System
MM—Maritime Mobile
MMLS—Mobile Microwave Landing System
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MSS—Mobile Satellite Services
MURS—Multi-Use Radio Service
NAS—National Airspace System
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVAID—Navigational Aid
NDB—Non-Directional Beacons
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NIB—Non-Interference Basis
NLT—Not Later Than
nmi—Nautical Mile
NOAA—National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration
NTH—Note to Holder
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAR—Precision Approach Radar
POC—Point of Contact
PPS—Pulses Per Second
PRR—Pulse Repetition Rate
PWG—Permanent Working Group
RACES—Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Services
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RF—Radio Frequency
 68                              AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


RFA—Radio Frequency Authorization
RFI—Radio Frequency Interference
RSEC—Radar Spectrum Engineering Criteria
RX—Receiver
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAR—Search and Rescue
SATURN—Second-Generation Anti-Jam Tactical UHF Radio for NATO
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCS—Spectrum Certification System
S-D—Spectrum-Dependent
SFAF—Standard Frequency Action Format
SGLS—Space-Ground Link Subsystem
SIF—Selective Identification Feature
SINCGARS—Single Channel Ground and Airborne Radio System
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SKE—Station Keeping Equipment
SKEFO—Station Keeping Equipment Follow-On
SM—Spectrum Management
SMC—Space and Missile Center
SMO—Spectrum Management Office
SPO—Systems Program Office
SPS—Spectrum Planning Subcommittee
SSRA—Spectrum Supportability Risk Assessments
SSV—Standard Service Volume
STA—Special Temporary Authorization
TACAN—Tactical Air Navigation
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TADIL—Tactical Digital Information Link
TAG—The Adjutant General
TCAS—Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System
TLMR—Trunked Land Mobile Radio
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   69


US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USB—Unified S-Band
U.S.C.—United States Code
USCENTCOM—United States Central Command
USD [AT&L]—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics
USMCEB—United States Military Communications-Electronics Board
US&P—United States and its Possessions
USPACOM—United States Pacific Command
VHF—Very High Frequency
VOR—VHF Omnidirectional Range
VORTAC—VOR Tactical Air Navigation
WSMC—Western Space and Missile Center
XP—Programs Office

Terms
NOTE: The following definitions of frequency management terms were extracted from
international, national, and DoD regulations and directives. Where appropriate, the source
is given in parentheses following each definition: (RR)—International Telecommunications
Union Radio Regulations; (NTIA)—National Telecommunications and Information
Administration Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency
Management.
Allocation (of a frequency band)—Entry in the Table of Frequency Allocations of a given
frequency band for its use by one or more (terrestrial or space) radio communication services or
the radio astronomy service under specified conditions. This term also applies to the frequency
band concerned (RR).
Allotment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel)—Entry of a designated
frequency channel in an agreed plan, adopted by a component conference, for use by one or more
administrations for a (terrestrial or space) radiocommunication service in one or more identified
countries or geographical areas and under specified conditions (RR).
Assigned Frequency—The center of the frequency band assigned to a station (NTIA).
Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel)—Authorization given by an
administration for a radio station to use a RF or radio frequency channel under specified
conditions (RR).
Broadcasting Service—A radiocommunication service in which the transmissions are intended
for direct reception by the general public. This service may include sound, television, or other
types of transmissions (RR).
 70                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Channeling Plan—The plan by which the frequencies within a frequency band are to be
assigned.
Characteristic Frequency—A frequency easily identified and measured in a given emission. A
carrier frequency may, for example, be designated as the characteristic frequency (RR). (See
also Reference Frequency).
Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS)—C-E equipment that can be procured by the general public
wholesale or retail.
Communications-Electronics (C-E)—The specialized field concerned with the use of
electronic devices and systems for the acquisition or acceptance, processing, storage, display,
analysis, protection, disposition, and transfer of information.
Coordination Distance—Distance on a given azimuth from an Earth station beyond which a
terrestrial station, sharing the same frequency band, neither causes nor is subject to interference
emissions greater than a permissible level (RR).
Data Item—A SFAF data item is made up of a data item number, a data item security
classification indicator (if required), and the data entry.
Data Item Number—The number (also referred to as a data item identifier) used to identify
each data item in a SFAF frequency assignment transaction. It consists of a unique 3-digit
number followed by a period and a space. For example, 005 is used to identify the record’s
security classification.
Earth Station—A station located either on the Earth's surface or within the major portion of the
Earth's atmosphere and intended for communication with one or more space stations, or with one
or more stations of the same kind by means of one or more reflecting satellites or other objects in
space (RR).
Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC)—(1) The condition that prevails when
telecommunications equipment is performing its individually designed function in a common
EM without causing or suffering unacceptable degradation due to unintentional EMI to or from
other equipment in the same environment (NTIA). (2) DoD: The ability of systems, equipment,
and devices that utilize the EM spectrum to operate in their intended operational environments
without suffering unacceptable degradation or causing unintentional degradation because of EM
radiation or response. It involves the application of sound EM spectrum management; system,
equipment, and device design configuration that ensures interference-free operation; and clear
concepts and doctrines that maximize operational effectiveness (Joint Publication [JP] 1-02).
Electromagnetic Interference (EMI)—Any EM disturbance that interrupts, obstructs, or
otherwise degrades or limits the effective performance of electronics or electrical equipment. It
can be induced intentionally, as in some forms of electronic warfare, or unintentionally, as a
result of spurious emissions and responses, intermodulation products, and the like.
Electromagnetic Spectrum—The range of frequencies of EM radiation from zero to infinity. It
is divided into 26 alphabetically designated bands (JP 1-02).
Electronic Warfare (EW)— Military action involving the use of electromagnetic and directed
energy to control the electromagnetic spectrum to attack the enemy. EW consists of three
divisions: electronic attack, electronic protection, and electronic warfare support. (JP 1-02)
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                    71


Foreign Disclosure—The approval to release technical information from the DD Form 1494.
Frequency Allocation—See Allocation (of a frequency band).
Frequency Assignment—See Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel).
Frequency Assignment, Group—A frequency assignment made only to terrestrial stations and
provides authority to operate but does not represent continuing operations, or provide an
assignment for planning purposes (3.2.4.) (NTIA).
Frequency Assignment, Permanent—An assignment made for an unspecified period of time,
subject to the provisions of the NTIA Manual of Federal Regulations 8.2.6. (NTIA 9.6.3.).
Frequency Assignment, Temporary—A frequency assignment for a specified period of time,
more than 90 calender days but less than five years. Temporary assignments will have a SFAF
Item 141 (expiration date), but may be renewed for additional periods, if necessary. Coordinate
this type of assignment at the national level and submit to the FAS for approval and
recommendation to the NTIA for assignment. The assignment is entered into the GMF with an
appropriate expiration date. Air Force users may apply for a STA for up to 90 calender days.
This type of authorization is not entered into the GMF. STAs are renewable up to a total of 180
calender days from the initial date of assignment. Limit STAs to urgent requirements.
Frequency Coordination—The process of obtaining approval to use the RF spectrum via
arrangements and technical liaison for the purpose of minimizing harmful interference through
cooperative use of the RF spectrum. To be effective, the coordination must extend through the
planning, proposal, and actual in use phases of radio frequency utilization.
Frequency Tolerance—The maximum permissible departure by the center frequency of the
frequency band occupied by an emission from the assigned frequency, or by the characteristic
frequency of an emission from the reference frequency expressed in parts per million or Hz
(RR).
Harmful Interference—Interference that endangers the functioning of a radio navigation
service or of other services, or seriously degrades, obstructs, or repeatedly interrupts a radio
communications service operating in accordance with the ITU Radio Regulations (RR).
Hertz (Hz)—A unit of frequency equal to one cycle per second (NTIA).
Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)—A system using electromagnetic transmissions to which
equipment carried by friendly forces automatically responds, for example, by emitting pulses,
thereby distinguishing themselves from enemy forces.
Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Applications (of radio frequency energy)—Operation of
equipment or appliances designed to generate and use local RF energy for industrial, scientific,
medical, domestic, or similar purposes, excluding applications in the field of telecommunications
(RR).
Instrument Landing System (ILS)—A system of radio navigation intended to assist aircraft in
landing which provides lateral and vertical guidance, which may include indications of distance
from the optimum point of landing (JP 1-02). A radionavigation system that provides aircraft
with horizontal and vertical guidance just before and during landing and, at certain fixed points,
indicates the distance to the reference point of landing (RR).
 72                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


Interference—The effect of unwanted energy due to one or a combination of emissions,
radiations, or inductions upon reception in a radio communication system, manifested by any
performance degradation, misinterpretation, or loss of information that could be extracted in the
absence of such unwanted energy (RR).
Ionospheric Sounder—A device that transmits signals for the purpose of determining
ionospheric conditions (NTIA).
Land Station—A station in the mobile service not intended to be used while in motion (RR).
Low Power—Devices that operate according to the specifications listed in the NTIA Manual,
Annex K.
Maritime Mobile Service—A mobile service between coast stations and ship stations, or
between ship stations, or between associated on-board communication stations; survival craft
stations and emergency position-indicating radiobeacon stations may also participate in this
service (RR).
Marker Beacon—A transmitter in the aeronautical radionavigation service that vertically
radiates a distinctive pattern to provide position information to aircraft (RR).
Mean Power (of a radio transmitter)—The average power supplied to the antenna
transmission line by a transmitter during an interval of time sufficiently long compared with the
lowest frequency encountered in the modulation taken under normal operating conditions (RR).
Microwave Landing System (MLS)—A radionavigation system that provides the same
information as an ILS but operates in the 5000-5250 MHz band.
Mobile Service—A radiocommunication service between mobile and land stations, or between
mobile stations (RR).
Mobile Station—A station in the mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during
halts at unspecified points (RR).
Necessary Bandwidth—For a given class of emission, the width of the frequency band, which is
minimally sufficient to ensure the transmission of information at the rate, and with the quality,
required under specified conditions (RR).
NTIA Manual—A DoC Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency
Management.
Peak Envelope Power (PEP) (of a radio transmitter)—The average power supplied to the
antenna transmission line by a transmitter during one RF cycle at the crest of the modulation
envelope taken under normal operating conditions (RR).
Radio Astronomy—Astronomy based on the reception of radio waves of cosmic origin (RR).
Radio Frequency Spectrum—The RF spectrum includes the frequencies from 3.0 kHz to 400
GHz. The presently allocated spectrum is from 9 kHz to 300 GHz.
Radiolocation—Radiodetermination used for purposes other than those of radionavigation (RR).
Radiosonde—An automatic radio transmitter in the meteorological aids service usually carried
on an aircraft, free balloon, kite, or parachute, and which transmits meteorological data. (NTIA).
Range Commander—In this instruction, the commander of an AF test or tactical range.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                   73


Reference Frequency—A frequency having a fixed and specific position with respect to the
assigned frequency. The displacement of this frequency with respect to the assigned frequency
has the same absolute value and sign that the displacement of the characteristic frequency has
with respect to the center of the frequency band occupied by the emission (RR). (See also
Characteristic Frequency.)
Shared-Use Facilities—Any site or installation that has more than one DoD department, agency,
or unit. The facilities frequency concerns should be filtered through the “host” agency.
Space Station—A station located on an object, which is beyond, is intended to go beyond, or
has been beyond, the major portion of the earth's atmosphere (RR).
Spurious Emission—Emission on a frequency or frequencies that are outside the necessary
bandwidth and the level of which may be reduced without affecting the corresponding
transmission of information. Spurious emissions include harmonic emissions, parasitic
emissions, intermodulation products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out-of-band
emissions (RR).
Standard Frequency and Time Signal Service—A radio communication service for scientific,
technical and other purposes, providing the transmission of specified frequencies, time signals,
or both, of stated high precision, intended for general reception (RR).
Telecommunication—Any transmission, emission, or reception of signs, signals, writings,
images, and sounds or information of any nature by wire, radio, visual or other EM systems
(RR).
Telemetry—The use of telecommunication for automatically indicating or recording
measurements at a distance from the measuring instrument (RR).
United States and its Possessions (US&P)—For use only when transmitting and/or receiving
throughout the US (50 States and District of Columbia), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and
the Territories and Possessions (does not include the former Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands).
 74                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 2
            FREQUENCY ASSIGNMENT CLASSIFICATION REFERENCE

A2.1. Security Classification. This attachment is a reference used for Air Force specific
frequency assignment requirements. As a reference it explains the handling and retention of the
classification of frequency assignments, whereas the DoD 5200.1R and AFI 31-401 are general
in nature. This attachment is reference only and is not to be used as a classification source.
   A2.1.1. Primarily the association with the function they support determines security
   classification of DoD and Federal Government frequency assignments and the information in
   them. Classify individual data items according to DoD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401.
A2.2. Individual Air Force Frequency Assignments.
   A2.2.1. The following frequency assignment information, standing alone or in combination
   and not associated with any other assignment information, is UNCLASSIFIED. Mark these
   items as (U) in the SFAF.
       A2.2.1.1. Overall classification of the frequency assignment (SFAF Item 005).
       A2.2.1.2. Security classification modification (SFAF Item 006).
       A2.2.1.3. Type of action (SFAF Item 010).
       A2.2.1.4. Agency serial number (SFAF Item 102).
       A2.2.1.5. IRAC docket number (SFAF Item 103).
       A2.2.1.6. List serial number (SFAF Item 105).
       A2.2.1.7. Serial replaced, delete date (SFAF Item 106).
       A2.2.1.8. Docket number of older authorizations (SFAF Item 108).
       A2.2.1.9. Operating frequency or frequency band and excluded frequency or frequency
       band(SFAF Items 110 and 111).
       A2.2.1.10. Agency (SFAF Item 200).
       A2.2.1.11. Command (SFAF Item 204).
       A2.2.1.12. IRAC Notes (SFAF Item 500).
       A2.2.1.13. Frequency action officer (SFAF Item 701).
       A2.2.1.14. Control/request number (SFAF Item 702).
   A2.2.2. Classify other assignment information, standing alone or in combination with other
   information (including A2.2.1.), according to DoD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401 by the
   appropriate classification authority. Include the appropriate classification marking with the
   corresponding SFAF Item.
A2.3. Lists of Air Force Frequency Assignments.
   A2.3.1. Most individual frequency assignment records in the Radio Frequency Authorization
   (RFA) are individually unclassified, classify the total RFA according to the highest
   classification level of the assignments it contains. Lists (two or more frequencies) of
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                     75


   unclassified frequency assignment records in a given range of frequencies, or in a given area,
   can be categorized as sensitive, but unclassified because they may provide information
   leading to the disclosure of military or national security-related operations and scientific and
   technological matters relating to national security. These lists can indicate the overall
   strategic telecommunications capabilities of the US, and their disclosure could cause damage
   to national security. The continued protection of this information is essential to national
   security because it pertains to communications security and reveals vulnerabilities and
   capabilities. Its unauthorized disclosure can reasonably be expected to result in nullifying the
   effectiveness of telecommunications networks and the capability of the US.
   A2.3.2. The USMCEB-M-019-98 gives guidance on classifying compilations of frequency
   assignment records. Based on this guidance:
      A2.3.2.1. Classify RFAs or frequency lists at the highest level of any individual
      frequency assignment it contains.
      A2.3.2.2. When RFAs or frequency lists contain the aggregation of UNCLASSIFIED
      DoD, MILDEP, or NSA frequency assignment records, classify it CONFIDENTIAL,
      except as exempted by paragraph A2.5.
      A2.3.2.3. An RFA or frequency list containing only UNCLASSIFIED assignments of
      one unit or location is considered UNCLASSIFIED. For example, to select all records
      where SFAF data Item 200 (Agency) = USAF would result in a CONFIDENTIAL
      aggregate list; whereas, select all records where SFAF Item 301 (Transmitter Location)
      or 401 (Receiver Location) = Hill would result in an UNCLASSIFIED aggregate list.
      Users that plan to operate in an UNCLASSIFIED environment should select from the
      FRRS only UNCLASSIFIED records applicable to their operational requirements.
A2.4. Marking.
   A2.4.1. All DoD frequency assignment material must contain proper warnings/markings, as
   outlined, whether computer-generated or manually applied. Mark DoD data extracted from
   frequency assignment databases with one of the following warning statements, depending
   upon which category is applicable.
   A2.4.2. Mark documents/material containing UNCLASSIFIED frequency assignment
   records/data classified CONFIDENTIAL under Section 3 of the USMCEB-M-019-98
   CONFIDENTIAL and carry markings according to existing DoD security regulations and
   AFI 31-401. For example:
Derived From: DoD Frequency Assignment Security Classification Guide
Source Dated: 1 January 1998
Declassify on: Source marked X4
   A2.4.3. The documents/material will have the following warning attached:
      A2.4.3.1. WARNING – This document/listing has been classified CONFIDENTIAL
      according to DoD Frequency Assignment Security Classification Guide.      The
      UNCLASSIFIED frequency assignment records/data must be protected according to
      Section 3 of the DoD Frequency Assignment Security Classification Guide.
      A2.4.3.2. The destruction of UNCLASSIFIED records/data in this document must be
      according to existing directives governing destruction of classified material.
 76                               AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


      A2.4.3.3. This document contains records/data that are exempt from public release under
      the provisions of Title 5 U.S.C., Section 552(b)(1), Public information; agency rules,
      opinions, orders, records, and proceedings. The release of any records to any non-DoD
      organization requires approval of the authority (agency) that made the assignment.
   A2.4.4. Mark material containing SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL frequency assignment
   records and, either UNCLASSIFIED DoD frequency assignment records that meet the
   aggregation criteria set forth in Section 3 of the USMCEB-M-019-98 or UNCLASSIFIED
   DoD frequency assignment records/data extracted from the aggregated lists according to
   current security directives and contain the following warning statement:
      A2.4.4.1. WARNING – In addition to SECRET or CONFIDENTIAL data, this
      document contains UNCLASSIFIED frequency assignment records/data that must be
      protected according to Section 3 of the DoD Frequency Assignment Security
      Classification Guide.
      A2.4.4.2. Destroy UNCLASSIFIED records/data in this document according to existing
      directives governing destruction of classified material.
      A2.4.4.3. This document contains records/data that are exempt from public release under
      the provisions of the Title 5 U.S.C., Section 552(b)(1). The release of any records to any
      non-DoD organization requires approval of the authority (agency) that made the
      assignment.
   A2.4.5. Mark documents/material containing one or more UNCLASSIFIED frequency
   assignment record/data extracted from aggregated lists that are classified CONFIDENTIAL
   as set forth in Section 3 of the USMCEB-M-019-98 UNCLASSIFIED and contain the
   following warning:
      A2.4.5.1. WARNING – This document/listing is UNCLASSIFIED; however, it contains
      frequency assignment records/data that you must protect according to Section 3 of the
      USMCEB-M-019-98.
      A2.4.5.2. Destroy UNCLASSIFIED records/data in this document according to existing
      directives governing destruction of classified material.
      A2.4.5.3. This document contains records/data that are exempt from public release under
      the provisions of the Title 5 U.S.C., Section 552(b)(1). The release of any records to any
      non-DoD organization requires approval of the authority (agency) that made the
      assignment.
A2.5. Exemptions.
   A2.5.1. The following types of frequency assignment records are exempt from the
   classification requirements listed in paragraph A2.3.2.2.:
      A2.5.1.1. Lists of UNCLASSIFIED frequency assignments to government users that are
      not intended to be public (i.e., travelers information stations, weather broadcast stations,
      certain stations in the maritime radio navigation and maritime mobile services, and
      stations in the international broadcast services).
      A2.5.1.2. Lists of aeronautical station frequencies under the purview of the Aeronautical
      Assignment Group when used in the National Airspace System.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                77


     A2.5.1.3. Lists of UNCLASSIFIED frequency assignment records that operate on
     frequencies authorized to non-government stations, where such use is necessary to
     intercommunicate with non-government stations for coordination with non-government
     activities.
     A2.5.1.4. Lists of frequencies in NTIA or DOD channel plans when specific location,
     technical parameters, and organization are not collectively included in the channel plan.
78                  AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


                        Attachment 3
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND
   DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION REGARDING THE 960-1215 MHZ
                     FREQUENCY BAND




                        Appendix A
RECOGNIZING:
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                      79



Treaties of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) fully recognize the sovereign right
of each State to regulate its telecommunications including all transmissions, emissions, and
receptions of radio frequency signals subject to that State’s jurisdiction.

Customary international law and bilateral and multilateral international agreements recognize
that military aircraft, vessels, and spectrum-dependent systems are treated differently from civil
and commercial aircraft, vessels, and spectrum-dependent systems. For example, the 1944
Convention on International Civil Aviation states expressly in Article 3 that it shall be applicable
only to civil aircraft and shall not be applicable to state aircraft.

The 960-1215 MHz band is allocated by the Radio Regulations for Aeronautical Radionavigation
Service (ARNS) and Radionavigation Satellite Service (RNSS) systems, and the development of
electronic aids to navigation.

The Joint Tactical Information Distribution System (JTIDS), the Multifunctional Information
Distribution System (MIDS), and other similar systems are critical to Department of Defense
(DoD) missions associated with command and control and radionavigation.

FAA and DoD systems dependent upon the 960-1215 MHz spectrum must be coordinated to
assure mutual spectrum access.

APPLICABILITY:

This agreement applies to MIDS terminals including MIDS Low Volume Terminal (LVT)
variants (LVT-l, LVT-2. and LVT-3/Fighter Data Link); Integrated Communications Navigation
and Identification Avionics (ICNIA); ITIDS terminals including ITIDS Class 1, Class 2, Class
2M, and Class 2H; and future systems incorporating the JTIDS/lMIDS waveform
implementation (e.g., the Joint Tactical Radio System). For the purposes of this agreement, all
these systems will be collectively referred to as “Link-16.”

SPECIFICATIONS:

1. DoT and DoD will support appropriate service allocation and station class designations for
systems meeting the minimum technical/regulatory requirements as specified by the NTIA and
international spectrum usage agreements. Both agencies will work cooperatively to protect civil
and military systems sharing the 960-1215 MHz.

2. DoD will limit uncoordinated Link-16 operations in accordance with the spectrum restrictions
outlined in the NTIA Spectrum Certification as approved by the NTIA Office of Spectrum
Management (OSM). Associate Administrator. Relaxation of these restrictions in the 1030-
1215 MHz band on a system-by-system, case-by-case, or other appropriate basis may be
approved based on Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) review of
testing/documentation that concludes relaxation will not result in harmful interference to
authorized users of the band. 1
 80                                AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013


3. Upon final certification approval, DoT will support a permanent United States and its
Possessions (US&P) assignment for Link-16 operations within the constraints identified in the
NTIA spectrum certification.

4. DoD will ensure that by 2020, all Link-16 terminals are capable of remapping frequencies
from below 1030 MHz to the sub-band above 1030 MHz. Any Link-I6 terminal produced after
July 1, 2007 will be capable of remapping. These terminals are expected to begin fielding no
later than January 1, 2009. All fielded Link 16 terminals will incorporate the remapping
capability by 2020. Inclusion of the remapping capability in Link-I6 terminals produced prior to
July 1, 2007 (ITIDS terminals excluded) will be handled when the systems are brought in for
depot maintenance and/or are scheduled for other system updates to the Link-l6 terminal. DoT
and DoD will meet annually to review the progress of this effort with the goal of ensuring
maximum compatibility between Link 16 and aviation systems. DoD will utilize this capability
as required within the US&P to prevent harmful interference to aviation systems approved by
NTIA via a stage 4 spectrum support certification for operation in the 960-1215 MHz band and
implemented below 1030 MHz. This capability will be utilized to remap the minimum number
of frequencies required to preclude harmful interference based on approval by NTIA through the
SPS process. DoD will not use the requirement to remap frequencies from the Link-16 “hopset”
as a rationale for objecting to such aviation systems.

5. DoT will work with the NTIA and other Federal Agencies to ensure aviation systems subject
to US Government regulation using frequencies above 1030 MHz (including Galileo, Global
Positioning System (GPS) L52, and other systems with global availability) will be designed to
satisfy their minimum performance standards in their intended electromagnetic environment,
including Link-16 operations complying with conditions and restrictions reflected in the Link-16
NTIA spectrum certification or any subsequent certifications. DoT will also work with the
Department of State, the Federal Communications Commission, the NTIA, and DoD to support
the US Government’s efforts to ensure aviation systems not under US jurisdiction whose
receivers may operate in the US&P (including Galileo and other systems with global availability)
will be designed to the same standard outlined in the preceding text.

6. DoT will ensure that future aeronautical radionavigation systems, electronic aids to air
navigation, or other systems subject to its jurisdiction that are to be implemented using spectrum
in the 1030-1215 MHz band will be designed to satisfy their minimum performance standards in
their intended electromagnetic environment, including Link-16 systems operating in
conformance with the approved IRAC spectrum certification. DoT will also ensure future
aeronautical radionavigation systems approved by NTIA via a stage 4 spectrum support
certification for operation in the 960-1215 MHz band and implemented below 1030 MHz will
take into account Link-16 operations within the constraints of the NTIA spectrum certification or
any subsequent spectrum certifications on Link-16 frequencies not subject to remapping.

7. DoT will authorize operations exceeding the terms of this agreement on a case-by-case basis.
DoT and DOD will develop coordination procedures to accommodate Link-16 training exercises
involving 51-channel operations, operations exceeding approved spectrum certification criteria,
and operations involving non-US and new Link-16 terminals/platforms.
AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                81


8. DoT and DoD will develop 51-channel coordination procedures regionally, taking into
account the expected aviation system density and services and the DoD operating areas in that
geographic location.3

9. DoT will not require compatibility between Link-l 6 and Universal Access Transceiver
(UAT) receivers on military platforms. UAT transmitters may be required on military platforms.

10. Only those electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) features directly affected by the
engineering change will be subject to re-certification. It is expected that the monitoring function
can be accomplished by a suitable revision to the uniform frequency monitor.

11. DoT will not require new EMC testing or additional restrictions with regard to existing
ARNS systems (Mode S, Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System, Traffic Alert and Collision
Avoidance System, Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)/N and DMFJP, and/or the 1090
Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast extended squitter) and RNSS systems (GPS L5
and Galileo) as a result of remapping.

12. DoT will promote the development of robust aviation systems that lend themselves to
improved compatibility with 51-frequency JTIDS terminals through cooperation with RTCA
Inc., industry, and DoD.

13. DoT and DoD will jointly submit to NTIA a recommended specification and methodology to
facilitate the terminal EMC features certification of Link-16 systems operating in the 960-1215
MHz band, within 30 days of the signature of this MOA. Subsequent to NTIA approval of the
specification and a successful demonstration of the implementation of the
specification/methodology DoT will endorse DoD’s certifying all future Link-16 terminals’
compliance, eliminating the need for future NTIA EMC features demonstrations.

14. DoD and DoT will promote the terms of this agreement in international forums (e.g., DoD
will encourage North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and other international Link-16
users to implement a similar, compatible remapping capability, and DoT will work with the
International Civil Aviation Organization (lCAO) and other civil aviation organizations to ensure
new systems will recognize that they face environments in some countries which include Link-
16 electromagnetic environments as specified in the NTIA spectrum certification.

15. DoD and DoT win seek to implement all the terms of this agreement in good faith. If
circumstances change, both DoD and DoT will work together to resolve any disputes. The
failure by one Department to comply with the terms of the agreement may be a basis for the
other Department to terminate the agreement.
__________________________________
1.
  Such relaxations might include higher Time Slot Duty Factor (TSDF) (in excess of 100%) and reduced geographic areas (less
than 100 nm).
2
 In the event that the mitigation strategies defined in the Interagency GPS Executive Board (IGEB) “Implementation of a Third
Civil GPS Signal” Final Report should prove insufficient to protect civil use of the GPS L5 signal, the option to require
remapping Link-16 carriers in the 1164-1188 MHz band in lieu of a like number of below-1030 MHz Link- 16 carriers (the total
number of frequencies remapped to accommodate DoT systems shall not exceed 14) will be retained. Studies to support such an
option will be developed within the Spectrum Planning Subcommittee and approved by NTIA. Conclusion of this agreement
    82                                          AFI33-580_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 3 SEPTEMBER 2013

satisfies the intent of the IGEB Final Report, which states “The DoD will include a priced option in the full-rate production
MIDS request for proposal (RFP) to remap up to seven selectable contiguous MIDS frequencies in the 960-1215 MHz band.”

3
  Intent is to ensure the entire US&P is not restricted for a projected operational environment that exists only in the vicinity of
high-density air traffic areas like Los Angeles International Airport.
4
  The baseline for all EMC Features monitoring methodology, periodic verification requirements, and procedures for the
performance of EMC Features Demonstrations must be mutually established by DoD and FAA for all MIDS production and
fol1ow-on terminals.
