                              Template modified:      27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2106
AIR FORCE                                                                                      9 MAY 1994

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                            COMPETITIVE CATEGORY TRANSFERS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMPC/DPMA
       (Capt Sigfredo Nieves)                                                       (Col Joseph W. Moran)
Supersedes AFR 36-18, 1 June 87.                                                                   Pages: 7
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction establishes how officers transfer between competitive categories. It applies to Regular
and Reserve Officers on the active duty list. It carries out Air Force Policy Directive 36-21, Utilization
and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel. This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG) or United States Air Force Reserves (USAFR).
This instruction requires the maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The
authorities to maintain the records prescribed in this instruction are Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.),
Section 8013. System of Records Notice F035 AF MP C, Military Personnel System, applies. Refer to
Attachment 1 for glossary of references and terms. Process supplements that affect any military person-
nel function as shown in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 37-160, volume 1, table 3.2, The Air Force Publica-
tions and Forms Management Programs--Developing and Processing Publications (formerly AFR 5-8).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of this instruction substantially revised from AFR 36-18, 1 June 1987. It
expands on application procedures for Medical Services Corps transfers. It instructs the officer to submit
applicable Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT) test
scores and how many recommendation letters he can submit.



1. How to Apply for a Competitive Category Transfer. An officer will send the following items (with
the original and two copies) to HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2:
   1.1. One page letter requesting a competitive category transfer. This letter will include the following:
   desired competitive category; specific Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC); and a brief explanation of
   why you request the transfer and how it will benefit the Air Force.
   1.2. Military resume with a passport photo.
   1.3. Copies of official undergraduate and graduate transcripts with copies of applicable diplomas.
   Include a confirmation letter from the school if a degree is pending completion.
   1.4. Appropriate recommendation from the wing commander or equivalent. This recommendation
   includes a statement describing the officer’s quality force record (such as Article 15, Control Roster,
   etc.).
   1.5. No more than four letters of recommendation.
   1.6. An officer with an aeronautical rating will send a voluntary request for disqualification from avi-
   ation service.

2. How to Apply for MSC. In addition to the items in 1., an officer applying for the Medical Service
Corps (MSC) will do the following:
   2.1. Send a copy of Graduate Records Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Admission Test
   (GMAT) scores if the officer does not hold a master’s degree in Health Administration. The Accred-
   iting Commission on Education for Health Services Administration must accredit the degree.
   2.2. Include AF Form 90, Officer Assignment Worksheet, that lists preferred assignment locations.
   2.3. Complete an interview with a senior MSC at a local Medical Treatment Facility (MTF). The
   senior MSC will forward the interview evaluation form to HQ AFMPC/DPMMUS after the interview.
   2.4. Provide the senior MSC interviewer with a copy of the application prior to the formal interview.

3. How to Apply for JAG. In addition to the items in 1., an officer applying for The Judge Advocate
General Department (JAG) will send the following:
   3.1. Copy of law school diploma.
   3.2. Copies of academic transcripts.
   3.3. Proof of admission to practice law.

4. HQ USAF Will Take the Following Actions:
   4.1. HQ USAF/JAX, 1420 AF Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1420, will review the application
   for entry into the Judge Advocate (JA) General Department. They will also make recommendations
   for officers transferring from JA to other competitive categories.
   4.2. HQ USAF/HCS, Bldg 5683, Washington DC 20332-5000, will review the application for entry
   into the Chaplain Corps. They will also make recommendations for officers transferring from the
   Chaplain Corps to other competitive categories.

5. HQ AFMPC Will Take the Following Actions:
   5.1. HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2, 550 C Street West, Ste 8, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4710 carries out
   the competitive category program throughout the Air Force. HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 takes the fol-
   lowing action on each transfer application:
       5.1.1. Check the application for completeness and return those that do not meet the requirements
       established in Attachment 2, section A2.1 (unless the officer requests a waiver).


                                                2
       5.1.2. Verify each applicant does not meet any of the disqualifying factors listed in Attachment
       2, section A2.2.
       5.1.3. Coordinate the application with the losing and gaining competitive category career field
       managers and get a recommendation for approval or disapproval. If either the losing or gaining
       career managers recommends disapproval, DPMAJB2 will return the application to the officer. If
       both the losing and gaining career managers recommend approval, DPMAJB2 sends the applica-
       tion to the Director, Personnel Program Management (HQ AFMPC/DPMA) for the final decision.
       5.1.4. If the application is approved, transfer the officer to the appropriate competitive category
       on the date determined by the gaining and losing career managers. DPMAJB2 will distribute the
       orders to the required offices, and update the personnel data system accordingly.
       5.1.5. Give resignation and reappointment instructions to officers when required under 6.
       5.1.6. Notify the applicant of the final decision.
       5.1.7. Ensure the officer retains the sequence number for a promotion in the losing category when
       they are transferred before assuming the higher grade. Advise HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB1 to pro-
       mote the officer with the sequence number from the losing competitive category.
   5.2. HQ AFMPC/DPMMU, 550 C Street West, Ste 27, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4729, will review
   applications and conduct Accessions Boards for selection into their corps. Respective DPMMU corps
   offices will check applications for transfer from their competitive categories and make recommenda-
   tions to HQ AFMPC/DPMA.
       5.2.1. The functional manager will notify HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 of officers in the health profes-
       sions completing an education program that requires a competitive category transfer.
   5.3. HQ AFMPC/DPMA, 550 C Street West, Ste 4, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4706, will approve or
   disapprove the application for competitive category transfer based on the needs of the Air Force.

6. Resignation and Reappointment Procedures. An officer must resign from the losing competitive
category when the transfer results in a loss of service credit (both constructive and earned) or a change in
grade. The resignation will depend on the reappointment into the gaining competitive category.
   6.1. On resignations, the officer will submit the following to HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2:
       6.1.1. Tender of Resignation Statement ( Attachment 3).
       6.1.2. AF Form 780, Officers Voluntary Application for Separation, according to AFI
       36-3207, Administrative Separation of Commissioned Officers table 2-6 (formerly AFR 36-12).
       Separation from the losing category will occur before an officer accepts reappointment to the gain-
       ing category. These actions take place on the same day so the officer does not physically separate
       from active duty. Completed actions will be forwarded to HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2.
   6.2. HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 will not require an officer to resign when a transfer is from a competi-
   tive category under one of the following conditions: the losing category did not award constructive
   service credit; the gaining category will not award constructive service credit; grade will not change
   during the transfer; and constructive service credit will not change during the transfer.

7. Reappointing Regular Officers. When reappointment is required, HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 sends the
officer’s name for presidential nomination and Senate confirmation according to Title 10 U.S.C., Sections

                                                 3
531 and 532. Following Senate confirmation, HQ AFMPC/ DPMAJB2 will publish special orders
announcing the resignation and reappointment to the appropriate competitive category.

8. Reappointing Reserve Officers. Officers below the grade of lieutenant colonel do not need Senate
confirmation. On resignation, HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 publishes special orders, By Direction of the Pres-
ident, announcing the resignation and subsequent reappointment. HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 sends the
names of officers being reappointed in the grade of lieutenant colonel or higher for Senate confirmation
according to Title 10 U.S.C., Section 593.

9. Designation to Perform Certain Professional Functions. HQ AFMPC/DPMAJB2 will take the fol-
lowing actions when officers are reassigned to or from duties involving professional designation:
   9.1. Verify the officers are designated on orders to perform professional functions under Title 10
   U.S.C., Section 8067, and if assigned to Line of the Air Force (LAF), withdraw the professional des-
   ignation.
   9.2. Place the officers on the active duty list and appoint or transfer them to the appropriate competi-
   tive category under Title 10 U.S.C., Section 621.




                                         BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel




                                                4
                                             Attachment 1

                           GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND TERMS


References
Title 10, U.S.C., Sections 531, 532, 533, 593, 621, 624, 689, 8013, 8067, and 8353
DoD Directives 1312.2, 1312.3 and 1320.7

Terms
Competitive Category—A group of officers who compete among themselves for promotion. The
established categories are: Line of the Air Force (LAF), Judge Advocates (JA), Medical Corps (MC),
Dental Corps (DC), Chaplain (HC), Medical Service Corps (MSC), Biomedical Sciences Corps (BSC),
and Nurse Corps (NC).
Constructive Service Credit—Education, training, or experience credit awarded at the time of original
appointment, designation, or assignment to an officer category that requires advanced education, training,
or special experience. Credit is not awarded for education, training, or experience obtained while serving
as a Regular or Reserve commissioned officer, an officer on active duty or as a Reserve officer in an
active status in any armed force, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the Public
Health Service before such appointment, designation, or assignment. DoD Directives 1312.2 and 1320.7
and AFI 362013 Air Commissioning Programs and Officer Training School (formerly AFR 5320)
establish the number of years creditable.
Date of Separation (DOS)—A date established according to law or policy for termination of active duty.
Designation—Recognition of certain officers to perform certain professional functions that require
special training or experience. The Secretary of the Air Force prescribes the qualifications for these
officers. Designation is only effective upon the transfer or appointment to the appropriate competitive
category.
Gaining Category—The competitive category that an officer transfers to.
Health Professions—A collective term that refers to officers in MC, DC, BSC, MSC, and NC as defined
under the term competitive categories listed above.
Losing Category—The competitive category that an officer transfers from.




                                                5
                                             Attachment 2

              ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND DISQUALIFYING FACTORS


A2.1. Eligibility Requirements. Each applicant must meet the following eligibility requirements to
apply for a competitive category transfer:
   • Has at least 4 years but no more than 10 years of total active federal commissioned service as of
       the transfer or appointment effective date.
   • Has completed all active duty service commitments as of the transfer or appointment effective
       date.
   • Be willing to incur 2 years of active duty service commitment, effective the date of transfer or
       appointment.
   • Submit a waiver to HQ AFMPC/DPMA (or designee) for the above requirements.
   • Has received degrees at government expense.

A2.2. Disqualifying Factors. An officer is disqualified for a competitive category transfer if any of the
following factors apply (these factors are not waiverable):
    • In a promotion non-selection status.
    • Has previously received a competitive category transfer.
    • Has quality force indicators such as: Unfavorable Information File (UIF); Article 15 within the
       last 2 years; in the weight management program; and rated "does not meet standards" on officer
       performance reports (OPR).
    • Has been disapproved for transfer within 12 months of the new application.
    • Has been selected by a Reduction-in-Force (RIF) Selection Board.




                                                6
                                              Attachment 3

                            TENDER OF RESIGNATION STATEMENT


I, Captain JOHN DOE, 000-00-0000, hereby tender my resignation from all appointments in the (losing
competitive category). I request my resignation be accepted contingent upon my acceptance of an
appointment in the (gaining competitive category), effective as of the day preceding the date on which I
accept the appointment. I understand that I will incur an active duty service commitment of 2 years from
the date of acceptance of the appointment in the (gaining competitive category).

(signature)                                                                            (date)

JOHN DOE
SSN 000-00-0000

PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT

AUTHORITY: Title 10, U.S.C., Section 8013 and AFR 36-2106, Competitive Category Transfers.

PURPOSE: Before officers can be officially reappointed (transferred), after losing constructive service
credit, they must tender a resignation from the losing competitive category. This letter serves to transmit
(tender) such resignation.

ROUTINE USES: None. Furnishing the information is voluntary. If requested information is not sub-
mitted, officers will remain in their current competitive category.




                                                 7
