BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2846
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   6 DECEMBER 2004

                                                                          AIR MOBILITY COMMAND
                                                                                      Supplement 1
                                                                                    31 JANUARY 2005

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                        COMPTROLLER ANNUAL
                                                                            AWARDS PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/FMPW                                         Certified by: SAF/FM (Mr Michael Montelongo)
Supersedes AFI 36-2846, 26 November 2001                                                 Pages: 17
                                                                                    Distribution: F

                                          (AMC)
OPR: HQ AMC/A8E (Mrs. Donna J. Fuehne)        Certified by: HQ AMC/A8 (Col David E. Price)
Supersedes AFI 36-2846, AMCS1, 15 June 2001                                       Pages: 4
                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams. It describes award categories, eligibility requirements, nomination procedures, and the selection
process for recognizing outstanding performers⎯individuals and groups⎯in financial management and
comptrollership. Attachment 1 lists references, abbreviations, and acronyms used in this instruction.
Attachment 2 describes award categories and eligibility requirements. Attachment 3, Attachment 4,
and Attachment 5 provide nomination format and award criteria requirements. Attachment 6 identifies
the enduring competencies outlined in the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model. Note:
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and Air Force manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force records disposition schedule (RDS)
located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

(AMC) AFI 36-2846, 6 December 2004, is supplemented as follows. This supplement applies to all Air
Mobility Command (AMC) units. It does not apply to U.S. Air Force (AF) Reserve or Air National Guard
units.
2                                                     AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This publication is substantially revised to ensure that the Air Force Financial Management and Comp-
troller Annual Awards are in alignment with the vision, mission, and strategic priorities of Air Force
Financial Management. It emphasizes recognizing individuals, teams, and organizations who exemplify
the Air Force Financial Management Vision, manifest the competencies outlined in the Air Force Finan-
cial Management Competency Model* (see Attachment 6), and have made significant contributions to
the Air Force Financial Management Transformation efforts; deletes the award for runners-up; deletes
reference to the Association of Government Accountants; deletes reference to the Air Force Accounting
and Finance Office (AFAFO); deletes the Air Force Top Dollar Awards; deletes reference to Regional
Accounting and Finance Office; renames the award NAF Financial Analyst of the Year; adds a team
award for Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management Transformation; adds an enlisted category
to the award for Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller (Secretariat/Air
Staff Level); changes military award category to officer for the award Outstanding Contribution to Finan-
cial Management and Comptroller (Secretariat/Air Staff Level); changes the Airman category to enlisted
for the Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller (MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU
Level); changes the Airman category to enlisted for the Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial
Management and Comptroller (working outside the Department of the Air Force); changes the criteria for
Outstanding Achievements for Individual Awards; deletes Leadership and Management Traits category
for Individual Awards; adds Personal and Enduring Competencies category and criteria for Individual
Awards; changes the criteria for Outstanding Achievements for Organizational Awards; and changes all
references to airman to enlisted.
(AMC) This supplement updates the Directorate of Comptroller office symbol from FM to A8. It updates
the HQ AMC/A8 Quarterly Awards Program and requires the Officer of the Quarter nomination Air
Force Information Management Tool (IMT) 1206, Nomination for Award, to follow the same format
as the enlisted nomination format. It deletes the AMC Top Dollar Program. This supplement also defines
the award quarters. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Purpose and Scope. This program recognizes outstanding performance by both individuals and
groups at all levels of command that exemplify the Air Force Financial Management Vision and have
made significant contributions to the Air Force Financial Management Transformation efforts by out-
standing behavior, actions, innovations and, most importantly, results. It complements major command
(MAJCOM), field operating agency (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU), and base recognition programs
by focusing attention on the most deserving individuals and groups in the financial management and
comptroller community. Individuals and groups, except where otherwise noted, operate under the func-
tional management of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)
(SAF/FM).

2. Nomination Procedures:
    2.1. The nomination procedures listed in paragraphs 2.1.1. through 2.1.4. apply to all awards except
    Author of the Year.
       2.1.1. The award period covers one fiscal year, 1 October through 30 September.
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                 3


     2.1.2. Submit original nominations by the first workday in January to SAF/FMPW, 1130 Air
     Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1130.
     2.1.2. (AMC) Nominations must arrive electronically at HQ AMC/A8E, 402 SCOTT DRIVE,
     UNIT 1K1, SCOTT AFB IL 62225-5311, by 31 October unless otherwise directed by the Direc-
     torate of Comptroller office (HQ AMC/A8).
        2.1.2.1. Submit nominations on AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, using appropriate for-
        mat (see Attachment 3, Attachment 4, and Attachment 5). Each nomination is limited to
        one page (front side of AF IMT 1206). Use bullet format with no smaller than 10-point type.
        2.1.2.1. (AMC) Prepare nomination packages according to Attachment 2 through Attach-
        ment 6 in AFI 36-2846.
        2.1.2.2. (Added-AMC) All submissions must be on a current AF IMT 1206. Include results
        of actions taken by the individual or organization in the justification data. Individual accom-
        plishments at another base can be included in the nomination if they occurred during the
        period of the award and there is written documentation substantiating the accomplishment for
        the nominator. Nominations received after the due date, and those not following the guidance
        in this instruction, will not be considered.
     2.1.3. Nominating officials submit only one nomination for each award category, except for the
     Special Acts and Services Award. SAF/FMB, SAF/FMC (including the Air Force Cost Analysis
     Agency [AFCAA]), SAF/FME, SAF/FMP, and SAF/FMT each compete as single entities for Out-
     standing Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller Awards.
     2.1.4. Nominations may come from any of these officials:
     2.1.4. (AMC) The wing commander, or equivalent, nominates for base-level submissions. Divi-
     sion chiefs nominate to the director for AMC-level submissions.
        2.1.4.1. SAF deputy assistant secretaries.
        2.1.4.2. Air Staff directors.
        2.1.4.3. MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Comptrollers or Directors, Financial Management and
        Comptroller.
        2.1.4.4. Commanders or directors of organizations outside the Department of the Air Force
        for the Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller award.
4                                                      AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


3. Selection Process:
    3.1. Selection panels consist of at least three members and are chaired by a general officer or civilian
    equivalent for all awards except the Author of the Year. SAF/FM deputy assistant secretaries select the
    chairpersons.
    3.1. (AMC) Selection Process. Selection committees evaluate nomination packages and make rec-
    ommendations to HQ AMC/A8 for approval. Individuals selected for AMC awards are the com-
    mand’s nominees for Air Force-level awards, with the exception of the Comptroller Administrative
    Support Outstanding Performance Award. It is an internal MAJCOM award only.
       3.1.1. MAJCOM Comptrollers or Directors, Financial Management and Comptroller, select the
       Author of the Year from the quarterly winners of The Air Force Comptroller journal.
    3.2. The selection panels evaluate individual nominees for:
    Outstanding Achievements- 70 percent
    Personal and Enduring Competencies- 20 percent
    Professional Accomplishments- 10 percent
    3.3. The selection panels evaluate group nominees for:
    Mission Accomplishment- 25 percent
    Outstanding Achievements- 50 percent
    Management of Resources- 25 percent
    3.4. The selection panel evaluates special acts and services nominees on the basis of unusual or
    extraordinary accomplishments, the circumstances that make an act or service special, and the tangi-
    ble/intangible benefits to financial management and the Air Force.
    3.5. Each selection panel Chairperson forwards its recommendations through SAF/FMPW to SAF/
    FM for approval.

4. Award Recognition:
    4.1. SAF/FM announces the award winners via memorandum to MAJCOM/FMs, FOA/FMs, DRU/
    FMs, SAF/FM deputy assistant secretaries, and all other nominating organizations.
    4.1. (AMC) Award Recognition. The HQ AMC Comptroller approves and announces AMC win-
    ners and presents each award winner with an engraved plaque and appropriate congratulatory memo-
    randum.
    4.2. Within two weeks of announcement, photographs of all individual, team, and organizational
    award winners (except Special Acts and Services awards) must be sent by the nominating organiza-
    tion to SAF/FMPW. Photographs appear in The Air Force Comptroller journal and are displayed on
    the Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller award board in the Pentagon.
       4.2.1. Individual award winners provide one 5- by 7-inch color photograph and one digital photo-
       graph (military pictures should be in service dress uniform without cap).
       4.2.1. (AMC) Within a week after the announcement, individual award winners provide two 5 by
       7 colored photographs (military pictures will be in service dress uniform without cap) to HQ
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                  5


      AMC/A8E, 402 SCOTT DRIVE, UNIT 1K1, SCOTT AFB IL 62225-5311. Send one digital col-
      ored photograph electronically to the Executive Officer, HQ AMC/A8.
      4.2.2. Organizational award winners provide one 10- by 8-inch color photograph and one digital
      photograph.
      4.2.2. (AMC) Within a week after the announcement, organizational award winners provide two
      10 by 8 colored photographs to HQ AMC/A8E, 402 SCOTT DRIVE, UNIT 1K1, SCOTT AFB IL
      62225-5311. Send one digital colored photograph electronically to the Executive Officer, HQ
      AMC/A8.
   4.3. Each award consists of an engraved plaque and coin presented by SAF/FM to the award winner
   at the annual ASMC PDI, and a congratulatory letter from SAF/FM to the award winner’s MAJCOM,
   FOA, or DRU commander or organization’s senior official for presentation to the award winner.
   4.4. Nominating officials forward awards to individuals who have transferred, separated, or retired
   from the Air Force.
   4.5. Military members receiving individual awards are authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition
   Ribbon. Civilian recipients receiving individual awards are authorized to wear the Air Force Recogni-
   tion Lapel Pin. AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, describes the ribbon and lapel pin.
   4.6. Individual award recipients provide documentation to the servicing Military Personnel Flight or
   Civilian Personnel Office for personnel system update.

5. Special Recognition Programs:
   5.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, Air Staff, and Secretariat staff should establish programs to honor
   their personnel with award ceremonies and news media coverage.
   5.2. In addition, these organizations should support other appropriate award programs that recognize
   professional achievements. Other award programs related to financial management and comptroller-
   ship include but are not limited to:
      5.2.1. American Society of Military Comptrollers (ASMC). ASMC is an educational and profes-
      sional organization for military and civilian personnel who are involved in financial management
      and comptrollership. Each year ASMC recognizes individuals for outstanding accomplishment
      within each of the functional fields of comptrollership. The Armed Forces Comptroller magazine
      and the ASMC website (http://www.asmconline.org) provide information on this program.
      5.2.2. Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) Financial Management Awards Program. Annu-
      ally, the DOD recognizes individuals or groups who have made significant contributions to the
      improvement of financial management. Chapter 6, Volume 1, of the Department of Defense
      Financial Management Regulation (DOD FMR), provides information on this program. The USD
      (Comptroller), through SAF/FM, solicits nominations at the beginning of each calendar year.

6. Forms Adopted: AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.
7. (Added-AMC) HQ AMC/A8 Quarterly Awards Program:
   7.1. (Added-AMC) Purpose. This program recognizes superior performance by Financial Manage-
   ment (FM) personnel at AMC base-level activities on a quarterly basis.
6                                                    AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


    7.2. (Added-AMC) Categories and Eligibility Criteria. All personnel in the specified ranks, regard-
    less of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), assigned to the FM functional area are eligible to compete
    for these awards.
       7.2.1. (Added-AMC) Airman of the Quarter: Airman Basic through Senior Airman.
       7.2.2. (Added-AMC) Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) of the Quarter: Staff Sergeant and Tech-
       nical Sergeant.
       7.2.3. (Added-AMC) Senior NCO of the Quarter: Master Sergeant and Senior Master Sergeant.
       7.2.4. (Added-AMC) Officer of the Quarter: Second Lieutenant through Captain.
       7.2.5. (Added-AMC) Civilian of the Quarter: General Schedule GS-8 and below (Category 1).
       7.2.6. (Added-AMC) Civilian of the Quarter: General Schedule GS-9 and above (Category 2).
    7.3. (Added-AMC) Nominations:
       7.3.1. (Added-AMC) Include significant accomplishments during the applicable quarter. Submit
       all nominations to arrive at HQ AMC/A8E by the 15th of the month following the end of each fis-
       cal quarter (first quarter nominations would be due by 15 January). The fourth quarter nomination
       packages are due by the 5th of October. Electronically mail award nomination packages to HQ
       AMC/A8E. Late nominations are not accepted.
       7.3.2. (Added-AMC) Award quarters are defined as:


First Quarter        1 Oct – 31 Dec
Second Quarter       1 Jan – 31 Mar
Third Quarter        1 Apr – 30 Jun
Fourth Quarter       1 Jul – 30 Sep

       7.3.3. (Added-AMC) The base-level comptroller approves and transmits base-level nomination
       packages.
       7.3.4. (Added-AMC) All organizations are limited to one nominee per category per quarter.
       7.3.5. (Added-AMC) Prepare nominations on an AF IMT 1206 to include the following catego-
       ries for enlisted and officer submissions:
           7.3.5.1. (Added-AMC) LEADERSHIP AND JOB PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY DUTY.
           Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the member performed
           assigned primary and additional duties.
              7.3.5.1.1. (Added-AMC) Define the scope and level of responsibilities and the impact on
              the mission and unit.
              7.3.5.1.2. (Added-AMC) Include any new initiatives or techniques developed by the
              member that positively impacted the unit and/or the mission.
              7.3.5.1.3. (Added-AMC) Include awards received; e.g., NCO of the Quarter, Financial
              Management Professional of the Year, etc.
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                   7


            7.3.5.1.4. (Added-AMC) Emphasize dollar and time savings in raw numbers (avoid per-
            centages, unless you back them up with raw numbers). Avoid statements like “reduced
            processing time by 50 percent.” This does not tell the board members anything. If you have
            a 2-minute process and reduce it 50 percent, you have saved 1 minute. However, if you
            have a 20-hour process and reduce it 50 percent, then you’ve saved 10 hours, a big differ-
            ence. Always show raw numbers to back up percentages.
            7.3.5.1.5. (Added-AMC) Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM, Numbered Air
            Force-level inspections and/or evaluations.
            7.3.5.1.6. (Added-AMC) Weight value for this category is 30 points.
        7.3.5.2. (Added-AMC) SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT. Show how the member
        developed or improved skills related to primary duties; e.g. formal training, Career Develop-
        ment Course enrollment or completion, On-the-Job Training, certifications, off-duty education
        reflected to primary duties, and so forth.
            7.3.5.2.1. (Added-AMC) Include completion of any professional military education
            (PME) as well as awards earned during in-residence attendance.
            7.3.5.2.2. (Added-AMC) Include any off-duty education not directly related to primary
            duties; e.g., class, course, degree enrollment and/or completion, grade point average.
            7.3.5.2.3. (Added-AMC) Cite any other relevant training or activity that significantly
            enhanced the member’s value as a military citizen.
            7.3.5.2.4. (Added-AMC) Weight value for this category is 10 points.
        7.3.5.3. (Added-AMC) BASE OR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT. Define the scope and
        impact of the member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the military and civilian
        community.
            7.3.5.3.1. (Added-AMC) Include leadership, membership, or participation in unit advi-
            sory councils, professional military organizations, associations, and events; e.g., President
            of the Top 3, enlisted dining-out committee, member of Air Force Sergeants Association,
            Sunday school teacher, and so forth.
            7.3.5.3.2. (Added-AMC) Weight value for this category is 10 points.
     7.3.6. (Added-AMC) Civilian of the Quarter – Category 1 and Category 2:
        7.3.6.1. (Added-AMC) JOB DESCRIPTION: Using no more than seven lines, describe the
        nominee’s primary job responsibilities and duties.
        7.3.6.2. (Added-AMC) SIGNIFICANT PERFORMANCE AND ACHIEVEMENTS: Pro-
        vide factual and substantiated examples of nominee’s significant performance and achieve-
        ments that warrant this recognition. Describe how well the nominee improved operations,
        highlight any support provided for special projects; explain any other outstanding services
        provided that benefited the organization and its mission, etc.
            7.3.6.2.1. (Added-AMC) Weight value for this category is 15 points.
        7.3.6.3. (Added-AMC) SIGNIFICANT SELF-IMPROVEMENT EFFORTS: Describe the
        nominee’s self-improvement efforts (training and education), if applicable. This section may
        also include additional duties, community and/or civic activities, and family enhancement.
8                                                     AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


               7.3.6.3.1. (Added-AMC) Weight value for this category is 10 points.
    7.4. (Added-AMC) Selection Process
       7.4.1. (Added-AMC) HQ AMC/A8 establishes panels to evaluate the nomination packages. HQ
       AMC/A8 makes the final selection.
       7.4.2. (Added-AMC) HQ AMC/A8 announces the winners via electronic mail correspondence.
       7.4.3. (Added-AMC) Award winners receive an engraved plaque or other appropriate memento,
       and a congratulatory memorandum from the comptroller (HQ AMC/A8).
8. (Added-AMC) MAJCOM Comptroller Administrative Support Outstanding Performance
    8.1. (Added-AMC) Purpose: This award recognizes significant contributions and improvements to
    HQ AMC Comptroller Administrative Support areas.
    8.2. (Added-AMC) Categories and Eligibility Criteria. A single award to an officer, airman, or civil-
    ian working within HQ AMC/A8, regardless of AFSC or civilian job series.
    8.3. (Added-AMC) Selection Process. Selection committees evaluate nomination packages and
    make recommendations to the HQ AMC Comptroller for approval.
    8.4. (Added-AMC) The HQ AMC Comptroller approves and announces AMC winners and presents
    the award winner with an engraved plaque and appropriate congratulatory memorandum.



                                     MICHAEL MONTELONGO, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                     (Financial Management and Comptroller)

                                     (AMC)

                                     DAVID E. PRICE, Colonel, USAF
                                     Comptroller
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                    9


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCAA—Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
ASMC—American Society of Military Comptrollers
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DAFSC—duty Air Force specialty code
DOD—Department of Defense
DOD FMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
DRU—direct reporting unit
FOA—field operating agency
FM—Financial Management
IMT—information management tools
MAJCOM—major command
NAF—nonappropriated fund
NCO—noncommissioned officer
PDI—Professional Development Institute
RDS—records disposition schedule
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)
SAF/FMB—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Budget)
SAF/FMC—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost and Economics)
SAF/FME—Executive Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial
Management and Comptroller)
10                                                AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


SAF/FMP—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Operations)
SAF/FMPW—Workforce Management Directorate
SAF/FMT—Financial Management Strategic Planning and Transformation Program Management Office
SNCO—senior noncommissioned officer
UMD—unit manning document
USD—Under Secretary of Defense
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                     11


                                              Attachment 2

                            AWARD CATEGORIES AND ELIGIBILITY

A2.1. Individual Awards:
   A2.1.1. Financial Management and Comptroller of the Year. A single award to an officer or civil-
   ian comptroller working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.2. Financial Analysis Officer and Civilian of the Year. One award each to an officer and
   civilian (GS-11 and above and GS-10 and below) working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.3. Financial Services Officer and Civilian of the Year. One award each to an officer and
   civilian (GS-11 and above and GS-10 and below) working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.4. Financial Management SNCO, NCO, and Airman of the Year. O n e a w a r d e a c h t o a
   SNCO (E-7 through E-9), NCO (E-5 through E-6), and Airman (E-1 through E-4) working below
   MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.5. Superintendent of the Year. A single award to an enlisted member serving in a designated
   Superintendent position working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.6. Acquisition Cost Analyst of the Year Military and Civilian. One award each to a military
   member and a civilian assigned to a cost position.
   A2.1.7. Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Financial Analyst of the Year:
      A2.1.7.1. NAF Financial Analyst of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A single
      award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
      A2.1.7.2. NAF Financial Analyst of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an officer,
      enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.8. Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller O f f i c e r,
   Enlisted, and Civilian. One award each to an officer, enlisted, and civilian assigned at MAJCOM,
   FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.9. Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller O f f i c e r,
   Enlisted, and Civilian. One award each to an officer, enlisted, and civilian assigned to the Secretariat,
   Air Staff, or the AFCAA staff. Nominees may be assigned outside of a financial management function
   but must be within a financial management duty Air Force special code (DAFSC) or related civilian
   job series.
   A2.1.10. Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller
   Officer and Enlisted. One award each to an Air Force officer and enlisted member working in an
   organization outside the Department of the Air Force.
   A2.1.11. Resource Advisor of the Year. Personnel with any DAFSC or civilian job series are eligi-
   ble.
      A2.1.11.1. Resource Advisor of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A single award to
      an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
      A2.1.11.2. Resource Advisor of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an officer,
      enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
12                                                     AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


     A2.1.12. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year:
        A2.1.12.1. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A sin-
        gle award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
        A2.1.12.2. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an
        officer, enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
     A2.1.13. Educator of the Year. A single award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian assigned as an
     instructor or working in a position where their primary responsibility is developing/improving educa-
     tional programs of financial management and comptroller personnel working at any level.
     A2.1.14. Author of the Year. A single award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian selected from the
     quarterly winners as The Air Force Comptroller journal’s best author of the year.

A2.2. Team Award:
     A2.2.1. Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management Transformation. A sin-
     gle award to a team of military members and/or civilians working at any level. Team may consist of
     cross-organization members.

A2.3. Organization Awards (for organizations below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level):
     A2.3.1. Financial Management and Comptroller Organization of the Year. A single award to
     the best financial management and comptroller organization in the Air Force.
     A2.3.2. Financial Analysis Office of the Year. A single award to the best financial analysis office in
     the Air Force.
     A2.3.3. Financial Services Office of the Year. A single award to the best financial services office in
     the Air Force.

A2.4. Special Acts and Services Award. Awards given to Air Force financial management and comp-
troller organizations or any part of the organization performing a special act or service.
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                        13


                                               Attachment 3

                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                               NOMINATION FOR AWARD
INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
Award⎯type name of the award
Category⎯type appropriate category, if applicable
Award Period⎯type appropriate fiscal year (1 October __ - 30 September __)
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯self-explanatory
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯self-explanatory (for civilians, use job series vice DAFSC)
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe how the nominee exceeded the scope and magnitude of
assigned duties or the level of performance (quantify performance measures or performance standards)
expected. Identify the nominee’s technical competencies (accounting, auditing, business planning, bud-
geting, cost estimating/analysis, financial analysis, financial reporting, financial services, and forecasting)
as outlined in the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model*, ingenuity, and any other factors
bearing directly on the performance being evaluated. Describe how the nominee furthered attainment of
the Financial Management vision, goals, and strategic objectives. Include outstanding accomplishments,
the impact on customer satisfaction, how the nominee demonstrated effective management of resources
(dollar or time savings, productivity increases, long-range implications, and general applicability to other
sections or organizations), provided extraordinary decision support leading to a strong perception of stra-
tegic partnering by our customers, improved the timeliness, accuracy, and relevance of financial informa-
tion, significantly reduced costs or drove exceptional efficiencies through application of technology or
efficient redesign of processes, or redesigned processes resulting in reduced cycle time. Where possible,
use quantitative data to substantiate narrative, indicating the basis for all estimates and projections. Pro-
vide direct, hard-hitting information. The emphasis here is on results/outcomes.


PERSONAL AND ENDURING COMPETENCIES: Provide specific examples of how the nominee’s
exceptional demonstration of key personal competencies (insight, integrity, judgment, ethics, selfless ser-
vice, and professional demeanor) and/or enduring competencies (decision support, developing people,
14                                                    AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


strategic orientation, risk management, problem solving, collaborating and influencing, driving processes
for results, leading change, leading teams, and communication) established in the Air Force Financial
Management Competency Model* had a significant impact upon mission and people.
PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Describe what the nominee has done beyond work and
above the normal expected in areas such as self-improvement, college, seminar, additional job-related
education, professional military education, and community service.
* See Attachment 6 for a summary explanation of the competency model; see the Air Force FM Knowl-
edge Management website (https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/fmkm) for a more detailed explanation;
use chain-of-command for further assistance.
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                      15


                                              Attachment 4

                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                               NOMINATION FOR AWARD
TEAM AND ORGANIZATIONAL AWARDS
Award⎯type name of the award
Category⎯leave blank
Award Period⎯type appropriate fiscal year (1 October __ - 30 September __)
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯identify the name of the specific office
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯leave blank
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.


MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT: Identify the organization’s overall effectiveness and contribution in
fulfilling its role and mission.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe in detail the team’s/organization’s outstanding accom-
plishments, how they were accomplished, why they were undertaken, and the impact on financial man-
agement at all levels. Describe exemplary efforts and results in meeting the Financial Management vision,
goals, and/or strategic objectives. Include examples of extraordinary decision support leading to a strong
perception of strategic partnering by our customers; developing and implementing innovative or substan-
tially improved services for our customers; improving the accuracy, timeliness, and utility of financial
information; significantly reducing costs or driving exceptional efficiencies through application of tech-
nology or efficient redesign of processes; or efficient redesign of processes resulting in reduced cycle
time.
MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES: Focus on the effective management of monetary or human
resources or both. Include dollar or time savings, productivity increases, long-range implications, and
general applicability to other sections or organizations. Where possible, use quantitative data to substanti-
ate narrative, indicating the basis for all estimates and projections.
16                                                    AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005


                                             Attachment 5

                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                              NOMINATION FOR AWARD
SPECIAL ACTS AND SERVICES AWARD
Award⎯type Special Acts and Services
Category⎯leave blank
Award Period⎯state specific time period during fiscal year of the act or service
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯identify the specific office/organization for which the award is recommended
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯leave blank
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe in detail the act or service and the circumstances that
make the act or service special. Outstanding accomplishments must be separate and distinct from regu-
larly assigned duties. (Describing multiple acts or services is discouraged unless each is special for a
clearly outstanding reason.)
DIFFICULTIES/OBSTACLES: Describe the difficulties and obstacles overcome.
EFFECTS ON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT: Describe the direct effect the act or service had or will
have on financial management at all levels.
BENEFITS TO THE AIR FORCE: Describe the tangible/intangible benefit to financial management
and the Air Force.
AFI36-2846_AMCSUP1_I 31 JANUARY 2005                                                                   17


                                             Attachment 6

              AIR FORCE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COMPETENCY MODEL
                            (ENDURING COMPETENCIES)
Certain enduring competencies are part of the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model that
defines the knowledge, skills, and abilities required of the workforce. Specifically, the enduring compe-
tencies represent the leadership and thought skills required to effectively manage FM organizations.
These skills complement a person’s technical competencies and personal attributes and enable senior FM
leaders to fulfill the Air Force Financial Management Vision: strategic partnering, world-class financial
customer support, and decision support. Studies have proven that people who possess highly developed
enduring competencies develop and lead highly efficient organizations.
Decision Support: The ability to analyze relevant knowledge and strategies to provide decision makers
with insightful resource and financial recommendations.
Developing People: The ability to promote the development and performance of others with the right
blend of understanding, coaching, teaching, and support.
Strategic Orientation: The ability to understand a vast array of information, anticipate needs, and make
effective decisions and actions that meet important goals.
Risk Management: The ability to identify and control financial risk for the organization.
Problem Solving: The ability to identify problems, gather the proper information, and use the appropriate
analysis to create sound recommendations.
Collaborating and Influencing: The ability to build cooperative relationships across boundaries that
help different people work together effectively.
Driving Processes for Results: The ability to identify and effectively manage the people and processes
that produce results.
Leading Change: The ability to identify relevant improvements and mobilize people to implement them.
Leading Teams: The ability to help groups work together successfully, driving results through commit-
ment, motivation, and communication.
Communication: The ability to use a variety of different ways of communicating to successfully inform,
influence, and persuade others in the organization.
