BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2129
THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             20 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                           Logistics

                                                          LOGISTICS PLANS MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A4LX                                               Certified by: AF/A1 (Sue Dryden, SES)
                                                                                       Pages: 22
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2129, 1 September
               1995 Pages: 29


This instruction implements major organizational structures and functions, functional statements,
and general responsibilities of Logistics Plans at AF, Major Commands (MAJCOM) and wings
in support of AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel. It also
describes typical organizational structures to be used within those activities and gives guidance
for the use of personnel assigned to the Logistics Plans career field. It specifically applies to all
Logistics Plans offices and in general to related logistics functions, including the Air National
Guard (ANG). MAJCOMs are authorized to supplement this instruction as needed. A copy of
each supplement must be sent to AF/A4LX, 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-
1030, and FLMA/LGX, Gunter Annex, Maxwell AFB, AL 36114. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include education recommendations and MAJCOM Functional Manager responsibilities.
Comments regarding the logistics plans officer have been deleted. Information regarding the
 2                                                                                   AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


Logistics Readiness Officer program may be located in 21R Careerfield Education and Training
Plan (CFETP).

CHAPTER 1—GENERAL INFORMATION                                                                                                           3
       1.1.   Logistics Plans Policy This instruction describes logistics plans functions. .........                                    3
       1.2.   Logistics Plans Career Field Reference. ................................................................                  3
       1.3.   Logistics Plans Mission. ........................................................................................         3
       1.4.   Logistics Plans Training and Education. ...............................................................                   4
       1.5.   Career field Development. .....................................................................................           6
       1.6.   Enlisted Personnel Recruiting. ...............................................................................            6

CHAPTER 2—HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE (AF)                                                                                     7
       2.1.   AF Organization Structure. ....................................................................................           7
       2.2.   General Functions. .................................................................................................      7
       2.3.   Installations, Logistics and Mission Support Directorate (A4L) ...........................                                7
       2.4.   Plans and Integration Division (A4LX) Responsibilities. .....................................                             7

CHAPTER 3—MAJCOM HEADQUARTERS OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                              9
       3.1.   MAJCOM Organizational Structure (Operational). ...............................................                            9
       3.2.   General Functions. .................................................................................................      9
       3.3.   MAJCOM Logistics Plans Functional Responsibilities. ........................................                             10
       3.4.   Wartime and Contingency Responsibilities of MAJCOMs and Air Component
              Commands. ............................................................................................................   12

CHAPTER 4—WING/LOGISTICS READINESS SQUADRON OPERATIONAL
          RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                             14
       4.1.   Organizational Structure. .......................................................................................        14
       4.2.   General Functions. .................................................................................................     14
       4.3.   Logistics Plans Functional Responsibilities. ..........................................................                  14
       4.4.   Wartime/Contingency Responsibilities. ................................................................                   15
       4.5.   2G0X1 Functional Manager. .................................................................................              16
       4.6.   Wartime and Contingency Responsibilities. ..........................................................                     16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         19
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                       3



                                            Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Logistics Plans Policy This instruction describes logistics plans functions. It provides a
basis for effective use of logistics plans personnel assigned at AF, MAJCOM, and wing/unit
level in the 2G0X1 and comparable civilian career fields. Organizational tasks will be
accomplished with manpower earned through the application of the logistics plans standard.
Variations to the standard based on unique mission requirements not currently addressed, may be
identified to AF/A4LX for staffing and implementation. The manpower standard applies to
logistics plans functions organized as a Plans and Integration section or flight within the
Logistics Readiness Squadron.
1.2. Logistics Plans Career Field Reference. AFI 36-2101 Airman Classification, provides
general enlisted career field data. For specific technical information, refer to the appropriate Air
Force, Department of Defense (DoD), and Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) publications.
1.3. Logistics Plans Mission.
   1.3.1. Logistics planning determines the logistics posture necessary to set up the most
   effective support of weapon and support systems programs on the basis of prescribed mission
   objectives as defined in AFDD 1, chapter 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine. The quality and
   quantity of logistics support, as addressed in AFDD 1 are directly tied to the availability of
   resources and are dependent on the way those resources are managed.
   1.3.2. The operational environment encompasses the functional support accomplished at
   operational commands. It deals primarily with planning and supporting the peace time and
   wartime use of weapon systems and equipment for both strategic and tactical operations.
   1.3.3. The logistics planning function is the core component of expeditionary combat
   support. Understanding the purpose and responsibilities of logistics plans at MAJCOM and
   wings, including the role of the Air Force (Air Staff and MAJCOM interface) in the overall
   planning process of DoD, is essential to an effective readiness capability. The logistics
   planner integrates Air Force functional planning in support of operational war plans directed
   by the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP) and USAF War and Mobilization Plan
   (WMP).
   1.3.4. The Logistics Plans function has been a historically low density high demand
   function, as such it is imperative that all taskings requiring/requesting members of the
   2G0X1 careerfield will only be called upon to support the following activities:
       1.3.4.1. Contingency planning: The allocation/preparation of forces in support of
       planned operations to ports of embarkation (POE). This also includes planning the use of
       in-garrison support and forces for OPLAN, CONPLAN execution.
       1.3.4.2. Deployment planning: The preparation and execution for strategic movement of
       forces and support from the POE to the port of debarkation (POD).
       1.3.4.3. Employment planning: The preparation and execution for Reception, Staging,
       Onward Movement and Integration (RSO&I) of forces/support equipment.
 4                                                            AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


        1.3.4.4. Sustainment planning:     Activities affecting the resupply support of combat
        forces.
        1.3.4.5. Redeployment planning: Actions supporting the movement of combat forces
        from one POD to another.
1.4. Logistics Plans Training and Education.
     1.4.1. Enlisted Training.
        1.4.1.1. Enlisted personnel who enter AFSC 2G0X1 must complete the Logistics Plans
        Apprentice Course, L3ABR2G031-01LB, and are awarded AFSC 2G0X1. The course
        curriculum includes the following:
        Overview of logistics plans career field
        Programming functions of logistics plans including support agreements and WRM
        Planning functions including Air Force and Joint Operations Planning
        All aspects of the US Air Force deployment system including a deployment exercise
        1.4.1.2. In combination with on the job training Career Development Course (CDC)
        2G051, Logistics Plans Journeyman, is available for the five-level skill upgrade.
        1.4.1.3. In combination with on the job training, CDC 2G071, Logistics Plans
        Craftsman, is available for the seven-level skill upgrade.
        1.4.1.4. During initial counseling and work area familiarization supervisors will assess
        competency levels of logistics planners being assigned. If a newly assigned logistics
        planner (E-6 and below) has not worked a specific section (i.e. Support Agreements,
        WRM, Deployment Ops) for greater than two years, that individual will be recertified in
        that specific area on their training records. Individuals requiring recertification prior to
        assuming full duties in their tasked area must do so within 120 days of assignment to the
        work center.
        1.4.1.4. To ensure breadth of experience within the careerfield, section chiefs will rotate
        personnel within the duty sections every 12-18 months. Rotation plan will be written and
        published semi-annually. This will prevent over specialization of airmen in the
        careerfield. (EXCEPTION: For duty assignments lasting 12 months it is recommended
        that Section Chiefs assign members to duty sections that are closely related to duties
        assigned to members at their previous duty station).
        1.4.1.5. All efforts to develop a robust population of logistics planners within the Global
        Force community will be made by home organizations to ensure assigned logistics
        planners receive the resources and time on duty to complete the following training.
        Course     prerequisites     and    reporting    instructions     may     be    found    at
        https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/default1.asp.
        1.4.1.5.1. LOGMOD TRAINING AND THE INTEGRATED DEPLOYMENTS
        SYSTEM (course# AF LOGMOD IDS)
            1.4.1.5.2. DCAPES ADVANCED USER (course# DCAPES ADVANCED USER)
            1.4.1.5.3. DCAPES-Wing Level Operators (course# E3AZR3S051 AA2B)
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                     5


         1.4.1.5.4. DCAPES MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, HAF and Component Planner
         (course#E7OAT33S0 02DA)
         1.4.1.5.5. DCAPES MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, HAF and Component Functional Area
         Manager (course# E7OAT33S0 01DB)
         1.4.1.5.6. 8-Step problem solving training (TR: AFI 20-112, JQS paragraph 2 and
         AFSO21                    Playbook,                  Volume                  B)
         https://www.my.af.mil/ASPs/DocMan/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID              =OO-
         TR-AF-43-13-4&Filter=OO-TR-AF-43.
         1.4.1.5.7. Logistics plans personnel are apt to perform in joint organizations or serve
         side by side in forward operating locations with sister service personnel. Senior
         Enlisted Joint PME (SEJPME) completion at the earliest attainable period within a
         logistics plans member’s career should be emphasized by all supervisors.
  1.4.2. Civilian/Higher level Education. The Air Force provides many opportunities for
  enlisted personnel to grow both professionally and personally. Education acts as a major
  keystone to the inherent strength of our enlisted core. This section will provide some general
  guidelines to help assist members focus their studies that both enhance their knowledge and
  capabilities as logistics plans personnel. This list is not all inclusive; however it provides a
  general path to maintain a consolidated level of focus. It is incumbent for supervisors at all
  levels to continue encouragement in CCAF completion for all assigned subordinates.
     1.4.2.1. Careerfield functional managers and MAJCOM FMs have identified
     undergraduate degrees for leveraging the logistics plans CFETP and CCAF to be:
     Logistics/Supply Chain Mgt, Business Administration Management, Operations
     Management, Risk Management, Statistics and Mathematics have assisted both log
     planners in performing their primary duties as well as assisted the Air Force in
     maintaining a level of excellence expected in our Logistics Plans NCO Corps.
     1.4.2.2. All members seeking graduate level education are highly encouraged to apply
     and, if accepted, attend the Air Force Institute of Technology for Enlisted program.
     Commanders and supervisors at all levels should exhaust all means necessary to help
     facilitate this goal. This highly selective program is beneficial to the Air Force and
     personally rewarding to our teammates.
     1.4.2.3. Certifications. As opposed to other careerfields, logistics plans personnel have
     a high level of exposure to interagency partners and sister services. Acquiring rare skills
     in management, planning and process improvement facilitates our continued edge in
     being identified as “heavy hitters” within the Air Force and Joint community. Members
     are highly encouraged to acquire certifications in project management, process
     improvement and logistics. This enhances the member’s professional standing and also
     brings key skill sets to our careerfield
  1.4.3. Civilian Training. Civilian logisticians should receive training and education
  commensurate with their responsibility and with their uniformed counterparts. At a minimum
  this should include the basic course AETC courses G3OLR21L1 or the Logistics Plans
  Specialist Course) and the AFIT courses identified in para 1.4.2.3. above. Contingency
  Wartime Planning Course (CWPC), offered by Air University, Combat Plans Institute,
  Maxwell AFB, Alabama. This course is designed for operations and logistics planners who
 6                                                          AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


     need to understand how the entire DoD deployment and warplanning system is designed to
     work. They pay particular attention to Air Force planning systems such as JOPES, DCAPES,
     LOGMOD, etc. For more information of these and other National Defense University
     (NDU), AFIT, AETC, or Air University (AU) courses for logistics plans personnel. Also see
     the        Education           and          Training         Course         Announcements
     (https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/default1.asp).
1.5. Career field Development.
     1.5.1. Assignments and personnel management.
        1.5.1.1. While the needs of the Air Force must be met, there are assignments that are
        labeled historically as difficult to fill. Airmen, NCOs and SNCOs are advised to seek
        assignment in those locations as they can be rewarding in their own right. For example,
        assignments to Korea typically compress several years of activity into a one year.
        1.5.1.2. MAJCOM FMs will exhaust all mean necessary to mentor individuals and
        provide opportunities to gain experience at staff positions when available. These
        selectively manned growth positions will be determined by the MAJCOM FMs and will
        avoid creating a top heavy structure. Temporary developmental positions within
        MAJCOMs may not exceed 1 year in total duration. MAJCOM FMs may also transfer
        assigned 2G0X1 staff members to lower units to regain “ground truth”, assist Plans and
        Integration Flights and perform familiarization training. Members placed in these levels
        will be considered “manning assist” and report to the local chain of command. Both
        temporary position scenarios may only be executed at the local level (ie. a SSgt from an
        LRS at Langley may be temporarily assigned to HQ ACC).
        1.5.1.3. Members seeking to broaden their expertise by volunteering for special duty
        assignments, outside of the 2G0X1 careerfield, must process their request through their
        respective MAJCOM FM. Members will format the request on official memorandum
        with the following information; name, rank, social security number, contact information,
        special duty requested, reporting date and duration of duty. Signature blocks will include
        a concur/nonconcur for the respective MAJCOM FM. The MAJCOM FM will notify the
        member as to the final decision within 10 duty days after receipt. It is advised that
        individuals start this process early to prevent time crunches.
1.6. Enlisted Personnel Recruiting. The 2G0X1 careerfield is a direct accession and
crosstraining profession. To assist in ensuring that manning requirements are met and adequate
regeneration of the career field is provided, each unit level Logistics Plans NCOs must engage in
an active, coordinated recruiting program.
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    7


                                           Chapter 2

                 HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE (AF)

2.1. AF Organization Structure. The AF Deputy Chief of Staff Installations, Logistics, and
Mission Support (AF/A4L) structure for logistics plans management is illustrated below.
2.2. General Functions. AF/ A4L develops and direct logistics plans, policies, programs and
procedures to support the Air Force logistics planners.
2.3. Installations, Logistics and Mission Support Directorate (A4L)
   2.3.1. Develops USAF policy and procedures pertaining to all facets of weapon systems
   support including aircraft maintenance (base and depot), munitions maintenance tactical and
   strategic), supply (base and depot), communication-electronic (C-E) equipment maintenance,
   space logistics, acquisition logistics policy, fuels and energy management. The Directorate is
   also responsible for developing logistics concepts and doctrine including strategic planning,
   deliberate, operational and contingency war planning and assessment.
   2.3.2. Develops and publishes policy for USAF Strategic Logistics planning, AFI 10-201,
   10-403, 10-404, 10-101, and DoDI 4000.19 Defense Interservice, Interdepartmental, and
   Interagency Support.
2.4. Plans and Integration Division (A4LX) Responsibilities. Develops Air Force Combat
Support Doctrine and Air Force logistics policy guidance. Responsible for all phases of logistics
planning including the integration of Air Force, JCS and DoD planning documents. Coordinates
with AF/A5XW on AFI 10-404 Base Support Planning and all other plans, unit type codes
(UTC) management related regulations.
   2.4.1. Logistics Plans Policy Joint Matters.
       2.4.1.1. Develops and coordinates logistics policy and guidance for integration into Air
       Force, JCS, and DoD planning documents (for example, USAF War and Mobilization
       Plan, Joint Strategic Planning Document, etc.)
       2.4.1.2. Develops, coordinates, and publishes Air Force log policy guidance for such
       areas as:
       Support Agreements
       WRM Management
       Deployment Management
       USAF Base Support Planning
       Operations Planning
       Functional Management of the 2G0X1 career field.
       2.4.1.3. Develops, coordinates and reviews international logistics matters pertaining to
       the NATO, the Middle East, Southwest Asia, and the Western Hemisphere. For Example:
       Defense Planning Questionnaire
       Host-Nation Support (HNS)
       NATO Mutual Support Act
       Mutual Logistics Support MOU and MOA
8                                                            AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


War Reserve Stocks for Allies
       2.4.1.4. Serves as AF/A4L contact point for JCS.
       2.4.1.5. Serves as AF/A4L planner at meetings of the Logistics Directorate, Joint Staff
       (J-4), assigns action and gives guidance for developing Air Staff logistics positions on
       JCS matters.
       2.4.1.6. Acts as logistics plans functional manager for 2G0X1 personnel; chairs the
       functional management working group meetings to discuss changes and improvements in
       the 2G0X1 career field and publishes career guidance in this AFI and the Career Field
       Education and Training Plan.
       2.4.1.7. Acts as the central focal point for the logistics plans award and additional awards
       that include the total scope of logistics related functions.
    2.4.2. Logistics Strategic Planning and Concepts.
       2.4.2.1. The logistics readiness team directs the logistics strategic planning process for
       the Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS). It develops logistics concepts and doctrines and
       provides policy and direction for the Logistics Command and Control (Log C2) structure.
       2.4.2.2. Assists the US Air Force Logistics Board of Advisors Executive Coordinating
       Committee according to AFI 20-7.
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                      9


                                           Chapter 3

         MAJCOM HEADQUARTERS OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. MAJCOM Organizational Structure (Operational). The MAJCOM Logistics Readiness
Division manages diverse and unique missions, functions, spans of control, and changing
requirements. Only those functions needed to support MAJCOM mission responsibilities are
authorized.
3.2. General Functions.
   3.2.1. The MAJCOM Logistics Readiness Division is responsible for policies, procedures,
   and concepts relating to logistics support of assigned and programmed forces including
   active units in conjunction with Air Reserve Component. The MAJCOM Logistics Readiness
   Division:
      3.2.1.1. Monitors, develops, and assists the other logistics functions in preparing logistics
      annexes to OPLANs, OPORDs, Contingency Plans (CONPLANs), and Exercise Plans
      (EXPLANs) to meet appropriate plan tasking and to evaluate the logistics feasibility and
      supportability posture of the MAJCOM.
      3.2.1.2. Functions as the focal point for logistics portions of AF and MAJCOM
      programming plans and documents.
      3.2.1.3. Directs logistics capability studies and takes part in surveys of air base and
      facilities to determine logistics support capabilities for base support, contingency, and
      exercise plans.
      3.2.1.4. Develops logistics strategic plans and programs and concepts of operations, for
      the MAJCOM’s theater supported COCOMs per guidance from the USAF Logistics
      Strategic Plan.
      3.2.1.5. Develops logistics inputs for the MAJCOM POM submission.
      3.2.1.6. Develops logistics inputs for Operational Requirements Documents.
      3.2.1.7. Reviews staff prepared peacetime and wartime planning factors, standard
      personnel packages, and materiel deployment configurations for weapon systems and
      logistics data related to the CONUS and specific overseas locations.
      3.2.1.8. Screens active and reserve unit deployment plans, as required, to make sure they
      are consistent with currently tasked OPLANs/OPORDS.
      3.2.1.9. Manages the following command programs applicable under Air Force and
      MAJCOM directives:
          3.2.1.9.1. WRM
          3.2.1.9.2. Deployment Management
          3.2.1.9.3. Support Agreements
          3.2.1.9.4. IGESPs. Writes MAJCOM clarification guidance to AFI 10-404. Review
          IGESPs for thoroughness and consistency with current OPLAN or OPORD taskings.
          Ensure unit IGESP OPRs (including ARC) receive source tasking documents and
 10                                                          AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


          extracts necessary for developing an IGESP, i.e., all forces TPFDD, WCDO, War
          Plans Additive Requirements Roster, WAA, Force Size, Base Level Assessment data,
          Base Use Category Codes, etc.
      3.2.1.10. Functions as the focal point for automation for Logistics Plans.
      3.2.1.11. Provides logistics plans data to the Integrated Logistics Support (ILS) program
      and provides logistics support for new weapons systems.
      3.2.1.12. Manages assigned elements of international logistics programs.
      3.2.1.13. Serves as the functional manager for logistics plans personnel actions,
      including manpower validations, personnel recruiting, Permanent Change of Station
      (PCS) assignments, Temporary Duty (TDY) staffing assistance and retraining approval.
      Provides MAJCOM/DCS personnel and the AFPC career managers, with functional area
      recommendations relating to priorities and specific placement of 2G0X1 personnel within
      the MAJCOM.
   3.2.2. All logistics plans personnel engaged in activities associated with operations planning
   must be familiar with the DPG, NMS, JCS Publication 0-2, Unified Action Armed Forces
   (UNAAF), JCS Pub 4-01, Joint Logistics Policy and Guidance and applicable portions of
   USAF WMP Vol. 1, 3, 4, and 5.
3.3. MAJCOM Logistics Plans Functional Responsibilities.
   3.3.1. General Information.
      3.3.1.1. Prepares briefings, correspondence and keeps MAJCOM staffs apprised
      regarding logistics plans core competencies and their mission impact.
      3.3.1.2. Conducts site surveys, staff assistance visits, inspections, and orientation visits.
      3.3.1.3. Makes sure the information prepared by the specific functional managers agrees
      with current directives, policies, and procedures. This does not mean, however, that
      logistics plans has responsibility for the actual preparation of all logistical inputs.
      3.3.1.4. Staff all publications effecting Air Reserve Component (ARC) with appropriate
      OPRs.
      3.3.1.5. Is the OPR for MAJCOM logistics plans checklists for use by inspection teams.
   3.3.2. Plans.
      3.3.2.1. Reviews the Log Annex to the USAF War and Mobilization Plan (WMP),
      volume 1.
      3.3.2.2. Makes sure, together with the functional logistics staff, that logistics planning is
      done early in the concept development stage and concurrently with operations planning.
      MAJCOMs provide logistics factors, resupply or non-unit TPFDDs, validate support
      UTCs and equipment lists (Logistics Detail (LOGDET)) against a recent site survey, and
      identify shortfalls during the plan development stage and well in advance of final TPFDL
      validation with COCOM staffs and United States Transportation Command.
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 11


     3.3.2.3. Works with functional managers to identify and resolve logistics support needs
     and shortfalls for operations planning. Including concepts of operations for their theater
     and other supported theaters, per guidance from the USAF WMP.
     3.3.2.4. Monitors and assists other logistics functions in the preparation of logistical
     annexes and appendices to operation and concept plans as prescribed in AFI 10-401, Air
     Force Operations Planning and Execution.
     3.3.2.5. Serves as the focal point for coordinating, expediting, and directing logistics
     actions during periods of increased tension, emergency, or wartime operations.
  3.3.3. Deployment Management.
     3.3.3.1. Develops and maintains a system for deploying Air Force resources from
     MAJCOMs, unit, and to include the ARC.
     3.3.3.2. Publishes appropriate directives including those which prescribe deployment
     planning needs and operating procedures for intra and intertheater deployments of
     operational and support units.
     3.3.3.3. Reviews and evaluates deployment plans, as required, prepared by subordinate
     units.
     3.3.3.4. Reviews and evaluates deployment directives issued by intermediate
     headquarters.
     3.3.3.5. Extracts and compiles logistics data from deployment plans or automated
     support systems for input to the AF Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System
     (MEFPAK) and the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES). Functions
     as the POC for submitting Logistics Force Packaging System (LOGFOR) data Collects,
     reviews, and submits LOGFOR data Functions as the MAJCOM-level manager for the
     Logistics Module (LOGMOD), maintains the flow of LOGDET data, and builds logistics
     packages to meet plan needs. Maintains the equipment portion of UTC data base and
     ensures functional managers validation Functions as the logistics OPR on all LOGMOD
     matters Provides guidance to base-level units in the management of LOGMOD, including
     file interface to Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and Execution System (DCAPES) and
     the Joint Operations Planning and Execution System (JOPES).
  3.3.4. War Readiness Materiel (WRM).
     3.3.4.1. Manages the MAJCOM WRM program, including the NATO prepositioning
     procurement package (as applicable) and coordinates WRM needs in support of
     MAJCOM OPLANs and deployment plans with other functional logistics staff areas and
     operational planning activities.
     3.3.4.2. Helps the functional staffs determine MAJCOM logistics prepositioning needs,
     WRM concepts, policies, and procedures.
     3.3.4.3. Functions as the MAJCOM-level manager for the Logistics Feasibility Analysis
     Capability (LOGFAC) System.
     3.3.4.4. Produces the MAJCOM WCDO.
12                                                          AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


  3.3.5. Programs.
     3.3.5.1. Works with other logistics functional managers to ensure that proper logistics
     resources are identified and programmed in the POM.
     3.3.5.2. Is the logistics OPR for weapons system acquisition.
     3.3.5.3. Functions as the focal point for the development of logistics support needs for
     force beddown, base closures, and unit activation and deactivation. Ensures sufficient
     resources are programmed in the logistics input to the MAJCOM POM to accomplish
     same.
     3.3.5.4. Is the focal point for MAJCOM logistics security assistance activities.
     3.3.5.5. Manages the MAJCOM’s support agreements program, and logistical portions of
     MAJCOM’s international agreements program.
     3.3.5.6. Serves as the functional manager for logistics plans manpower validations,
     personnel recruiting, PCS assignments, TDY staffing assistance and retraining approval.
     Provides MAJCOM/DCS personnel and the AFMPC assignment officers with functional
     area recommendations relating to priorities and specific placement of enlisted personnel
     AFSC 2G0X1) within the MAJCOM.
3.4. Wartime and Contingency Responsibilities of MAJCOMs and Air Component
Commands.
  3.4.1. Establishes a Logistics Readiness Center (LRC) or similar function, if appropriate, to
  carry out combat support activities. Establishes essential communications links.
  3.4.2. Validates all command level taskings through the logistics functional staff.
  3.4.3. Interprets implemented plans and assists in preparation of new Operations Plans
  (OPLAN) or Concept Plans (CONPLAN).
  3.4.4. Monitors wing deployment actions and activities.
  3.4.5. Compiles logistics inputs for the Commander’s Situation Report (SITREP). Maintains
  status of critical resources.
  3.4.6. Assists in development and delivery of the Logistics Situation Briefing to the
  Commander’s Battle Staff/Crisis Action Team.
  3.4.7. Monitors TPFDD execution and beddown of personnel and assets as they arrive at
  their employment site.
  3.4.8. Ensures WRM release activities are accomplished according to AFI 25-101, War
  Readiness Materiel.
  3.4.9. Redistributes logistics assets within the command, as required.
  3.4.10. Assists in the preparation, review, and coordination of logistics reports. The majority
  of logistics reports, logistics summaries and/or Inventory Management Plan (IMP), will be
  prepared by other functional team members. The Logistics Plans Controller should review
  and coordinate their parts for the logistics readiness liaison or similar function. This includes
  all applicable host country and theater unique reporting requirements (such as those required
  in NATO by the Logistics Reporting Directive 80-50 series).
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                   13


  3.4.11. Expedites the resolution of logistics problems. Identify and upchannel valid logistical
  shortfalls and limiting factors (LIMFAC) as they occur and follow up on efforts to resolve
  problems. Shortfalls and LIMFACs should be reported and included as an action item on the
  SITREP.
  3.4.12. Validates support agreements and host nation support when appropriate.
  3.4.13. Establishes a redeployment cell to manage the orderly redeployment of forces, when
  required.
  3.4.14. Provides appropriate input to after-action reports.
 14                                                         AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


                                           Chapter 4

 WING/LOGISTICS READINESS SQUADRON OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. Organizational Structure. Throughout this chapter, use of the organization entity "wing"
includes squadrons and other units with logistics plans functions. Only functions required by the
particular unit mission are authorized. Members assigned to the Plans and Integration Section
may not be assigned additional duties that require 24 hour coverage as this will prevent full
staffing of the Installation Deployment Center (Ie. Facility Manager with alarm system in place,
Security Forces Augmentee, etc...).
4.2. General Functions. The Logistics Plans office is the OPR for the following: Plans
Management, Agreements Management, WRM Management, Deployment Management, In-
Garrison/Expeditionary Site Planning, beddown support and sustainment.
4.3. Logistics Plans Functional Responsibilities.
   4.3.1. Plans Management.
       4.3.1.1. Reviews OPLANs, Programming Plans (P-Plans), general support, base support,
       exercise plans, etc., for logistics requirements capability and feasibility.
       4.3.1.2. Initiates, monitors, coordinates and consolidates logistical inputs to support
       OPLANs, P-Plans, general support, base support and exercise plans.
       4.3.1.3. Develops logistical portions of feasibility and capability documents studies. This
       may include determining support requirements, evaluating unit inputs, determining
       support capability, identifying shortfalls, identifying limiting factors (LIMFACs),
       compiling studies, recommending solutions for limitations and reporting findings.
       4.3.1.4. Assists in compiling airfield site survey data and logistics support assessments
       from functional area managers.
       4.3.1.5. Coordinates with other base functions as necessary to facilitate plan execution.
   4.3.2. Agreements Management.
       4.3.2.1. Administers the support agreements programs and the logistics portions of the
       international agreements.
       4.3.2.2. Serves as the central reviewing, coordinating, administering and filing entity for
       agreements as required in DoDI 4000.19. These functions also apply to MOAs or MOUs
       when logistical support matters are effected but do not normally apply to international
       agreements. ANG responsibility for MOAs and MOUs is limited to serving as the central
       file.
   4.3.3. WRM Management.
       4.3.3.1. Functions as the OPR for the WRM program
       4.3.3.2. Provides liaison and staff assistance to base staff activities on WRM.
       4.3.3.3. Acts as the OPR for the wing or group WRM budget and ensures all WRM
       needs are considered.
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                     15


      4.3.3.4. Assists and provides liaison to the base comptroller on mobility equipment
      expenditures and WRM budget and finance matters.
   4.3.4. Deployment Functions.
      4.3.4.1. Actively supports AF Deployment and Management program.
      4.3.4.2. Manages the deployment training program to ensure deployable unit readiness.
      4.3.4.3. Manages and reports logistics portions of deployment limiting factors.
      4.3.4.4. OPR for LOGMOD.
      4.3.4.5. Reviews exercise, operation, contingency, beddown, and other plans for
      deployment/ employment taskings.
4.4. Wartime/Contingency Responsibilities.
   4.4.1. Plans.
      4.4.1.1. Provides implementation guidance for logistics policies and procedures in
      MAJCOM OPLANs and OPORDs to sustain theater combat operation.
      4.4.1.2. Integrates functional logistics activities into a unified and responsive logistics
      operation.
      4.4.1.3. Acts as principal logistics (other than maintenance) integrator for the
      commander and staff to assess and control the adequacy of logistics functions in meeting
      current and projected requirements.
      4.4.1.4. Formulates and implements logistics portions of wing level mobilization and war
      plans in support of war and contingency operations.
      4.4.1.5. Coordinates logistics matters, shortfalls, limiting factors and resource
      availability with higher Headquarters.
   4.4.2. Agreements.
      4.4.2.1. Evaluates proposals for intraservice and interservice use of base resources and
      support, maintains direct interface with commanders and staff, and assists functional
      managers in determining the appropriate functional manager for assessing costs, benefits,
      terms, and tradeoffs before accomplishing or renewing support agreements.
      4.4.2.2. Administers existing agreements, with emphasis on mobilization.
      4.4.2.3. Coordinates Host Nation Equipment Support through the Civil Military
      Cooperation Program (for units within the European Theater).
   4.4.3. In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Planning.
      4.4.3.1. Focal point for all contingency tasking with logistics support requirements.
      4.4.3.2. Interprets logistics requirements and impact of all Emergency Action Messages
      (EAM) or taskings.
      4.4.3.3. Assists Transportation in resolving movement problems from home station to en
      route bases, POEs, and/or PODs.
      4.4.3.4. Integrates redeployment planning actions with functional area representatives.
 16                                                          AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


       4.4.3.5. Coordinates and supervises all host and tenant unit mobility deployments
       according to the IGESP or Installation Deployment Plan.
       4.4.3.6. Assists IGESP OPR and Committee members in maintaining current status of all
       reception, transient forces, deployment, employment support and potential movement or
       redeployment actions according to the IGESP.
       4.4.3.7. Uses or monitors a variety of data systems such as but not limited to: Deliberate
       and Crisis Action Planning and Executions Segments (DCAPES), Joint Operations
       Planning and Execution System (JOPES), Joint Deployment System (JDS), Logistics
       Module (LOGMOD), Integrated Deployment System (IDS), Logistics Feasibility
       Capability (LOGFAC), Logistics Forces Module (LOGFOR), Logistics Planning Module
       (LOGPLAN), etc., for wartime resource and transportation visibility and control.
       4.4.3.8. Coordinates with supply personnel to allocate prepositioned wartime materiel.
       4.4.3.9. Coordinates actions to open COBs and receive forces.
       4.4.3.10. Coordinates actions that link draw down and closure of war or contingency
       employment locations with redeployment of those forces.
4.5. 2G0X1 Functional Manager. The Host Base Plans and Integration Office is the functional
manager for all 2G0X1 base personnel and reports directly to the appointed MAJCOM FM on
manpower and technical development matters effecting 2G0X1 personnel. All other matters are
to be directed to the appropriate representative in the MAJCOM staff. (Not applicable for ARC
units).
   4.5.1. Monitors the logistics plans staff level to ensure authorized and assigned strength is
   sufficient to meet requirements.
   4.5.2. Manages, through coordination with the FSS, or central civilian personnel offices,
   equitable distribution of available logistics planners among all users. The Mission Support
   Group Commander (or equivalent) is the final authority for on-base allocations of available
   logistics plans personnel.
   4.5.3. Informs the MAJCOM functional manager of unprojected losses (humanitarian
   reassignment, retirement, etc.) to maximize manpower lead time.
   4.5.4. Formulates written rotation plan of logistics planners at base level to provide
   maximum exposure to logistics duties. (This includes, where possible, rotation of 2G0X1
   personnel among multiple units located on a single military installation.) Rotations will be
   based on an 18 month rotation cycle.
       4.5.4.1. For installations possessing logistics plans personnel at multiple levels of
       command or within tenant organizations, the rotation plan will become the responsibility
       of the MAJCOM Functional Manager.
   4.5.5. Pursues an active recruitment program.
4.6. Wartime and Contingency Responsibilities. A primary responsibility of the logistics
planner is combat integration. Combat integration is the process of systematically applying all
available resources in the most efficient manner to provide for the full range of support needed to
effectively apply combat power. This entails assessing immediate needs and matching support
resources to sustain combat operations. Specific responsibilities include:
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                                      17


  4.6.1. Logistics Command and Control (LOG C2). LOG C2 is the orderly and efficient
  direction and application of logistics resources. It includes the following elements:
     4.6.1.1. Establishes communication with higher headquarters, host base, home station,
     and between the deployed location and all other functional areas at the employment
     location to ensure the rapid flow of information. This is critical to establish initial control
     of deployed resources and determine on-scene capability to respond to rapidly changing
     situations. Command and Control of the support infrastructure is paramount to successful
     combat support.
     4.6.1.2. Assists in the preparation, review, and coordination of logistics reports,
     including the SITREP and AEF UTC Reporting Tool (ART). The majority of logistics
     reports, such as logistics summaries or IMP, will be prepared by functional offices of
     primary responsibilities (OPR). The logistics planner should review and coordinate on
     all reports to be fully informed of all logistics shortfalls and requirements.
  4.6.2. Planning/Execution. Planning/Execution is the activity of identifying and
  implementing the specific actions and identifying and applying resources required to support
  combat operations. It includes the following:
     4.6.2.1. Plans and oversees reception activities. Act as the Advanced Echelon (ADVON)
     focal point for all combat support functions. Establish and supervise a reception
     infrastructure to receive and beddown forces. Initiate site preparation, assess support
     capabilities, and allocate available resources.
     4.6.2.2. Conducts base support planning. Develop and update the base support planning
     actions, as defined by AFI 10-404. Integrate all contingency planning for continuing
     home base or deployment location missions.
     4.6.2.3. Plans, integrates, and executes movement actions for all base (host and tenant)
     organizations. Develops movement plans for forward, dispersal, evacuation and
     redeployment operations. Establishes an organizational infrastructure to support
     redeployment actions using AFI 10-403, Deployment Management and AFI 10-404, In-
     Garrison Expeditionary Planning guidelines.
     4.6.2.4. Develops and implements a deployment location drawdown plan. Ensures
     drawdown priorities are fully integrated with redeployment. Ensures all drawdown
     actions are accomplished prior to departure when residual forces remaining.
  4.6.3. Sustainment. Sustainment is the application of the resources needed to maintain
  contingency or combat capabilities from the deployment phase of operations until the return
  of forces to home station. This encompasses all levels of resource allocation to include
  manpower, procurement, resupply, and so forth. Establish an activity to integrate combat
  support requirements to sustain combat operations. This activity will:
     4.6.3.1. Integrate combat support activities into a unified and responsive operation. As a
     principal coordinator for the commander and staff, maintain visibility of available
     resources, and assess the adequacy of combat support activities to meet operational
     requirements.
     4.6.3.2. Monitor and coordinates with higher headquarters elements to resolve equipment
     and personnel shortfalls and LIMFACs.
18                                                        AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


     4.6.3.3. Resolve problems and expedites resource movement.
     4.6.3.4. Maintain standard system data to track and coordinate status, availability, and
     movement of resources. If standard systems are either unavailable or inoperative, or if
     additional capabilities are warranted, develop local systems to provide this capability.
     4.6.3.5. Review reports related to sustain combat support, required by applicable
     instructions, regulations, manuals, and directives for the theater of operations.
     4.6.3.6. Administer support agreements (including reserve component mobilization
     agreements), intra/interservice, acquisition cross service agreements (ACSA) and
     international agreements. Formulates new agreements as required to sustain/support
     operations.
     4.6.3.7. Coordinate and expedites host nation support, to include but not limited to,
     equipment, facilities, personnel, and services, through the appropriate channels to support
     operations.




                                          DARRELL D. JONES, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                                                              19


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD-1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, 17 Nov 03
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 Dec 06
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 08
AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, 9 Mar 04
AFI 20-112, Logistics Readiness Squadron Quality Assurance Program (LRS QA), 19 Oct 10
AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures, 2 May 05
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 05
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 10
AFI 36-601, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 25 Jul 94
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 8 Aug 95
JCS Publication 0-2, Unified Action Armed Forces (UNAAF), 11 Aug 94
JCS Pub 4-0, Doctrine for Logistics Support of Joint Operations, 18 Jul 08
JCS Pub 4-01, Joint Doctrine for the Defense Transportation System, 19 Mar 03
PRESCRIBED FORMS
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09
ADOPTED FORMS
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, 1 Apr 10

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADVON—Advance Echelon
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFLMA—Air Force Logistics Management Agency
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMPC—Air Force Manpower Personnel Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
AQE—Air Force Qualification Examination
ARC—Air Reserve Component
 20                                                    AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


ART—AEF UTC Reporting Tool
ASVAB—Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery
AU—Air University
IGESP—In-Garrison Expeditionary Site Plan
C-E—Communications-electronic
CDC—Career Development Course
CPC—Combat Planners Course
CONPLANs—Contingency Plans
DAS—Date Arrived Station
DCAPES—Deliberate Crisis Action Planning and Execution System
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DoD—Department of Defense
DOR—Date of Rank
EAM—Emergency Action Message
EPR—Enlisted Personnel Report
EXPLANS—Exercise Plans
FLAS—Fuels Logistics Area Summary
FTS—File Transfer System
HNS—Host Nation Support
AF—Headquarters United States Air Force
ILS—Integrated Logistics Support
IMP—Inventory Management Plan
IWSM—Integrated Weapons System Maintenance
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
JDS—Joint Deployment System
JOPES—Joint Operations Planning and Execution System
JSCP—Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan
A4LX—Plans and Integration Division
LIMFAC—Limiting Factors
Log- C2—Logistics Command and Control
LOG 199—Introduction to Logistics Course
LOG 299—Combat Logistics Course
AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011                            21


LOG 399—Strategic Logistics Course
LOGDET—Logistics Detail
LOGFAC—Logistics Feasibility Analysis Capability
LOGMOD—Logistics Module
LRC—Logistics Readiness Center
LSA—Logistics Support Analysis
MAJCOM—Major Air Command
MEFPAK—Manpower and Equipment Force Packaging System
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NCOIC—Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge
NDU—National Defense University
NGB—National Guard Bureau
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPORD—Operations Order
OPLAN—Operations Plans
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
P-Plan— Programming Plan
PAFSC—Primary Air Force Speciaty Code
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POC—Point of Contact
POD—Port of Debarkation
POE—Port of Embarkation
POM—Primary Objective Memorandum
UTC—Unit Type Code
R&M—Reliability and Maintainability
SITREP—Situation Report
SON—Statement of Operational Need
SORD—Statement of Operational Requirements Design
SOW—Statement of Work
TDY—Temporary Duty
TUCHA—Type Unit Characteristic
 22                                           AFI36-2129 20 DECEMBER 2011


TPFDD—Time Phased Force Deployment Data
TPFDL—Time Phased Force Deployment Listing
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
UNAAF—Unified Action Armed Forces
WCDO—War Consumables Distribution Objective
WMP—War and Mobilization Plan
WRM—War Readiness Materiel
GCCS—Global Command and Control System
