BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2623
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          10 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                  OCCUPATIONAL ANALYSIS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                      e-Publishing Web site at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AETC/A3/OA                                                            Certified by: AF/A1PF
                                                                        (Lt Col Robert T. Romer)
Supersedes:    AFI36-2623, 25 May 2006                                                   Pages: 10


This publication implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development. It describes the purpose,
mission, and uses of Air Force occupational analysis and explains how to request, collect, analyze,
distribute, and use occupational analysis data to adjust or establish Air Force Specialty (AFS)
programs. This publication applies to Air Force, Air National Guard (ANG), and Air Force Reserve
(AFRES) personnel. It directs collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10 United States Code Section 8013, Secretary of the Air Force.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 from the field through major command (MAJCOM) channels. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting information used in this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates the organizational change in the Air Force Occupational Analysis Program; changes
office symbols, referenced directives, and administrative instructions throughout; and adds
Chapter 1 to provide a program description, purpose, and the mission statement of occupational
analysis.
 2                                                        AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012



                                            Chapter 1

                                          OVERVIEW

1.1. Program Description. The Directorate of Intelligence, Operations, and Nuclear
Integration/Occupational Analysis (AETC/A3/OA) houses the Air Force Occupational Analysis
Program. The aim of this Air Force-level program is to facilitate decisionmaking on Air Force
personnel and training programs by providing objective information about Air Force
occupations. The role of occupational analysis is to survey career fields and occupational
specialties. Decisionmakers associated with personnel and training responsibilities for AFSs use
this information to justify and/or change personnel policies and programs, refine and maintain
occupational structures, and establish, validate, and adjust promotion testing and training
programs.
1.2. Program Policy. AETC/A3/OA develops policies for Air Force occupational analysis
programs within the scope of this instruction.
1.3. Program Purpose. Occupational analysis is integral to providing an objective and factual
orientation for three major force-level programs: technical training (used to identify tasks that
require training); personnel utilization (used to identify tasks performed at each career stage and
to recommend occupational structures); and promotion testing (used to identify duties and tasks
for test development).
1.4. Air Force Occupational Analysis Mission Statement. The mission of the Air Force
Occupational Analysis Program is to facilitate decisionmaking on Air Force personnel and
training programs by providing objective information concerning Air Force occupations. This is
performed to optimize and support personnel utilization and training decisions, and in support of
enlisted promotion decisions critical for effective employment of Airmen.
AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012                                                                 3


                                           Chapter 2

                          OCCUPATIONAL SURVEY PROCESS

2.1. Overview:
   2.1.1. AETC/A3/OA conducts reviews on enlisted AFSs on a periodic basis (typically a 3-
   year cycle) and upon request, if out of cycle. Officer AFSs and special reviews are conducted
   only upon request.
   2.1.2. For all occupational reviews, occupational analysts will coordinate with appropriate
   career field functional and training managers, as necessary, for such matters as:
       2.1.2.1. Confirming the timing is appropriate to conduct an occupational analysis (for
       enlisted AFSs analyses scheduled for an in-cycle analysis).
       2.1.2.2. Visit clearances and union notification.
       2.1.2.3. Unique data collection procedures and requirements.
       2.1.2.4. Guidance on reporting analysis results.
2.2. Requesting an Occupational Review. For out-of-cycle enlisted or officer studies and/or
special studies, see Attachment 2 for the memorandum format to request an occupational review.
For AFS requests, it is preferable for the Air Force career field manager (AFCFM) to sign the
request. The request should describe the:
   2.2.1. AFS or family of AFSs to be reviewed.
   2.2.2. Issues and or needs for the occupational review.
   2.2.3. Approximate need date for results.
   2.2.4. How the data will be used by the requester.
   2.2.5. Recommended site visits for job inventory (JI) development interviews.
   2.2.6. Points of contact.
2.3. Developing Collection Tools. AETC/A3/OA occupational analysts will:
   2.3.1. Develop a JI—a complete list of tasks and/or knowledge areas that members of the
   survey population perform or utilize. This is accomplished by researching specialty
   classification and training documents such as, but not limited to:
       2.3.1.1. Career field education and training plans (CFETP), specialty training standards
       (STS), course training standards (CTS), and plans of instruction (POI).
       2.3.1.2. Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD) and Air Force Officer
       Classification Directory (AFOCD).
       2.3.1.3. Appropriate Air Force directives (AFIs, AFMANs, etc.).
       2.3.1.4. Previous JIs.
 4                                                           AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012


     2.3.2. Refine the task and/or knowledge listing by visiting training centers and select
     operational locations recommended by AFCFMs to interview subject-matter experts (SME)
     who will:
        2.3.2.1. Assist with the content and organization of the JI.
        2.3.2.2. Identify questions of interest to potential users.
     2.3.3. Coordinate issues and schedules with customers to include AFCFM, MAJCOM
     functional managers, AETC training pipeline managers, and technical training group and/or
     squadron training managers.
     2.3.4. Develop separate data collection tools to collect data from select samples of survey
     participants (for example, senior craftsmen). These data collection tools can take into account
     factors such as task learning difficulty and training emphasis.
2.4. Administering the JIs:
     2.4.1. JIs are normally administered to all eligible personnel in the occupational target
     population. The survey sample is based on population distributions and personnel listings
     generated from Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
     2.4.2. AETC/A3/OA normally distributes JIs through direct e-mail or other organizational
     channels.
2.5. Taking the JI:
     2.5.1. Because of the critical uses of occupational analysis data (Chapter 3), all Air Force
     members (active duty, ANG, and AFRES under Air Force authority) must complete
     occupational JIs. Civilians are strongly encouraged to participate in occupational JIs for
     which they have been identified.
     2.5.2. Commanders at all levels will ensure all selected members of their organizations
     complete and return JIs and related JIs promptly and accurately.
     2.5.3. Failure of Air Force personnel to complete and return occupational JIs may negatively
     impact Air Force training, testing, and proper use of personnel.
2.6. Analyzing and Reporting JI Results. AETC/A3/OA occupational analysts will:
     2.6.1. Track JI returns to ensure the quality and quantity of the JI returns and facilitate
     attaining a representative distribution of the JI sample.
     2.6.2. Analyze subsets of the data to include identification of:
        2.6.2.1. Groupings of incumbents based on the work performed, according to the tasks
        selected by the JI respondents.
        2.6.2.2. Similarities and differences among work identified.
        2.6.2.3. Patterns of career progression by skill level and experience groups.
        2.6.2.4. Distinctions between tasks performed by surveyed home-stationed and deployed
        incumbents.
        2.6.2.5. Distinctions in duties and tasks among MAJCOM groups.
AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012                                                                  5


       2.6.2.6. Background characteristics of skill level and experience groups, MAJCOM
       groups, home stationed versus deployed and other special subsets.
       2.6.2.7. Patterns formed by members of identified groups in response to questions about
       job satisfaction and retention.
       2.6.2.8. The relevance of training programs by comparing the JI results to training
       documents, such as CFETPs, STSs, CTSs, and POIs.
   2.6.3. Prepare an occupational analysis report (OAR) that documents:
       2.6.3.1. Background of the JI.
       2.6.3.2. Information on how the analyst developed the job inventory.
       2.6.3.3. Results of JI analyses.
       2.6.3.4. Implications and recommendations of analysis results.
2.7. Organizing Computer Files and Analysis Products. Provide a historical record for:
   2.7.1. Personnel researchers.
   2.7.2. Outside party requests for occupational analysis information.
   2.7.3. Background information on subsequent occupational analyses.
   2.7.4. Future occupational analysts conducting longitudinal research on Air Force
   occupations.
2.8. Briefing Users. Occupational analysts will communicate the results of the occupational
review to parties which include those in testing, training, and career field management. Briefing
will encompass discussion of results and assistance in understanding, interpreting, and applying
the occupational analysis data.
 6                                                              AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012


                                              Chapter 3

                  USES OF OCCUPATIONAL ANALYSIS INFORMATION

3.1. Supporting Promotion Tests for the Weighted Airman Promotion System
(WAPS). Occupational analysis data provides a valuable validity measure for most Air Force
enlisted promotion specialty knowledge tests for the WAPS. When appropriate, test development
experts and SME use occupational data results to aid them in determining valid, data-supported,
and test domains. Occupational data tools available for test development include:
     3.1.1. Predicted testing importance ratings.
     3.1.2. Job structure information.
     3.1.3. Performance by pay grade groups of specific tasks.
3.2. Classifying Military AFSs. Classification specialists must use occupational analysis
information to:
     3.2.1. Verify the distinctive responsibilities of Air Force specialties.
     3.2.2. Verify the need to correct classification documents and guidance.
     3.2.3. Remove tasks from classification documents that personnel no longer perform.
     3.2.4. Identify and document new responsibilities.
3.3. Developing and Sustaining Air Force Training Programs. Occupational analysis data is
integral to the analysis phase of the instructional systems development process (see AFMAN 36-
2234, Instructional System Development). It provides instructional developers with the ability to
break an AFS down to a listing of performed tasks and to determine what tasks require training.
Analysis results also provide factual data used to validate and refine CFETPs and STSs, as well
as to develop new courses and validate or revise existing training courses.
     3.3.1. Training development programs should focus on tasks:
        3.3.1.1. Performed by a large percentage of people.
        3.3.1.2. Ratings with high task learning difficulty.
        3.3.1.3. Ratings with high training emphasis.
     3.3.2. For initial skills, AFS-wide training courses, advanced, and specialized courses, focus
     on training tasks that are performed by substantial percentages (30 percent or more) of
     relevant criterion groups, such as:
        3.3.2.1. Personnel in their first job or first enlistment.
        3.3.2.2. Personnel at the 3-, 5-, and 7-skill levels.
        3.3.2.3. MAJCOM groups.
        3.3.2.4. Specific job groups.
     3.3.3. The training manager of a technical training or flying training program must review a
     new OAR for implications on current courses. Results of the review must be reported to the
     appropriate AFCFM within 90 days after AETC/A3/OA provides the OAR. Exception: If a
AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012                                                           7


   specialty training requirements team (STRT)/utilization and training workshop (U&TW) is
   planned within 3 months of delivery of the OAR, the training manager will conduct the
   review immediately in preparation for the STRT/U&TW and submit the response to the
   AFCFM within 30 days after the workshop.
3.4. Guiding Utilization of Personnel. AFCFMs will use occupational analysis data as an
objective source in constructing and updating CFETPs and in making other personnel usage
decisions. AFCFMs and MAJCOM managers must consider occupational analysis data at
STRT/U&TWs and training planning workshops to:
   3.4.1. Revise classification structures.
   3.4.2. Change personnel utilization practices.
   3.4.3. Validate, establish, modify, or end training programs.




                                              DARRELL D. JONES, Lt General, USAF
                                              DCS/Manpower and Personnel
 8                                                     AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C. § 8013, Secretary of the Air Force
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development, 1 November 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Forms Adopted
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC/A3/OA—AETC Occupational Analysis Division
AFCFM—Air Force career field manager
AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFOCD—Air Force Officer Classification Directory
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFRES—Air Force Reserve
AFS—Air Force specialty
ANG—Air National Guard
CFETP—career field education and training plan
CTS—course training standard
JI—job inventory
MAJCOM—major command
OA—occupational analysis
OAR—occupational analysis report
POI—plan of instruction
STRT—specialty training requirements team
STS—specialty training standard
U&TW—utilization and training workshop
UTM—unit training manager
WAPS—Weighted Airman Promotion System
AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012                                                                   9


Terms
Job inventory (JI)—A survey instrument used to:
   - Collect quantitative information on the tasks and/or knowledge areas Air Force members
   perform and/utilize in their jobs.
   - Identify and collect demographic and other background information on Air Force members
   and their jobs.


Occupation—A group of jobs having common tasks that allow people to move upward on a
career path (for example, an AFS or a civilian occupational series) as they meet skill and
knowledge requirements.
Occupational Analysis—As practiced by the U.S. Air Force, is the systematic and analytical
identification of the tasks performed and/or knowledge areas utilized by incumbents within an
AFS, with the intent of providing factual and objective-based recommendations for
decisionmakers.
Occupational Analysis Report (OAR)—A summary of the process and results of an
occupational JI. An OAR describes:
   - A background and representation of the final sample.
   - A summary analysis of job structure, skill levels, and training.
   - An identification of the duties and tasks performed by survey participants.
   - Job satisfaction and retention dimensions.


Occupational Review—The analysis process AETC/A3/OA uses to collect, process, and
analyze data about specific occupations.
 10                                                                   AFI36-2623 10 SEPTEMEBER 2012


                                                  Attachment 2
  MEMORANDUM TO REQUEST AN OCCUPATIONAL ANALYSIS REPORT (OAR)
                                                                                                     (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AETC/A3/OA
FROM: (Your three-line address)
SUBJECT: Request for Occupational Analysis of Air Force Specialty (AFS) ______
1. Who Should Be Surveyed? Describe the occupational group you want the Occupational Analysis Division to
survey. Do you need more than one specialty surveyed? Do you need officers, civilians, ANG, or AFRES groups?
Provide separate requests for each specialty to be surveyed, unless you want the Occupational Analysis Division
to survey multiple populations together.
2. What Are the Issues or Needs? Highlight issues that create the need for an occupational reviewy, such as a
major change since the last occupational review. Cite reports or minutes of meetings that identify or discuss
issues. List the following if they apply:
        a. New equipment and the date it becomes fully operational.
        b. Major changes in personnel usage and the date of the changes.
        c. Major changes in work or management procedures and the date of the changes.
        d. Career ladder problems in classification, training, or job satisfaction.
3. Need Date. State the programmed date for your specialty training requirements team (STRT) or utilization and
training workshop (U&TW). These dates are critical in that they are used to optimize scheduling for OAR
completion. As a further consideration, when a significant change has taken place in classification or training,
schedule the occupational review to start no earlier than 1 year after the date of the change. This will allow a
better snapshot of the effects of the change.
4. How Will You Use the Data?
        a. Career ladder reorganization, such as shreds and mergers.
        b. Changes in management procedures.
        c. Updating training documents, such as CFETPs, STSs, and POIs.
5. Where Should We Visit? List bases, commands, and locations representative of the variety of jobs the
Occupational Analysis Division should visit during development of the job inventory. Identify functions or bases
critical to both successful survey development and survey administration.
6. Whom Should We Contact? Include the AFCFMs, MAJCOM functional managers, etc.
7. How Important is this Request? Help us prioritize your occupational review. Add information helpful in
evaluating the priority we should assign this occupational review. EXAMPLE: If we delay results for a year or
leave out a subgroup such as the ANG, describe the impact on your projects and programs.
8. Who is the Project Officer? Provide the name and phone number of the go-to person who has the authority to
make decisions as the survey is developed and administered.



(Signature Block)
