                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                   97th AIR MOBILITY WING
                              ALTUS AIR FORCE BASE OKLAHOMA




                                      AFI36-2903_ALTUSAFBSUP_ALTUSAFBGM2014-01

                                                                                  15 July 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 97 AMW/ALL PERSONNEL

FROM: 97 AMW/CC

SUBJECT: Guidance Memorandum on Dress and Appearance on Altus Air Force Base

1. By Order of the Commander, 97th Air Mobility Wing, Altus Air Force Base, Oklahoma, this
Guidance Memorandum is immediately implemented. Compliance with the memorandum is
mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force or the issuing
organization’s publications, the information herein prevails IAW AFI 33-360, Publications and
Forms Management.

2. This guidance is intended to address gaps and supplement AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
Appearance of Air Force Personnel and provide clarification of questionable guidance.
Adherence by all military personnel on or transiting Altus Air Force Base is mandatory.
Additionally, 97 AMW personnel in TDY status or visiting another base must follow the rules of
the host installation commander.

3. All paragraph numbers listed below are the same paragraph numbers in AFI 36-2903. The
guidance listed below is to be followed in addition to the already written guidance.

4. This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
whichever is earlier.




                                           WILLIAM A. SPANGENTHAL, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 97th Air Mobility Wing

Attachment:
Guidance Changes




                              Global Power for America
                                           Attachment

                                        Guidance Changes

1.2.13. No hat areas include: all flight line/taxiway areas; building 353, Vehicle Maintenance
compound; building 358, CES compound; covered walkway between building 191 and 193 (54
ARS); building 193 front covered BBQ porch/patio (54 ARS); fenced compound at buildings
187, 189, and 190 during cargo compartment training only; building 164, center of U-shape
within the fenced area (58 AS). Squadron commanders or equivalent are responsible for posting
signage in these designated areas. Additionally, any unit commander may designate a “No-
Hat/No-Salute” area during an event or when reasonably warranted.

3.5.3. Military/Privatized housing is considered part of the installation.

4.3. Optional, but highly encouraged for enlisted E-7 and above.

4.4. Optional, but highly encouraged for enlisted E-7 and above.

5.1.1. ABU coat (Shirt) sleeves may be rolled up unless determined unsafe during specific
duties. Safety determination is delegated to the lowest-level supervision.

5.1.3. Squadron commanders may determine the authorized/standardized color(s) of morale t-
shirts and emblem within their squadron, including multiple colors within the squadron to
differentiate between flights/units. T-shirt patches/emblems will be the current unit patch,
airframe silhouette, or the squadron/group/wing heritage patch approved by the 97 AMW
Historian. Unit commanders/supervisors should attempt to educate members on the heritage,
lineage, and symbolism of designated patches. Patches/emblems will be on the left side of the
chest and will not exceed 5 inches in diameter. Desert sand (tan) t-shirts will be plain, without
markings, patches or emblems. Student and transient personnel are not authorized to wear
morale t-shirts. Morale shirts may be worn until duty has been completed when duty extends
into a non-wear day. (Example, Friday shift that ends early Saturday morning)

6.1.10. Indoor wear of the green fleece jacket is at the discretion of the office/shop supervisor.
Professional appearance and reasonable temperatures must be considered.

6.2.7. Black Knit/Fleece Watch Cap is authorized (outdoors only) when wearing any authorized
outer garment, service dress, or physical training uniform.

6.2.8. Sage Green Knit/Fleece Watch Cap is authorized (outdoors only) when wearing any
authorized outer garments or physical training uniform.

6.3.4. All bags that are authorized to be carried while wearing ABUs are authorized to be carried
while wearing the FDU.

6.5.2.1. Squadron commanders may determine the authorized/standardized color(s) of morale t-
shirts and emblem within their squadron, including multiple colors within the squadron to
differentiate between flights/units. T-shirt patches/emblems will be the current unit patch,
airframe silhouette, or the squadron/group/wing heritage patch approved by the 97 AMW
Historian. Unit commanders/supervisors should attempt to educate members on the heritage,
lineage, and symbolism of designated patches. Patches & emblems will be worn on the left side
of the chest and will not exceed 5 inches in diameter. Desert sand (tan) t-shirts will not have
markings, patches or emblems. Students are not authorized to wear morale t-shirts. Morale
shirts may be worn until duty has been completed when duty extends into a non-wear day.
(Example, Friday flight and duty ends early Saturday morning)

7.1.7.1. Wear of a solid black or dark blue baseball hat or watch cap with the Air Force symbol
or “U.S. Air Force” printed/embroidered on the front is authorized (outdoors only) during
organized and individual PT.

7.1.12. Military members are not authorized to mix and match PTU/IPTU with civilian apparel
on or off the installation.

8.3.6. Squadron commanders may authorize 97 AMW Historian approved heritage patches on
the right shoulder of the FDU in place of the normal squadron patch on Fridays or during limited
and unique events. Unit commanders/supervisors should educate members on the heritage,
lineage, and symbolism of the designated patch. Squadron Commanders may approve memorial
patches with specified wear periods, dates, or events. Initial qualification students are not
authorized to wear morale patches or tabs. Exception: Rated cross flow and first assignment
instructor pilots (FAIPs) are authorized wear their previous unit’s patch.

8.4.5. Morale nametags are authorized on Fridays or during limited and unique events
designated by the squadron, group, or wing commander.

8.4.9. Undergraduate Flight Training (UFT) class patches are not authorized for wear. All
initial qualification students will wear the 97th Training Squadron Student patch. Exception:
Rated cross flow and first assignment instructor pilots (FAIPs) are authorized to wear their
previous unit’s patch.

8.5. Heritage patches, morale tabs and nametags may be worn on flight jackets during associated
uniform days as described in previous paragraphs.
