BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-6005
RAF LAKENHEATH (USAFE)
                                                                         RAF LAKENHEATH
                                                                                Supplement

                                                                        19 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                              UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 48 CES/CEAC                                                       Certified by: 48 CES/CC
Supersedes: LAKENHEATHI32-6002,                                         (Col Cassie B. Barlow)
            3 February 2002                                                             Pages: 8


AFI 32-6005, 9 October 2008, is supplemented as follows:

This supplement sets out policies and procedures relating to 48th Fighter Wing Commander (48
FW/CC) responsibilities for the overall management of the Unaccompanied Housing (UH) for
the RAF Lakenheath communities. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, prescribed by AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals
Program; route AF Form 847s from the field through MAJCOM publications/forms managers.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: . This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to
collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 USC., Section
8013, Secretary of the Air Force, Powers and Duties and Executive Order 9397, Numbering
System For Federal Accounts relating to Individual Persons, November 22, 1943.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised from a standalone base instruction into a supplement to a
higher headquarters‟ instruction.
 2                                 AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.2.4.5. (Added) Briefs Wing Commander and Group Commanders on dormitory trends
observed. Advocates for Quality of Life improvements with wing leadership.
1.2.4.6. (Added) Coordinates Distinguished Visitors‟ tours with First Sergeants and Chief of
Unaccompanied Housing.
1.2.5.1.1. (Added) Provides guidance and instructions on policies and standards for UH.
Forwards interest items to the Quarters Improvement Committee.
1.2.5.1.2. (Added) After consult with the base legal office, may ban the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in common areas, at their discretion.
1.2.5.5.1. (Added) Schedules and assigns bay orderlies for duty as required by Bay Orderly
Program. The Bay Orderly Program is comprised of residents detailed by individual units to
perform required duties that ensure cleanliness standards of UH campus common areas are
maintained. Installations establish a Bay Orderly Program based on local requirements.
1.2.5.8. (Added) Authorizes personnel to reside off-base at their own expense. Provides the UH
office with a list of personnel authorized to reside off base at their own expense.
1.2.8.7.1. (Added) Ensures all matters pertaining to dormitory living are coordinated with the
Unit Commander or First Sergeant.
1.2.8.11.1. (Added) Ensures rooms and furnishings are assigned in writing. All residents must,
in the presence of the dormitory manager, inspect their assigned room and its contents.
Exceptions and damages must be annotated at this time. This would include updating the name
sign on the door to the room, as part of in-processing.
1.2.8.11.2. (Added) Conducts an inventory when an individual moves from their room to make
sure all furnishings are in good repair, no damage has been done to the room, and the room has
been thoroughly cleaned and ready for re-occupancy. If damage is evident, use current
furnishings cost sheet and process a DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization ($500 or less),
a DD Form 362, Statement of Charges/Cash Collection Voucher ($500.00 or more), or DD Form
1131, Cash Collection Voucher ($500 or less), prescribed by DOD 7000.14-RV5, DoD Financial
Management Regulation, as applicable. Applicable form must be completed prior to the
resident‟s departure date.
1.2.8.14.1. (Added) Publishes bay orderly detail and alternate listings to ensure dormitories are
maintained in accordance with Air Force and locally established standards. Manages and
inspects bay orderlies daily. Where dormitories are shared with other squadrons, ensures bay
orderly listings are coordinated with other squadrons and assignments are made equitably. First
Sergeants are responsible to ensure slots are filled. Also, at First Sergeant discretion, bay
orderlies may be assigned after hour or “on-call” duties.
1.2.8. 36 . (Added) Ensures priority 3 and 4 personnel are directed to vacate quarters within 30
days when projected occupancy exceeds 90 percent.
1.2.8.37. (Added) Conducts security checks during resident‟s absence (TDY, leave) at request
of resident.
1.2.8.38. (Added) Provide an on call after hours military dormitory manager for emergencies
(lock repair, urgent work coordination).
AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                         3


1.2.9.1.1. (Added) Residents will be held liable for all damage to government property in their
room beyond fair wear and tear. This includes damage or loss of property due to unauthorized
modification of furnishings. Government furnishings will not be removed or stored to allow for
personal furniture.
1.2.9.3.1. (Added) A dormitory fire evacuation plan has been made showing both primary and
alternate routes of escape in the event of a fire. Furnishings will be arranged so as to not obstruct
or impede entering or opening of doors leading from rooms to exit access or exit doors.
Residents should know the plan and practice their escape route. The plan must be located on the
dormitory bulletin board. Any questions should be directed to the base fire department.
1.2.9.3.2. (Added) Fire extinguishers are located throughout the dormitory. The fire
extinguishers are for fire fighting, and not for horseplay. Anyone noticing a fire extinguisher
that is over or undercharged, or has been discharged or damaged must report it to the dormitory
manager immediately.
1.2.9.3.3. (Added) Storage of flammables or explosives is prohibited. Prohibited flammables
include: gasoline, kerosene, candles (with wick showing they have been burned), incense or any
open flame. The only flammable liquids allowed are for cigarette lighter refilling, or cosmetics
(i.e. nail polish, nail polish remover, cologne). All others, including charcoal lighter fluid, must
be stored outside the dormitory in a flammable storage locker or other disclosed secure location.
1.2.9.3.4. (Added) Each resident may store one personal clean/empty small size grill and up to
25 pounds of charcoal (that has not been pre-treated with lighter fluid) in a secured area, not in
their rooms. These items will not be used or stored on catwalks, walkways, or stairwells.
1.2.9.3.5. (Added) Space heaters of any type and air conditioners are prohibited in dormitories.
Additional space heaters are only authorized when issued by 48 CES (CEA or HVAC) in the
event of failure of the main heating system.
1.2.9.3.6. (Added) Extension cords must be of continuous length without splices and must be
UL (Underwriters Laboratories) listed. Extension cords present a tripping hazard. Residents
will ensure all cords are positioned in a manner that will not pose this threat. Cords will not be
secured to walls, placed under floor covering, or through holes in walls/floors or ceilings.
Extension cords will not be used in place of fixed wiring.
1.2.9.3.7. (Added) A multiple surge protector, like the type used for computer equipment is
authorized if it is UL listed.
1.2.9.3.8. (Added) Residents will not disable the self-closing devices on interior doors, or tinker
with the fire alarm/smoke detectors.
1.2.9.3.9. (Added) Legal age for drinking is 18. If residents are assigned a suitemate who is
under 18, this underage person may NOT have or consume alcohol.
1.2.9.3.10. (Added) Repairs of vehicles are not authorized in the dormitory areas or parking
lots. Vehicle work shall be done in the Auto Hobby Shop or appropriate facility designed for
vehicle repairs. No cleaning or washing of vehicles will be done except in authorized areas, such
as Auto Hobby. Additionally, car parts/accessories will not be stored inside resident‟s rooms.
Residents must contact dormitory management for access to storage areas in this case.
1.2.9.3.11. (Added) Inoperative, un-registered, improperly tagged, or unlicensed vehicles are
not authorized in the dormitory area parking lot and are subject to towing at owners expense. All
 4                                  AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011


vehicles must be registered with a current AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass, and 3 AF Form
435, 3 AF Driving/Fuel Permit UK, prescribed by 3AFI 51-701, Control Procedures for the
Supply of Tax-Free Gasoline and Diesel Fuel in the United Kingdom.
1.2.9.3.12. (Added) Parking is only permitted on paved specifically marked areas, do not park
in the crosswalk, fire lane, or within 15 feet of fire hydrant.
1.2.9.3.13. (Added) Motorcycles must be parked in parking areas and not under gazebos, under
dormitory staircases, bicycle sheds, or on sidewalks.
1.2.9.3.14. (Added) Recreation vehicles and utility trailers are not authorized in the dormitory
parking lots.
1.2.9.3.15. (Added) Bicycles may be kept in rooms only if they are clean and do not pose a fire
egress/ingress hazard. In most cases, they should be locked up at the bicycle racks, which are
provided at each dormitory or outside if storage space is provided.
1.2.9.3.16. (Added) The only pets allowed in the dormitory are fish. Aquariums are limited to
one 55-gallon aquarium (maximum size) per room and will be kept clean and free of odor.
Residents are responsible for any damage caused to the room by their pet(s).
1.2.9.3.17. (Added) Any violation of these guidelines will be referred to Squadron Commanders
and/or First Sergeant for action.
1.2.9.3.18. (Added) Weapons, flares, fireworks, ammunition, or any type of explosive devices
are prohibited in the dormitory and possession is punishable under Article 92, Uniform Code of
Military Justice. Local laws and military instructions govern registration, possession, and
storage of privately owned weapons. No weapons of any type will be stored or displayed in the
room. This includes bows and arrows, martial arts weapons, and knives with blades longer than
6 inches. All types of guns designed to propel a missile (ball bearing (BB), pellet, paint balls,
bullet, etc.) whether by air, gas or other means are prohibited. Items such as stun guns are also
prohibited. First Sergeants have the right to determine weapons versus decorative items on a
case-by-case basis. Residents who elect to store a prohibited item may submit a written request
to their First Sergeant and Chief of Unaccompanied Housing for approval. The approval request
will be filed in UH manager‟s files and a copy of the letter posted in back of the resident‟s door.
1.2.9.3.19. (Added) Quiet hours are 24 hours a day due to shift workers living in all
dormitories. If music or other noise can be heard outside the room or through the walls, it is too
loud. Violation of this policy will be referred to Squadron Commanders and/or First Sergeant for
action. Disorderly conduct may also be referred to Security Forces for response.
1.2.9.3.20. (Added) Parties and other social gatherings are permitted, however, residents must
also take into consideration that other dormitory residents may be asleep. Residents must clean
up after themselves. If resident rearranges dayroom furniture they must put it back to its original
location. Residents may NOT remove dayroom furniture from the dayrooms. Trash must be
disposed of properly. Noise must be kept to a level that will not disturb other residents.
1.2.9.3.21. (Added) Rooms and windows should be locked at all times when not occupied.
1.2.9.3.22. (Added) Room numbers, names and rank will be the only thing mounted on the door
or to the side of the door. Resident‟s name and rank should be updated to reflect the most
current status. Residents should see their dormitory manager for a new one when needed. Pen
and ink or „homemade‟ signs are not acceptable.
AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        5


1.2.9.3.23. (Added) Shift workers who are resting and do not wish to be disturbed may insert in
their name sign “Shift Worker, Do Not Disturb”.
1.2.9.3.24. (Added) Wall displays or pictures are encouraged. Any holes or other damage to
walls from posters/pictures will be repaired before vacating the room.
1.2.9.3.25. (Added) Pictures of persons either male or female that may be offensive to other
people are prohibited as determined by Squadron Commanders and/or First Sergeant.
Pornographic as well as any other material concerning this matter is also unacceptable. Pictures
that depict or show genitalia, breasts, the act of sexual intercourse, sexist, racist or profane
material are unacceptable as room decoration. Substance-abuse paraphernalia is also
unacceptable and subject to confiscation.
1.2.9.3.26. (Added) Items or pictures that degrade national or military leaders are unacceptable
as decorations.
1.2.9.3.27. (Added) Alterations or modifications of government furniture are not authorized.
Items such as thumbtacks, adhesive papers, and stickers are prohibited on counters, government
furniture and equipment.
1.2.9.3.28. (Added) Roof area is off-limits to all dormitory personnel.
1.2.9.3.29. (Added) No items will be posted or attached on windows. Exceptions may be made
for day sleepers without black out blinds installed. Self-made black outs will be in good taste
(not foil or cardboard).
1.2.9.3.30. (Added) No decorations are permitted within 18 inches of light fixtures or smoke
alarms.
1.2.9.3.31. (Added) Dartboards are authorized only if plastic-tipped darts/safety boards are
used. No metal-tipped darts allowed in dormitory rooms.
1.2.9.3.32. (Added) During normal duty hours (0800-1630 Monday-Friday), residents should
contact the dormitory manager if they are locked out of their rooms. The dormitory manager
will escort the resident to his or her room and unlock the door. After duty hours they are to see
their Bay Chief. If a Bay Chief cannot be located, they are to call the First Sergeant or their
designated dormitory representative pertaining to their building to gain access into their quarters.
1.2.9.3.33. (Added) Residents will be charged for lost room keys. Duplicate keys are requested
through the UH office. All keys issued to the resident must be returned at the final inspection.
1.2.9.3.34. (Added) Residents may not procure duplicate keys. Lost/missing/improperly
duplicated keys are cause for re-keying the lock cylinder. Civil Engineering will accomplish this
at the resident‟s expense.
1.2.9.3.35. (Added) Private telephones are permitted. Telephone cable and connection boxes
will not be installed, moved, or altered.
1.2.9.3.36. (Added) Private cable television is permitted. Cable wires, boxes, converters, and
patch cord are the property of the cable company and will not be modified, installed, relocated or
removed.
1.2.9.3.37. (Added) Splicing of television cable, internet or telephone services is “piracy” and is
prohibited. Violators will be referred to their Commanders and/or First Sergeant for action.
 6                                 AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011


1.2.9.38. (Added) Satellite dishes are not authorized.
1.2.9.3.39. (Added) The dormitory manager will not accompany telephone or cable service
technicians for installation, removal, or upgrade of telephone or cable services. The residents
must be available to allow the technician access to their room; residents will not leave rooms
unsecured.
1.2.9.4. 1 (Added) Residents may elect to purchase and use their own bedding. The resident
will clean all linens, government-owned or personal, at least weekly.
2.20. 1 (Added) Receiving visitors or guests in the dormitory facilities is a privilege. Personal
privacy of dormitory residents is of paramount concern. Guests are permitted as long as their
behavior does not disturb the privacy or otherwise interfere with the rights of other residents.
Residents are responsible for their guests‟ behavior.
2.20. 2 (Added) No guest or visitor will enter a dormitory without a resident escort. All guests
not authorized access to the installation must have a current AF Form 75 Visitors Pass and some
form of identification with proof of age in their possession. No guest will be left in a
dormitory unattended. Guests are not allowed to stay overnight.
2.20. 3 (Added) Dormitory residents are prohibited from having a guest or visitor who is under
the age of 18, unless the person is a member of the US Armed Forces or resident‟s family
member. Guests (except for military personnel and family members), must possess, on their
person, documentation to prove their age at all times.
2.20. 4 (Added) Good order and discipline must be maintained. Guests or visitors of age are
permitted to remain in their room as long as sponsor is with them at all times with First
Sergeant‟s or Commander‟s approval.
2.21.1. 1 (Added) Residents will not smoke any type of tobacco or similar type products in
their dormitory room or indoor common areas. All installation dormitories are designated non-
smoking. Designated smoking areas are posted in each dormitory.
2.22. (Added) Bay Chiefs.
2.22. 1 (Added) Bay Chief is a voluntary position and appointed by the individual First
Sergeants, held in the dormitory to assist with after-duty situations to include: lockouts, loud
music, and disruption within the dormitory.
2.22. 2 (Added) Bay Chiefs may have master keys of the dormitories, which residents may call
upon for lockouts. These master keys are the sole responsibility of the Bay Chief and must not
be “loaned” to residents. When requested to assist with lockouts, the bay chief will accompany
the resident to their room and unlock the door for them. If a master key is lost/stolen Bay Chiefs
must report this to Dormitory Management immediately.
2. 23 (Added) Self-Help Projects. An integral part of making dormitories more pleasant is
self-help. Unit Commanders are given wide latitude in creating and completing self-help
projects to enhance dormitory life. In fact, many projects require self-help efforts due to
shortage of operation and maintenance, and contract funds. Prime areas of self-help projects
include dayrooms, murals, laundry rooms, vending areas, game rooms, and common areas. Care
must be exercised to ensure all self-help projects adhere to RAF Lakenheath policies.
AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                  7


2.23. 1 (Added) All self-help projects require completion of an AF Form 332, Base Civil
Engineer Work Request, prescribed by AFI 32-1001,Operations Management, showing
coordination with the Chief, Unaccompanied Housing, and other agencies as necessary, and
proper approval as determined by the Base Civil Engineer. No work will be accomplished until
this form has been completed, properly coordinated, and approved.
2.23. 2 (Added) Painting of walls for other than approved colors requires an approved AF
Form 332 by the Chief, Unaccompanied Housing prior to start of work. Approved colors are
magnolia and light neutral colors only. Approval copy must be maintained on file with
dormitory manager. Government furnished paint is available in a few approved colors. The
room must be returned to its original color (or an approved color) and condition before
terminating, or the room must be accepted, as is, by the new resident.
2.23. 3 (Added) Do not paint items not meant to be painted such as tree trunks, rocks and
curbs, light switches, wall outlets, cabinets, moldings, and all furnishings.
2.23. 4 (Added) Self-help improvements may be donated by the resident and accepted by the
Air Force when workmanship and aesthetics meet acceptable construction standards. When
removal is required, areas must be restored to their original configuration.
4.6.1.1. 1 (Added) Unaccompanied personnel in grades Senior Airman and below are assigned
government quarters upon arrival.
4.8.1.2. 2 (Added) Residents will not move without prior approval of pertinent First Sergeant
and Chief, Unaccompanied Housing.
4.8.2.2.1. 1 (Added) Upon passing the final inspection, the member will be issued a completed
AF Form 291, Unaccompanied Quarters Assignment – Termination Record, prescribed by AFI
32-6005, which is to be turned in to the unit orderly room during out-processing and for moves
off base.
4.8.2.2.1.1.2. (Added) If residents need a substitute to stand final inspections, notify the
dormitory manager in advance and the necessary form and guidance will be given.
4.8.2.2.1.1. 3 (Added) The responsibility for final clearance of unaccompanied housing rests
solely with the resident.
16. Hardships. RAF Lakenheath has a policy that allows Air Force personnel to live in the
dormitories for up to 3 days only, no questions asked, with First Sergeants approval. Anything
over 3 days needs to have a hardship letter from the resident‟s Commander and be approved by
the 48th Mission Support Group Commander.




                                           JOHN T. QUINTAS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 48th Fighter Wing
 8                                 AFI32-6005_LAKENHEATHSUP 19 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program, 22 December 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
PA—-Privacy Act
UL—Underwriters Laboratories

Adopted Forms
AF Form 291, Unaccompanied Quarters Assignment— Termination Record
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
3 AF Form 435, 3AF Driving/Fuel Permit UK
DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization
DD Form 362, Statement of Charges/Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
