BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-305
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         28 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                                       Services

                                                       NONAPPROPRIATED FUND GROUP
                                                          HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVXHI                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/A1S
Supersedes: AFI34-305, 26 Jan 2002                                       (Mr. Charles E. Milam)
                                                                                      Pages: 27


This instruction provides policy and guidance for administration of the DoD HBP. It requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. System of records notice F065 AFSVA B AF MP B
NAF (NAF) Insurance and Employee Benefits System File, applies. This AFI does not pertain
to active duty military, Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve members. This AFI may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be
routed to AF/A1S for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The AFI has the
following changes: All references to Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) Plans are
deleted; it also adds references to the Department of Defense Health Benefits Program (DoD
HBP) and outlines the policies and procedures applicable to the program.
 2                                                                                        AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


Section A—Program Overview                                                                                                                   3
      1.     Definitions. ............................................................................................................       3
      2.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     3
      3.     Management and Administration. ..........................................................................                       3
      4.     Obtaining Information. ..........................................................................................               4
      5.     HRO Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................               4
      6.     Enrollment of Medicare-Eligible Retirees. ............................................................                         13
      7.     Enrollment of Dependents. ....................................................................................                 13
      8.     Advertising. ............................................................................................................      15
      9.     Premiums. ..............................................................................................................       15
      10.    Leave-Without-Pay (LWOP) Coverage. ................................................................                            15
      11.    LWOP Due to Transfer With Head of Household. ................................................                                  16
      12.    Coverage During Military Service. ........................................................................                     17
      13.    Family and Medical Leave. ....................................................................................                 17
      14.    Portability Move from NAF to APF Position. .......................................................                             18
      15.    Coordination of Benefits for DoD HBP. ................................................................                         18
      16.    Coverage for Eligible Active Employees Age 65 and Older. ................................                                      18
      17.    Continuation of Coverage for Surviving Dependents. ...........................................                                 18
      18.    Cost and Length of Coverage. ...............................................................................                   19
Table 1.1.   Surviving Dependent Coverage. ............................................................................                     20
      19.    TCC. .......................................................................................................................   20
      20.    TCC Concerning DoD HBP Health Plans. ............................................................                              21
      21.    Length and Cost of TCC for DoD HBP Plan Participants (Table II). ....................                                          21
Table 2.1.   TCC Health Plan ....................................................................................................           22
      22.    HQ AFSVA SSC Responsibilities. ........................................................................                        23
      23.    Performing Routine Insurance Audits/Reconciling Reports. .................................                                     23
      24.    Contribution Shortages. .........................................................................................              24
      25.    Reviewing Eligibility during Leave-Without-Pay (LWOP). .................................                                       24
      26.    Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                    25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              26
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     3


Section A—Program Overview

1. Definitions. The DoD Health Benefits Program (DoD HBP) is a uniform health insurance
program available to eligible NAF employees and retirees and their family members. The DoD
HBP consists of the Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Network and Traditional-Indemnity
Medical Plans, the DoD HBP Dental Plan, and the Stand Alone Dental (SAD) Plan. Plan
participants living in the Continental U.S. access medical care through the PPO Network Plan or
the Traditional-Indemnity Plan, depending on their geographic location. Plan participants
residing overseas use the Traditional-Indemnity Medical Plan. Dental coverage is offered to
participants through the DoD HBP Dental Plan or the SAD Plan. The SAD is an insured
product, procured separately by the DoD HBP Committee. Under an insured arrangement, the
Carrier assumes all the risk and claim liability. The DoD HBP medical and dental plans are self-
insured. This means they provide benefits without the purchase of commercial insurance. In this
case, a third-party administrator provides access to networks of health and dental care providers
and services, and also performs claims administration services. Under the self-insured
arrangement, Air Force pays its pro-rata share of administrative and claim-payment expenses
using the employee and employer contributions deposited into the Air Force Insurance Fund
(AFIF). Participation in the program is voluntary.
2. Purpose. The DoD HBP provides an efficient way for employees and retirees to maintain a
measure of security for themselves and their family members in the event of illness or injury.
3. Management and Administration.
   3.1. Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA) provides general oversight,
   management, day-to-day administration of the DoD HBP, its continuing coverage program,
   and publishes instructional material. A representative from HQ AFSVA is a member of the
   DoD HBP Employee Benefits Committee, chaired by a member of the Civilian Personnel
   Management Service (CPMS) NAF Personnel Policy Office. The Committee reviews DoD
   HBP matters and develops policy recommendations, recommends the kinds and levels of
   benefits to be provided by the DoD HBP, and maintains responsibility for managing the DoD
   HBP.
   3.2. The installation Human Resources Office (HRO) performs routine base-level
   administration as instructed in this AFI, the DoD HBP Policy, and applicable Summary Plan
   Description (SPD).
   3.3. HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (SSC) Payroll Branch processes the collection of
   employee and employer contributions associated with plan participation as instructed by AF
   Services Financial Management System (AFSFMS) payroll procedures.
   3.4. The Carrier performs tasks concerning administration of the PPO Network and
   Traditional-Indemnity Medical Plans, the DoD HBP Dental Plan, and the SAD. The Carrier
   provides customer service functions; administers and pays claims; and provides information
   and assistance on premium setting and reserve funding. The Carrier also provides expert
   advice on health and dental benefits management matters; establishes SPD content and
   publishes and distributes SPDs. The Carrier develops and prints employee communications;
   provides administrative assistance during the Open Enrollment Period; maintains participant
   information; and provides evaluation reports on medical and dental plans.
 4                                                             AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010



4. Obtaining Information.
     4.1. HROs should forward technical questions, requests for additional supplies and
     information, and comments pertaining to the management and administration of the DoD
     HBP to the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
     4.2. Direct inquiries related to the status or payment of claims, pre-certification procedures,
     and covered medical and dental expenses to the Carrier at the toll-free number listed on the
     covered participant’s identification card or online through the Carrier's Customer Service
     Website.
     4.3. Additional Information.
        4.3.1. The SPD refers to the applicable health and dental benefits information booklet
        related to eligibility, covered and excluded benefits, coordination of benefits, continuing
        coverage programs, and other plan-related information. If an employee enrolls in health
        coverage under the DoD HBP, the applicable SPD depends on the medical plan type
        offered by geographical location, either the PPO or the Traditional-Indemnity Plan.
        Separate SPDs apply to dental coverage under the DoD HBP and the SAD plans.
        4.3.2. Flexible Benefits Plan (FBP) Documents. The FBP gives NAF employees
        enrolled in the DoD HBP or the SAD the option to pay contributions with pre-tax
        earnings. HROs and FBP participants coordinate plan enrollments, changes, and
        cancellations using AFI 34-307, NAF Flexible Benefits Plan.
        4.3.3. DoD HBP Policy Document. For DoD HBP policy guidance, refer to Department
        of Defense Directive (DoDI) 1400.25-V1408, “Department of Defense Civilian
        Personnel Management System,” 21 Jul 2009; Subchapter 1408, Insurance and Annuities
        for Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Employees, Enclosure 5. The electronic version is
        available on the CPMS website at: http://.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/1400.25-
        V1408.pdf
5. HRO Responsibilities. Installation HROs will properly administer the plans by referring to
and following instructions in this AFI, DoD HBP Policy, or administrative guidance provided by
the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch or Carrier.
     5.1. Determine Eligibility for Participation. Employees, retirees, and their eligible family
     members may not be excluded from coverage because of a pre-existing condition. The
     requirements below, and those listed in the SPDs, establish the eligibility criteria for
     participation in medical and dental coverage under the DoD HBP or the SAD. Medical
     coverage is offered to employees through a PPO Network Plan or a Traditional-Indemnity
     Plan, depending on the person’s geographic location. (For retirees, the medical plan offered
     depends on the place of residence or eligibility for Medicare.) Dental coverage is optional.
     Employees who elect dental coverage have two enrollment options: either they may enroll in
     the DoD HBP dental plan or they may enroll in the SAD only. Retirees may continue their
     DoD HBP dental coverage associated with their DoD HBP medical plan, if upon retirement,
     they meet the enrollment requirements. Otherwise, retirees are not eligible for the SAD Plan.
     Employees are not required to participate in a separate benefit program, such as life
     insurance, to be eligible for DoD HBP coverage.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    5


EXCEPTION: If employees want DoD HBP medical and dental coverage upon retirement (i.e.,
Post-Retirement Medical (PRM) coverage), they must be enrolled in a Retirement Plan and be
eligible for an immediate annuity. If not participating in a Retirement Plan, the employee does
not qualify for retiree PRM coverage.
       5.1.1. Active Employees. Regular civilian NAF employees are eligible if they are
       scheduled to work at least twenty hours per week, are employed on the US dollar payroll,
       have a social security number or individual tax identification number, are subject to US
       income tax, and not subject to a Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA).
          5.1.1.1. Eligibility Following Employee Move from Appropriated Fund (APF)
          Position to a NAF Position (Portability Move). Health insurance is not portable,
          regardless of an employee’s retirement system election. APF employees moved to
          NAF positions (whether involuntary or voluntary) may elect to enroll in the DoD
          HBP within 31 days of appointment to a NAF position. They may not remain in the
          Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program. Contact the HQ AFSVA
          Insurance Branch for special guidance on processing a portability-related enrollment
          under the DoD HBP.
       5.1.2. Former Employee/Retirees.
          5.1.2.1. Eligibility for Post-Retirement Medical (PRM) and Dental Coverage.
          Former employees/retirees are eligible to continue participation in the DoD HBP,
          excluding the SAD, if they meet all of the following requirements. Notify the HQ
          AFSVA Insurance Branch of former employees/retirees eligible for PRM coverage
          within 31 days of the eligibility date.
              5.1.2.1.1. Enrollment. Employees must be enrolled in the DoD HBP medical
              plan (and DoD HBP dental plan, if applicable) on the day before termination of
              employment.
              5.1.2.1.2. Participation. Have 15-years cumulative participation in any
              combination of NAF employer health plans existing before 1 January 2000, and
              the DoD HBP medical and dental plans. Participation in either the health or
              dental plan does not have to be continuous and is not affected by breaks in
              service.
                  5.1.2.1.2.1. Credit for Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program
                  Participation. Continuous participation in the FEHB Program as of the day
                  before a move from an APF position to a NAF position, on or after 1 January
                  1987, without a break in service of more than three days, will be credited
                  towards the 15-year cumulative participation requirement.
                  5.1.2.1.2.2. Circumstances Allowing Waivers of 15-Years Participation.
                    5.1.2.1.2.2.1. Involuntary Movement from APF Position to NAF Position.
                    The health and dental plan requirement for 15-years cumulative
                    participation is waived for employees who had five years of continuous
                    enrollment in the FEHB Program on the day before being involuntarily
                    moved from an APF position to a NAF position. The move must have
                    occurred on or after 1 January 1987, without a break in service of more than
6                                                         AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


                 three days. In this circumstance, an involuntary move occurs when the
                 employee’s APF position is abolished in the APF employment system and
                 reestablished in the NAF employment system.
                 5.1.2.1.2.2.2. Movement from APF to NAF Positions under the Uniform
                 Funding and Management (UFM) Program. The health and dental plan
                 requirement for 15-years cumulative participation is waived for employees
                 who had five years of continuous enrollment in the FEHB Program on the
                 day before moving from an APF position to a NAF position under the UFM
                 authority granted by Section 2494 of 10 U.S.C. (Reference (m)). The
                 employee must have been the incumbent of a position that the employer
                 moved from APF to NAF under the UFM funding authority and must have
                 moved between the positions without a break in service of more than one
                 day. The NAF Components are required to document waivers of the 15-
                 year participation requirement for the purpose of UFM and be prepared to
                 report this information to the Office of the Secretary of Defense as
                 requested. (SC1408.AP1.5.2.1.2.2.2.)
                 5.1.2.1.2.2.3. Participation in a NAF Employer Dental Plan prior to 1
                 January 2000. The requirement for 15-years cumulative participation in the
                 dental plan is waived for employees who participated in a NAF employer’s
                 dental plan when the NAF employer first offered it prior to 1 January 2000,
                 and who have continuously participated in the DoD HBP dental plan.
           5.1.2.1.3. Retirement Annuity. Receive an immediate NAF annuity by a monthly
           annuity check or a lump-sum annuity payment. The annuity may also be from the
           Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement
           System (FERS), provided the employee elected to remain covered by CSRS or
           FERS as a NAF employee.
       5.1.2.2. Post-Retirement Medical/Dental Coverage Election and Termination. Group
       medical/dental coverage terminates if a former employee separates from NAF
       employment and does not initially elect post-retirement coverage within 31 days of
       the eligibility date. If a retiree cancels post-retirement coverage for any reason, or
       fails to pay required premiums, the post-retirement coverage terminates. A former
       employee/retiree may not have post-retirement medical or dental coverage reinstated,
       or re-enroll in either coverage during subsequent Open Enrollment Periods.
       5.1.2.3. TRICARE-for-Life.       Medicare-eligible retirees, including surviving
       dependents, may suspend their DoD HBP medical coverage for enrollment in
       TRICARE-for-Life. TRICARE-for-Life retirees or surviving dependents must also
       suspend their dental plan participation, if covered by the DoD HBP Dental Plan.
       Those who involuntarily lose TRICARE-for-Life may return to DoD HBP health and
       dental (if applicable) coverage immediately. Otherwise, the retiree or surviving
       dependent may do so during the next Open Enrollment Period.
    5.1.3. Dependents. Employees who enroll in the DoD HBP or the SAD may also elect to
    cover their eligible dependents. (Parents of covered employees are not eligible.) Refer to
    the appropriate medical or dental SPD for additional details on eligibility criteria for
    dependents.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                        7


         5.1.3.1. Spouse, including a common-law wife or husband in those states recognizing
         common-law marriages. Consistent with Title 1, United States Code, the word
         “spouse” refers only to a husband or wife of the opposite sex. Contact the HQ
         AFSVA Insurance Branch for guidance concerning common-law spouse cases.
         5.1.3.2. Unmarried children under age 19, including biological, adopted,
         stepchildren, foster children, grandchildren, and any other children who live with the
         employee or depend upon the employee for support.
         5.1.3.3. Unmarried children under age 25 who are full-time students in actual
         attendance at an accredited educational institution and dependent upon the employee
         for support (not working on a regular full-time basis), and children over the maximum
         age who are incapable of self-support due to a disability which occurred prior to
         reaching the maximum age.
         5.1.3.4. Employees may be required to furnish the Carrier with proof of the
         dependent’s eligibility at the time of enrollment (e.g., full-time college student or
         handicapped dependent, etc.).
  5.2. Counsel Employees. The HRO will counsel employees in the following areas, and on
  any other relevant subject matter in this AFI, as they pertain to the DoD HBP and SAD plans.
     5.2.1. Plan Provisions. Describe the plan provisions in the applicable SPD and answer
     related questions so employees can make an informed decision about enrolling in health
     benefits. Employees may voluntarily enroll in the DoD HBP or SAD. Electronic
     versions of the PPO Network or Traditional-Indemnity Plans, DoD HBP Dental, and
     SAD SPDs are available at the HQ AFSVA website or upon request from the HQ
     AFSVA Insurance Branch. Employees are responsible for accuracy of deductions and
     timely reporting of errors or status changes on their Leave and Earnings Statement (LES)
     to the HRO for prompt resolution.
     5.2.2. Effective Date of Coverage and Payroll Deductions.
         5.2.2.1. PPO Network and Traditional-Indemnity Plans. Regular employees are
         eligible to enroll during the first 31 days after their date of hire or reclassification to
         an eligible category. Coverage is effective on the day of application (the day the
         employee signs the enrollment form) if the form is returned to the HRO within the
         31-day eligibility period. Payroll deductions start at the beginning of the pay period
         in which the coverage is effective.
         5.2.2.2. SAD Plan. Follow the same enrollment rules as with the PPO Network and
         Traditional-Indemnity Plans unless otherwise directed.
     5.2.3. Contribution Rates. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Civilian
     Personnel Policy approves and announces contribution rates for the DoD HBP to the
     heads of NAF Employers each year, based on recommendations from the DoD HBP
     Committee. The Committee reviews plan provisions and claims utilization reports
     provided by the Carrier to determine its proposed rates recommendation. The HQ
     AFSVA Insurance Branch forwards approved rates to HROs, HQ AFSVA SSC, and other
     HQ AFSVA functional offices for implementation.
8                                                             AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


           5.2.3.1. The HQ AFSVA SSC updates tables and processes the approved
           contribution rates for active employees. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch
           implements the contribution rates for former employees/retirees.
       5.2.4. Plan Changes. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch publicizes any information on
       benefit or plan changes to former employees and retirees, as required. The HQ AFSVA
       Insurance Branch also handles plan communications, as necessary.
       5.2.5. Flexible Benefits Plan (FBP) Eligibility and Provisions. Under the FBP, group
       health/dental participants in the DoD HBP/SAD have the option of paying contributions
       with pre-tax or after-tax earnings. Employees who choose not to enroll in FBP, or later
       disenroll from the FBP, automatically pay contributions with after-tax earnings.
           5.2.5.1. Employees enrolled in FBP pay contributions with pre-tax earnings.
           Employees enrolled in FBP may not cancel their DoD HBP or SAD coverage until
           they change their FBP election to “after-tax” during the Open Enrollment Period.
           Refer to Attachment 2 (Qualifying Events for Changing a FBP Election) in AFI 34-
           307, NAF Flexible Benefits Plan for more information.
       5.2.6. Precertification or Advance Claim Review Provisions. These provisions are
       explained in more detail in the medical and dental SPDs. Plan participants must obtain
       precertification from the Carrier for certain types of healthcare services identified in the
       applicable SPD to avoid a reduction in benefits.
       5.2.7. Continuation of Coverage. According to the circumstance under which an
       employee or dependent would lose eligibility for group insurance, refer to the appropriate
       section of this AFI and SPD to counsel employees on continuation of coverage. Notify
       the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch of employees eligible for continuing coverage within
       31 days of the date of eligibility.
       5.2.8. Conversion of Health Benefits Coverage. Employees, retirees, and dependents
       losing DoD HBP medical coverage may convert, without a medical exam, to a personal
       health policy offered by the Carrier. If an enrollee resides overseas, the person may not
       convert unless he or she returns to the US within 31 days from the date that coverage
       under the medical plan ceases. The personal policy will take effect on the day after DoD
       HBP medical coverage ceases, or any Temporary Continuation of Coverage (TCC) ends.
       The DoD HBP medical SPD provides detailed application requirements, including
       specific time periods during which a participant may apply. The conversion provision
       does not apply to DoD HBP Dental or SAD coverage.
    5.3. Processing Waivers of Enrollment. If an employee initially declines coverage, have the
    employee complete and sign a waiver of health and/or dental coverage card and file the card
    in the employee’s OPF. The HRO will document the waiver on an AF Form 2545, NAFI
    Notification of Personnel Action, in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).
    The employee may not enroll in the plan until an Open Enrollment or Special Enrollment
    Period. Refer to DoD HBP Policy and the SPD regarding special enrollment periods.
    5.4. Processing Enrollment Elections. The HRO will enroll eligible employees and
    dependents electing to participate in the plan and determine their effective date of coverage
    for payroll deductions, as instructed below. The HRO will use the AF Form 2545 in DCPDS
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  9


  to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of an employee’s plan election and other plan-related
  information.
     5.4.1. If an employee requests coverage within 31 days of hire or reclassification to an
     eligible employment category, the employee/HRO must complete an enrollment form.
     Make a copy of the employee’s enrollment form for suspense (see paragraph 5.4.4.
     below) and forward the original form to the Carrier Eligibility Unit as instructed by the
     HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
     5.4.2. Process an AF Form 2545 within DCPDS using the applicable plan code provided
     by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch. The effective date of coverage is the day the
     employee completes and signs the enrollment form and returns it to the HRO. Payroll
     deductions begin with the first day of the pay period during which coverage becomes
     effective.
     5.4.3. Employees who do not enroll in the DoD HBP or SAD within the 31-day
     eligibility period must wait to enroll during the next Open Enrollment Period or, if
     applicable, during a Special Enrollment Period.
     5.4.4. After processing an employee’s enrollment form, the Carrier will send a change
     form to the HRO documenting the employee’s benefit election. The change form is filed
     in the envelope on the right side of the employee’s OPF and used later to notify the
     Carrier of an employee’s cancellation or change in coverage. The HRO will temporarily
     suspend the employee’s enrollment form, pending receipt of the change form from the
     Carrier. If a change form is not received within 2 to 3 weeks, the HRO will follow-up
     with the Carrier to check the status. Afterwards, the HRO files the employee’s
     enrollment form and change form in the OPF.
  5.5. Processing Changes in Coverage. The HRO will use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to
  notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of an employee’s change in coverage (or cancellation), and also
  process the change form through the Carrier according pre-established procedures by the HQ
  AFSVA Insurance Branch.
     5.5.1. Canceling or Terminating Coverage. Coverage ends on the date the employee
     signs the required cancellation form, or on the date the employee terminates employment,
     or changes to an ineligible category. An employee does not pay an insurance
     contribution in the pay period during which the cancellation of coverage occurs.
         5.5.1.1. To cancel coverage at an employee’s request, the employee completes and
         signs a discontinuance of coverage card, which is filed in the employee’s OPF.
         5.5.1.2. Special Considerations for Total Disability. If an employee declares
         disability at the time group coverage ends, refer to the DoD HBP SPD to determine if
         the employee is eligible for continued coverage. Advise individuals who are
         potentially eligible for TCC disability coverage to:
            5.5.1.2.1. Obtain a physician’s statement as proof of total disability and the
            prognosis of the disability. Acceptable forms of evidence for total disability
            include a letter from the person’s attending physician, or the Social Security
            Administration, or a completed medical benefits request claim form.
            5.5.1.2.2. Send Disability-TCC request documentation through the HRO to the
10                                                         AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


            HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
            5.5.1.2.3. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch will review the information,
            determine eligibility for Disability-TCC provisions, and enroll the disabled
            employee or family member(s) in the appropriate TCC Program option.
     5.5.2. Increasing or Decreasing Coverage. Depending on circumstances, employees may
     change coverage at any time during the plan year, provided they have not elected to pay
     their insurance contributions with pre-tax earnings under the Flexible Benefits Plan
     (FBP). If the employee requesting the change is enrolled in the FBP, refer to Attachment
     2 (Qualifying Events for Changing a FBP Election) in AFI 34-307, NAF Flexible Benefits
     Plan on the qualifying events (restrictions) for making a change. Changes must be made
     within 31 days of the life-qualifying event, i.e., birth of child, marriage, etc.
         5.5.2.1. An employee enrolled in single coverage may add a newly eligible
         dependent within 31 days of the dependent’s eligibility date. The effective date of
         family coverage is either the date of the election or the date of the event. The
         premium increase is effective the first day of the pay period during which the change
         in coverage occurred.
         5.5.2.2. Employees may change from family to single coverage (or medical and
         dental to medical-only) at any time during the plan year, unless they are paying
         contributions with pre-tax earnings under the FBP as described earlier in this section.
     5.5.3. Processing Name or Address Changes. Use AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify
     the HQ AFSVA SSC of employee personal data changes. HRO will verify name change
     using applicable legal documentation and file the information in the employee’s OPF.
     Follow instructions by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for notifying the Carrier
     Eligibility Unit of the employee change.
  5.6. Processing Transfer Actions. The HRO determines if a transferring employee meets the
  eligibility criteria to continue participation in health/dental coverage under the DoD
  HBP/SAD at the gaining installation.
     5.6.1. If an enrolled employee transfers without a break in service, coverage continues
     without interruption and the employee is not subject to the 31-day eligibility period for
     enrollment purposes. The transfer AF Form 2545 should reflect continuing health/dental
     coverage if the employee had it at his or her previous duty station.
         5.6.1.1. PPO Network and Traditional-Indemnity Plans.             Enter the gaining
         installation’s control-suffix-account number (group policy number), the effective date
         of the transfer, and the employee’s DoD HBP/SAD plan number and home address on
         the change form and forward it to the Carrier Eligibility Unit. Notify the HQ AFSVA
         SSC of the insurance enrollment action using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to start
         (resume) payroll deductions. File copies of the change form and personnel action in
         the employee’s OPF.
            5.6.1.2. If unable to locate the employee’s change form in the OPF, use an
            enrollment form to report the transfer to the Carrier. The HRO may need to enroll
            the employee in a different medical plan option (plan number) due to the
            geographic move. The employee should be given relevant enrollment materials
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   11


            and the matching SPD.
         5.6.1.3. Transfer between Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs). If the
         termination of employment from the losing installation and subsequent employment
         with the gaining installation occur in two different but successive pay periods, a full
         premium payment is made for each pay period at the respective installation.
         5.6.1.4. If the termination of employment from the losing installation and subsequent
         employment with the gaining installation occur in the same pay period, a full
         premium payment for the pay period is made by the gaining installation. If both
         installations deduct premiums, the losing installation should refund the erroneous
         premium deductions to the employee and gaining installation.
     5.6.2. If an enrolled employee transfers with a break in service of one or more workdays,
     determine if the employee is eligible for the DoD HBP/SAD at the gaining installation. If
     the employee is not eligible to continue participation in the DoD HBP/SAD, complete the
     change form to cancel coverage and send it to the Carrier Eligibility Unit. File a copy of
     the change form in the employee’s OPF.
     5.6.3. The HRO notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the insurance cancellation action using
     AF Form 2545 in DCPDS. This action will stop payroll deductions.
  5.7. Performing Routine Insurance Audits/Reconciling Reports.
     5.7.1. The HRO will routinely audit monthly reports from the Carrier to ensure
     enrollment, change, and cancellation transactions are correctly documented in its
     eligibility/claims systems. The monthly report from the Carrier should match the
     information in DCPDS.
         5.7.1.1. Correct errors by sending the Carrier a copy of the enrollment form or a
         corrected copy of the change form for each affected employee and suspense a copy of
         the form for follow-up with the Carrier in 2 to 3 weeks.
            5.7.1.1.1. The Carrier will send a new change form to the HRO documenting the
            employee’s insurance election under the DoD HBP/SAD. The HRO files the
            form in the OPF after reviewing it for accuracy. If an employee’s change form is
            not received within the suspense time, contact the Carrier and determine the
            status.
         5.7.1.2. The HRO will also reconcile the biweekly group insurance
         enrollment/payroll deduction report generated by the HQ AFSVA SSC with
         health/dental insurance-related actions submitted on AF Forms 2545, and take
         corrective action in DCPDS or through the HQ AFSVA SSC or the Carrier, as
         required.
            5.7.1.2.1. For example, the HRO will verify each pay period that employees’
            payroll deductions correspond with their benefit elections using a detailed group
            insurance enrollment/deduction report. The payroll report should match the
            enrollment data in DCPDS and the Carrier report. The HRO corrects errors in
            DCPDS and notifies or coordinates with the HQ AFSVA SSC or the Carrier for
            resolution accordingly.
12                                                          AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


  5.8. Employee Contribution Shortages. The HRO coordinates with the HQ AFSVA SSC
  using whatever means available to immediately inform an employee when pay is insufficient
  to cover his or her health/dental contributions. In addition, the HRO will:
     5.8.1. Instruct the employee to pay the shortage by the next pay period following the pay
     period in which the shortage occurred.
     5.8.2. Notify the HQ AFSVA SSC when the employee failed to timely pay the shortage
     as instructed. The HRO also notifies the employee and Carrier that coverage is canceled.
         5.8.2.1. Process an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the
         employee’s cancellation of group health/dental coverage. The HRO also completes
         the change form to cancel the employee’s coverage through the Carrier Eligibility
         Unit. The effective date of cancellation is the first day of the pay period immediately
         following the pay period in which the shortage occurred. The HRO files copies of
         both forms in the employee’s OPF.
     5.8.3. Losing Coverage. Any employee losing group coverage due to the nonpayment of
     contributions is not eligible for continuing coverage and may not re-enroll in the DoD
     HBP or SAD Plan until the Open Enrollment Period unless he or she qualifies for a
     Special Enrollment Period due to a life-changing event.
     5.8.4. Otherwise, as long as employees continue to pay their share of the contribution,
     the NAFI continues to pay the employer share. Exception: The SAD Plan is 100 percent
     employee-paid. Coverage remains in effect as long as the respective shares are paid.
  5.9. Enrollment Opportunities.
     5.9.1. Initial Enrollment of Active Employees. Eligible employees may enroll
     themselves and eligible dependents in the DoD HBP or SAD within 31 days of the
     employee’s initial eligibility date. Employees not enrolling during this initial eligibility
     period must wait to enroll during a subsequent Open Enrollment Period or during a
     Special Enrollment Period.
     5.9.2. Open Enrollment Period for Employees. An Open Enrollment Period for eligible
     employees will be announced by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch, and employee
     elections are effective 1 January of the following year. Retirees and surviving
     dependents are not allowed to enroll during Open Enrollment Periods, with the exception
     of those who suspended DoD HBP coverage to enroll in TRICARE-for-Life. During an
     Open Enrollment Period:
         5.9.2.1. Eligible employees and their eligible dependents not already participating in
         the DoD HBP may enroll in either the DoD HBP or the SAD at this time.
         5.9.2.2. Employees who are already enrolled in medical coverage under the DoD
         HBP may elect to add DoD HBP dental coverage; or they may drop their DoD HBP
         medical (and DoD HBP dental, if applicable) coverage altogether to enroll in SAD
         coverage only.
         5.9.2.3. Employees enrolled in single coverage may change to family coverage, and
         vice versa.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                     13


           5.9.2.4. Eligible employees and retirees living in areas covered by the Traditional-
           Indemnity Plan may opt into the PPO Network Plan that covers a nearby area, or
           reverse an earlier such decision and opt back into the Traditional-Indemnity Plan.
6. Enrollment of Medicare-Eligible Retirees. Retirees living in a PPO network area who are
eligible for Medicare due to age or disability, and have a covered dependent(s) not eligible for
Medicare, may change their current medical coverage during the Open Enrollment Period under
either the PPO Network Plan or Traditional-Indemnity Plan. The election is effective 1 January
of the following year. They may also make this election if they move from an area not covered
by the PPO Network Plan to one that is. The election is effective 31 days after the move. The
retiree and covered dependent(s) must remain in or be switched to the Traditional-Indemnity
Plan at the time all of the covered dependent(s) become(s) eligible for Medicare. At this point,
there is no further option to elect the PPO Network Plan.
7. Enrollment of Dependents.
   7.1. Optional Dependent Enrollment. Employees may elect family coverage and cover
   eligible dependents under the DoD HBP, or SAD Plan, within 31 days of the employee’s
   initial eligibility date.
   7.2. Employees and retirees already enrolled in the DoD HBP may move from single to
   family coverage, or add a new dependent to their existing family coverage, within 31 days of
   a change in family status, e.g., marriage, birth or adoption. This also applies to the SAD Plan
   with the following exception: retirees are not eligible for SAD.
       7.2.1. An employee’s failure to change to family coverage or add a dependent within the
       31-day eligibility period will require the employee to wait to increase coverage until the
       next Open Enrollment Period or a Special Enrollment Period.
       7.2.2. Retirees or surviving dependents are not eligible for Open Enrollment Periods,
       with the exception of those who suspended DoD HBP coverage to enroll in TRICARE-
       for-Life. Retirees who fail to enroll a newly eligible dependent within 31 days following
       a change in family status are eligible to add the dependent only after a life-changing
       event covered by Special Enrollment Period rules; e.g., a change in family status, or the
       dependent’s loss of other health insurance coverage.
       7.2.3. If the surviving spouse remarries, neither the new spouse nor any new dependents
       acquired by the remarriage are eligible for the DoD HBP.
   7.3. Required Dependent Enrollment Based on a Qualified Medical Child Support Order
   (QMCSO).
       7.3.1. The DoD HBP will honor a court-issued QMCSO requiring an eligible employee
       or enrolled retiree to provide health coverage for dependents if they meet the DoD HBP
       definition of an eligible dependent. Coverage level under the plan is mandated by the
       terms of the court order. If an enrolled employee or retiree fails or refuses to enroll an
       eligible child as required by the QMCSO, the HRO will automatically enroll them in
       family coverage. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch will handle QMCSOs served on
       enrolled retirees. This health provision does not apply to retirees not already enrolled in
       the DoD HBP.
 14                                                         AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


      7.3.2. SAD Plan. The SAD Plan will also honor a court-issued QMCSO requiring an
      eligible employee to provide dental coverage for eligible dependents. Follow the same
      procedures as outlined in paragraph 7.3.1. This dental provision does not apply to
      retirees since they are not eligible for SAD coverage.
EXCEPTION: If the court order states “health” or “medical” coverage and the employee is
enrolled in SAD, then the employee must cancel the SAD coverage and enroll in the DoD HBP.
In this case, the court order overrules enrollment procedures outlined in this AFI.
      7.3.3. If the employee named in the QMCSO is eligible, but is not enrolled in the DoD
      HBP, then in coordination with HQ AFSVA/SVL (Legal Office), the HQ AFSVA
      Insurance Branch, and the HRO, the employee will enroll in the required coverage as
      ordered by the court. Coverage is effective on the date of the court order unless
      determined otherwise by the Chief, HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
   7.4. Special Enrollment Rules.
      7.4.1. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Special Enrollment
      Periods. As required by HIPAA, employees and dependents who decline enrollment
      because of other health insurance coverage may, if eligibility requirements are met, enroll
      in the DoD HBP within 31 days of the end of the other health plan coverage.
      Participating employees and retirees may also enroll eligible spouses and dependents
      acquired through marriage, birth, adoption, or placement for adoption within 31 days of
      the qualifying event. Employees may enroll themselves in family coverage in order to
      cover new dependents or provide coverage to dependents that have lost other health
      insurance. Retirees must already be enrolled in the DoD HBP (post-retirement medical
      coverage) in order to initiate or change dependent coverage.
          7.4.1.1. SAD Plan. Enrolled employees may add new dependents to the plan within
          31 days after a life-changing event. Otherwise, eligible employees who waived or
          canceled coverage, or who did not enroll new dependents when first eligible, must
          wait until the next Open Enrollment Period to join.
          7.4.1.2. The effective date of coverage depends on the circumstance under which the
          employee is newly electing coverage, or the employee/retiree is increasing existing
          coverage. To determine the effective date, refer to the SPD.
          7.4.1.3. Employees Affected by a Reduction in Hours Resulting from Troop
          Deployment. When troop deployment results in a personnel action that reduces an
          employee’s hours and consequently the employee drops DoD HBP enrollment, the
          employee is permitted to reenroll outside of an Open Enrollment Period if the
          following conditions are met:
             7.4.1.3.1. The employee meets all normal eligibility requirements.
             7.4.1.3.2. HRO processes an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS increasing the
             employee’s hours upon the Supervisor’s request.
             7.4.1.3.3. The employee reenrolls in the DoD HBP within 31 days from the
             effective date of the personnel action increasing the employee’s hours; otherwise,
             the employee must wait until the next Open Enrollment Period. If the employee
             enrolls within the 31-day period explained above, coverage is effective on the
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   15


              date of application, but not earlier than the date of the Business Based Action
              (BBA) that increased the employee’s hours.
              7.4.1.3.4. If a BBA results in a reduction in the employee’s work hours, then the
              action is a Furlough or a Change from Regular to Flexible status.
8. Advertising. The Carrier updates the group insurance SPDs and prepares and distributes
Open Enrollment Period materials. HROs are responsible for distributing and explaining the
SPD contents and benefit materials to employees. The HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch fulfills
these responsibilities for retirees.
9. Premiums. There are two enrollment classes, single and family. Employee and retiree
claims are pooled together within these classes to develop premiums. Premiums cover the cost
of claims and Carrier administrative fees. The DoD HBP is contributory, meaning employees
and retirees both pay a portion of the total premium cost.
   9.1. Employer and Employee Premium Sharing Arrangements for PPO Network,
   Traditional-Indemnity, and DoD HBP Dental Plans. The employer’s share of the PPO
   Network, Traditional-Indemnity, and DoD HBP Dental premiums is 70 percent; employees
   and retirees pay 30 percent.
   9.2. SAD Plan. Employees pay 100 percent of the premium. There is no employer
   contribution to this plan. Retirees are not eligible for the SAD Plan.
10. Leave-Without-Pay (LWOP) Coverage. During approved LWOP (or absence-without-
pay), an employee may elect to continue coverage under the DoD HBP, provided he or she
continues to pay the required employee share of the premium. Consequently, the employer will
continue to pay the employer’s share. (Exception: The SAD Plan is 100 percent employee-paid
with no employer contribution.) This LWOP provision for insurance continuation also applies to
employees placed on Workers’ Compensation for a work-related accident or injury.
   10.1. The coverage cannot be continued beyond 12 months from the date the LWOP began,
   except in the case of authorized LWOP for military service or in other circumstances
   considered appropriate by the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch.
       10.1.1. The HRO should counsel the supervisor and employee prior to the LWOP period
       about continuing participation in the plan and the termination of coverage due to non-
       payment of contributions, as well as reinstatement of coverage opportunities.
   10.2. When an employee in LWOP status fails to pay required contributions, coverage is
   canceled effective on the first day of the pay period following the pay period in which the
   employee failed to make a contribution.
       10.2.1. The HRO cancels the employee’s coverage using the change form and sends it to
       the Carrier Eligibility Unit. The HRO also notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the coverage
       cancellation using AF Form 2545 in DCPDS.
       10.2.2. File copies of the change form and personnel action in the employee’s OPF.
   10.3. Losing Coverage. Any employee losing group coverage due to the non-payment of
   contributions is not eligible for continuing coverage and may not re-enroll in the plan until
   the next Open Enrollment Period or a Special Enrollment Period, if applicable.
 16                                                          AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


   10.4. Disability Clause. Under the DoD HBP, the Program does not have a disability clause,
   which would allow employees to receive payments while out on disability. In other words,
   the Program does not offer an income replacement provision for disability. Instead, in place
   of short or long-term disability insurance, employees may use their annual or sick leave to be
   paid during the period of their disability; or if applicable, they may request approval through
   their supervisors and HRO to be placed on leave-without-pay. Employees may also solicit
   leave donations from eligible NAF employees to offset time away from duty.
11. LWOP Due to Transfer With Head of Household. Regular employees on LWOP due to
transfer with head of household are entitled to remain in the DoD HBP, including SAD, for up to
150 days to avoid a break in service. The HRO should counsel employees prior to departure
about continuing participation in the plan while on LWOP, continuing coverage programs upon
expiration of the LWOP, termination of coverage due to nonpayment of contributions, as well as
reinstatement of coverage opportunities.
   11.1. If the employee does not elect to continue participation in the plan, the HRO cancels
   coverage using the change form and sends it to the Carrier Eligibility Unit. The HRO also
   notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC of the cancellation of coverage using AF Form 2545 in
   DCPDS.
       11.1.1. The effective date of cancellation is the date the employee signs the change form.
       11.1.2. File copies of the change form and personnel action in the employee’s OPF.
   11.2. If the employee elects to continue participation in the plan, the HRO will suspense a
   copy of the change form for 150 days.
       11.2.1. The HRO cancels coverage and notifies the HQ AFSVA SSC and the Carrier to
       cancel coverage when the employee reaches the end of the 150-day LWOP period; unless
       a gaining installation contacts the losing installation to request the employee’s OPF and
       change form for purposes of continuing his/her coverage without a break. Contact the
       HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for special guidance for continuing the employee’s
       coverage at the gaining installation without interruption. Otherwise, if canceling the
       employee’s coverage because the 150-day LWOP period has expired, the effective date
       of cancellation is the date the employee lost LWOP eligibility.
       11.2.2. If the employee fails to pay required contributions during the 150-day LWOP
       period, the HRO cancels coverage effective on the first day of the pay period after the
       pay period that he or she failed to make a payment. Follow the normal instructions for
       notifying the HQ AFSVA SSC and the Carrier of the employee’s cancellation of
       coverage.
   11.3. Expiration of LWOP. If an employee is rehired in an eligible employment category
   before the expiration of the LWOP, verify with the losing HRO that the employee made all
   required contribution payments and that coverage was not terminated.
       11.3.1. If the employee’s account is current, the gaining HRO requests the employee’s
       change form from the losing HRO. The gaining HRO updates the change form with the
       gaining installation’s control-suffix-account number (group policy number), the effective
       date of the transaction, and the employee’s new home address and DoD HBP/SAD plan
       number; and sends a copy to the Carrier Eligibility Unit. The gaining HRO notifies the
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                    17


       HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s continued enrollment using AF Form 2545 in
       DCPDS to start deductions.
       11.3.2. If the employee’s account is not current and coverage has not yet been
       terminated, and if the employee is still eligible to remain in the plan, the employee must
       first make required retroactive contributions to the losing installation. The gaining HRO
       verifies with the losing HRO that the employee made all the required payments and
       follows the processing instructions in this AFI for notifying the HQ AFSVA SSC and the
       Carrier of the employee’s continued enrollment at the gaining installation.
12. Coverage During Military Service. The Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) covers NAF employees who leave their jobs to
perform duty with the Uniformed Services. Employees who are on LWOP while performing
military duty may continue participation in the DoD HBP medical/dental plans for up to 24
months by paying the employee share of the applicable DoD HBP premium. In accordance with
USERRA, employees who elect not to continue DoD HBP coverage while on military duty are
entitled to immediate reinstatement in the same DoD HBP coverage when they return to NAF
employment without waiting for an Open Enrollment Period (in this case, coverage is reinstated
effective on the date the employee returns to NAF duty). For reservists called to active duty on
or after 14 September 2001 in support of a Contingency Operation, as defined in Section 101
(a)(13) of title 10, USC, the following special rules apply:
   12.1. Military Reservists Serving in Contingency Operations. NAF employers shall pay the
   employee’s share in addition to the employer’s share of the DoD HBP premium for up to 24
   months for enrolled employees called to active duty (voluntarily or involuntarily) in support
   of a Contingency Operation. To be eligible for this employer-pay-all premium provision,
   reservists must be placed on LWOP or separated from NAF employment to perform active
   duty for a period of more than 30 consecutive days. These provisions apply to employees
   enrolled in the DoD HBP who elect to continue the enrollment, and who are called to active
   duty on or after 14 September 2001.
   12.2. Refer to the HQ AFSVA pre-established instructions for application and processing
   procedures related to the employer-pay-all premium provision for military reservists serving
   in contingency operations. Go to the HQ AFSVA website or contact the HQ AFSVA
   Insurance Branch for an information copy.
13. Family and Medical Leave. NAF employees are covered by Public Law No. 1033, Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). Under FMLA, eligible employees are entitled to a
total of 12 administrative workweeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period for specified
family and medical needs. (For military-related situations, eligible employees are entitled up to
26 administrative workweeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period for specified family
and medical needs.) During approved periods of FMLA leave, employees enrolled in the DoD
HBP or the SAD Plan may continue their health and dental coverage. Employee and employer
contributions are shared according to guidelines established in this instruction. Employees not
continuing DoD HBP or SAD coverage while on FMLA leave are entitled to reinstatement as
though they had continued in active employment rather than going on FMLA, provided they
request such coverage within 31 days of the date FMLA terminates. If they miss the 31-day
deadline to reenroll, they must wait until the next Open Enrollment Period.
 18                                                          AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


14. Portability Move from NAF to APF Position. An enrolled NAF employee who moves to
an APF position without a break in service of more than three days shall continue existing health
and dental coverage in the DoD HBP without charge to the employee for 31 days, or until the
employee becomes covered under the FEHB Program; whichever comes first. This provision
does not apply to the SAD Plan; SAD coverage ends on the day the employee loses group
eligibility or terminates NAF employment.
15. Coordination of Benefits for DoD HBP. The amount of benefits payable under the DoD
HBP takes into account any coverage an employee, retiree, or dependent has under any other
group plan. The SPDs provide an explanation of how benefits are coordinated.
   15.1. Active Employees. Benefits will be coordinated to ensure reimbursement to active
   employees under the DoD HBP takes into account payments made by other group plans.
   Under this approach, active employees will not receive a total benefit greater than that
   provided under the DoD HBP plan.
   15.2. Retirees. When retirees and their dependents become eligible for Medicare (whether
   or not enrolled in Medicare), health benefits from the DoD HBP will be offset by Medicare
   payments through the Government Exclusion approach to Coordination of Benefits, as
   explained in the SPDs. When retirees or their covered dependents are eligible for Medicare
   (whether or not enrolled in Medicare), DoD HBP benefits are secondary to Medicare.
   Medicare does not apply overseas; therefore, the Traditional-Indemnity Plan will be the
   primary payer of benefits.
16. Coverage for Eligible Active Employees Age 65 and Older. At least 31 days before an
enrolled employee in the DoD HBP reaches age 65, the DCPDS will generate a notice to the
HRO. The HRO will contact the affected employee who must elect to either continue or cancel
coverage under the DoD HBP. The HRO will instruct the employee to make the election, in
writing, on the appropriate personnel form. The HRO will also advise the employee to promptly
contact the Social Security Administration concerning eligibility and enrollment rules for
Medicare, regardless of the employee’s election to continue or discontinue enrollment in the
DoD HBP.
   16.1. If the employee elects to continue participation in the DoD HBP, the DoD HBP will be
   the primary payer of all claims, and Medicare will be the secondary payer as required by
   Federal law. The SPDs have more details and an explanation of any exceptions to this rule.
   16.2. If the employee elects to cancel coverage under the DoD HBP, the employee’s health
   coverage is limited to Medicare only. Inform the employee that his or her election to cancel
   coverage also cancels coverage at the same time for any dependents under the DoD HBP.
   Follow the instructions in this AFI for notifying the HQ AFSVA SSC and Carrier about the
   employee’s cancellation of coverage under the DoD HBP.
17. Continuation of Coverage for Surviving Dependents. Eligible surviving dependents may
continue DoD HBP coverage at a cost and length of time commensurate with the sponsoring
employee’s or retiree’s PRM eligibility status or years of DoD HBP participation. The HQ
AFSVA Insurance Branch is the HRO for surviving dependents with regard to continuing DoD
HBP benefits. Immediately contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for assistance when a
surviving-dependent case arises.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                       19


   17.1. Eligibility. The eligibility requirements for continuation of coverage for surviving
   dependents are discussed below.
       17.1.1. Dependents. For the purpose of continuation of coverage for survivors, eligible
       dependents include children conceived before, and born after, the employee or retiree
       dies. If the surviving spouse remarries, neither the new spouse nor any dependents
       acquired upon remarriage are eligible for the DoD HBP.
       17.1.2. Dependent Participation Requirement. Surviving dependents must have been
       enrolled in the DoD HBP health and dental plans on the day of the employee’s or
       retiree’s death.
       17.1.3. Employee Participation Requirement. The employee must have had a minimum
       of 90 days of participation in the DoD HBP. Enrollment in a NAF employer health plan
       existing before 1 January 2000 counts toward the participation requirement. Enrollment
       in the FEHB Program also counts toward the participation requirement if the employee
       moved from an APF position to a NAF position, after 1 January 1987, without a break in
       service of more than three days.
18. Cost and Length of Coverage. The NAF employer will pay 100 percent of the health and
dental premium for eligible survivors for the first four months of coverage following the
employee’s or retiree’s death. Following the four months of employer-paid coverage, survivors
are eligible to continue coverage as outlined below in Table I, Surviving Dependent Coverage.
Coverage for a surviving spouse continues regardless of remarriage. Coverage for dependent
children continues for the length of time (duration) provided in the table below, or until the child
no longer meets the plan eligibility criteria; whichever comes first.
 20                                                       AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


Table 1.1. Surviving Dependent Coverage.
                                Type and Length of
Surviving Dependent of:         Coverage:                 Cost to Survivor:
1. An employee who:             36-months total duration No cost for first 4 months
                                of coverage = medical after the employee’s death;
a. Had less than 15 years of    only benefits. No dental.           then
cumulative participation in                               Survivor pays the
the DoD HBP health plan                                   applicable TCC premium
             or                                           rate of 102 percent
b. Was not participating in the                           (employee/employer shares
applicable defined benefit                                plus an administrative fee
retirement plan at time of                                of 2 percent).
death.

2. An employee who did not      Same health coverage as No cost for first 4 months
meet the PRM eligibility but:   the employee.            after the employee's death;
                                                                   then
a. Had 15 or more years of      Same dental coverage, if Survivor pays the same
cumulative participation in     the employee also had 15 premium rate as an active
the DoD HBP health plan         or more years cumulative employee (30 percent).
            and                 participation in a DoD
b. Was participating in the     HBP dental plan.
applicable defined benefit
retirement plan at time of
death.

3. A retiree receiving PRM,     Same health and dental No cost for first 4 months
or an employee who met the      coverage applicable to the after the retiree's or
PRM annuity/participation       retiree or employee.       employee's death;
eligibility.                                                          then
                                                           Survivor pays the
Note: A survivor retirement                                applicable PRM premium
annuity is NOT required in                                 rate (30 percent).
order for the surviving
dependent to continue DoD
HBP health plan coverage.



19. TCC. Plan participants who become ineligible to participate in the DoD HBP for any
reason (other than termination for gross misconduct or cause) may be eligible to continue
coverage in the TCC Program of the DoD HBP. Special continuation of coverage provisions
apply to surviving dependents of former employees/retirees enrolled in the DoD HBP. Refer to
the DoD HBP Policy and the medical SPD for more details.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   21


20. TCC Concerning DoD HBP Health Plans. The Consolidated Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA) requiring employers to provide temporary continuation of
health benefits does not apply to the PPO Network and Traditional-Indemnity Plans. However,
plan participants who become ineligible to participate in these plans are eligible for “COBRA-
like” TCC as stated below. Plan participants cannot continue dental coverage under TCC
Program. Go to the HQ AFSVA website or contact the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch for the
TCC application form and current rates, as well as basic instructions for processing a TCC
request under the DoD HBP. TCC does not apply to the SAD Plan.
   20.1. Basic TCC Eligibility Requirements for DoD HBP Participants. Refer to the medical
   SPD for more information about the eligibility requirements, definitions, and TCC
   application timelines. The following participants are eligible for TCC:
       20.1.1. Retirees. Employees who retire without obtaining eligibility for PRM Benefits.
       20.1.2. Dependents. Dependents who lose DoD HBP coverage because the sponsoring
       employee or retiree lost coverage or who otherwise become ineligible to participate.
21. Length and Cost of TCC for DoD HBP Plan Participants (Table II). Refer to Table II
below for descriptions of the length and cost of TCC for different circumstances.
   21.1. Disabled Employees. Totally disabled employees receive up to 36 months of single or
   family TCC, as applicable. TCC ends before 36 months if the participant ceases to be totally
   disabled or becomes eligible for Medicare or other health coverage. Disabled employees
   with five or more years of cumulative DoD HBP participation will receive up to 12 months
   of continuing coverage at no charge if they meet the criteria. Participation includes
   enrollment in the DoD HBP, in a NAF Component health plan, and enrollment in the FEHB
   Program if the employee moved from an APF position to a NAF position, after 1 January
   1987, without a break in service of more than three days. Refer to the medical SPD for
   definitions of total disability and procedures for providing proof of disability. The HRO
   coordinates with the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch to enroll qualified employees, including
   dependents, in TCC disability coverage under the DoD HBP.
   21.2. Disabled Retirees Eligible for PRM. If a disabled retiree qualifies for continuing
   health benefits under PRM coverage, the individual will not be enrolled in disability TCC
   due to the limited duration of coverage under the TCC Program. Instead, disabled retirees
   eligible for PRM will receive continuing health benefits under the same conditions and for
   the same duration as non-disabled retirees. In certain cases where unusual circumstances
   exist, totally disabled employees who retire with PRM coverage may receive up to 12 months
   free coverage, as determined by the NAF employer.
   21.3. TCC Termination. Generally, TCC for DoD HBP participants may continue for up to
   18 months from the date group eligibility ends. The TCC participant pays the full cost of the
   health premium, plus a two percent administrative fee. TCC benefits will terminate earlier
   than described in Table II, TCC Health Plan, if the participant becomes eligible for Medicare
   or other health coverage, or fails to pay required premiums by the due date, or voluntarily
   chooses to cancel coverage prior to the TCC expiration period.
 22                                                       AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


Table 2.1. TCC Health Plan
                              Length of Health Plan
Eligible Individual:          Coverage:                   Cost to Individual:
                                                          102 percent of the total
1.Employee, retiree, or                                   premium cost (employee
dependent meeting TCC         Up to 18 months from the    and employer shares, plus
criteria.                     date group coverage ends.   an administrative fee of 2
                                                          percent).

                                                        102 percent of the total
2. Totally disabled
                                                        premium cost (employee
employee with less than 5
                              Up to 36 months from the and employer shares, plus
years of cumulative
                              date group coverage ends. an administrative fee of 2
participation in the DoD
                                                        percent).
HBP health plan.

                                                        No cost for first 12 months.
                                                        NAF employer pays 102
                                                        percent of the total premium
3. Totally disabled                                     cost (employee and
employee with 5 or more                                 employer shares, plus an
years of cumulative                                     administrative fee of 2
participation in the DoD                                percent);
HBP health plan.              Up to 36 months from the            then
                              date group coverage ends. TCC participant pays 102
Note: TCC does NOT apply                                percent of the total premium
to disabled employees who                               cost (employee and
are eligible to retire with                             employer shares, plus an
PRM coverage.                                           administrative fee of 2
                                                        percent) for up to 24
                                                        additional months.



   21.4. Survivors of TCC Participants. Should a TCC participant (sponsor) with family
   coverage pass away, the surviving dependents are ineligible for continuation beyond the
   maximum length of coverage indicated in Table II. In this case, under the TCC Program, the
   TCC participant’s death does not trigger an additional period of coverage under the TCC
   Program.
   21.5. Special Considerations for Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and Workforce
   Reduction. In situations where an employee has been separated from NAF employment
   because of BRAC or workforce reduction, the NAF Component may pay the employer’s
   share of the DoD HBP health premium and any applicable administrative fees for the
   employee for up to 18 months; or the NAF Component may require the employee to pay the
   full cost of the coverage, including any applicable administrative fees. However, the NAF
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                   23


   Component may not pay any portion of the employee’s share. Where the employee’s
   separation is a direct result of an approved BRAC action, the NAF Component may use
   appropriated fund BRAC accounts or NAF funds to pay the employer’s share of the DoD
   HBP health premium and administrative fee. To be eligible, the employee affected by BRAC
   or workforce reduction must meet the following conditions:
       21.5.1. Must separate under a Business Based Action (BBA) (AFMAN 34-310, Chapter
       6) or resign or retire after receiving a BBA separation notice, and not be eligible for
       PRM.
       21.5.2. Must be enrolled in the DoD HBP at the time of BBA separation and have at
       least six months plan participation.
22. HQ AFSVA SSC Responsibilities.
   22.1. Processing Personnel Actions Within Payroll System. The HQ AFSVA SSC processes
   transactions through DCPDS that begin, cancel, or change the employee and employer
   payroll deductions for group health and dental coverage. The HQ AFSVA SSC also
   processes any other health/dental insurance-related actions based upon information received
   from DCPDS. The effective date of the personnel form determines when deductions for
   coverage start, stop, or change.
   22.2. For enrollments, payroll deductions start in the same pay period that an employee’s
   coverage is effective.
   22.3. For cancellations and terminations, including discontinuance of coverage at an
   employee’s request, do not deduct employee and employer contributions for the last pay
   period that the insurance was in effect.
   22.4. For a change that increases coverage (from single to family coverage, or from health-
   only to health and dental coverage), payroll deductions for the increased coverage begin with
   the pay period during which the change becomes effective. The effective date of the
   insurance change depends on the event which prompted the employee’s opportunity to
   increase coverage, such as a newly eligible dependent, an Open Enrollment Period, or a
   Special Enrollment Period due to a life-qualifying event.
   22.5. For a change that decreases coverage (from family to single coverage, or from health
   and dental to health-only coverage), do not deduct employee and employer contributions for
   the last pay period such coverage was in effect. The effective date of the insurance change
   depends on the event that prompted the employee’s opportunity to decrease coverage such as
   an ineligible dependent, death, divorce, an Open Enrollment Period, or upon the employee’s
   request.
23. Performing Routine Insurance Audits/Reconciling Reports. The HRO will reconcile the
biweekly group insurance enrollment/deduction report generated by the HQ AFSVA SSC with
health/dental insurance-related actions submitted on AF Forms 2545, and take corrective action
in DCPDS or through the HQ AFSVA SSC or the Carrier, as required.
   23.1. If an insurance correction (refund or deduction) applies to two pay periods or less,
   correct errors through the payroll system using current AFSFMS payroll procedures.
 24                                                         AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


   23.2. If an insurance correction is for more than two pay periods, the HQ AFSVA SSC in
   coordination with the HRO, will provide the following information to the HQ AFSVA
   Insurance Branch for review and corrective action.
       23.2.1. Explanation of the problem and include the NAFI Cash Management Investment
       Program (CMIP) number and the pay periods involved.
       23.2.2. Copies of the AF Form 2545 reflecting the effective date of the “incorrect”
       information (group insurance plan code or effective date, etc.), and the AF Form 2545
       reflecting the effective date of the “correction.” Also include copies of supporting
       documents reflecting the employee’s enrollment, change, cancellation, or waiver of
       insurance, as applicable.
       23.2.3. Worksheet indicating, by pay period, the amounts actually paid by the employee
       and employer, along with the amounts that should have been paid by both parties. (Take
       into account any rate changes that may have occurred under the DoD HBP or SAD Plan.)
       23.2.4. Name, social security number, and home address of the employee involved.
       23.2.5. The HRO will notify the employee of the corrective action, including the related
       refund or retroactive amount due, and the procedures for requesting a waiver of
       indebtedness for retroactive contribution cases (AFMAN 34-212, Chapter 2).
24. Contribution Shortages. The HRO will coordinate with the HQ AFSVA SSC, and review
any available arrearage/shortage reports generated by the HQ AFSVA SSC and also initiate
some method of contact or notice when an employee’s pay is insufficient to cover his/her share
of the group health/dental premium. This is especially important as most premium
arrearages/shortages typically occur when an employee goes on LWOP (including LWOP related
to workers’ compensation) or furlough.
   24.1. If the employee pays the shortage no later than the pay period following the one in
   which the shortage occurred, the HQ AFSVA SSC processes the collection for the next pay
   period. Coverage continues without interruption.
   24.2. If the employee fails to pay the shortage by the pay period following the one in which
   the shortage occurred, the HRO contacts the employee to determine payment status. If no
   resolution occurs, the HRO immediately cancels coverage due to nonpayment, as explained
   below.
       24.2.1. The effective date of cancellation is the first day of the pay period immediately
       following the default pay period. The HRO will complete the coverage cancellation form
       (change form) and forward it to the Carrier Eligibility Unit. The HRO will also process
       an AF Form 2545 in DCPDS to notify the HQ AFSVA SSC of the employee’s
       cancellation of group health/dental coverage, and will file copies of both forms in the
       employee’s OPF.
25. Reviewing Eligibility during Leave-Without-Pay (LWOP). Employees may continue
coverage in the DoD HBP during a period of approved LWOP, provided they continue to pay
their share of the employee contribution; consequently, the employer (NAFI) continues to pay
the employer’s share. Coverage remains in effect as long as the respective shares are paid.
EXCEPTION: The SAD Plan is 100 percent employee-paid with no employer contribution.
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  25


   25.1. The HRO will coordinate with the HQ AFSVA SSC when an employee on LWOP fails
   to pay the required contributions or reaches the maximum period for participation as defined
   below:
      25.1.1. An employee on LWOP (for reasons other than illness or injury) is entitled to
      remain in the DoD HBP for 12 months unless the HQ AFSVA Insurance Branch grants
      an extension.
      25.1.2. An employee on LWOP due to transfer with head of household is entitled to
      remain in the DoD HBP for a maximum of 150 calendar days.
      25.1.3. An employee on LWOP due to military furlough is entitled to remain in the DoD
      HBP for a maximum of 24 months. The HRO follows the instructions in paragraphs 12.
      Through 12.2. of this AFI, and additionally:
          25.1.3.1. Should an employee placed on military furlough be required to pay for
          coverage continuation, the HRO will monitor the contributions for the duration of the
          military furlough period, and coordinate with the HQ AFSVA SSC, as necessary, to
          report any payment default or cancellation of coverage. Otherwise, if the employee
          qualifies for the employer-paid premium benefit under the DoD HBP, the HRO will
          notify the HQ AFSVA SSC using pre-established HQ AFSVA procedures. At the
          minimum, the HQ AFSVA SSC should receive supporting documentation from the
          HRO to start/stop the employer-paid premium benefit. Contact the HQ AFSVA
          Insurance Branch for special guidance if the employee’s military furlough period
          extends beyond 24 months.
26. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   26.1. Prescribed Forms.
         AF Form 847, Request for Change of Publication
   26.2. Adopted Forms.
         AF Form 2545, NAFI Notification of Personnel Action




                                           RICHARD Y. NEWTON III
                                           Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS, Manpower and Personnel
 26                                                      AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD Directive 1400.25, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel System, 21 Jun 2009
AFPD 34-3, Nonappropriated Funds personnel Management and Administration, 10 September
1993
AFI 34-307, Nonappropriated Fund Flexible Benefits Plan, 08 May 1995
AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures For Protecting NAF Assets, 01 September 1995
AFMAN 34-310, Nonappropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration
Procedures, 1 December 1995

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIF—Air Force Insurance Fund
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNAF—Air Force Nonappropriated Fund
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSFMS—Air Force Services Financial Management System (Payroll System)
APF—Appropriated Fund
BBA—Business Based Action
BRAC—Base Realignment and Closure
COBRA—Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
CMIP—Cash Management Investment Program
CPMS—Civilian Personnel Management Service
CSRS—Civil Service Retirement System
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DoD HBP—Department of Defense Health Benefits Program
FBP—Flexible Benefits Plan
FEHBP—Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
FERS—Federal Employees Retirement System
FMLA—Family and Medical Leave Act
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
HQ AFSVA/SVL—Headquarters Air Force Services Agency (Legal Office)
AFI34-305 28 DECEMBER 2010                                             27


HQAFSVA/SVXHI—Headquarters, Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA Insurance
Branch)
HRO—Human Resources Office
LES—Leave and Earnings Statement
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality
OPF—Official Personnel Folder
PPO—Preferred Provider Organization
PRM—Post-Retirement Medical/Dental Coverage
QMCSO—Qualified Medical Child Support Order
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAD—Stand Alone Dental
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
SPD—Summary Plan Description
SSC—HQ AFSVA Shared Service Center (Payroll Branch)
TCC—Temporary Continuation of Coverage
UFM—Uniform Funding and Management Program
USERRA—Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
