BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-6005
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                   RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement

                                                                        10 DECEMBER 2009

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                             UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                      MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 MSG/CEAC                                                     Certified by: 12 MSG/CC
                                                                             (Col Alan T Lake)
                                                                                      Pages: 2



This publications implements and extends the guidance in AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied
Housing Management , 9 October 2008. This supplement applies to all 12 FTW organizations
and mission partners. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

2.13.1. (Added) The random monthly dormitory inspection program is for all Team Randolph
dormitory rooms. The intent of this program is to have a monthly random inspection program in
place that will help ensure the adherence to, and enforcement of dormitory standards. This
program will not supersede the random health, morale, and welfare visits performed by the First
Sergeants, but will augment those inspections.
2.13.1.1. (Added) The random monthly dormitory inspections will be conducted at 0830 on the
third Thursday of every month at the conclusion of the RAFB First Sergeants Council meeting.
The RAFB First Sergeants, in conjunction with any base leadership (Commanders, Chiefs, etc.)
will conduct the inspections.
2.13.1.2. (Added) The rooms will be randomly selected, prior to the inspector’s arrival, by
dormitory management. The dorm manager will base the number of rooms inspected upon the
number of actual residents residing in the dorm. Of all inhabited rooms, 10% will be randomly
selected for inspection. In addition to selecting the rooms, the dorm manager will have
 2                                 AFI32-6005_RANDOLPHAFBSUP 10 DECEMBER 2009


inspection checklists (approved by First Sergeants Council) prepared for each room to be
inspected.
2.13.1.3. (Added) At the completion of the inspection, a letter grade will be assigned to the
room (A=Outstanding, B=Excellent, C=Satisfactory, D=Unsatisfactory). The completed form
will be turned into the dormitory manager. A copy of the graded inspection checklist will be left
for the dorm resident.
2.13.1.4. (Added) Any room graded “D,” Unsatisfactory condition, will require a follow-up
inspection. The resident of the room in question will be given 3 days to prepare their room for
re-inspection. The resident will then be scheduled for a follow-up inspection (dorm resident will
be present in full service dress for re-inspection and their supervisor will also be in attendance
for inspection). In the event of a re-inspection failure, the Command Chief, along with the
member’s commander will be notified. The member will then be referred to their commander
for disciplinary action.




                                             JACQUELINE D. VAN OVOST, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
