BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTIOIN 31-218_IP
OF THE AIR FORCE

                                                                    EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                                 18 JUNE 2013

                                                                                        Security

                                               MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 96 SFS/S-5                                                        Certified by: 96 MSG/CC
                                                                                    (Col Hansen)


This supplement applies to all activities assigned to Eglin AFB, Florida; 96th Test Wing, Eglin
AFB, FL and Eglin associate/tenant organizations participating in the Eglin OPSEC Program via
formal support agreement. Send recommended changes or comments for this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The phrase “of
this AFI” refers to the parent AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision. AFI 31-218 (I)
is a joint DoD publication and has been supplemented at the Air Force level with AFMAN 31-
116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision.
1.3.14. The Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) provides the confinement officer with legal
interpretation, guidance on confinement matters and information concerning the offenses, for
inclusion in the inmate’s DD Form 2710-1, Inmate Sentence Information.
1-3.a. For the purpose of this supplement, the term “Eglin AFB” is equally applicable to all
areas under Eglin Air Force Base jurisdiction and control.

1-4.e.(8). The 96th Mission Support Group Commander (96 MSG/CC) is hereby delegated the
authority to act on all matters pertaining to administrative suspension or revocation for cause or
reinstatement of base driving privileges. Revocation and suspension of base driving privileges
will be accomplished, as outlined in AFI 31-218 (I) and this Supplement.

2-1.a.(4).(g). The installation commander has determined the use of international driver licenses
by the local (civilian) jurisdiction and therefore, authorized the use of international driver
licenses for the following individuals:

2-1.a.(4).(g).1. (Added) Foreign students attending schools on Eglin Air Force Base.

2-1.a.(4).(g).2. (Added) Individuals returning from an overseas location, for no more than 30
days after return.

2-4.a.(4). (Added) If an individual receives three non-moving violations within a 12-month
period, their driving privileges will be suspended for 15 days. If an individual receives three
non-moving violations within a 90-day period, their driving privileges will be suspended for 30
days. Note: Non-moving violations written without the driver of the vehicle present will be
issued to the registered owner.

2-4.a.(5). (Added) Any non-moving violation received within 12 months of the end of a served
non-moving suspension will result in another suspension 15 days greater than the last
suspension. For example, an individual serves a suspension 10-25 October (15 days). If the
individual receives another non-moving violation on 1 December, the individual will serve an
additional 30-day suspension (15 days greater than the last). If the individual receives another
non-moving violation on 15 December, the suspension will be an additional 45 days.

2-4.a.(6). (Added) All persons cited by the 96 SFS personnel for committing the following
offenses stated in paragraphs 2-4.a.(6)(a) through 2-4.a.(6)(i), will receive a preliminary
suspension of base driving privileges memorandum as listed below upon receipt of a DD Form
1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket. This suspension takes effect 10 calendar days from the date
of the violation to allow the violator the right to appeal the ticket/suspension. Note: If a violator
requests to appeal a suspension, he/she must do so in writing and must state the reason why the
ticket/suspension should be rescinded. Appeals submitted by military members must be
endorsed by their squadron and group commanders, or equivalent, before being submitted to 96
Security Forces Reports and Administration Office (96 SFS/S-5R) for further processing. All
others may submit requests directly to 96 SFS, Building 272, Room 105, Eglin AFB, Florida,
telephone (850) 882-2355. Properly endorsed appeals must be turned into 96 SFS/S-5R within
the 14-calendar day window. Once properly received, 96 SFS/S-5R will forward the appeal
request to the 96 MSG/CC for final review. Final authority for all Eglin AFB driving
suspensions is the 96 MSG/CC. Once received, the 96 MSG/CC has 10 additional calendar days
to make a final ruling. This ruling should be no more than 20 days after the violation occurred.
Reinstatement of driving privileges at the end of the specified period is automatic for the
offenses listed in paragraphs 2-4.a.(6)(a) through 2-4.a.(6)(i). Note: Legal review is needed if
the law is being argued.

2-4.a.(6).(a). (Added) Speeding 16 miles per hour (MPH) or more over the posted limit: 30-day
suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(b). (Added) Speeding in base housing to include Poquito housing: The
below/attached maps depict housing areas.

2-4.a.(6).(b).1. (Added) 1-10 MPH over posted limit: 7-day suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(b).2. (Added) 11-20 MPH over the posted limit: 30-day suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(b).3. (Added) 21 MPH or more over posted limit: 6-month suspension.
Figure 1. Housing Area Roads
2-4.a.(6).(c). (Added) Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer: 6-month suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(d). (Added) Possession or use of illegal drugs (or other intoxicating substances, to
include, but not limited to “huffing”) while operating a motor vehicle: 1-year suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(e). (Added) Failure to wear seatbelts (driver and/or passenger):

2-4.a.(6).(e).1. (Added) First violation: 7-day suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(e).2. (Added) Second violation: 30-day suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(e).3. (Added) Third violation: 6-month suspension.

2-4.a.(6).(f). (Added) Failure to use child restraint system: Driver receives 30-day suspension.

2-4.b.(1).(a). For incidents occurring within the installation commander’s military traffic
jurisdiction, the suspect’s base-driving privileges will be preliminarily suspended immediately
pending resolution of the incident. The individual will sign a preliminary suspension
memorandum acknowledging receipt of their preliminary suspension. Incidents listed in AFI 31-

218(I), paragraphs 2-4.a.(3).(a). through 2-4.a.(3).(d)., and incidents listed in paragraphs 2-
4.b.(3).(a). through 2-4.b.(3).(b)., warrant immediate revocation. The installation commander
will make the decision based on reliable evidence. Upon legal review and conviction, non-
judicial punishment or a military or civilian administrative action, the preliminary suspension
becomes a revocation, as stated in the preliminary suspension memorandum.

2-4.b.(5). (Added) On Eglin AFB, a person with a Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) or a Breath
Alcohol Content (BrAC) of .01% or greater and under the legal drinking age of 21 will have their
driving privileges suspended for 6 months for a first offense and 1 year for a second offense.

2-4.b.(6). (Added) On Eglin AFB, a BAC or BrAC of .05%-.08% is considered impaired and
will be issued a ticket for driving while impaired. The individual will not be allowed to drive for
at least 8 hours after being considered unsafe and impaired. The individual will be required to
attend Course V and be assessed 6 points on their base driving record for the violation.

2-6.d. (Added) The 96th Security Forces Squadron Reports and Administration office (96
SFS/S-5R) receives e-mail notification from virtual MPF (vMPF) of personnel departing Eglin
AFB. 96 SFS/S-5R performs a review of the individual’s history through Security Forces
Management Information System (SFMIS) and forwards any active record to the gaining
installation’s Security Forces Reports and Administration office. 96 SFS/S-5R receives a copy
of newly arrived personnel history through SFMIS.

2-6.e. (Added) The following rules apply when driving privileges for Eglin AFB have been
suspended or revoked for 6 months or more:
2-6.e.(1). (Added) Vehicle operators granted limited on-base driving privileges (authorization
to drive to and from place of duty, hospital for medical appointments, commissary, etc., within a
specified time period) will be issued a copy of the authorized Limited Driving Privileges
Memorandum, signed by the 96 MSG/CC. The memorandum will be carried by the operator,
who is granted limited driving privileges, while the vehicle is being operated or parked on the
installation.

2-6.e.(2). (Added) There are three parking areas offered for personnel with suspended/revoked
privileges on Eglin, Duke Field and 7 SFG (A) cantonment site. For Eglin, the parking lot is
located outside the East Gate on Louisiana Street in Valparaiso, Florida. For Duke Field, the
parking lot is located outside the Duke Field Gate. For 7 SFG (A) the parking lot is located
adjacent to the Visitor Center. The government accepts no responsibility for damage or theft
while vehicles are parked in these areas.

2-6.e.(3). (Added) Any individual losing base driving privileges concurrently loses the privilege
to operate government motor vehicles. Unit commanders may submit a memorandum of
justification through the Defense Force Commander (96 SFS/CC) and 96 MSG/CC requesting
the violator retain their US Government motor vehicle operator privileges. Requests should only
be made when mission impact is justifiably adverse and no other person exists that can fulfill the
requirement. Requests will require completion of the Driver’s Improvement Training Course V.

2-6.f. (Added) 96 SFS/S-5R will notify the 96th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Vehicle
Operations Flight, Operator Records and Licensing (96 LRS/LGRDDO) of personnel (military
and civilian) who have had their driving privileges either suspended or revoked each month.
Information provided will include the reason and effective dates of the revocation or suspension.
The 96 LRS/LGRDDO will enter the appropriate data into the Operator License Vehicle
Information Management System licensing module and ensure the member’s military driver’s
license is suspended and/or revoked, as required.

2-6.g. If an individual annotates their decision on the preliminary suspension/revocation
memorandum to apply for a hearing, they have: 14 calendar days to contact 96 SFS/S-5R to
request a hearing. If they do not schedule a hearing in the appropriate time frame, they will lose
the right to have a hearing and their base driving privileges will be automatically
suspended/revoked (14 days after issuance of the memorandum). If the individual declines a
hearing, the suspension begins as stated in the memorandum. For incidents listed in AFI 31-
218(I), paragraphs 2-4.a.(3).(a). through 2-4.a.(3).(d)., and incidents listed in paragraphs 2-
4.b.(3).(a). through 2-4.b.(3).(b)., suspension or revocation will begin immediately upon
receiving the preliminary suspension memorandum.

2-6.g.(1) Requested hearings will take place within 14 calendar days of the request. The 96
MSG/CC must provide a decision within 14 calendar days after the hearing. Additionally, if the
initial hearing provided by the 96 MSG/CC confirms the suspension, the affected person may
appeal or request reconsideration from the installation commander within 10 calendar days of
receiving a decision from the 96 MSG/CC.
2-9.f. When an official report or memorandum is received from an appropriate agency (to
include, but not limited to the Department of Motor Vehicles) who determines lack of guilt (not
guilty) or that charges are dismissed due to no fault of the operator, 96 SFS/S-5R will submit a
package to 96 MSG/CC to request reinstatement of the individual’s base driving privileges. The
individual must provide written documentation of proof that the incident was through no fault of
theirs and the incident was corrected.

2-10.h. The individual granted limited driving privileges will carry a copy of the memorandum
granting such while operating a motor vehicle.

3-1.a.(1). Although AFI 31-218(I) requires vehicle registration at DoD Installations, the Air
Force was granted a waiver from this requirement. However, in order to operate a vehicle on the
installation, operators must maintain a current state driver license, current state registration and
current insurance for the vehicle they are operating. Authorized ID cards, badges or visitor pass
will be presented at installation entry points for access. Persons operating a rental vehicle do not
need to show a rental agreement prior to entering an installation gate, however, while operating a
rental vehicle on Eglin AFB, a rental agreement must be available and shown upon request by 96
SFS personnel.

3-1.e.(1). (Added) At Eglin AFB, the Security Forces Management Information System
(SFMIS) pass is used to control visitors. During power failures or program problems with
SFMIS, the AF Form 75, Visitor Pass, is used.

3-1.e.(2). (Added) Visitor passes issued by the 96 SFS are for controlling base entry at either of
the primary base entry points (East or West Gate) for periods not to exceed 30 days. The
visitor’s sponsor must physically appear at the East or West Visitor Control Center to escort
visitor(s) onto the installation.

3-1.e.(3). (Added) Temporary passes issued by 96 SFS personnel must be returned to an
installation gate, visitor control center or to their sponsor, upon completion of use. Passes will
ultimately be turned into the East or West Visitor Control Center for final disposition.

3-2.b.(1). Personnel arriving from overseas installations with license plates issued by a foreign
government or an overseas military installation must apply for state registration within 30-days
after arrival, IAW Florida Law.

3-2.g. Military, Department of the Air Force and Non-Appropriated Funds civilian personnel,
military dependents, military foreign students and contractor personnel operating a motorcycle,
motor scooter, or moped on base must complete a Motorcycle Safety Foundation course (IVA,
MRC:RSS or IVB) IAW AFI 91-207, paragraph 13, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program.
Personnel who have not completed a recognized course will report to the Ground Safety office
(96 TW/SEG) for issuance of a memorandum containing their class date, which will be valid
until the next scheduled class. Exception: Operators possessing a state motorcycle license
endorsement that requires Motorcycle Safety Foundation approved training for such endorsement
are not required to complete course IVA or IVB. Personnel assigned to a command operating
under a MAJCOM/CC waiver do not need to complete course IVA or IVB. These requirements
do not apply to visitors who enter the installation on a “visitor pass” basis.

3-2.h. (Added) Mopeds operated on installation roadways will require registration in the state of
Florida. Recreational vehicles designed strictly for off-road use (to include, but not limited to
dirt bikes, dune buggies, ATVs) will not be operated on Eglin AFB and will not be registered.
This excludes the operation of government agency owned/operated vehicles.

3-4.b.(1). (Added) When placing a vehicle on the car sale lot, vehicle registration decals, if still
affixed, must be removed. While the vehicle is on the car sale lot, the owner must maintain
current state registration and insurance.

4-2.a. Attachment 2 to this supplement contains the 96 MSG/CC’s “Rules of the Road” for Eglin
AFB. For the purpose of this directive, the term “Eglin AFB” is equally applicable to areas
under the jurisdiction and control of Eglin AFB.

4-5.a. The threshold on Eglin AFB to be considered a major traffic accident is $10,000 for
government and privately owned vehicles. This amount is the total dollar amount for one of the
vehicles, not a combined amount. Property damage is also set at $10,000.

4-6.a.(1). 96 SFS personnel will respond to and investigate accidents where government and/or
private property damage exceeds $10,000, or when a government or privately owned vehicle
consists of disabling damage and cannot be moved, or when damage exceeds $10,000, or when
an accident involves a fatality or injury.

4-8.b.(1). 96 SFS/S-5R will monitor reserved parking and any other type of parking program on
base. 96 SFS/S3 Security Forces Operations is authorized to divert, restrict, or otherwise control
movement or parking of vehicular traffic during emergencies or special events. The 96 MSG/CC
is the approving authority for individual and area designated parking.

4-8.e. (Added) For contingency parking, refer to the Eglin AFB Antiterrorism Plan.

4-8.f. (Added) Procedures for Requesting Approval of Reserved Parking:

4-8.f.(1). (Added) To request approval of new designated parking spaces or relocation of
existing spaces, unit commanders or designated traffic wardens will submit a memorandum and
an AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, with a detailed sketch requesting reserved
parking slots or relocation of existing spaces. The request should be forwarded to 96 MSG/CC
through 96 SFS/S-5R. Justification must be included regarding the reserved slot.

4-8.f.(2). (Added) The 96th Security Forces Reports and Administration (96 SFS/S-5R) section
will:

4-8.f.(2).(a). (Added) Review the request for parking and recommend approval or disapproval.
Send original copies and recommended action to 96 MSG/CC for approval or disapproval.
4-8.f.(2).(b). (Added) Maintain records of approved spaces in the master-parking file.

4-8.f.(3). (Added) 96 MSG/CC will approve/disapprove requests and then forward them to 96
SFS/S-5R for documentation and numerical designation. 96 SFS/S-5R will notify and return the
request to the commander or designated traffic warden for submission of an AF Form 332 or
other appropriate action.

4-8.g. With the exception of handicapped signs, reserved parking spaces will be marked with
placard signs with a brown background and white lettering installed on the curb/concrete barrier
at the top of the parking space. Organizations may install reserved parking signs under self-help,
after coordination of an AF Form 332 through 796th Civil Engineer Squadron, Customer Service
(796 CES/CEOP) and 96 SFS/S-5R.

4-8.h. Each activity authorized reserved parking spaces will appoint, by memorandum, a traffic
warden (E-5 or above, or civilian equivalent). Memorandums will be turned into 96 SFS/S-5R.
Activities excluded from this requirement are Eglin AFB Auxiliary Field 3 (Duke Field) and the
20th Space Control Squadron (20 SPCS) located at Site C-6. The Defense Force Commander
may designate parking wardens (E-5 or above or civilian equivalent), other than security forces
personnel, to enforce proper parking. The Defense Force Commander may terminate an
appointment as traffic warden when substantial justification warrants. Installation parking
wardens, with the assistance of 96 SFS, will monitor base housing, dorm parking lots and
installation parking lots and will cite violations of this code. Vehicle owner will be immediately
contacted to move the vehicle.

4-8.i. (Added) Traffic wardens will:

4-8.i.(1). (Added) Maintain surveillance of the parking for their area of responsibility.

4-8.i.(2). (Added) Designate parking monitors, by memorandum, as needed and arrange for
training through 96 SFS/S-5R. Any changes concerning the designated parking monitors will
require a current memorandum of appointment and training before any DD Form 1408, Armed
Forces Traffic Ticket, will be processed by 96 SFS/S-5R. The traffic warden may appoint
parking monitors (in grade of E-4 or above or civilian equivalent) as their assistant. Submit a
written request to 96 SFS/S-5R for approval. Requests must identify the name, grade, building,
organization and duty phone number of the individual appointed as parking monitor.

4-8.i.(3). Be trained on their duties and responsibilities, to include preparation and issuance of
DD Form 1408, by 96 SFS/S-5R personnel. 96 SFS/S-5R will approve or disapprove the
request, return it to the originator.

4-8.i.(4). Work directly with, and coordinate reserved parking with 96 SFS/S-5R.

4-8.i.(5). Ensure unauthorized changes (additions or deletions) to previously approved and
existing reserved parking are not made prior to approval per paragraph 4.8.2.1.2.
4-8.i.(6). Submit a memorandum to 96 SFS/S-5R revalidating reserved parking between 1
March and 30 April of each year. The memorandum will include validation of existing reserved
spaces and validation that changes have not been made to the existing plan. Failure to revalidate
reserved parking will result in the loss of reserved parking spaces, except for handicap. 96
SFS/S-5R personnel are authorized to remove or designate a person to remove unauthorized
reserved parking spaces.

4-8.i.(7). Complete a DD Form 1408 and give the pink copy to the violator or attach it to the
vehicle’s windshield when a parking violation is observed, or upon receipt of a complaint from
the person for whom the parking space is reserved. Send the white and yellow copies with the
following minimum information annotated on the ticket: license plate number, vehicle
identification number, make, and color to 96 SFS/S-5R for processing, no later than the next duty
day following the date of issue. The back of the yellow copy must contain the answers to the
questions relating to the nature of the parking violation. The back of the pink copy should also
be filled out prior to being issued to the violator.

4-8.j. Personnel who paint, mark, stencil or otherwise indicate reserved parking in an area not
authorized IAW this supplement or the base parking plan will be subject to command action via
AF Form 3545, Incident Report.

4-8.k. Types of Authorized Reserved Parking Spaces:

4-8.k.(1). Program Executive Office, Wing/Vice Commander and Director/Deputy Director
equivalents.

4-8.k.(2). Group Commander and Senior Material Leader equivalents; Squadron and Material
Leader equivalents.

4-8.k.(3) General Officer/Senior Executive Service.

4-8.k.(4). Command Chief Master Sergeants/First Sergeants.

4-8.l. Personnel identified in paragraphs 4-8.k.(1). through 4-8.k.(4). must be identified in
writing and include justification that the individual holds one of the aforementioned positions.
This justification must be signed by the senior member in the chain of command (on Eglin AFB),
at the group/wing commander level or civilian equivalent. This authority may not be delegated.
4-8.m. Reserved Handicapped Parking. If a physician certifies a person to be severely,
physically disabled with permanent mobility problems which substantially impair the ability to
ambulate, or is permanently confined to a wheelchair, that person will be considered for reserved
handicapped parking.

4-8.m.(1). If the handicapped individual’s vehicle is registered in the state of Florida, the person
will be required to obtain the state-issued handicapped placard to be displayed in the front
windshield.
4-8.m.(2). Reserved handicapped parking spaces for qualified Eglin AFB employees will be
appropriately marked (to include, but not limited to Medical/PK). This will distinguish
handicapped employee reserved parking from transient (visitor) handicapped parking.

4-8.m.(3). Vehicles bearing registration to handicapped individuals will be authorized the
reserved marking space only when the vehicle is operated or occupied by the handicapped
person.

4-8.m.(4). Traffic wardens may temporarily permit the use of unit handicap slots for those
personnel who have suffered an injury or have undergone surgery, which makes walking
difficult, for the duration of the disability. Parking authorization must be obtained by a
memorandum from the unit commander. The memorandum must be placed on the dashboard of
the vehicle.

4-8.n. Special Access/Specialty Parking:

4-8.n.(1). Loading Zone: A loading zone is an approved space for the purpose of loading or
unloading equipment, materials, etc., for a period not to exceed 15 minutes. Loading zones will
be designated with the words “Loading Zone.” These spaces will be reserved on a 24-hour basis.

4-8.n.(2). Customer Parking: These reserved parking spaces will be designated with the word
“Customer” and a time limitation not to exceed 2 hours painted on the sign. Vehicles will not be
moved from one customer space to another in an effort to avoid the 2-hour limitation.

4-8.n.(3). Military Vehicle Parking: An approved parking space reserved for government-
owned or leased vehicles including vehicles procured by the Army and Air Force Exchange
Service (AAFES) is considered military vehicle parking. These spaces are not to be used for
privately owned or contractor-operated vehicles. Each military vehicle space will be designated
“Mil Veh” and the activity office symbol (to include, but not limited to Mil Veh/AWC).
Individuals using their privately owned vehicle for official purposes who have been issued and
are displaying the authorization memorandum issued by the 96th Civil Engineer Group Programs
Division (96 CEG/CEP) or 96 TW Contracting Section (96 TW/PZ) are authorized to use
military vehicle slots.

4-8.n.(4). TDY/Deployed parking: Personnel who are TDY or deployed and on official orders
may park their privately owned vehicle in the deployed parking lot located on the East side of
Buildings 600 and 615. Vehicles must be properly licensed and insured during the duration of
the TDY or deployment. Personnel park at their own risk.

4-8.n.(5). Chief Master Sergeants (CMSgt). Reserved parking slots for active duty, reserve, or
retired chief master sergeants at the main gym and at the Base Exchange parking lot will be
identified by the letters “CMSgt.” The reserved parking slots will be limited to no more than two
percent of available parking slots located at the main gym and at the Base Exchange parking lot.

4-8.n.(6). Eglin Quarterly Award Winner. A reserved parking space for the current quarterly
winner will be identified at the Eglin Club. This space will be marked by a sign stating “Eglin
SNCO/NCO/AMN of the Quarter” or “Eglin’s CGO of the Quarter”. Reserved parking spaces
for SNCO/NCO/AMN may also be utilized by civilian CAT III/II/I award winners respectively.

4-8.n.(7). Trailers, boats or recreational vehicles may park in military housing driveways if
applicable for 24 hours for the purpose of loading and unloading only. Any trailer, boat or
recreational vehicle parked on Eglin AFB in the street or driveway of military housing in excess
of 24 hours may be ticketed. This does not include parking or storage in a carport or garage as
stated in paragraph 4.8.8 of this supplement.

4-8.n.(8). Maternity Parking. Reserved parking spaces for Obstetric Patients are located in the
Base Exchange and Commissary parking lots. The spaces are marked by a sign stating
“Maternity Parking.” Obstetrics Patients obtain a maternity parking permit to display on their
dashboard from the 96th Medical Group OB/GYN Clinic. Maternity parking permits are
authorized for Eglin AFB only.

4-8.o. Prohibited Parking:

4-8.o.(1). Vehicles will be parked only in designated marked areas provided at each facility
except as authorized by a parking plan. Unless marked, parking along streets, curbs, traffic
islands, on grass, seeded areas, and road shoulders is prohibited except during special and
sporting events when overflow parking must be provided. Regardless, parking will be
accomplished so as not to restrict the normal flow of traffic or create a hazard. “No Parking”
signs are not required to be posted in areas where parking is not authorized or not marked.

4-8.o.(2). Parking adjacent to any building that is not properly marked, other than family
quarters, is prohibited. The only exception is vehicles parking within loading docks while in the
process of loading or unloading cargo for a period not to exceed 15 minutes.

4-8.o.(3). Personnel residing in military family housing are authorized only one reserved parking
space per housing unit. Other spaces are on a first-come, first-served basis. Personnel will
comply with the following:

4-8.o.(3).(a). Where possible, vehicles will be parked in authorized spaces, driveways or
carports.

4-8.o.(3).(b). When insufficient parking in authorized spaces exists, vehicles are permitted to
parallel park on the street with the flow of traffic. Parking against the flow of traffic, on grassed
or seeded areas is prohibited.

4-8.o.(3).(c). Parked vehicles must not block sidewalks in any way. Vehicles must not park with
any wheels/tires on sidewalks.

4-8.o.(3).(d). Parking motorcycles on sidewalks, patios or in yards is prohibited.

4-8.o.(3).(e). Residents who live on cul-de-sacs or courts, which are not through streets, are
prohibited from parking on the grass islands. They may, however, park on the street at the
entrance to the cul-de-sac or court. Cars will be parked only on one side of the street (the side
opposite a fire hydrant).

4-8.o.(3).(f). In Wherry Housing, each unit has one reserved parking space in designated parking
lots and/or designated spaces in detached carports near the unit. Unmarked parking spaces are
on a first-come basis. Service roads may not be used for overflow parking when carports and
parking sheds are occupied. Service roads must be accessible at all times to permit safe passage
of emergency vehicles (fire trucks, ambulances, police vehicles) and sanitation trucks.

4-8.o.(3).(g). Campers, trailers or other such recreational vehicles are to be parked in the
Recreational and Utility Equipment Storage Compounds according to AACI 32-6001, Operation
of The Recreation and Utility Equipment Storage Compound. This area is controlled by the Base
Housing Office. Boats or trailers may be parked inside a garage or under a carport as long as it
does not exceed the length of the garage/carport. Active duty personnel not residing on Eglin
AFB may store campers, trailers, etc., at the RV storage lot for a monthly fee. This lot is located
near the Outdoor Recreation Office at Postal Point. Retired members, civil servants, and
contractors may also be put on a waiting list to use the storage compound. Contact the 96th
Force Support Squadron (96 FSS) for further information.

4-8.o.(4). To avoid delay of mail when parking space is not available, an official US Postal
Service or commercial express company vehicle may park in any area as long as such parking is
done without impeding traffic flow or creating a traffic hazard.

4-8.o.(5). Parking of any type of vehicle for the purpose of camping is prohibited anywhere on
Eglin AFB except at the Family Camping Area (FAMCAMP), areas designated in writing by
Natural Resources Branch (96 CEG/CEVR), Jackson Guard, and specified areas during special
events.

4-8.o.(6). The ignition key will not be left within any unattended vehicle while on Eglin AFB.
Vehicles, except for emergency response vehicles, will be secured if parked in authorized
parking areas on the flight line (i.e. in front of Base Operations). Exception: Unattended
vehicles parked within a restricted area or a radius of 50 feet of any parked aircraft will be
unlocked with keys left in the ignition and under observation of the person responsible for the
vehicle. Refueling units, tractors assigned to base fuels, and propellant transporters will have
keys in the ignition at all times according to AFI 23-201, Fuels Management.

4-8.p. Parking Restrictions.

4-8.p.(1). Vehicle operators will not park in any manner to obstruct a fire lane, parked vehicle,
or to interfere with the normal flow of traffic. It is a violation for any person to interfere with
vehicles, which are entering, exiting, or traversing a parking lot. It is specifically prohibited to
stop within a travel lane of any parking lot for the purpose of waiting for a parking space, except
momentarily to permit another vehicle to depart a parking space and then only when the operator
of the departing vehicle is physically present and is clearly in the process of vacating the parking
area.
4-8.p.(2). No vehicle will occupy more than one designated parking space.

4-8.p.(3). When authorized, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a 2-way roadway will be
stopped or parked with the right wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the curb or edge of
the roadway.

4-8.p.(4). Stopping, standing (motorcycles) or parking prohibited, except when necessary, or in
compliance with law or the directions of the security forces or official traffic control device. No
person will stop, stand, or park a vehicle:

4-8.p.(4).(a). Within a marked triangular space at the end of marked parking spaces in parking
lots, or within any other area, which is clearly marked or lined out for non-parking, nor in any
other area not clearly designated for parking.

4-8.p.(4).(b). So as to obstruct the traveled portion of any roadway except when it is necessary
for loading and unloading supplies and equipment. In these cases, a spotter will be used.

4-8.p.(4).(a). Parallel to the curb headed in the same direction of traffic, or where diagonal
parking is authorized by roadway markings.

4-8.q. Vehicles will not be parked in the following areas unless otherwise marked:

4-8.q.(1). Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or trash dumpster.

4-8.q.(2). Within 20 feet of a crosswalk.

4-8.q.(3). Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or fire lane.

4-8.q.(4). Within 20 feet of any building, other than residence unless otherwise posted.

4-8.q.(5). Within 30 feet of any traffic control sign or other traffic control device unless such
area is clearly marked or posted for parking.

4-8.q.(6). Within 30 feet of an intersection.

4-8.q.(7). Within 50 feet of any building used for storage of gas, oil or other flammables.

4-8.q.(8). Within 75 feet of an accident or fire.

4-8.q.(9). Within 75 feet of fire equipment that has stopped to answer an alarm.

4-8.q.(10). On portions of roadways marked with yellow lines.

4-8.q.(11). On sidewalks.

4-8.q.(12). In front of driveways and loading zones.
4-8.q.(13). In any manner obstructing a driveway.

4-8.q.(14). In such a manner as to create a hazard to the normal flow of traffic.

4-8.q.(15). In excess of any posted or clearly marked time limit.

4-8.q.(16). In any parking space legally reserved for another marked parking space.

4-8.q.(17). Behind or beside any vehicle (double-parked).

4-8.q.(18). Where prohibited by posted official signs or pavement striping. Note: Motorcycles
may park in the white marked areas at the end of parking roads where they do not create a hazard
or interference. Motorcycles are not authorized to park in the yellow, hash-marked areas at the
entrance to parking lots/driveways. Refer to paragraphs A2.5 through A2.5.16, Rules of the
Road, for further guidance.

4-8.q.(19). On shoulders of roadways except for mechanical failure of the vehicle, during
emergency minor repair, or receiving/making an emergency cell phone call. There will be no
maintenance overhaul or repair taking longer than 24 hours to complete of privately owned
vehicles on roadways, in parking lots or in Base Housing areas. Vehicles with the wheels off
and supported by jacks must be attended. Maintenance must be completed the same day that it is
started and no vehicle will be left unattended while work is in progress.

4-8.q.(20). In spaces clearly marked as reserved parking only.

4-8.q.(21). At any installation entry control point except for official business (not for
convenience).

4-8.q.(22). In any parking lot for the purposes of selling privately owned motor vehicles, trailers,
boats and other merchandise. Parking areas identified by 96 FSS is the only place where vehicles
may be parked for the purpose of selling. The owner must register their vehicle with the Auto
Hobby Shop before putting their vehicle on these lots. Vehicles that are parked at other places
with “For Sale” signs on them will be ticketed.

4-8.q.(23). Only passenger cars (to include, but not limited to trucks, vans and campers) will be
allowed to park on Barrancas Avenue between D and F Avenues.

4-8.r. Double-parking. Double parking will not be allowed on Eglin AFB. No vehicle will park
behind another, thus blocking the vehicle from leaving a parking space. Exception: Operators
may safely park more than one, but no more than four motorcycles/mopeds within an authorized
parking spot.

4-9.f. An appeals process will be monitored by 96 SFS/S-5R as follows:
4-9.f.(1). If an individual desires to appeal a DD Form 1408, they must submit a typed
memorandum endorsed by their commander or director no later than 5 duty days after the
issuance of the ticket to 96 SFS/S-5R. The memorandum must explain why the individual feels
the ticket is unjust or unwarranted. Under normal circumstances, individuals will not be
permitted to appeal a ticket later than 5 duty days after issue when other administrative action is
pending.

4-9.f.(2). The 96 MSG/CC or designated representative will make final determination of the
appeal process. A response will be sent through the concerned commander to the individual.

4-9.g. On Eglin AFB, if a fix-it ticket is issued for a vehicle defect or any other reason, the
person will have 72 hours to show proof of the fixed item to Building 272, BDOC. If the item is
proven fixed within 72 hours, that portion of the ticket will be discarded by security forces
personnel. If the item is not fixed within 72 hours, the ticket will be processed as normal.

4-11.c. On Eglin AFB, a BAC or BrAC of .08% or higher is considered to have been driving
under the influence of alcohol.

5-3.d. (Added) Persons who accumulate 12 or more traffic points within 12 consecutive months
will receive a 6-month driving suspension/revocation. Persons who accumulate 18 or more
traffic points within 24 consecutive months will receive a 1-year suspension/revocation.

Table 5-2

(Added) Violation: Littering while vehicle in motion.

Points assessed: 2

5-4.d. (Added) Based on information compiled in the Security Forces Management Information
System (SFMIS) computer system Driver Record, the Defense Force Commander will notify the
violator’s commander and 96 TW/SEG of personnel found to be problem drivers. The
individual’s commander or supervisor will schedule personnel for driver improvement training.
Upon completion of training, notify 96 SFS/S-5R for proper annotation of records. If the
individual does not complete this course, their driving privilege suspension/revocation will be
extended until completion of the course. Before any individual can apply for limited driving
privileges, they will have completed this course. The Driver Improvement Training Course V,
AFI 91-207, is mandatory for the following circumstances:

5-4.d.(1). (Added) When base driving privileges are suspended or revoked due to accumulation
of 12 or more traffic points from moving violations within 12 months.

5-4.d.(2). (Added) An individual is assessed 6 or more traffic points from moving violations
within a 6-month period.
5-4.d.(3). (Added) An individual’s driving privilege is suspended or revoked. Exception: If
the suspension is due to non-moving violations, the individual’s commander will determine
when training is mandatory.

5-4.d.(4). (Added) An individual is found guilty of a civil traffic offense resulting in the
suspension or revocation of their state driver license.

5-4.d.(5). (Added) The unit commander determines that an individual is a problem driver.

5-4.d.(6). (Added) Military or civilian personnel are ticketed at fault for involvement in an
accident while operating a government vehicle.

5-4.d.(7). (Added) An individual is convicted of reckless driving.

5-4.d.(8). (Added) An individual is ticketed for driving under the influence.

5-5. Procedures for disposition of driving records are outlined in AFI 31-218(I), paragraph 5-
5.a.-f. and AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities.

6-2.d. Abandoned/derelict vehicles: No person will be allowed to park or abandon a derelict
motorized vehicle within the confines of Eglin AFB for more than 72 hours. Any vehicle parked
for more than 72 hours on a public street, roadway or public parking area (to include, but not
limited to BX, commissary, hobby shop, dormitories or base housing), or any vehicle for which
the owner cannot be identified or has permanently departed the immediate vicinity of Eglin AFB,
will be considered abandoned by the owner until determined otherwise by 96th Security Forces
Squadron (96 SFS) personnel who will place a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, on
the derelict vehicle. The owner must then remove the vehicle from Eglin AFB within 72 hours.
If the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours, a DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, will
be placed on the vehicle. If the vehicle is not removed within 72 hours of affixing the DD Form
2504, the vehicle is subject to impoundment by 96 SFS personnel at the owner’s expense.
Abandoned and/or derelict vehicles are defined as:

6-2.d.(1). (Added) Partially dismantled, non-operable, wrecked, junked and/or neglected (to
include, but not limited to flat tires, spare parts, expired registration).

6-2.d.(2). (Added) Not meeting the requirement of the state in which it is registered.

6-2.d.(3). (Added) Not maintained in operational condition (a vehicle must be safely drivable).

6-2.d.(4). (Added) Involved in an accident which caused major damage to the vehicle.

6-2.d.(5). (Added) Undergoing major repairs in an unauthorized location (the only authorized
location is the 96th Force Support Squadron Automotive Hobby Shop).

6-2.d.(6). (Added) Not meeting minimum safety standards for operation.
6-3.b. The designated security forces impound lot is located at the end of Hialeah Road adjacent
to Building 622.




                                                DAVID A. HARRIS, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                Commander
                                       Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011.
AFI 23-201, Fuels Management, 23 January 2012.
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 Dec 2006
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigation Program, 16 Sep 2009.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008.
AFMAN 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 9 May 2012.
DOD Directive 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition Manual.

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, 11 Mar 2003
AF Form 52, Evidence Tag
                                     Attachment 2 (Added)

                                    RULES OF THE ROAD

A2.1. Use and Applicability. This attachment contains the 96th Mission Support Group
Commander’s (96 MSG/CC) uniform traffic control codes; regulates the movement of vehicles,
pedestrians and other traffic throughout Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. This attachment
assimilates the Florida Traffic Law (Florida Statues 2012, Title XXIII,
http://www.flsenate.gov/Statutes/) and all supplements thereto as a portion of this supplement to
govern the operation of motor vehicles on the property of Eglin AFB. When the provisions of
the Florida Traffic Laws conflict with higher headquarters or local directives governing the
operation of motor vehicles, the higher headquarters or local directives, as applicable, will take
precedence. It is a violation of this supplement for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, by these rules, and said rules will apply to persons while upon this
installation.

A2.2. Responsibility. The 96 SFS/CC is the installation commander’s principal advisor on
issues pertaining to the safe movement of personnel and traffic. The 96 SFS/CC will administer
and supervise enforcement of these Rules of the Road. Penalties for violations shall be assessed
in accordance with the tables and guidance set forth in AFI 31-218(I), AFMAN 31-116 and as
set forth in this supplement. Criminal infractions and offenses may also be enforced through
appropriate judicial action. All other violations shall be recorded without the assessment of a
penalty under this regulation; however, the name and relevant details of any person deemed to be
a “repeat offender” shall be referred to the member’s chain of command for appropriate further
action. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the rights and measures available to
the Installation Commander or the designee to ensure good order and safe operations on the
installation.

A2.3. Base Traffic Code. The base traffic code will be the sole basis of traffic enforcement on
Eglin AFB.

A2.3.1. Obedience to personnel involved in traffic enforcement. No person will willfully fail or
refuse to promptly comply with any lawful order or direction of any security forces, safety
representative, or other personnel designated by 96 MSG/CC to supervise and/or enforce
compliance with traffic safety rules.

A2.3.2. Obedience to traffic signs and markings. The driver of any vehicle will obey official
traffic signs, markings, or other traffic control devices, unless otherwise directed by security
forces or other persons performing traffic control functions.

A2.4. Vehicle operations. In addition to standard vehicle operating policies and procedures
applicable within the Air Force, the following rules of the road apply on Eglin AFB:

A2.4.1. Riding on the outside of vehicles. Operators will not allow anyone to ride on the outside
of motor vehicles except for trash trucks, fire-fighting equipment, cargo-carrying vehicles
equipped with sideboards and tailgate or when special authorization is granted by the 96
TW/SEG. If riding in the back of a cargo-carrying vehicle, riders will be seated on the floor and
not against the tailgate, unless the cargo-carrying vehicle is equipped with fixed seats.
Supervisors will ensure personnel who are authorized to ride on the outside of motor vehicles
have the necessary training and comply with safety guidelines.

A2.4.2. Stopping, standing or hitchhiking. Personnel will not stop or stand on or adjacent to any
roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride. Except for the designated Give an Airmen a Ride
spots.

A2.4.3. Seatbelts. Operators and passengers of operated private or government operated motor
vehicles on a DoD installation will wear occupant restraints. Exception: Vehicles manufactured
before 1966 do not require restraint systems.

A2.4.4. Child restraints. Each vehicle operator transporting a child in a motor vehicle, operated
within the limits of Eglin AFB, will provide for the protection of the child by properly using and
restraining a separate and federally approved child carrier or a vehicle manufacturer’s integrated
child seat when the child is 4 years of age or younger and not exceeding 45 pounds in weight.

A2.4.5. Children unattended in vehicles. It is prohibited to leave children 7 years of age and
under in an unattended or unsupervised vehicle.

A2.4.6. Littering. Individuals will not throw or drop any material from motor vehicles, to
include, but not limited to, cigarette butts, and will ensure their loads are secure to prevent cargo
from falling from their vehicles creating a traffic, safety or environmental hazard.

A2.4.7. Spotters. Operators of government cargo vehicles over ½ ton capacity will post a
spotter before backing up. If a spotter is not available, the driver will exit from the vehicle and
check the area for clearance before backing.

A2.4.8. Road closures. The Installation Commander has delegated the authority to the 96th Test
Wing Range Operations Division and Defense Force Commander (DFC), to close all or any
portion of the roads or parking areas on Eglin AFB when conditions warrant. Individuals
operating motor vehicles on the installation in violation of this paragraph will be ticketed under
the provisions of this supplement to include the statues. Roadways will be closed either by
posted security force personnel, signs, traffic cones, range gates or barriers. Coordination with
the DFC will be accomplished before any roadway is closed.

A2.4.9. Prohibited entry. Privately owned vehicles will not be operated in areas where posted
signs prohibit entry unless authorized by the agency responsible for that area.

A2.4.10. Positive and safe control. Vehicle operators will maintain positive and safe control of
their vehicles at all times. They will not operate or leave their vehicle unattended in a manner
that is unsafe for existing conditions, or not clear of existing obstructions. Vehicle drivers will
maintain an assured, clear stopping distance ahead of their vehicle.
A2.4.11. Airfield restrictions. Vehicles operated on the airfield (to include, but not limited to
runways, taxiways, parking aprons) will be registered with the Chief, Airfield Management (96
OSS/OSAM) and are subject to provisions of this supplement. Additionally, vehicles operated
on the airfield are subject to the provisions of AFMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle
Driver.

A2.4.12. Catalytic converter restriction. No vehicle (government, contract or privately owned)
equipped with a catalytic converter will be permitted to stand or park within 50 feet of any
aircraft, fuel spill, POL area, explosive areas or potentially hazardous areas when identified and
placarded as such. This restriction does not apply to service station pumping areas for vehicle
refueling purposes.

A2.4.13. Illegal left turns. Left turns where the vehicle must cross traffic onto Eglin Boulevard
from another roadway or parking area are not permitted unless an intervening space has been
designated to crossover the solid yellow lines, at an intersection with a left turn lane, as directed
by an official traffic control device, or police official.

A2.4.14. Towing requirements. When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the tow bar or
other connection will be of sufficient strength to pull weight towed and the connection will not
exceed 15 feet in length between each vehicle. When the connection consists of a chain, rope or
cable, a white flag or cloth will be tied in the middle of the connection. A government vehicle
will not be used to tow, push or in any way move or transport a privately owned vehicle, or for
any other personal use, unless authorized by the 96th Logistics Readiness Squadron (96
LRS/CC) Commander or other competent authority.

A2.4.15. Vehicles going off roadways. On Eglin AFB, any motorized vehicle, to include
motorcycles, trail bikes, mopeds, scooters, miniature racing cars, mini-bikes or four wheeled all
terrain vehicles (ATVs), will not be operated off roadways. Government or privately owned
vehicles on official government business are exempt from this restriction.

A2.4.16. Visibility requirements for headlamps and tail lamps. Every motor vehicle operated
during the hours of darkness will have at least one headlamp and one tail lamp on each side of
the vehicle and will emit a light from each lamp. Headlamps and tail lamps must be in proper
adjustment and operating condition.

A2.4.16.1. Vehicle headlights must give off a white light at a distance of 450 feet for high beam
and 150 feet for low beam. Headlights will be on any time from sunset to sunrise including
twilight hours. Headlights will also be on during decreased visibility to include rain, smoke or
fog. While operating a motor vehicle on Eglin AFB, smoke, tinted or colored headlight covers
are prohibited. This excludes vehicles that are equipped with covers installed at the factory.

A2.4.16.2. Vehicle tail lamps must give off a red light at a distance of 1,000 feet. Taillights will
be on from sunset to sunrise including twilight hours. Taillights will also be on during decreased
visibility to include rain, smoke or fog. While operating a motor vehicle on Eglin AFB, smoke,
tinted, clear or colored (other than red) taillight covers are prohibited. This excludes vehicles
that are equipped with covers installed at the factory.
A2.4.17. Display of license plates. Every vehicle, while driven, stopped or parked on Eglin
AFB, will be licensed in the name of the owner IAW the laws of that state. The state license
plate will be securely fastened to the vehicle on the outside of the main body in such a manner as
to prevent the plates from swinging. Letters, numerals, printing, writing and other identification
marks must be plainly visible and legible 100 feet from the rear or front (if applicable) of the
vehicle and the rear plate must be illuminated by a white light. License plates must be kept
current, regardless of being on temporary duty (TDY), on leave or away from the area. On Eglin
AFB, smoke, tinted or colored license plate covers are prohibited.

A2.4.18. Neon lights. While operating a motor vehicle on Eglin AFB, neon, florescent or black
lights attached to a vehicle (either inside or outside) are prohibited from being turned on.
Exception: Vehicles that are parked in an authorized parking space are authorized to turn neon,
florescent or black lights on as long as the vehicle is not in motion.

A2.4.19. Use/Display of radar detectors. The displaying or use of any type of radar detecting
device used to detect, indicate, or notify a vehicle operator that official speed measuring devices
are operating is prohibited on Eglin AFB. Radar detectors will not be visible or plugged into any
type of power supply. Radar detectors built into the dashboard of vehicles must be turned off
prior to entering Eglin AFB and will remain off while on Eglin AFB.

A2.4.20. Sound limitations. It is a violation of this supplement for anyone to operate a motor
vehicle on Eglin AFB in which the sound produced by a radio, tape/compact disc player, digital
players or other mechanical sound making device is amplified so that the sound is plainly audible
outside the vehicle at a distance of 25 feet or more. Vehicles will not emit music/sound that is
offensive, degrading, or otherwise detracts from good order and discipline.

A2.4.21. Defective tires. The Florida Official Vehicle Inspection Manual will be used for the
basis of determining defective tires on Eglin AFB.

A2.4.22. Open containers. An open container is defined as a container that is or has been
opened as evidenced by the breaking of the original seal. Operators of, or passengers in a motor
vehicle (to include, but not limited to motorcycles or mopeds) on Eglin AFB, will not have an
open container of alcohol in the interior of the vehicle. Persons will be permitted to carry open
containers of alcohol (to include, but not limited to beer, wine or liquor) in the trunk. A trunk is
defined as the compartment of the vehicle, which is intended to be used to carry luggage/cargo.
Civilians stopped on base who are in violation of this paragraph will be cited according to
current procedures.

A2.4.23. Insurance requirements. While on Eglin AFB, every motorized vehicle (either parked
or operated) will be required to show proof of insurance, excluding government owned vehicles
to security forces personnel upon request. The minimum required insurance to operate or park a
motorized vehicle on Eglin AFB is: $10,000 for personal injury protection (PIP) and $10,000 for
property damage liability (PDL).
A2.4.24. Wearing of headphones or earphones. Wearing of portable headphones or other
listening devices while running, jogging, walking, bicycling, rollerblading, roller-skating,
skateboarding, scooter riding or operating a motorized vehicle on or off roadways or sidewalks
of Eglin AFB is prohibited. Exception: Hands-free device for cell phones and headphones or
earphones are authorized when in areas where motor vehicles are not operated (i.e., playgrounds,
housing yards and approved running trails).

A2.4.25. Rollerblading, roller-skating, skateboarding or scooter riding:

A2.4.25.1. There will be no rollerblading, roller-skating, skateboarding or scooter riding on the
roadways or around the entrances to established buildings of Eglin AFB. Authorized areas,
unless otherwise posted, include sidewalks, empty parking lots or bicycle trails.

A2.4.25.2. Helmets must be worn and securely fastened under the chin of individual’s
rollerblading, roller-skating, skateboarding, bicycling or scooter riding on Eglin AFB.

A2.4.26. Base entry/exit points:

A2.4.26.1. The driver of any vehicle will, consistent with the requirements of base security,
reduce speed to 5 MPH upon reaching any entry control point, and unless waved through by the
security force entry controller, come to a complete stop and not proceed into the installation until
security force personnel have clearly indicated by words or appropriate hand signal that the
vehicle and occupants are authorized to proceed. Drivers will turn off their headlights, or when
unable to turn off headlights, drivers will use low beams during the hours of darkness when
approaching gates.

A2.4.26.2. The East, West, North, Northwest and Hospital Gates are the only authorized
entry/exit points, unless otherwise approved and directed by the DFC. At Duke Field, the main
Duke Field entry/exit is the only authorized point unless otherwise approved and directed by the
DFC.

A2.4.27. Maximum speed limits:

A2.4.27.1. Unless otherwise posted or specified herein, the maximum speed on Eglin AFB is 25
MPH.

A2.4.27.2. Four-lane paved roads: 45 MPH unless otherwise posted.

A2.4.27.3. Entrance to Eglin AFB Gates: 5 MPH unless otherwise posted.

A2.4.27.4. Housing areas: 20 MPH unless otherwise posted.

A2.4.27.5. Paved range roads: 45 MPH unless otherwise posted.

A2.4.27.6. Sand or clay roads: 35 MPH unless otherwise posted.
A2.4.27.7. Parking areas: 10 MPH.

A2.4.27.8. Housing area cul-de-sacs: 5 MPH.

A2.4.27.9. School zones: 20 MPH during school hours, when crossing guards are posted, or
when school yellow caution lights are flashing.

A2.4.27.10. Passing Military Formations: 10 MPH.

A2.4.28. Motorized two, three or four-wheeled all terrain vehicle (ATV) required safety
equipment:

A2.4.28.1. Personal Protection Equipment:

A2.4.28.1.1. Head Protection. A helmet designed to meet or exceed Department of
Transportation (DOT) standards, shall be worn and properly fastened under the chin. Host
nation equivalent is acceptable if it meets or exceeds the DOT standard. Commanders may
authorize use of tactical helmets in appropriate off-road training or operating environments after
completing an ORM evaluation.

A2.4.28.1.2. Eye Protection. Goggles, wrap around glasses, or a full-face shield (properly
attached to helmet) designed to meet or exceed American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
Standard Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance will be worn. A windshield does not constitute
proper eye protection. Host nation equivalent is acceptable if it meets or exceeds ANSI Standard
Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance. Operators will not wear tinted face shields, goggles/
glasses during hours of darkness.

A2.4.28.1.3. Protective Clothing. Wear of long sleeved shirt or jacket, long trousers, and full-
fingered gloves are required. Gloves should be the sturdy, non-slip type to permit a firm grip on
controls. Wear of a motorcycle jacket and pants constructed of abrasion resistant materials such
as leather, Kevlar®, and/or Cordura® containing impact absorbing padding are strongly
encouraged.

A2.4.28.1.4. Foot Protection. Riders will wear sturdy, over-the-ankle footwear that affords
protection for the feet and ankles (durable athletic shoes that cover the ankles may be worn).
Sandals, low quarter sneakers, and similar footwear will not be used.

A2.4.28.1.5. Garment and Motorcycle Visibility. Motorcycle riders will wear a brightly colored
outer upper garment during the day and a reflective upper garment at night. Outer upper garment
shall be visible and not covered. Wearing a backpack is authorized if it has brightly
colored/reflective properties.

A2.4.28.1.6. All on-duty riders of motorcycles and ATVs during off-road operations should also
wear knee, shin guards and padded full-fingered gloves. Security patrol requirements may
dictate limited compliance.
A2.4.28.2. Operators of an ATV will complete an approved (SVIA) ATV Course.

A2.4.28.3. ATVs will not be driven on hard pavement. When crossing a paved surface, the
ATV operator will cross the surface as quickly as possible. Exception: 96 SFS personnel may
operate ATVs on hard pavement, when conducting official duties.

A2.4.29. Golf or Ez-Go carts. Various three/four-wheeled gas or electric propelled golf or Ez-
Go carts will not be operated on any roadway or street of Eglin AFB, unless the operation is
specifically approved in writing by 96 SFS and 96 TW/SEG. Any golf or Ez-Go carts operating
illegally on any roadway or street may be ticketed. Designated areas (not requiring approval in
writing for operation) include the civil engineering compound, immediate CE work areas,
Hospital Campus and flight line areas when deemed necessary and regulated by proper and
respective authority.

A2.4.30. Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles or other self-propelled vehicles:

A2.4.30.1. Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway of Eglin AFB will be granted all the
rights and will be subject to the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle. Bicycles or other
self-propelled vehicles will obey traffic directives prescribed for motor vehicle traffic.

A2.4.30.2. Helmets will be securely fastened under the chin and worn while riding any bicycle
or other self-propelled vehicle while on Eglin AFB.

A2.4.30.3. The parent of any child and any adult, while in charge of any child, will not authorize
or knowingly permit any child to violate any of the provisions of this directive.

A2.4.30.4. The use of headphones, earphones or any other listening device while operating a
bicycle is prohibited.

A2.4.30.5. Every bicycle or other self-propelled vehicle operated on Eglin AFB during the hours
of official sunset to sunrise or times when vision is difficult due to reduced visibility (rain,
smoke or fog), will be equipped with:

A2.4.30.5.1. A lighted lamp on the front, which displays a white light visible from a distance of
at least 500 feet to the front. Lighted lamps on bicycles or other self-propelled vehicles are
required to be on during official sunset to sunrise, or times when vision is difficult due to
reduced visibility (rain, smoke or fog).

A2.4.30.5.2. A red reflector or lamp on the rear which is visible 500 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful high beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.

A2.4.30.6. Bicycles or other self-propelled vehicles will ride only astride the seat and will not
carry other persons thereon unless the cycle is equipped with an additional fixed seat.
A2.4.30.7. Bicycles or other self-propelled vehicles will not be operated on Eglin Boulevard or
perimeter road unless mission related.

A2.4.31. Pedestrian Safety:

A2.4.31.1. Pedestrian Right of Way in Crosswalks. The driver of a vehicle will slow down or
stop, if need be, to yield to a pedestrian approaching or within a crosswalk.

A2.4.31.2. Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks. Pedestrians crossing roadways will use
available crosswalks, overpasses or underpasses. Pedestrians crossing a roadway at any point
other than within a marked crosswalk will yield the right of way to vehicles upon the roadway.
No pedestrian will cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless required to remain within a
marked crosswalk.

A2.4.31.3. Pedestrians on Roadways. Where sidewalks are provided, pedestrians must not walk
along or upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking
along and upon a roadway will, when practical, walk only on the left side of the roadway, or its
shoulder, facing traffic approaching from the opposite direction.

A2.4.31.4. Pedestrians Right of Way on Sidewalks. The driver of an emergency vehicle
departing from or entering an alley, building, or driveway or parking area will yield the right of
way to any pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk extending across such alley, building,
driveway, or parking area.

A2.4.31.5. Pedestrians will not walk, jog or run on the roadway or road shoulder of Eglin
Boulevard, Memorial Trail and Perimeter Road.

A2.4.31.6. Reduced Visibility. During periods of darkness and reduced visibility, each walker,
jogger or runner using the roadways or roadway shoulders of Eglin AFB will as a minimum wear
a reflective belt, vest or clothing.

A2.4.31.7. Walkers, joggers or runners will walk, jog or run on the left side of the road against
traffic flow and when possible, yield to oncoming traffic.

A2.4.31.8. Fluorescent or reflective personal protective equipment will be worn by personnel
performing road guard, traffic control, duties. It further pertains to, road construction crews,
electricians and telephone repair personnel working on overhead lines who are exposed to traffic
hazards.

A2.4.31.9. Marching Personnel. Vehicles will yield to marching personnel. The maximum
speed limit in the vicinity of marching personnel is 10 MPH.

A2.4.31.10. Road Guards. Individuals will be designated to perform duties as road guards for
marching units of nine persons or more. Road guards will be positioned six paces in front of and
six paces behind each marching unit. Marching units will march against the direction of
vehicular traffic, when possible. Marching units will halt before they enter intersections or cross
roadways. The individual in charge will clear the intersection/roadway, post road guards, move
the unit through the intersection/across roadway and relieve the road guards before continuing
the march.

A2.4.31.11. Reduced Visibility for Marching Personnel. During the periods of darkness and
reduced visibility, marching units will be equipped with warning devices, including flashlights
with wands and reflective tape.

A2.4.32. Traffic Signs and Markings. Submit requests for construction and markings on AF
Form 332 to the 796th Civil Engineer Squadron Customer Service (796 CES/CEOSW), who will
coordinate such requests with 96 SFS/S-5R and 96 TW/SEG.

A2.4.33. Use of cell phones while operating a motorized (private or government owned) vehicle
is prohibited unless the vehicle is safely parked or unless the operator is using a hands-free
device.

A2.4.34. Driver License or US Government Operators Permit Required. It is prohibited for
anyone to operate any motor vehicle without a valid state driver license or US government
operator’s permit, as appropriate, in the driver’s possession.

A2.4.35. Using Identification and Registration of Another Individual. No person will permit
and no person will borrow or in any manner use another operator’s permit, registration media, or
other required identification associated with motor vehicle registration or operation.

A2.4.36. Permitting Intoxicated Person to Drive. No vehicle owner or person in charge or
control of a motor vehicle will knowingly and willfully permit anyone to operate said vehicle
while intoxicated.

A2.4.37. Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings. No person will place, maintain,
or display upon any roadway or parking area, any sign, signal marking, or device, which
attempts to direct the movement or parking of traffic without the prior approval of the DFC.

A2.4.38. Passing on the Left. Passing is not allowed except when required to pass a vehicle
moving excessively slow. Even in this case, passing is allowed only when the left side of the
road is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic. No vehicle will pass another vehicle when
approaching within 100 feet of or crossing any intersection.

A2.4.39. Driving Within Traffic Lanes. A vehicle driver will observe and operate within the
marked traffic lanes and will not change lanes, turn, stop or park until such movement can be
made safely. On any road way not marked by traffic lanes, drivers will stay right of the roadway
center and be cautious of vehicles crossing left of center while passing parked vehicles.

A2.4.40. Following Too Closely. The driver of a motor vehicle will not follow another vehicle
closer than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle and the
weather and road conditions.
A2.4.41. Right of Way at Intersections. When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection
from different roadways at approximately the same time, the driver on the left will yield the right
of way to the vehicle on the right. This rule is modified only at intersections, which give
preferential right of way, indicated by a clearly understood and standard stop or yield sign.

A2.4.42. Due Caution at a Yield Right of Way Sign. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield
sign will slow down to a speed reasonable for existing conditions and will be able to stop safely
if required at a clearly marked stop line before entering a crosswalk or intersection.

A2.4.43. Right of Way When Entering a Roadway. The driver of a vehicle about to enter or
cross a roadway from an alley, building, driveway, or parking area will yield the right of way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.

A2.4.44. Right of Way to Emergency Vehicles. Upon the immediate approach of an emergency
vehicle making use of an audible or visual signal, the driver of every other vehicle will yield the
right of way and will immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
right edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and will stop and remain in such
position until the emergency vehicle has passed. This section does not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of persons
using the roadway.

A2.4.45. Prohibited Turn on Designated Roadways. U-turns are prohibited on any designated
roadway. Exception: Emergency response vehicles, to include, but not limited to security
forces, fire department, and ambulance.

A2.4.46. Proper Clearance and Improper Starting of a Parked Vehicle. No person will place a
vehicle into motion unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
vehicle will be placed into motion with an unnecessary or unsafe display of speed or
acceleration. Every driver will, prior to placing a vehicle into motion and while in motion,
exercise due care toward other vehicles, pedestrians, buildings, or any other structure or object to
ensure that he has safe and sufficient clearance to avoid striking any vehicle, pedestrian, building
or any other structure or object located upon or adjacent to the roadway.

A2.4.47. Unsafe Turning Movements/Required Signals. No person will turn a vehicle from a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made
with reasonable safety. No person will turn any vehicle without first giving a turn signal. Such
signal will be given continuously 100 feet before turning. No person will stop or suddenly
decrease the speed of a vehicle without first giving an appropriate signal to the driver of any
vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give such signal.

A2.4.48. Obstruction to Driver’s View or Driving Mechanism. No person will drive a vehicle
when the driver’s view to the front or sides of the vehicle is obstructed. In no case will the driver
place a vehicle into motion unless and until they have ensured weather deposits or other
obstructions have been removed from front, rear, and side windows to provide clear visibility in
all directions.
A2.4.49. Opening and Closing Vehicle Doors. No person will open the door of a motor vehicle
on the side of moving traffic unless and until it is reasonable and safe to do so and can be done
without interfering with the movement of traffic. No one will leave a door open on the side of
moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers who are
immediately present.

A2.4.50. Operation of Unsafe Vehicles. No person will drive or move any motor vehicle,
trailer, semi-trailer, or combination thereof, unless the equipment on the vehicle is in good
working order and the vehicle is in safe mechanical condition.

A2.4.51. Inspection by Enforcement Personnel. Any security forces member on duty and whose
duty includes traffic enforcement may, at any time, require the driver to stop and submit the
vehicle to an inspection if there is probable cause to believe a vehicle is unsafe or not equipped
as required, or its equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair. Should a traffic ticket be
issued, security forces personnel issuing the ticket will take measures to require the driver,
owner, or agency in charge of the vehicle to show proof within 72 hours that the repairs have
been accomplished. Failure to affect such repairs within 72 hours will result in further action.

A2.4.52. Approaching Convoys. Motorists approaching oncoming convoys escorted by a
security forces or other emergency vehicle exhibiting an emergency light or other warning
device will pull to the right of the roadway and come to a complete stop until the last vehicle in
the convoy has passed. Motorists following the convoy from the rear are prohibited from
passing and will follow the last vehicle in the convoy at a distance of not less than 100 feet.

A2.4.53. Maintenance of Brakes. Brakes will be maintained in good working order.

A2.4.54. Mufflers, Prevention of Noise:

A2.4.54.1. Every motor vehicle will be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
operating condition to prevent excessive or unusual noise. No person will use a muffler cutout,
bypass, or similar device.

A2.4.54.2. The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle will be so equipped and
adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.

A2.4.55. Projecting Loads on Passenger Vehicles. No passenger vehicle will carry any load
extending beyond the fenders on the left side of the vehicle or extending more than 6 inches
beyond the line of the fenders on the right side.

A2.4.56. Loads on Vehicles:

A2.4.56.1. Vehicles must be so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping there from, except that sand may be dropped
for securing traction or water may be sprinkled in cleaning the roadway.
A2.4.56.2. No person will operate any vehicle with any load unless the load and any covering is
securely fastened so as to prevent it from becoming loose or in any manner a hazard to the users
of the roadway.

A2.4.57. Backing Instructions:

A2.4.57.1. No vehicle will be backed until the driver has ensured that they have safe clearance
and the right of way in all directions.

A2.4.57.2. No vehicle will be backed into angled parking spaces. Exception: Emergency
response vehicles may back into parking spaces as required.

A2.4.57.3. No vehicle will be backed when it interferes with or creates a hazard to pedestrians
or other traffic.

A2.4.57.4. No vehicle will be backed into or through an intersection.

A2.4.57.5. No vehicle will be backed a distance greater than the absolute minimum needed.

A2.4.58. Basic Speed Rule. No person will drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under existing road and weather conditions. Every person will drive at a safe and
appropriate speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic.

A2.4.59. Minimal Speed Rule. No person will drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary
for safe operation or when in compliance with directives for the vehicle or with any lawful order
affecting the movement of the vehicle.

A2.4.60. Prohibitions and Acceleration. The driver of any vehicle will not increase speed of
vehicle with any unnecessary or unsafe display of speed or acceleration.

A2.4.61. Racing. No person will participate in any manner of race, speed competition or
contest, exhibition of speed or acceleration contest.

A2.4.62. Reckless Driving. No person will drive a motor vehicle in any reckless manner.
Reckless driving is defined as operating or driving a vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property. Recklessness is not determined solely by reason of an injury or
the invasion of the rights of another, or by proof alone of excessive speed or erratic operation.
Reckless means that the driver’s manner of operational control of the vehicle was, under all
circumstances, of such a heedless nature that made it actually or imminently dangerous to the
occupants of or to the rights or safety of others.
A2.4.63. Aggressive Careless Driving. No person will drive a motor vehicle in an aggressive,
careless manner. “Aggressive careless driving” means committing two or more of the following
acts simultaneously or in succession.

A2.4.63.1. Exceeding the speed limit.

A2.4.63.2. Unsafely or improperly changing lanes.

A2.4.63.3. Following another vehicle too closely.

A2.4.63.4. Failing to yield the right-of-way.

A2.4.63.5. Improperly passing.

A2.4.63.6. Violating traffic control and signal devices.

A2.4.64. Careless Driving. Any person operating a vehicle will drive in a careful and prudent
manner having regard for the width, grade, curves, corners, view obstructions, pedestrians and
other traffic, and all other attendant circumstances, not to endanger life, limb, or property of any
person. Failure to do so constitutes careless driving.

A2.4.65. Fleeing or Attempting to Elude Security Forces. No driver will willfully fail or refuse
to bring their vehicle to a prompt and complete stop, or otherwise flee or attempt to elude
security forces when given a visual or audible signal to bring the vehicle to a stop. The signal
given by the security forces may be hand, voice, emergency light or siren.

A2.4.66. Towing and or Impounding vehicles. Any on-duty security forces member whose
duties include enforcement of traffic safety is hereby authorized to drive or move a vehicle to a
safe parking area and/or notify a towing company (on-base or off-base) to remove the vehicle to
the base impoundment lot or off-base towing establishment, at the owner’s expense. The
security forces member must receive consent from the driver/owner of the vehicle. Without
consent, the BDOC will coordinate with a towing company to have the vehicle removed. Any
vehicle found under the following conditions will be moved or removed:

A2.4.66.1. When a vehicle is illegally left parked or standing unattended upon any roadway of
Eglin AFB in a position or under circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic or
otherwise creates the danger of an accident.

A2.4.66.2. When a vehicle has been recovered after a report has been made that a vehicle was
stolen or taken without the owner’s consent.

A2.4.66.3. When the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are intoxicated, in custody, or
otherwise unable or unwilling to provide for its custody or removal.

A2.4.66.4. When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is apprehended for an alleged
offense, which would preclude the release of said offender on his or her own recognizance.
A2.4.66.5. When probable cause exists to suspect that the vehicle has been, or is being at that
time, used as an instrument of a crime or contains evidence of a criminal offense.

A2.4.67. Location of Impound Lot. Vehicles determined by the Investigations Section, 96
SFS/S-2, requiring impoundment will be placed in the fenced compound at the end of Hialeah
Road off of Cypress Road.

A2.4.68. Disposal of Impounded Vehicles. All vehicles taken into 96 SFS custody due to
abandonment or as evidence will be towed to the 96 SFS Impound Lot via government vehicle
escorted by 96 SFS personnel. Immediately upon taking custody of the vehicle, a member of the
96 SFS will conduct a physical inventory or search as applicable of the interior of the vehicle to
include all compartments, containers and their contents. A listing of all property will be
annotated on the AF Form 52, Evidence Tag, utilized to account for the vehicle. Any contraband
found will be seized and annotated on a separate AF Form 52. All efforts will be made to
contact the vehicle owner via unique identifiers such as VIN, license plate(s), and vehicle
registration decal(s). Vehicles which are not claimed are impounded and will be disposed of
IAW AFI 31-206, paragraph 2.7.4.4. and DoD Directive 4160.21-M, Defense Reutilization
Marketing Manual.

A2.4.69. Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAMs) may be conducted by 96 SFS personnel as
directed by the on-duty flight chief, shift commander or higher authority. RAMs are not based
upon probable cause to believe the vehicle/pedestrian contains property subject to search, but are
based on the commander's authority to protect the security of the installation or to protect
government property. Security forces personnel conducting RAMs are acting, not in their law
enforcement capacity, but as sentinels safeguarding a military installation and protecting
government property. Once a person has been identified as meeting a RAM criteria, the security
forces member will identify themselves, inform the person they are conducting RAMs authorized
by the installation commander and ask the person if they will consent to an inspection of their
vehicle. If consent is given, further instruction of where the inspection will take place and
compartments to inspect will be provided. Refusal to submit to the inspection during randomly
selected checks at base entry control points may subject the individual to barment from base or
revocation of on-base driving privileges or disciplinary action under the UCMJ.

A2.4.70. Clinging to Vehicles. No person riding upon any motorcycle, moped, bicycle,
skateboard, coaster, roller skates, rollerblades, sled or toy vehicle will attach it or themselves to
any other vehicle on the roadway or parking lots.

A2.4.71. Overtaking or Meeting a Bus which is Stopped. The operator of a vehicle, upon
meeting or overtaking from either direction any bus which has stopped for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers, will come to a complete stop. The operator of a vehicle will
not proceed until the bus resumes motion or is signaled by the bus driver to proceed.

A2.4.72. Overtaking or Passing on the Right is Permitted:

A2.4.72.1. When the vehicle to be passed is making or is about to make a left turn.
A2.4.72.2. Upon a one-way street where the roadway is of sufficient width and is clearly lined
for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.

A2.4.73. Overtaking or passing on the right is prohibited in the event conditions permitting such
movement is unsafe. Under no circumstances will such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or main traveled portion of the roadway.

A2.4.74. Requirement to Report all Traffic Accidents. Motor vehicle accidents, regardless of
the extent of damage or injury to any vehicle, property or person, will be reported immediately to
96 SFS. At no time will such report be made any later than 72 hours after the accident, unless
personal injury precludes it.

A2.4.75. Persons Required to Remain at the Scene. Any person involved in an accident will
immediately stop and, except as necessary to secure aid for any injured or to summon the
security forces, will remain at the scene until released by investigating security forces.

A2.4.76. Moving Accident Vehicles Prohibited. Except where immediate action is required to
assure the safety of approaching traffic, any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident will not
be moved from the point of impact or from the place where it came to rest following the accident
or until an investigating security forces member authorizes the vehicle to be moved.

A2.4.77. Unattended Motor Vehicle. No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle will
permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, removing the key from the
ignition, and effectively setting the brake. When the vehicle is standing unattended on any grade
the front wheels will be turned to the curb or side of the roadway and the parking brake will be
employed.

A2.4.78. Obstruction of Roads, Streets, and Parking Areas. It is a violation of this supplement
for any person or persons to willfully obstruct or impede the free, convenient, and normal use of
any road, street, or parking area.

A2.4.79. Restrictions of on Base Sale of Vehicles, Boats, Jet Skis, Trailers, Campers and Motor
Homes. The overt display of “For Sale” signs in or on any vehicle is prohibited when parked on
the installation specifically for the purpose of displaying the vehicle.

A2.4.80. Individuals who wish to display privately owned vehicles for the purpose of sale will
use the 96 FSS Resale Lot. Contact 96 FSS, to complete required paperwork before placing a
vehicle on this lot.

A2.4.80.1. Individuals who wish to display privately owned vehicles which are not used for
daily transportation (to include, but not limited to, boats, jet skis, trailers, campers and motor
homes) will use the Services Resale Lot. Base housing, dorm parking lots and installation
parking lots will not be used to park and display these vehicles.
A2.4.80.2. Individuals who wish to sell privately owned vehicles that are used for daily
transportation may display “For Sale” signs in vehicles when parked in base housing, dorm
parking lots and installation parking lots. In this situation, the vehicle must not be displayed in a
manner that increases its visibility, i.e., in a prominent parking space, such as on the side of the
road or a parking space adjacent to the road, etc.

A2.5. Rules for motorcycles, motor scooters and mopeds (see also paragraph 4.28.1):

A2.5.1. Operators must possess an operator’s license, restricted license, or learner's permit. No
person under 15 years of age will operate a moped or motor scooter.

A2.5.1.1. Personnel who operate a motorcycle, motor scooter, or moped must successfully
complete a Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) approved course within 30 days of completing
in processing, temporary registration or purchase of a motorcycle. A MSF course completion
card is required for proof of course completion.

A2.5.1.2. Every person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped upon a roadway of
Eglin AFB will be granted the rights and privileges and will be subject to the duties applicable to
the driver of any other vehicle under this directive.

A2.5.1.3. A person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped will ride only on the
permanent and regular seat attached and the operator will not carry any other person unless such
motorcycle is designed to carry more than one person.

A2.5.1.4. Individuals will ride a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped sitting astride the seat,
facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.

A2.5.1.5. Individuals will not operate a motorcycle, motor scooter, or moped while carrying any
packages, bundles, or articles, which prevents keeping both hands on the handlebars.

A2.5.1.6. The operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped will not overtake and pass in
the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.

A2.5.2. Off-Road Vehicles, ATVs, 4-Wheelers and Dirt Bikes. Vehicles designed for off road
use will be equipped with headlights, turn signals, and brake lights if driven on roadways or
parking lots. Required safety equipment will be worn. These vehicles will only be authorized
for military use and privately owned vehicles will not be operated on the roadways or parking
lots at any time.

A2.6. Vehicle Movement during Reveille/Retreat. Upon hearing the playing of
Reveille/Retreat over the public address system, vehicle operators with the exception of Eglin
Blvd from East to West gate, will safely pull over to the side of the roadway or parking lot and
come to a complete stop until Reveille/Retreat concludes.

A2.7. Passing School Buses. Motor vehicle operators must adhere to the following when
approaching a stopped school bus from either direction that is receiving or discharging students:
A2.7.1. Stop before reaching the school bus when the bus is operating a visual signal.

A2.7.2. Drivers may not proceed until the school bus resumes motion, the vehicle operator is
signaled by the bus driver to proceed, or the visual signal is no longer actuated.
