BY ORDER OF THE                                                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2618
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                                          27 FEBRUARY 2009
                                                                                                               Certified Current 23 March 2012
                                                                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                                                THE ENLISTED FORCE STRUCTURE




                        COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:                       Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                                     Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY:                       There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1D                                                                  Certified by: AF/CCC (CMSAF Rodney J. McKinley)
Supersedes: AFI36-2618, 1 December 2004                                                                            Pages: 23


This instruction defines the enlisted force structure and implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force
Development. It establishes leadership and development levels, responsibilities, and official terms of
address for enlisted Airmen. It describes special senior noncommissioned officer positions and
standardizes duty titles. Additionally, this instruction includes the Air Force institutional competencies
which serve as the common language for force development. This instruction applies to all enlisted
members of the US Air Force, Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Process supplements to this instruction as shown in
AFI 33-360, Publications Management Program. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary and supporting
information. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to HQ AF/A1DI using
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Forms 847 from the field through
major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction substantially revises and updates AFI 36-2618, 1 Dec 04. It also includes “The
Airman’s Creed” (Attachment 2) and the Air Force Institutional Competencies (Attachment 3).

Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................. 3
          1.1.       The Enlisted Force. ......................................................................................................................... 3
          1.2.       Purpose of the Enlisted Force Structure. ........................................................................................ 3

Chapter 2—THE ENLISTED FORCE STRUCTURE ....................................................................................... 4
          2.1.       Three Enlisted Force Structure Tiers. ............................................................................................. 4
 2                                                                                                    AFI36-2618              27 FEBRUARY 2009


          2.2.      Three Enlisted Leadership and Development Levels. .................................................................... 4

Chapter 3—JUNIOR ENLISTED AIRMAN RESPONSIBILITIES ................................................................ 6
          3.1.      General Junior Enlisted Airman Responsibilities. .......................................................................... 6
          3.2.      Specific Junior Enlisted Airman Responsibilities. ......................................................................... 7

Chapter 4—NCO RESPONSIBILITIES .............................................................................................................. 9
          4.1.      General NCO Responsibilities. ...................................................................................................... 9
          4.2.      Specific NCO Responsibilities. .................................................................................................... 11

Chapter 5—SNCO RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................... 13
          5.1.      General SNCO Responsibilities. .................................................................................................. 13
          5.2.      Specific SNCO Responsibilities. .................................................................................................. 14

Chapter 6—SPECIAL SNCO POSITIONS ....................................................................................................... 16
          6.1.      Special SNCO Positions. .............................................................................................................. 16

Chapter 7—ENLISTED DUTY TITLES ........................................................................................................... 18
          7.1.      Enlisted Duty Titles. ..................................................................................................................... 18
          7.2.      Authorized Enlisted Duty Titles. .................................................................................................. 18
          7.3.      Adopted Forms. ............................................................................................................................ 19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION ......................... 20

Attachment 2—THE AIRMAN’S CREED ........................................................................................................ 22

Attachment 3—AIR FORCE INSTITUTIONAL COMPETENCIES ............................................................ 23
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                             3



                                                 Chapter 1

                                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. The Enlisted Force.
   1.1.1. The enlisted force is a diverse group of functionally and operationally specialized Airmen.
   Despite the natural differences found across functional and operational lines, there is a compelling
   need for a deliberate and common approach to enlisted force development, career progression, and
   the assumption of increased supervisory and leadership responsibilities. To best leverage our
   resources, we must have a consistent, well-defined set of expectations, standards, and opportunities
   for growth for all Airmen, regardless of specialty. This is accomplished through the enlisted force
   structure and force development construct which relies on a common language, the Air Force
   institutional competencies (Attachment 3). The institutional competencies are the leadership,
   management, and warrior ethos qualities required by all Airmen. They provide a common language
   and set of priorities, with varying levels of proficiency, based on the Airman’s rank and position.
   The enlisted force structure and institutional competencies describe what makes us Airmen, not just
   specialists. We are Airmen first, specialists second.
   1.1.2. All elements of force development—the institutional competencies and the enlisted force
   structure—are grounded in Air Force core values (Integrity First, Service Before Self, and
   Excellence in All We Do). The core values are the framework within which military activities take
   place and are the basis for Air Force policies, guidance, and focus.
1.2. Purpose of the Enlisted Force Structure.
   1.2.1. Provide an enlisted force structure that best meets mission requirements, developing
   institutional and occupational competencies.
   1.2.2. Provide a common, stable career structure for all enlisted Airmen.
   1.2.3. Provide all enlisted Airmen the opportunity for professional growth.
   1.2.4. Define:
       1.2.4.1. The three tiers of the enlisted force structure.
       1.2.4.2. The three levels of enlisted leadership and development.
       1.2.4.3. The roles, responsibilities, expectations, and official terms of address for each enlisted
       rank.
       1.2.4.4. Special senior noncommissioned officer positions.
       1.2.4.5. The official duty titles for the enlisted force.
 4                                                                  AFI36-2618      27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                                Chapter 2

                               THE ENLISTED FORCE STRUCTURE

2.1. Three Enlisted Force Structure Tiers. The enlisted force structure is comprised of three distinct
and separate tiers, each correlating to increased levels of education, training, and experience which build
increasing levels of proficiency in the institutional competencies. The three tiers also correlate to
increased leadership and managerial responsibilities. These tiers are Junior Enlisted Airman,
Noncommissioned Officer (NCO), and Senior Noncommissioned Officer (SNCO).
     2.1.1. Junior Enlisted Airman Tier: This tier consists of Airman Basic, Airman, Airman First Class,
     and Senior Airman. Junior enlisted Airmen initially focus on adapting to military requirements,
     achieving occupational proficiency, and learning how to be highly productive members of the Air
     Force. In this tier, Airman prepare for increased responsibilities and must ensure they are trained,
     qualified, and ready to deploy and operate in an expeditionary environment while maintaining home
     station readiness. Junior enlisted Airmen also continue to broaden technical skills and pursue
     professional development through on- and off-duty education.
     2.1.2. NCO Tier: This tier consists of Staff Sergeant and Technical Sergeant. The primary focus in
     this tier is mission accomplishment. NCOs continue occupational growth and become expert
     technicians. At the same time, NCOs develop as leaders, supervisors, managers, and mentors.
     Additionally, NCOs must ensure they keep themselves and subordinate personnel trained, qualified,
     and ready to deploy and operate in an expeditionary environment while maintaining home station
     readiness. In this tier, NCOs also continue to develop institutional competencies in preparation for
     increased responsibilities while continuing to broaden technical skills and pursuing professional
     development through on- and off-duty education.
     2.1.3. SNCO Tier: This tier consists of Master Sergeant, Senior Master Sergeant, and Chief Master
     Sergeant. The primary focus in this tier is mission accomplishment. SNCOs serve as leaders,
     supervisors, managers, and mentors to further develop junior enlisted Airmen and NCOs under their
     charge to maximize their leadership abilities. In this tier, SNCOs continue building institutional
     competencies. Additionally, SNCOs must ensure they keep themselves and subordinate personnel
     trained, qualified, and ready to deploy and operate in an expeditionary environment while
     maintaining home station readiness. SNCOs have a great deal of experience and leadership ability
     that can be used to leverage resources and personnel against a variety of mission requirements.
     SNCOs participate in decision making processes on a variety of technical, operational, and
     organizational issues.
2.2. Three Enlisted Leadership and Development Levels. The three levels of leadership in the Air
Force are tactical expertise, operational competence, and strategic vision. These levels emphasize a
different mix of qualities and experience. The nature and scope of leadership challenges as well as the
methods by which leadership is exercised differs based on the level of leadership and duties. These
levels apply across the entire spectrum of the enlisted force structure.
     2.2.1. Tactical Expertise Level: This level of leadership is predominantly direct and face-to-face. It
     normally applies to Airman Basic through Technical Sergeant. At the tactical expertise level, junior
     enlisted Airmen and NCOs perfect their primary occupational skills and develop their knowledge of
     Air Force institutional competencies. They are trained, complete Professional Military Education
     (PME), earn their 5- and 7-skill levels, and often complete their Community College of the Air Force
     (CCAF) degree. They strive to become the best technicians and team members possible. As they
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                               5


  increase in rank, they also begin to train others and serve as first line supervisors and section leaders.
  The primary focus at the tactical expertise level is accomplishing the mission as effectively and
  efficiently as possible using available personnel and resources.
  2.2.2. Operational Competence Level: This level of leadership involves tasks that become more
  complex and sophisticated. It normally applies to Master Sergeant through Chief Master Sergeant.
  At the operational competence level, SNCOs typically work below the MAJCOM or Headquarters
  Air Force (HAF) levels. This is where SNCOs transition from being expert technicians and first line
  supervisors to leaders who have broader operational leadership, supervisory, and managerial
  responsibilities. They use their expertise and experience as well as their management and leadership
  skills to convert direction from their superiors into mission accomplishment. They continue to
  develop their knowledge of Air Force institutional competencies and complete PME, earn their 9-
  skill level (after promotion to Senior Master Sergeant), and complete their CCAF degree, if not
  already earned. The majority of the enlisted force will spend most if not all their careers at the
  tactical expertise and operational competence levels. This is where their developed strengths,
  experience, and day-to-day mission focus are most required.
  2.2.3. Strategic Vision Level: This level of leadership involves leaders with responsibility for large
  organizations or system, and deal with issues requiring more inter-organizational cooperation and
  longer timelines. While this level normally applies to the Chief Master Sergeant, it sometimes
  includes the Senior Master Sergeant assigned to higher headquarters positions. These include the
  Department of Defense (DOD), combatant commands, HAF, MAJCOM, direct reporting units
  (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), and select agencies and headquarters. Strategic vision level
  leaders continue to develop their knowledge of Air Force institutional competencies to improve their
  ability to advise senior leaders, participate in top-level decision making, draft policies, manage
  career fields, and lead far-reaching programs. The primary focus at this level is the strategic
  leadership and management of the force to best meet current and future mission requirements.
 6                                                                   AFI36-2618     27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                                 Chapter 3

                         JUNIOR ENLISTED AIRMAN RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. General Junior Enlisted Airman Responsibilities. Junior enlisted Airmen must:
     3.1.1. Accept and execute all duties, instructions, responsibilities, and lawful orders in a timely and
     efficient manner. Complete assigned tasks and accomplish the mission. Place the requirements of
     official duties and responsibilities ahead of personal desires. Issue lawful orders when placed in
     charge of a work activity or other junior enlisted Airmen to complete assigned tasks.
     3.1.2. Detect and correct conduct and behavior that may place themselves or others at risk.
     3.1.3. Understand and demonstrate the institutional and occupational competencies required to
     accomplish the mission as outlined in AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development; AFPD 36-26,
     Total Force Development; AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development; and the appropriate
     Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). These competencies are gained through a
     combination of education (for example, Airman Leadership School (ALS) and CCAF), training (for
     example, basic military training and career development courses), and experience (for example,
     serving in special duty positions, actively participating in professional organizations, and having a
     thorough understanding of this Air Force instruction (AFI) to ensure proper mentoring is received
     and provided). All Air Force formal education programs, training, and experiences are designed and
     synchronized to provide increasing proficiency in institutional and occupational competencies.
     3.1.4. Maintain the highest level of personal readiness to meet mission requirements:
        3.1.4.1. Be technically ready to accomplish the mission. Attain and maintain a skill level
        commensurate with their rank and maintain a high degree of proficiency in their duties as
        outlined in their CFETP. Junior enlisted Airmen should earn a CCAF degree to further expand
        their professional development and technical expertise.
        3.1.4.2. Be physically ready to accomplish the mission. Attain and maintain excellent physical
        conditioning and always meet Air Force fitness standards. Actively participate in the Air Force
        fitness program.
        3.1.4.3. Be mentally ready to accomplish the mission. Issues that can affect and detract from
        mental readiness are quality of life, financial problems, sexual harassment, discrimination, stress,
        marital problems, and substance abuse. These types of issues can prevent individuals from
        focusing on the mission, diminish motivation, erode a positive attitude, and reduce the quality of
        work. This negatively impacts mission accomplishment. Take positive steps to resolve mental
        readiness issues in a responsible manner.
            3.1.4.3.1. Be alert for signs of substance abuse in yourself and others. Substance abuse not
            only involves the use of illegal drugs, but more commonly, involves excessive or
            irresponsible consumption of alcohol or over-the-counter medications. All must be aware of
            the warning signs of substance abuse and seek appropriate assistance through the chain of
            command, chaplain, or other appropriate referral agency.
            3.1.4.3.2. Be alert for signs of depression or suicide in yourself and others. If severely
            depressed or suicidal, immediately seek assistance through the chain of command, chaplain,
            or other appropriate referral agency. Remain with a potentially suicidal person until relieved
            by the proper authority. Junior enlisted Airmen have a very important role in suicide
            prevention.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                             7


          3.1.4.3.3. Be alert for signs of post-combat stress in yourself and others. As more Airmen
          serve in combat zones, or other high-threat environments, we must all be aware of the
          warning signs of post-combat stress and seek the appropriate assistance through the chain of
          command, chaplain, or other appropriate referral agency.
       3.1.4.4. Be spiritually ready to accomplish the mission. Spiritual readiness is the development of
       those personal qualities needed to help a person through times of stress, hardship, and tragedy.
       Spiritual readiness may or may not include religious activities.
       3.1.4.5. Meet all pre-deployment requirements.
   3.1.5. Exhibit professional behavior, military bearing, respect for authority, and high standards of
   dress and personal appearance, on- and off-duty. Correct other Airmen who violate standards.
       3.1.5.1. Understand, accept, and demonstrate the Air Force Core Values and The Airman’s
       Creed. Know and understand the Air Force Symbol.
       3.1.5.2. Be a knowledge-enabled Airman by keeping accurately informed on issues affecting the
       Air Force using Air Force media sources (for example, www.af.mil and “Aim Points”) while
       ensuring no discredit to the Air Force or compromise of operational security through the use of
       personal and government information systems.
       3.1.5.3. Actively support and enforce the Air Force’s “zero tolerance” policy for discrimination,
       sexual harassment, and sexual assault. Understand the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator’s
       role and sexual assault reporting requirements. Help maintain an environment free of any
       behaviors that hinder other Airmen’s ability to achieve their full potential and maximize their
       contribution.
   3.1.6. Know and understand the Wingman concept: Airmen take care of other fellow Airmen.
   Being a good wingman means you share a bond with other Airmen. You can be counted on to
   support each other, in all situations, both on- and off-duty.
   3.1.7. Demonstrate effective followership by enthusiastically supporting, explaining, and promoting
   leaders’ decisions. Develop innovative ways to improve processes and provide suggestions up the
   chain of command that will directly contribute to unit and mission success.
   3.1.8. Continue professional development through on- and off-duty education. Join professional
   organizations (for example, base advisory and enlisted councils) and participate in organization and
   community events through volunteerism.
3.2. Specific Junior Enlisted Airman Responsibilities.
   3.2.1. Airman Basic (AB). ABs are primarily adapting to the requirements of the military
   profession, acquiring knowledge of military customs, courtesies, and Air Force standards, as well as
   striving to attain occupational proficiency. Once at their first duty station, they perform basic tasks
   under close supervision. ABs operate at the tactical expertise level of leadership. The official term
   of address is Airman Basic or Airman.
   3.2.2. Airman (Amn). Amn, while still learning and adapting to the military profession, are
   expected to understand and conform to military standards, customs, and courtesies. Amn begin to
   show job proficiency at basic tasks and still require significant supervision and support. Amn
   operate at the tactical expertise level of leadership. The official term of address is Airman.
   3.2.3. Airman First Class (A1C). A1Cs fully comply with Air Force standards and devote their
   efforts to the mastery of skills required in their career fields and the military profession while
8                                                                   AFI36-2618     27 FEBRUARY 2009


    becoming effective team members. After a short time at their first duty station, they are often skilled
    on numerous tasks. Continued supervision is essential to the A1C’s ongoing technical and
    professional growth. They typically earn their 5-skill level at this grade. A1Cs operate at the
    tactical expertise level of leadership. The official term of address is Airman First Class or Airman.
    3.2.4. Senior Airman (SrA). SrA commonly perform as skilled technicians and trainers. It is
    essential for SrA to begin developing supervisory and leadership skills through progressive
    responsibility on the job, completion of ALS, individual study, and mentoring by their supervisors
    and others. When they perform as trainers and supervisors, SrA strive to establish themselves as
    effective first-line supervisors through the maximum use of guidance and assistance from the NCOs
    and SNCOs who lead them. SrA may serve as reporting officials upon completion of ALS. SrA
    operate at the tactical expertise level of leadership. The official term of address is Senior Airman or
    Airman.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                             9


                                               Chapter 4

                                     NCO RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. General NCO Responsibilities. NCOs must:
   4.1.1. Accept and execute all duties, instructions, responsibilities, and lawful orders in a timely and
   efficient manner. Lead and develop subordinates and exercise effective followership in mission
   accomplishment. Place the requirements of their official duties and responsibilities ahead of their
   personal desires. NCOs have the authority to issue lawful orders appropriate for the completion of
   their assigned tasks.
   4.1.2. Detect and correct conduct and behavior that may place themselves or others at risk.
   4.1.3. Understand and demonstrate the institutional and occupational competencies required to
   accomplish the mission as outlined in AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development; AFPD 36-26,
   Total Force Development; AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development; and the appropriate
   CFETP. These competencies are gained through a combination of education (for example, and
   academic degree programs), training (for example, on-the-job training and distance learning classes),
   and experience (for example, mentoring and active participation in professional organizations). All
   Air Force formal education programs, training, and experiences are designed and synchronized to
   provide NCOs with increasing proficiency in institutional and occupational competencies.
   4.1.4. Maintain the highest level of readiness to meet mission requirements:
      4.1.4.1. Be technically ready to accomplish the mission. Attain and maintain a skill level
      commensurate with their rank and maintain a high degree of proficiency in their duties as
      outlined in their CFETP. Additionally, they must train and develop their subordinates to ensure
      they are also technically ready to accomplish the mission. NCOs should earn a CCAF degree, if
      not already earned, to further expand their professional development and technical expertise.
      4.1.4.2. Be physically ready to accomplish the mission. Attain and maintain excellent physical
      conditioning, always meet Air Force fitness standards, and set a positive example for
      subordinates. Lead the way by promoting, supporting, and participating in unit physical training
      activities and the Air Force fitness program. Incorporate physical training into their teams' duty
      schedules as the mission allows.
      4.1.4.3. Be mentally ready to accomplish the mission. Issues that can affect and detract from
      mental readiness are quality of life, financial problems, sexual harassment, discrimination, stress,
      marital problems, and substance abuse. These types of issues can prevent individuals from
      focusing on the mission, diminish motivation, erode a positive attitude, and reduce the quality of
      work. This negatively impacts mission accomplishment. NCOs must also monitor and address
      issues negatively impacting subordinates’ mental readiness. NCOs must take positive steps to
      resolve mental readiness issues in a responsible manner and ensure subordinates do the same.
          4.1.4.3.1. Be alert for signs of substance abuse in yourself and others. Substance abuse not
          only involves the use of illegal drugs, but more commonly, involves excessive or
          irresponsible consumption of alcohol or over-the-counter medications. All must be aware of
          the warning signs of substance abuse and seek the appropriate assistance through the chain of
          command, chaplain, or other appropriate referral agency.
          4.1.4.3.2. Be alert for signs of depression or suicide in yourself and others. If severely
          depressed or suicidal, immediately seek assistance through your chain of command, chaplain,
10                                                                   AFI36-2618     27 FEBRUARY 2009


            or other appropriate referral agency. Supervisors are often in the best position to detect early
            signs of depression or suicidal behavior. Remain with a potentially suicidal person until
            relieved by the proper authority. Follow-up and monitor the situation to ensure the issue is
            properly addressed and resolved. NCOs have a very important role in suicide prevention.
            4.1.4.3.3. Be alert for signs of post-combat stress in yourself and others. As more Airmen
            serve in combat zones, or other high-threat environments, we must all be aware of the
            warning signs of post-combat stress and seek the appropriate assistance through the chain of
            command, chaplain, or other appropriate referral agency.
        4.1.4.4. Be spiritually ready to accomplish the mission. Spiritual readiness is the development
        of those personal qualities needed to help a person through times of stress, hardship, and tragedy.
        Also, provide assistance to subordinates who may be struggling with their spiritual readiness
        through the chaplain, or other appropriate support agencies. Spiritual readiness may or may not
        include religious activities.
        4.1.4.5. Meet all pre-deployment requirements. Also, ensure they educate and assist
        subordinates with deployment preparation actions. Correct and counsel subordinates who do not
        meet deployment readiness standards.
     4.1.5. Clearly meet, and strive to exceed, the standards and expectations levied upon junior enlisted
     Airmen. Epitomize excellence and lead by example through exhibiting professional behavior,
     military bearing, respect for authority, and the highest standards of dress and appearance. Instill
     professional behaviors in subordinates. Correct those who violate standards.
        4.1.5.1. Adopt, internalize, and demonstrate the Air Force Core Values and The Airman’s
        Creed. Know and understand the Air Force Symbol.
        4.1.5.2. Be a knowledge-enabled NCO by keeping accurately informed on issues affecting the
        Air Force using Air Force media sources (for example, www.af.mil and “Aim Points”) while
        ensuring no discredit to the Air Force or compromise of operational security through the use of
        personal and government information systems.
        4.1.5.3. Remain keenly aware of individual and group dynamics affecting readiness and safety.
        Identify those exhibiting high-risk behaviors and deter further unsafe practices.
        4.1.5.4. Actively support and enforce the Air Force’s “zero tolerance” policy for discrimination,
        sexual harassment, and sexual assault. Understand the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator’s
        role and sexual assault reporting requirements. NCOs must maintain an environment free of any
        behaviors that hinder others’ ability to achieve their full potential and maximize their
        contribution.
     4.1.6. Know and understand the Wingman concept: Airmen take care of other fellow Airmen.
     Being a good wingman means you share a bond with other Airmen. You can be counted on to
     support each other, in all situations, both on- and off-duty.
     4.1.7. Demonstrate effective followership by enthusiastically supporting, explaining, and promoting
     leaders’ decisions. Develop innovative ways to improve processes and provide suggestions up the
     chain of command that will directly contribute to unit and mission success.
     4.1.8. Continue professional development through on- and off-duty education. Join professional
     organizations (for example, base advisory and enlisted councils) and participate in organization and
     community events through volunteerism.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                                11


   4.1.9. Frequently visit dining facilities, chapel centers, recreation facilities, dormitories, and enlisted
   clubs to be familiar with subordinates' off-duty opportunities and living conditions.
   4.1.10. Appropriately recognize and reward those individuals whose military conduct and duty
   performance clearly exceed established standards. Also, hold subordinates accountable when they
   do not meet established standards.
   4.1.11. If senior in grade, accept responsibility for assuming the role of leader. Responsibility and
   accountability increase commensurate with grade. This policy stems from time-honored military
   customs and traditions. Within enlisted grades, NCOs take rank and precedence over all junior
   enlisted Airmen and other NCOs according to rank. Within the same grade, use: date of rank, total
   active federal military service date, pay date, and date of birth, in this order, to determine seniority.
   NOTE: In some circumstances, commanders may place NCOs who are lower in rank in charge of
   other NCOs of the same grade (i.e., A technical sergeant, with a date of rank of 1 Apr 08, is placed
   in charge of a fellow technical sergeant, with a date of rank of 1 Apr 07). When placed in charge by
   commanders, these NCOs have the authority to issue lawful orders appropriate for mission
   accomplishment.
   4.1.12. Promote organizational esprit de corps and foster good community relations by actively
   participating in and supporting professional organizations as well as unit, base, and Air Force events.
   Also, encourage subordinates to do the same.
   4.1.13. Take an active leadership and supervisory role by staying involved with subordinates on a
   daily basis. Use their own experiences and knowledge to mentor others. Guide and instruct
   subordinates to ensure they are prepared to accept increased levels of authority and responsibility.
   Assist subordinates in reaching their full potential.
   4.1.14. Provide career counseling to subordinates on benefits, entitlements, and opportunities
   available during an Air Force career. Ensure subordinates understand what is expected to be
   competitive for promotion and what types of career opportunities exist. At a minimum, counseling
   occurs in conjunction with performance feedback counseling or during a quality review under the
   selective reenlistment program. Review and provide a copy of the Air Force Benefits Fact Sheet.
   4.1.15. Promote a culture of Airmen who are capable of mastering multiple tasks to better support
   mission requirements. Pursue opportunities and encourage subordinates to retrain into Air Force
   shortage career fields and serve in special duties such as military training and PME instructor, and
   recruiter, when appropriate, to balance the force, enabling the Air Force to meet mission
   requirements.
   4.1.16. Secure and promote PME and professional enhancement courses for themselves and
   subordinates to develop and cultivate leadership skills and military professionalism. NCOs should
   enroll in and complete the CCAF degree, if not already earned, and encourage completion by
   subordinates. They should also continue development for themselves and subordinates through
   available professional enhancement courses, on- and off-duty education, leadership lectures and
   seminars, and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force reading program.
   4.1.17. Seek ways to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
4.2. Specific NCO Responsibilities.
   4.2.1. Staff Sergeant (SSgt). SSgts are primarily highly skilled technicians with supervisory and
   training responsibilities. They must continuously strive to further their development as technicians,
   supervisors, and leaders through on- and off-duty professional development opportunities. They are
12                                                                   AFI36-2618     27 FEBRUARY 2009


     responsible for their subordinates’ development and the effective accomplishment of all assigned
     tasks. They must ensure proper and effective use of all resources under their control to ensure the
     mission is effectively and efficiently accomplished. SSgts operate at the tactical expertise level of
     leadership. The official term of address is Staff Sergeant or Sergeant.
     4.2.2. Technical Sergeant (TSgt). TSgts are often their organizations' technical experts. They must
     continuously strive to further their development as technicians, supervisors, and leaders through on-
     and off-duty professional development opportunities. They are responsible for their subordinates’
     development and the effective accomplishment of all assigned tasks. They must ensure proper and
     effective use of all resources under their control to ensure the mission is effectively and efficiently
     accomplished. TSgts operate at the tactical expertise level of leadership. The official term of
     address is Technical Sergeant or Sergeant.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                            13


                                               Chapter 5

                                    SNCO RESPONSIBILITIES

5.1. General SNCO Responsibilities. In addition to meeting all NCO responsibilities, SNCOs must:
   5.1.1. Provide highly effective leadership. A SNCO's primary purpose is mission accomplishment.
   They must lead and manage teams while maintaining the highest level of readiness to ensure mission
   success.
   5.1.2. Evaluate and assume responsibility for the institutional competencies required to accomplish
   the mission as outlined in AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development; AFPD 36-26, Total
   Force Development; and AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development. These competencies
   are gained through a combination of education (for example, Air Force SNCO Academy
   (AFSNCOA) and academic degree programs), training (for example, distance learning classes and
   web-based resources), and experience (for example, mentoring and active participation in
   professional organizations). All Air Force formal education programs, training, and experiences are
   designed and synchronized to provide SNCOs with increasing proficiency in institutional
   competencies.
   5.1.3. Translate leaders' direction into specific tasks and responsibilities their teams can understand
   and execute. Support and explain leaders' decisions. SNCOs should study the decisions to
   understand their rationale and goals, so they can fully leverage their personal experience and
   knowledge to more effectively accomplish the mission.
   5.1.4. Demonstrate, inspire, and develop in others an internalized understanding of Air Force Core
   Values and The Airman’s Creed. Know and understand the Air Force Symbol.
   5.1.5. Help leaders make informed decisions. SNCOs must draw upon their knowledge and
   experience to provide constructive input to best meet the challenges facing their organizations.
   5.1.6. Be an active, visible leader. Deliberately develop junior enlisted Airmen, NCOs, and fellow
   SNCOs into better followers, leaders, and supervisors.
   5.1.7. Secure and promote PME and professional enhancement courses for themselves and
   subordinates to develop and cultivate leadership skills and military professionalism. SNCOs should
   complete their CCAF degree, if not already earned, and continue development for self and
   subordinates through available on- and off-duty education, leadership lectures and seminars, and the
   Chief of Staff of the Air Force reading program.
   5.1.8. Support commissioned officers’ continued development by sharing knowledge and
   experience to best meet their organization’s mission requirements. Build and maintain professional
   relationships with commissioned officers, striving to create effective leadership teams.
   5.1.9. Clearly meet, and strive to exceed, the standards and expectations levied upon all junior
   enlisted Airmen and NCOs. Epitomize excellence, professionalism, pride, and competence, serving
   as a role model for all Airmen to emulate.
   5.1.10. Attain and maintain excellent physical conditioning, always meet Air Force fitness
   standards, and set a positive example for subordinates. Lead the way by promoting, supporting, and
   participating in unit physical training activities and the Air Force fitness program. Incorporate
   physical training into their teams' duty schedules as the mission allows.
 14                                                                    AFI36-2618      27 FEBRUARY 2009


      5.1.11. Promote a culture of Airmen capable of adapting to evolving Air Force requirements
      throughout a career. Pursue opportunities and encourage retraining as needed, or serve in special
      duties such as first sergeant, military training and PME instructor, or recruiter, to balance the force
      and enable our Air Force to meet mission requirements.
      5.1.12. Ensure money, facilities, and other resources are utilized in an effective and efficient manner
      and in the best interest of the Air Force. Plan resource utilization, replenishment, and budget
      allocation to ensure personnel are provided the equipment and resources needed to effectively
      accomplish the mission.
      5.1.13. Promote responsible behaviors within all Airmen. Readily detect and correct unsafe and/or
      irresponsible behaviors that negatively impact unit or individual readiness. Promote peer
      involvement in detecting and correcting unsafe and irresponsible behaviors. Recognize and reward
      Airmen who properly employ operational risk management philosophies.
5.2. Specific SNCO Responsibilities.
      5.2.1. Master Sergeant (MSgt). MSgts are transitioning from being technical experts and first line
      supervisors to leaders of operational competence skilled at merging subordinates’ talents, skills, and
      resources with other teams' functions to most effectively accomplish the mission. They continue to
      develop their leadership and management skills. This rank carries significantly increased
      responsibilities and requires a broad technical and managerial perspective. MSgt-selects should
      immediately enroll in and complete the AFSNCOA by distance learning in preparation for their new
      roles. The SNCO Joint PME is also recommended for those preparing for joint assignments. MSgts
      should complete the CCAF degree in their current Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), if not already
      earned. As senior enlisted leaders, they must reflect the highest qualities of a leader and
      professional. MSgts normally operate at the operational competence level of leadership. The
      official term of address is Master Sergeant or Sergeant.
      5.2.2. Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt). SMSgts are key, experienced, operational leaders skilled at
      merging their subordinates’ talents, skills, and resources with other teams' functions to most
      effectively accomplish the mission. SMSgts continue to develop their leadership and management
      skills in preparation for expanded responsibilities and higher leadership positions. SMSgts should
      complete the AFSNCOA if not already completed. SNCO Joint PME is also recommended for those
      preparing for joint assignments. SMSgts should complete the CCAF degree in their current AFSC,
      if not already earned. As senior enlisted leaders, SMSgts must reflect the highest qualities of a
      leader and professional. SMSgts normally operate at the operational competence or strategic vision
      level of leadership. The official term of address is Senior Master Sergeant or Sergeant. NOTE:
      “Senior” is not an appropriate term of address for SMSgts.
      5.2.3. Chief Master Sergeant (CMSgt). CMSgt is the highest enlisted rank. Within this grade, the
      Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF) is the most senior ranking. Since its inception, the
      grade of CMSgt has evolved to hold a very distinctive role in the force. CMSgts serve as key leaders
      at all levels in the Air Force from flight-level to Air Staff. They serve as commandants,
      superintendents, program managers, command chief master sergeants, functional managers, and
      career field managers. CMSgts must epitomize the finest qualities of a military leader. CMSgts
      bring substantial operational and occupational experience as well as strong institutional skills to their
      organizations and all assigned tasks. CMSgts must strive to further develop their leadership and
      management skills to better prepare them for future roles. As key mentors, they must deliberately
      develop subordinates into enlisted leaders of the future. CMSgts are assigned a chief enlisted
      manager code upon selection to CMSgt and may be selected to fill leadership or managerial
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                        15


  positions in a variety of duties not prohibited by law or directive. All newly selected, active duty
  CMSgts will be selected to attend the CMSgt Leadership Course. AFRC and ANG CMSgts apply
  for attendance through their commands. CMSgts normally operate at the operational competence
  and strategic vision levels of leadership, depending on assignment. The official term of address is
  Chief Master Sergeant or Chief.
 16                                                                  AFI36-2618     27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                                 Chapter 6

                                      SPECIAL SNCO POSITIONS

6.1. Special SNCO Positions. SNCOs may serve in a number of special leadership positions. These
positions are listed below:
      6.1.1. Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF). The CMSAF is the senior enlisted leader
      of the Air Force and takes precedence over all enlisted members while serving in the position. The
      CMSAF provides leadership to the enlisted force and advises the Chief of Staff of the Air Force,
      Secretary of the Air Force, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Secretary of Defense on
      enlisted matters. The CMSAF communicates with the force, testifies before Congress, and is the Air
      Force career field manager for command chief master sergeants and group superintendents. The
      official term of address is Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force or Chief.
      6.1.2. Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM). The CCM is the senior enlisted leader in a wing,
      NAF, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or other similar organization. The CCM is responsible for advising
      commanders and staff on mission effectiveness, professional development, military readiness,
      training, utilization, health, morale, and welfare of the command’s enlisted Airmen and takes action
      to address shortfalls or challenges. The CCM provides leadership to the enlisted force and is the
      functional manager for group superintendents and first sergeants in their organization.
      6.1.3. Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Enlisted AFCFMs are typically CMSgts.
      Normally these positions are located at HAF and are responsible for organizing and managing one or
      more enlisted career fields. Their responsibilities include establishing career field entry
      requirements, managing trained personnel requirements, and developing and managing career-long
      training plans' requirements and programs. They also construct viable career paths, evaluate training
      effectiveness, monitor health and manning of the career field, and provide input on manning,
      personnel policies and programs. Additionally, they implement and advise on changes to force
      management policies and programs, develop contingency planning actions, validate deployment
      requirements, and verify workforce availability. As functional experts, they ensure their career
      fields are responsive to both current and future needs of the Air Force. They rely heavily on
      collaboration and communicate directly with other HAF offices on issues impacting their career field
      and with their respective MAJCOM and FOA enlisted career field representatives and Air Education
      and Training Command Training Managers to disseminate Air Force and career field policies and
      program requirements.
      6.1.4. MAJCOM Functional Manager (MFM). Enlisted MFMs are SNCOs who manage designated
      enlisted career fields for a MAJCOM and serve as the MAJCOM liaisons for their respective
      AFCFMs. MFMs monitor the health and manning of their career fields within their command and
      elevate concerns to the AFCFMs. They manage command training for their career field and
      coordinate command training and personnel issues across their MAJCOM staff and with AFCFMs.
      They disseminate Air Force and career field policies and program requirements affecting their career
      field throughout the MAJCOM. They coordinate with the Air Force Personnel Center, through their
      MAJCOM/A1, to distribute personnel throughout the MAJCOM to ensure proper command
      prioritization of allocated/assigned personnel resources. They provide functional and subject matter
      expertise to Air Education and Training Command Training Managers to develop new or
      modify/improve existing training programs.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                         17


  6.1.5. Commandant. Enlisted commandants are SNCOs who lead the enlisted PME schools and the
  First Sergeant Academy. There are commandants at each ALS, NCOA, the AFSNCOA, and the
  First Sergeant Academy. Enlisted commandants implement and enforce policies, procedures, and
  directives directly related to the accomplishment of the school’s course of instruction. They analyze
  data and provide direction and vision regarding the effectiveness of their school’s efforts via
  curriculum evaluations, faculty assessments and development, student achievement
  criteria/feedback, and contact with senior leadership. Additionally, they coordinate frequent visits
  from high-ranking military and civilian leadership.
  6.1.6. Group Superintendent. Group superintendents provide leadership, management, and
  guidance in organizing, equipping, training, and mobilizing the group to meet home station and
  expeditionary mission requirements. Group superintendents work closely with their commander and
  command chief master sergeant to prepare the enlisted force to best execute mission requirements.
  They manage and direct resource activities as well as interpret and enforce policies and applicable
  directives. They also establish control procedures to meet mission goals and standards.
  Additionally, they recommend or initiate actions to improve organizational effectiveness and
  efficiency as well as ensure the management of personnel and resources are consistent with current
  practices and procedures in support of the wing’s mission. They resolve issues between subordinate
  squadrons, other groups, wing staff, and outside agencies as well as perform other duties as directed
  by the group commander.
  6.1.7. First Sergeant. First sergeants provide a dedicated focal point for all readiness, health,
  morale, welfare, and quality of life issues within their organizations. At home station and in
  expeditionary environments, their primary responsibility is to build and maintain a mission-ready
  force to execute home station and expeditionary mission requirements. First sergeants derive their
  authority from the unit commander and advise commanders, command chiefs, and other enlisted
  Airmen on morale, discipline, mentoring, well-being, recognition, and the professional development
  of enlisted Airmen. They ensure the enlisted force understands the commanders’ policies, goals, and
  objectives. They ensure support agencies are responsive to Airmen’s needs. They conduct quality
  force reviews on all enlisted performance reports, decoration recommendations, and other personnel
  actions. Working with their fellow SNCOs and supervisors, first sergeants ensure equitable and
  effective discipline, and the highest level of esprit de corps. First sergeants work closely with the
  command chief master sergeant to prepare the organization’s enlisted force to best execute all
  assigned tasks. They participate in the first sergeants council and other activities that support the
  total needs of the military community.
 18                                                               AFI36-2618      27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                              Chapter 7

                                     ENLISTED DUTY TITLES

7.1. Enlisted Duty Titles. When properly applied, duty titles facilitate a quick understanding of a
person’s role and level of responsibility. Enlisted duty titles are assigned based upon the scope of
responsibility and the duties being performed. A consistent, standard approach is important to ensure
the terms are meaningful.
7.2. Authorized Enlisted Duty Titles. The following duty titles are the official, authorized duty titles
in the enlisted force. The only exceptions are the special SNCO duty positions listed in Chapter 6 and
limited instances when a person's position or duties do not meet the criteria listed below. In such
circumstances, enlisted personnel will have a duty title that most accurately reflects their day-to-day
duties (for example, Ground Safety Technician, Career Assistance Advisor, and Dedicated Crew Chief).
When published, duty titles specified in functional directives will be utilized.
   7.2.2. Supervisor. Used for junior enlisted Airmen and NCOs who are first line supervisors (for
   example, Heavy Equipment Supervisor and Shift Supervisor). Junior enlisted Airmen will not have
   the duty title "Supervisor" unless they are at least a SrA, an ALS graduate, and supervise the work of
   others.
   7.2.3. Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC). Used only for NCOs and SNCOs in charge
   of a work center or element. NCOICs typically have subordinate supervisors (for example, NCOIC,
   Installation Security; and NCOIC, Outbound Assignments). NCOIC is also used for those whose
   primary duty is program or function management (for example, NCOIC, Unit Training Management;
   and NCOIC, Resource Management) even if they do not directly supervise personnel.
   7.2.4. Section Chief. Used for NCOs and SNCOs in charge of a section with at least two
   subordinate work centers or elements (for example, Section Chief, Network Control Center). Section
   Chiefs are typically SNCOs and the rank will vary depending upon the size of the section (number of
   enlisted personnel, number of work centers, and scope of responsibilities).
   7.2.5. Flight Chief. Used for NCOs and SNCOs who are the enlisted leaders of a flight (for
   example, Flight Chief, Information Systems Flight; and Flight Chief, Operations Flight). Flight
   Chiefs are typically SNCOs and the rank will vary depending upon the size of the flight (number of
   enlisted personnel, number of work centers, and scope of responsibilities).
   7.2.6. Squadron Superintendent. Used for a CMSgt, and occasionally a SMSgt or MSgt, who is the
   senior enlisted leader of a squadron (for example, Squadron Superintendent, 19th Maintenance
   Squadron). Only SNCOs will hold the duty title of Squadron Superintendent.
   7.2.7. Superintendent. Used for SNCOs in charge of group- or wing-level functions, or in a
   squadron when having either oversight of functions within other squadrons or within the same
   squadron (for example, Aircraft Maintenance Unit Superintendent and Command Post
   Superintendent). Only SNCOs will hold the duty title of Superintendent.
   7.2.8. Manager. In addition to the special SNCO positions of AFCFM and MFM, used for NCOs
   and SNCOs who are program, project, and policy managers at NAF, MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, Joint
   Staff, or Air Staff levels. They may or may not have personnel working for them and may be the
   enlisted leader of the branch, division, or directorate (for example, Manager, Intelligence Systems
   Integration; and Manager, Joint Operations Analysis and Planning).
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                                          19


   7.2.9. Chief. Used for CMSgts who are program, project, or policy managers at NAF, MAJCOM,
   DRU, FOA, Joint Staff, or Air Staff levels. They may or may not have personnel working for them
   and may be the enlisted leader of the branch, division, or directorate (for example, Chief, Air Force
   Enlisted Force Development; and Chief, Airmen Assignments). NOTE: Senior Enlisted Advisor
   and Chief Enlisted Manager duty titles may only be used when holding those specifically-designated
   and approved positions.
7.3. Adopted Forms.
   AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                            RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Manpower and Personnel
 20                                                        AFI36-2618   27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 Feb 06
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 06
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 May 08
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 Aug 08
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development,16 Dec 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCFM—Air Force Career Field Manager
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSNCOA—Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy
ALS—Airman Leadership School
ANG—Air National Guard
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NCOA—Noncommissioned Officer Academy
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009               21


NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
PME—Professional Military Education
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
 22                                                      AFI36-2618   27 FEBRUARY 2009


                                      Attachment 2
                                  THE AIRMAN’S CREED

Figure A2.1. The Airman’s Creed


                              THE AIRMAN’S CREED

                             I am an American Airman.
                                   I am a warrior.
                          I have answered my nation’s call.

                             I am an American Airman.
                          My mission is to fly, fight, and win.
                          I am faithful to a proud heritage,
                                A tradition of honor,
                                And a legacy of valor.

                             I am an American Airman,
                          Guardian of freedom and justice,
                            My nation’s sword and shield,
                                Its sentry and avenger.
                          I defend my country with my life.

                              I am an American Airman:
                             Wingman, Leader, Warrior.
                         I will never leave an airman behind,
                                   I will never falter,
                                   And I will not fail.
AFI36-2618 27 FEBRUARY 2009                                                             23


                                         Attachment 3
                       AIR FORCE INSTITUTIONAL COMPETENCIES

Table A3.1. Air Force Institutional Competencies
      Institutional Competency                Institutional Subcompetency
                                              Operational and Strategic Art
                                              Unit, Air Force, Joint and Coalition
      Employing Military Capabilities
                                              Capabilities
                                              Non-Adversarial Crisis Response
                                              Enterprise Structure and Relationships
                                              Government Organization and Processes
      Enterprise Perspective
                                              Global, Regional and Cultural Awareness
                                              Strategic Communication
                                              Ethical Leadership
                                              Warrior Ethos
      Embodying Air Force Culture
                                              Develop Self
                                              Followership
                                              Developing and Inspiring Others
      Leading People                          Taking Care of People
                                              Diversity
                                              Resource Stewardship
      Managing Organizations and              Change Management
      Resources
                                              Continuous Improvement
                                              Vision
      Strategic Thinking                      Decision-Making
                                              Adaptability
                                              Build Teams and Coalitions
      Fostering Collaborative Relationships
                                              Negotiating
                                              Speaking and Writing
      Communicating
                                              Active Listening
