BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AF INSTRUCTION 33-115, VOLUME 1
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                            RANDOLPH AFB SUPPLEMENT

                                                                          21 NOVEMBER 2008

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                       NETWORK OPERATIONS (NETOPS)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:        There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 CS/SCO                                       Certified by: 12 CS/CC (Lt Col D. Brown)
                                                                                     Pages: 4

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 33-115, Volume 1, Network
Operations (NETOPS), dated 24 May 2006. This supplement applies to all base organizations
and associate units. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located
at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.

13.1. Service Level Agreement. The attached Blanket Service Level Agreement defines
division of responsibilities for network operations and services between 12 CS and customer
functional areas.




                                    JACQUELINE D. VAN OVOST, Colonel, USAF
                                    Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing


Attachment
5. Blanket Service Level Agreement (Added-Randolph AFB)
2                       AFI33-115_RANDOLPHAFBSUP_1                21 NOVEMBER 2008

                           Attachment 5 (Added-Randolph AFB)

                       BLANKET SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT

1. Introduction.        This Service Level Agreement (SLA) applies between the 12th
Communications Squadron and all organizations requiring support for physically or logically
consolidated functional specific servers hosted by 12 CS/SCO. (NOTE: AFNETOPS directed
initiatives affecting the Randolph Enterprise Network that result in a change in provider/user
responsibilities will be addressed through revisions to this document.)

    a. Service Provider: For the purpose of this SLA, the 12th Communications Squadron
    is considered the service provider.

      (1) POC Name: Randolph Communications Focal Point
      (2) Bldg 990, 12 CS/SCOS
      (3) DSN 487-2015 x6

    b. End-user. The end user is considered any organization requesting consolidated
    service from 12 CS/SCO. Each organization will appoint, in writing, at least one
    Functional Systems Administrator (FSA) to act as POCs for the functional application
    server. As a minimum the following information should be provided:

      (1) POC name
      (2) Location and office symbol
      (3) Duty phone number
      (4) 24-hour phone number
      (5) Organization/system supported

2. Purpose. The purpose of this SLA is to specify the services and commitments of 12
CS, above those stipulated in AFI 33-115, Vol 1, as well as the expectations and
obligations of the end-user in support of physically/logically consolidated functional
servers.

3. Responsibilities of the Service Provider.

    a. Physically consolidated systems: are those systems physically residing in Building
    990, room 125, 12 CS Server Farm. For those systems 12 CS/SCO will:

      (1) Provide a facility that supplies a proper server-operating environment
      including HVAC, filtered power, and physical security.
      (2) First look touch maintenance as requested (power cycle equipment, swap
      backup tapes, etc)
      (3) Provide oversight for TCNO compliance.
      (4) Not patch any functional system without prior request/approval from the
      FSA. (NOTE: Security vulnerabilities may override this stipulation, but every
      effort will be made to contact FSA and coordinate emergency security patching)
AFI33-115_RANDOLPHAFBSUP_1               21 NOVEMBER 2008                                  3

     (5) Provide access to site facilities to organizational FSAs with a minimum of one-
     half hours notice during duty hours and two hours notice during non-duty hours.
     (6) Provide end-user, whenever possible, with a minimum of 72 hours notice in
     the event of infrastructure or service changes, planned outages, or equipment
     upgrades that could affect user services and as soon as feasible, of unplanned
     outages and network shortfalls; whenever possible, these updates will include an
     estimated time/date when services will be restored.

  b. Logically consolidate systems: Are those systems requiring services from 12 CS,
  but do not physically reside in Building 990, room 125, 12 CS Server Farm. For those
  systems 12 CS will:

     (1) Provide oversight for TCNO compliance.
     (2) Not patch any functional system without prior request/approval from the
     FSA. (NOTE: Security vulnerabilities may override this stipulation, but every
     effort will be made to contact FSA and coordinate emergency security patching)
     (3) Provide end-user, whenever possible, with a minimum of 72 hours notice in
     the event of infrastructure or service changes, planned outages, or equipment
     upgrades that could affect user services and as soon as feasible, of unplanned
     outages and network shortfalls; whenever possible, these updates will include an
     estimated time/date when services will be restored.

Note: Each Sunday from 0700-1200 is the principal period of maintenance for core
services and may cause interruptions to service.

4. Responsibilities of the End-user.

  a. Physically consolidated systems. End users will:

     (1) Provide 12 CS/SCO with a minimum of one-half hours notice during duty
     hours and two hours notice during non-duty hours when requiring access to the
     server farm.
     (2) Provide the information listed in Para 1b. through 12 CS/SCXS for addition
     to the site access list.
     (3) Patch all systems to comply with all security directives. Upon request from
     the end-user, 12 CS may apply patches.
     (4) Be responsible for lifecycle maintenance of the system to include all funding
     for hardware and software upgrades.
     (5) Maintain sole responsibility for the administration of the functional server
     including the operating system.
     (6) Provide 12 CS with a minimum of 72 hours for and any planned
     equipment/software upgrades requiring assistance from 12 CS.

  b. Logically consolidate services. End user will:
4                        AFI33-115_RANDOLPHAFBSUP_1               21 NOVEMBER 2008

      (1) Patch all systems to comply with all security directives. Upon request from
      the end-user, 12 CS may apply patches.
      (2) Be responsible for lifecycle maintenance of the system to include all funding
      for hardware and software upgrades.
      (3) Maintain sole responsibility for the administration of the functional server
      including the operating system.
      (4) Notify 12 CS when systems are moved or decommissioned.

5. Customer Escalation Procedure. Listed below are the escalation and points of
contact (POC’s) in the order of escalation for resolution of network/support problems.

ESCALATION LEVELS                 TO WHOM                          PHONE NUMBER

1st                               Chief, Network Operations             487-1774
2nd                               Operations Flight Deputy              487-2902
3rd                               Operations Flight Chief               487-6795

6. Conclusion.

    a. The terms of this SLA will remain in effect indefinitely, but will be reviewed
    annually by both the service provider and end-user.
    b. Either the service provider or end-user may request and out-of-cycle review with 30
    days written notification.
