                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                     AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                      AFI36-2905_914AWSUP_914AWGM2014-01

                                                                                19 February 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR 914 AW PERSONNEL

FROM: 914 AW/CC

SUBJECT: 914th Airlift Wing Guidance Memorandum (GM) for 914AWGM36-2905,
           Fitness Program

       This memorandum is 914th Airlift Wing guidance to AFI 36-2905, 21 October 2013. It
does not attempt to modify existing guidance, but documents how the fitness program will be
administered and fitness expectations within the 914th Airlift Wing and its subordinate
organizations. This guidance becomes void 180-days from the date of this memorandum.

1. Scheduled Testing. Due to months of inclement weather characteristic to Western New
York, the 914th Airlift Wing has established annual fitness months of April and October. During
the annual fitness months, Squadron Commanders are encouraged to direct their Airmen to
accomplish their biannual fitness requirements as outlined in AFI 36-2905. Any excusal or
reschedule for members who test biannually during the April and October UTAs will be at the
discretion of the member’s Squadron Commander. All members are responsible for maintaining
their individual fitness currency. Members who are non-current may not participate in pay or
point gaining activities while non-current. In the attempt to allow all members an opportunity to
test during the Airlift Wing fitness months, Squadron Commanders may authorize a member to
become non-current for a period not to exceed 30-days; only if the member does not have an
EPR/OPR closing out during the period of non-currency, or any other currency requirements
(deployments, schools, etc) pending during the period of non-currency. Members who become
non-current after a UTA will be required to test in their next day of military duty status. Testing
during the month should be by appointment only, and scheduled through the base Exercise
Physiologist. Members who show up for assessments without an appointment may be turned
away.


2. Deployments/Schools/TDYs

   a. Deployments. Commanders will not recommend their personnel for voluntary
deployments unless they have a satisfactory fitness score. A satisfactory fitness score for
voluntary deployments is defined as a passing score in all components without a component
exemption due to medical. Members medically exempt from the run who are approved to walk
will need to refer to reporting instructions for acceptance. Waiver authority for voluntary
deployments is the Wing Commander. Fitness requirements for involuntary mobilizations will
continue to be defined by the gaining COCOM in the reporting instructions (Attachment 8 of
AFI 236-2905 will be completed by Squadron Commander and will be forwarded at least 2
weeks prior to COCOM lasting greater than 6 weeks).
    b. Schools/TDYs. All members going to formal schools must be current and must align
with fitness standards in accordance with the school reporting instructions. Commanders must
ensure their members present a professional military image while in uniform; therefore, Airmen
with unsatisfactory FAs will not be sent on temporary duty (TDY) away from Niagara Falls ARS
except when approved by their Group Commander. Fitness requirements will continue to be
defined by the gaining Commandant/TDY Commander in the reporting instructions (Attachment
8 of AFI 36-2905 will be completed by Squadron Commander and will be forwarded at least 2
weeks prior to School/or TDY lasting greater than 6 weeks).

 3. Non-Current Airmen. Excluding those Airmen who go non-current as a result of a pre-
determined scheduled FA with their Squadron Commander, Airmen who go non-current for
fitness testing will be placed into a no-pay/no-points status by their Squadron Commander. See
attachment #1. Furthermore, absences resulting from the no-pay/no-points action are unexcused
and should be annotated in Unit Training Assembly Processing System (UTAPS). Members
who are non-current are to test in the first time block of their next military duty status. Unit
Commanders, after consultation with AFI 36-2254 Vol. 1, and the JAG office, should consider
administrative action for members who go non-current.

4. Medical Condition Determination. Commanders who have Airmen with three or more
fitness failures must determine if an underlying medical condition is responsible for their
unsatisfactory fitness performance. Use attachment #2 to request the 914 ASTS review their
medical records for this determination. Requests must be submitted to the base Exercise
Physiologist by COB Friday prior to the next UTA following the third fitness failure. If no
medical condition exists that would affect a member from passing a fitness assessment, the
ASTS will notify the unit commander by completing and returning attachment #2. If a medical
condition has been determined, the member’s record will be forwarded to the Deployment
Availability Working Group (DAWG) for additional work up and determination of possible
World Wide Duty or Medical Evaluation Board. In the event of a required work-up, commanders
will be notified a determination needs to take place as documentation can take several months to
acquire. The DAWG will meet monthly on scheduled UTAs. Commanders with Airmen who
have been medically exempted from one or more of the four components of the fitness test for a
continuous 12-month period or have four component exemptions in a 24-month period will
ensure the member’s record is forwarded to the DAWG. Notification of DAWG review will be
annotated on AF Form 469.

5. Administrative and Personnel Actions. Unit commanders will review AFI 36-2905,
Attachment 14, Administrative and Personnel Actions For Failing to Attain Physical Fitness
Standards, and should consult with the JAG’s office after two fitness assessment failures.
Copies of any administrative action must be maintained in the member’s 6-part fitness folder. In
order to provide consistency throughout the wing, Unit Commanders are strongly encouraged to
use AFI 36-2905, attachment 14, and the following guidance when an Airman fails a FA:

       First Failure- Verbal Counseling and documented Self-Paced Fitness Improvement
              Program on a Physical Fitness Education and Intervention Processing form AF
              FORM 108(SFIP) Initiated (see paragraph 6)
       Second Failure- Letter of Counseling
       Third Failure- Letter of Reprimand (LOR)
       Fourth Failure- Consider second LOR, demotion of rank, involuntary
              reassignment. Commander must recommend retention/non-retention to Wing CC

Administrative action should be taken after each fitness assessment failure. If adverse
administrative action is not taken in response to an unsatisfactory score, Unit CCs must
document in the members fitness file as to why no action is being taken. The lack of such
Commander documentation does not discount the testing failure as a basis in support of
administrative discharge action.

If a member obtains four unsatisfactory FAs in 24-months, the commander will make a
retention/non-retention recommendation to the Wing Commander. This cannot be requested
until a Medical Determination has been completed (see paragraph 4). See attachment #3 for
example of retention/no-retention. Contact FSS for discharge procedures. Additionally,
promotions, decorations, local and HHQ awards and reenlistments (see Attachment 14, Note 1 of
AFI 36-2905 for information on reenlistment extensions) should not be considered while an
Airman does not meet fitness standards. If an Airman is retained, every subsequent FA failure
requires the Unit Commander to submit another retention/non-retention recommendation.
Exception: Retirement awards should consider the Airman’s total contribution to the service.

6. Self-Paced Fitness Improvement Program (SFIP). Commanders must enroll their members
who have failed a Fitness Assessment into the SFIP program using AF Form 108. Members who
score unsatisfactory will have a 6-part folder created and maintained in a locked file by their Unit
Fitness Program Manager (UFPM) until they have a passing score for 24-months. UFPMs
and/or the member’s supervisor must meet with members monthly and record in their 6-part
folders any fitness progress/regression, any actions taken by the member to improve their fitness,
and any administrative/non-administrative actions taken. Members will conduct the Balanced
Eating-Workout Effectively-Live Long (BE WELL) training in classroom or on ADLS.
Squadron’s PTL-As are encouraged to train members during the UTA with an approved program
by the Base Exercise Physiologist. All members who fail a second FA will be scheduled to meet
one on one with the Wing Exercise Physiologist to set up a personal fitness improvement plan.
These members will schedule this meeting prior to attending their next UTA. Unit Commanders
should strongly consider restricting UTA reschedules and equivalent training for members with
unsatisfactory fitness scores.

7. Physical Training Leaders (PTL) Training and Scheduling. PTLs are an annually trained
position in which members are required to have a current passing FA score and CPR/AED
certification. Squadrons are required to have one trained PTL-B for every twelve squadron
members and should send the required PTLs requested for their scheduled FA monitoring
month(s). Squadron Commanders should make every attempt to release their PTLs for mass
fitness testing purposes as requested. PTLs will not test members from their own unit/PAS code
and will not update FA scores in AFFMS for personnel from their own unit/PAS code.

8. Physical Training on Duty. As training and mission requirements permit, unit and individual
PT activities are encouraged during UTAs, and other periods of Active Duty, at the discretion of
a member’s supervisor and commander. Supervisors and commanders reserve the right to
implement PT time into a unit’s daily mission. The wear of the PTU/IPTU must be in
compliance with the Dress and Appearance AFI 36-2903 chapter 7. Members may not wear the
optional IPTU sweatshirt or any outer garments during the pushup portion of the FA.
9. Staff Assisted Visits (SAV). In accordance with AFI 36-2905, the EP or Wing Fitness
Program Manager/Alt must perform Staff Assistance Visits. The schedule is provided below and
subject to change.

UTA                            Squadron
January 2014                   ASTS
February 2014                  30 APS
March 2014                     SFS
May 2014                       328/OSS/OG
June 2014                      MXS
August 2014                    AW/FSS/MSG
September 2014                 MXG/CES
November 2014                  CS/AES/AMXS
December 2014                  LRS




                                            WALTER O. GORDON, Col, USAFR
                                            Commander

Attachments:
1. No-Pay/No-Points Letter
2. Medical Condition Determination Letter
3. Discharge-Retention Recommendation
                                               Attachment 1

                              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                                         DD Month Year
MEMORANDUM FOR RANK FIRST M. LAST

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Notice of “No Pay-No Points” Status

1. Your fitness currency following your last Fitness Assessment has expired as of DD Month
Year. I am imposing administrative action upon you and placing you into a “No-Pay No-Point
status” prohibiting you from participating in any pay or point gaining activity. Your “No-Pay No
-Point status” will begin on DD Month Year and continue until you complete your Fitness Test.

2. It is your responsibility to accomplish a Fitness Assessment. Your next Fitness Assessment is
scheduled on DD Month Year. Please arrive to the unit orderly room in full PT attire for unit
sign-in before reporting to the base fitness center to test. To be clear, you will remain in a no
pay-no points status until you sign in at the beginning of period of your scheduled Fitness
Assessment. If this requirement is not met prior to the next UTA, you will be unexcused from
the UTA. In accordance with AFI 36-2254V1, Reserve Personnel Participation, a unit member
who has nine or more unexcused IDT absences in a 12-month period, with the first month missed
as month one, is considered an unsatisfactory participant and could subject you to administrative
discharge.

3. Please be advised, any service member in a no pay/no point status retains their Serviceman Group
Life Insurance (SGLI) at the current level and rate until cancelled by member or separated from service.
It is your responsibility to reduce or cancel your SGLI in order to manage or prevent any debt during this
status. Contact Customer Service immediately at 716-236-2026 to schedule a SGLI briefing.

4. Please sign below that you received and understand this memo. If you have questions
concerning any part of this memo, please contact your unit supervisor.




                                                        FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAFR
                                                        Commander
                                            Attachment 1




2

1st Ind to Unit/CC, DD Month Year Notice of “No Pay-No Points” Status

MEMORANDUM FOR Unit/CC                                                        DATE:

I have read your memo placing me in “No Pay-No Points” Status. I understand my
responsibility to attend military formations, including Fitness Testing, and that I will remain in
this status until my Fitness Test is completed.




                                                      FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAFR

cc:
UFPM




(Remove before issuing the memorandum) NOTE: This letter must be sent certified and first
class mail to unit members prior to the UTA that the “no-pay no-point status” goes into effect.
                                                                       Attachment 2
                                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                             AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                                                                         DD Month Year


MEMORANDUM FOR MEDICAL PROVIDER

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Medical Condition Determination for Fitness Assessment (FA) Test Failures

Please determine whether or not there was a medical condition that precluded (Rank/ Name) from
achieving a passing score on the FA tests identified in the table below. Please contact me at DSN XXX-
XXXX with any questions.




                                                                            FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAFR
                                                                            Commander

1st Ind, MEDICAL PROVIDER

TO: UNIT/CC

I have reviewed the member’s medical record for each of the following FA tests as indicated by my
initials below. I may be reached at DSN XXX-XXXX.



                                Filled in by Unit (CC, CCF, or UFPM)                                             Completed by Medical Provider
Member took FA tests on:                               For this test, member was:                                      For this test, member:
(Fill in FA failures               not        exempt       exempt        exempt       exempt from     had a documented           did not have a documented
for which a medical                exempt     from         from          from         abdominal       medical condition          medical condition that
determination is required. If      from       run/         sit- ups.     pushups.     circumference   that precluded             precluded him/her from
there is already a medical         any        walk.                                   measurement.    him/her from               achieving a
opinion on past                    portion                                                            achieving a passing        passing score in a non
failure, do NOT request            of the                                                             score in a non-exempt      exempt portion of the FA
another medical determination      FA test.                                                           portion of the FA test.    test.
for that test.)



          /       /_
          /       /_
          /       /_
          /       /_
                                                           Attachment 2



Medical Provider Remarks in Regard to Medical Condition(s) affecting Fitness Assessment(s):




                                                            Signature & Stamp of Medical Provider and Date



  This document/attachment may contain information which must be protected IAW AFI 33-332 and DoD Reg 5400.11; Privacy Act of 1974 as
    amended 5 U.S.C. 552a applies, and is For Official Use Only (FOUO). RECIPIENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SAFEGUARDING AND
                            MAINTAINING THIS PRODUCT IAW THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974, PL 93-579
                                            Attachment 3

                           DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                    AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                                DD Month Year

MEMORANDUM FOR 914 AW/CC

FROM: UNIT/CC

SUBJECT: Recommendation for Retention/Non-Retention (select one) of Rank Last name

1. This request for retention/non-retention of Rank First Last name is based on AFI 36-2905,
Fitness Program. Rank Last name has failed            _ Fitness Assessments in the last 24-months.
Prior to the latest fitness failure, the following administrative actions had been taken to
emphasize and encourage being fit and healthy:

INSERT DATES AND ACTIONS TAKEN

After the latest Fitness Assessment failure on [DD Month Year], the following action(s) were
taken: STATE CURRENT ACTION TAKEN

2. Based on the specifics of his/her fitness record, I recommend/do not recommend that Rank
Last name be retained in the United States Air Force Reserve. (for retention add: until his/her
next official retest date during the          UTA.) The specific reasons for this recommendation
are as follows:

STATE REASONS FOR RETENTION/ NON-RETENTION HERE

3. Retain: Request approval to retain Rank Lastname.
                                              or
Not Retain: Request approval to proceed with Discharge for Rnk Last name.



                                                    FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAFR
                                                    Commander


Attachments:
1. Fitness History for Rank Last name
2. Medical Condition Determination for Fitness Assessment (FA) Failures dated [DD Mon
Year]
                                        Attachment 3


1st Ind to 914 UNIT/CC Letter dated [DD Month Year], Recommendation for Retention/Non-
Retention of Rnk Lastname

914 GROUP/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR 914 AW/CC

I concur/non-concur with the UNIT/CC’s recommendation to retain/not retain Rank Last name.




                                                FIRST M. LAST, Rank, USAFR
                                                Commander

2nd Ind 914 AW/CC

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

I concur/non-concur with the UNIT/CC’s and Group/CC’s recommendation to retain/not retain
Rank Last name.




                                                WALTER O. GORDON, Colonel, USAFR
                                                Commander
