BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-401
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   17 MAY 2011

                                                              AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                                                     Supplement
                                                                          30 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                                AIR FORCE ARCHITECTING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PA                                                             Certified by: SAF/A6P
                                                                         (Mr. Bobby Smart, SES)
Supersedes:    AFI33-401, 14 March, 2007                                                Pages: 24
                                            (AFSPC)
OPR: HQ AFSPC/A5                                             Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A5X (Mr.
                                                                             (Patrick R. Phelps)
                                                                                         Pages:5



This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-4,
Enterprise Architecting. This instruction describes the federation of Air Force architectures and
its concept for federated architecture development, its associated business rules, governance, and
the roles and responsibilities for appropriate Air Force organizations. It supports the
architecture-related mandates of the following Air Force Policy Directives (AFPD), Department
of Defense Directives (DoDD), Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instructions (CJCSI), and
OMB Circulars: AFPD 33-1 Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006; AFPD 33-4,
Enterprise Architecting, 27 June 2006; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-
11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget; OMB Circular A-130, Management
of Federal Information Resources; DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of
Information Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS), May 05, 2004; DoDD
5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003; DoDD 8000.01, Management of the
Department of Defense Information Enterprise, February 10, 2009; DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for
Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security
Systems (NSS), June 30, 2004; CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of
 2                                           AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


Information Technology and National Security Systems, December 15, 2008; CJCSI 3170.01G,
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), March 1, 2009; AFI 63-101,
Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, April 17, 2009; and AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, 1 March 2008.

This publication applies to all processes, services, systems, and procedures in support of decision
making, transformation, and governance. It applies to all military and civilian Air Force
personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and individuals or activities
as required by binding agreement with the Department of the Air Force. Field activities must
send proposed supplements to this instruction to Secretary of the AF, AF Chief Information
Officer and Information Dominance (SAF/CIO A6) for review and approval prior to publication.

Send all recommendations for changes or comments to Secretary of the AF, AF CIO and
Information Dominance (SAF/CIO A6), 1800 AF Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1800,
through appropriate channels, using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

(AFSPC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI)
33-401, Air Force Architecting. This supplement is applicable to Air Force Space Command
(AFSPC) subordinate units including Headquarters (HQ) AFSPC Directorates, Space and
Missile Systems Center (SMC), Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC) and the Air
Force Spectrum Management Office (AFSMO). This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units. It provides
additional guidance to Air Force Space Command organizations involved with developing,
maintaining, providing accessibility to, reviewing, approving or using architectures. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using Air Force (AF)
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Subordinate units must send
implementing or supplementing publications to the OPR for review prior to publishing. Request
for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to the OPR listed above for
consideration and approval, per AFI 33-360. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                             3


       1.     Air Force Architecting. ..........................................................................................    3
Figure 1.     Architecture Federation. ........................................................................................     5
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................     11
       3.     Information Collections, Records, and Forms. ......................................................                  15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     17


1. Air Force Architecting.
   1.1. Relevance. The mandate to develop architectures comes from law (Clinger-Cohen Act,
   Title 10); Federal level requirements (OMB A-11, Federal Enterprise Architecture); DoD
   policies and instructions (DOD 5000.01, CJCSI 3170 and 6212); and the AF policies and
   instructions (AFPD 33-4, AFI 63-101). The intelligence community is also governed by
   Intelligence Community Directive (ICD) Number 1, "Policy Directive for Intelligence
   Community Leadership”.
   1.2. Purpose. Government agencies continually assess current performance, identify
   opportunities for performance improvement, and translate opportunities into specific actions.
   AF leaders are called upon daily to make decisions across the AF, often without being
   provided objective analysis of the second and third order impacts of their decisions.
   Enterprise architectures are formal blueprints for methodically and completely defining an
   organization’s current (baseline) or desired (target) operational process and enabling
   environment. It is a tool that contains information for use by decision-makers in
   consideration of addressing and aligning enterprise-wide business plans and programs.
   Enterprise Architecture (EA) also helps all echelons to understand their alignment, key
   processes, roles, critical information, and supporting enablers. Thus, architecture is the key to
   understanding complexity and managing change; laying out the complexity of AF systems,
   processes and programs, and presenting decision-makers with clear articulated analysis.
   Architecting provides a traceable connection from business strategy to each decision through
   implementation and deployment. This AFI provides the roles and responsibilities required
   to ensure all architectures are built for purpose, built to quality standards, enable analysis that
   can be used to support decision making, and guide transformation.
   1.3. A Federated Approach. The AF uses a federated approach that partitions the AF
   Enterprise into an inter-related hierarchy of architectures (such as AF Service Core Function
   (SCF) architectures, Domain architectures, and Program architectures). AF Service Core
   Function architectures express the ways in which the Air Force is particularly and
   appropriately suited to contribute to national security. The SCF Architectures, along with the
   AF Business Support Services, depict the relationships between AF capabilities, functional
   support, and other DoD and external agencies. The Domain architectures are those
   architectures which reflect a segment of one or more AF Service Core Functions and
   depicting a set of capabilities and its associated missions, tasks, and their interrelationships.
   The Program architectures are those architectures which reflect the programs, systems and or
   services which provide IT support to the Domains and Service Core Functions. These
   architectures are developed and managed by various AF organizations (e.g., Service Core
   Function Lead Integrator Commands, Major Commands (MAJCOM), Field Operating
   Agencies (FOA), and Program Offices etc.). The specific focus and layered nature of the
4                                            AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


    architectures facilitate allocation of responsibilities and enable architectures to be built
    autonomously. Architectures must be compliant with other interdependent architectures and
    the Air Force Enterprise Architecture (AFEA). Architectures in each successive layer must
    provide the detail necessary to fulfill its area of responsibility and articulate
    interdependencies to other architectures. An architecture that is certified as compliant with
    the AFEA can be used to certify compliance of subordinate architectures under certain
    conditions (see section 1.6.2. Architecture Certification), thus providing architecture
    certification reciprocity. In this way, an architecture at the lowest level of an enterprise is
    compliant with the highest federated level of an enterprise simply by complying with the
    level immediately above it. For the AF, this concept extends upward from the AFEA to
    Department of Defense (DoD) and Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) as the AFEA is
    deemed compliant with the DoD EA and the FEA.
       1.3.1. The architecture community leverages subject matter expertise throughout the AF,
       to enable the development of architectures that support analysis and decision making. We
       achieve this by using the appropriate perspectives to ensure a linkage between the service
       or component level strategy, associated objectives, performance measures, their related
       processes, and the activities (core, governing, and enabling) of the AF. This is
       accomplished by building architectures that follow the rules of AF architecting (e.g.
       architectures that fully address Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership
       and Education, Personnel, and Facility (DOTMLPF) considerations, address horizontal
       and vertical interdependencies, and are built to enable federation [federate-able]) as
       described in this instruction.
       1.3.2. Designation of AF architecting areas of responsibility follows Figure 1 and begins
       with the AFEA which is assigned to the AF Chief Architect. Designation of architecting
       areas of responsibility at the next lower level is by AF Core Functions Lead Integrators
       (CFLIs) plus Business Support Services. The Business Support Services area is assigned
       to and managed by the AF Deputy Chief Management Office (DCMO). Lead Integrators
       and DCMO will work with HAF/SAF Functionals to define architecture requirements for
       Service Core Functions and the Business Support Services area and the levels of
       decomposition of each. This will be reflected in their domain level architectures. At the
       domain level and below, architecting areas of responsibility lie with the MAJCOM and
       associated Program Offices. It is important to note that Domain architectures may support
       several SCFs, and likewise Program Architectures may support multiple Domains. It is
       the responsibility of the lead architecting organizations to ensure interfaces are negotiated
       appropriately to enable the Federated Approach.
       1.3.3. Figure 1 - Architecture Federation depicts the AFEA relationship with
       architectures that are higher and lower in the hierarchy. The layers depicted run from the
       Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA), through the DoD and the AF, down to an SCF
       level, a Domain Level which sub-divides any given SCF, and the Program Level where
       program architectures reside. Architectures in each layer must comply with the relevant
       rules for architecting, the relevant compliance criteria from above in the hierarchy that
       guide the content of the architecture (such as standards), and must represent operational
       interdependencies resulting in an architecture that is federate-able. An architecture is
       federated into architectures above in the hierarchy by the organization responsible for the
       architecture above in the hierarchy. This pattern must be followed down the hierarchy
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                          5


      resulting in traceability from the Federal Enterprise Architecture to the program level
      architectures. The AFEA is built to be federate-able with DoD Enterprise Architecture
      and in turn the DoD EA is built to be federate-able to the FEA.

Figure 1. Architecture Federation.




      1.3.4. The AF Enterprise Architecture. The AFEA, maintained by SAF/A6PA, does not
      exist in isolation, but is part of (and must conform to) the larger DoD EA and FEA. The
      AFEA defines how capabilities are met or intended to be met and documents processes
      and/or systems to support those capabilities. Enterprise architecting in the context of this
      policy encompasses all activities involved in developing, certifying, approving, and using
      federated architectures at all levels of the Air Force. It includes information from other
      DoD, Intelligence and AF architectures, National Institute of Standards Module
      Validation List, National Information Assurance Partnership Validated Products List,
      DoD Metadata Repository, Net-Centric Enterprise Services Service Registry, DoD
      Issuances Website, DoD Enterprise Software Initiative Web Site, AF Enterprise IT Data
      Repository (EITDR), AF e-Publishing, DISR, the Infostructure Technology Reference
      Model (i-TRM), Federal Enterprise Architecture, DoD BEA, DoD IEA, DoD Strategic
      Management Plan, AF Strategic Plan, and the AF Strategic Management Plan. The
      AFEA registers its Overview and Summary Information (AV-1) with DARS, per OSD
      mandated requirement.
      1.3.5. The Air Force Architecture Resource (AFAR). AFAR is the authoritative source
      for AF architecture information and is the repository for architecture data and metadata
      describing all approved, certified, and/or under-development AF architectures. Using
      AFAR in this way ensures full lifecycle traceability, as well as visibility of architectures
      from initial development through certification and approval. Additionally, the AFAR
      will include contact information on all architects throughout the AF.
6                                           AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


       1.3.6. The Defense Architecture Repository System (DARS). DARS-required metadata
       elements will be provided by each architecting organization submitting their architecture
       for approval and certification. SAF/A6PA will register the architecture and its associated
       required architecture metadata with DARS under the AF community after certification.
    1.4. Using Architectures. The AF will use architecture to maximize its contribution to full
    spectrum dominance for the joint warfighter by supporting AF decision-making at all levels
    and guiding the transformations necessary to implement the decisions. AF architectures guide
    the transformations to ensure solutions support the business / mission need and deliver the
    required capability while supporting CIO requirements. For example, AF architectures will
    be used to ensure that proposed spending is optimized as appropriate and that solutions meet
    the targeted performance improvement upon which the decision to proceed was founded.
       1.4.1. (Added-AFSPC) The full spectrum of AFSPC organize, train, and equip
       responsibilities requires/depends upon the development of architectures spanning the
       entire Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DoDAF) continuum (from high
       level enterprise mission activity and associated capability needs definition to and through
       Cyberspace Build to Architectures (BtAs) and the solution architectures required to
       support Programs of Record (PoRs). As such, AFSPC architectures will be aligned to
       and used to support AFSPC corporate and programmatic decision-making mechanisms or
       processes for the Space and Cyberspace Superiority Core Function Master Plans
       (CFMPs) including concept analysis (presenting future capabilities), the Integrated
       Planning Process (IPP) (supporting planning and analysis of trades), and the Joint
       Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) process (supporting capability
       acquisition).
    1.5. Building Architectures. The AF will build architectures specifically to support decision
    makers and decision making processes, and to guide potential transformation. The AF will
    build architectures to a minimum standard and must adhere to approved DoD architecture
    frameworks as directed by DoD or AF policy (e.g., DoDAF, etc.) or as appropriate (e.g.,
    FEAF). Architectures will be developed to this minimum standard to ensure that a common
    set of information can be readily shared throughout the AF as described in this document. AF
    organizations must build architectures in accordance with a documented or referenced
    architecture development process and plan which must explicitly include meeting the needs
    of decision makers associated with the area of responsibility.
       1.5.1. (Added-AFSPC) AFSPC enterprise architecture views will be developed in
       accordance with the AFSPC Enterprise Architecture AV-1, June 2013
       (https://www.intelink.gov/go/waxNRM1), which includes a mixture of DoDAF and fit-
       for-purpose views defined to meet the needs of AFSPC decision making processes.
       1.5.2. (Added-AFSPC) AFSPC solution (or program) architectures will comply with
       the requirements for views and content as defined in the current versions of CJCSI
       3170.01 and CJCSI 6212.01.
       1.5.3. (Added-AFSPC) AFSPC Cyberspace BtA will be developed by AFNIC, at the
       direction of AFSPC, in accordance with DoDAF and AFSPC architecture guidance and
       used to provide direction to program offices for meeting AFSPC requirements.
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         7


  1.6. Governing Architectures. The AF will govern the quality of architecture and
  architecting activity through approval and certification processes to ensure that architectures
  are of significant quality for decision making and adhere to the rules of AF architecting.
     1.6.1. Architecture Approval. AF Architectures will be approved as Fit for Purpose by
     designated Architecture Approval Authorities. Architecture Approval Authorities will be
     assigned by the owning MAJCOM or HAF/SAF Functional office with notification to the
     AF Chief Architect. The Architecture Approval Authority will direct a thorough review
     of the architecture which includes stakeholders. The Architecture Review Process may
     be formal or informal depending on the scope of the project. The results of the review
     will be given to the Architecture Approval Authority, with a recommendation for
     approval or with recommended improvements.
         1.6.1.1. Architecture approval criteria. Approval criteria are used to assess whether
         any given architecture is Fit for Purpose. Fit for Purpose also ensures an architecture
         has sufficient information to support decision making (such as DOTMLPF impacts,
         standards, and interoperability requirements; and that relevant laws, regulations and
         policies are adequately addressed). In addition, architectures must capture and
         represent the desired end state and performance with sufficient data to guide the
         transformation. Architecture Approval Authorities will provide a signed architecture
         approval letter indicating the architecture has been reviewed by an appropriate body
         of stakeholders and deemed Fit for Purpose. The architecture approval letter will have
         an attachment documenting the assessment leading to the architecture approval. The
         AF Architecture Approval letter template is available on the AFAR. The AF will not
         prescribe any given method for reviewing an architecture for approval as there are
         many methods available - each with their own strengths. For example, some openly
         available methods include: the Architecture Tradeoff and Analysis Method (ATAM),
         the Software Architecture Analysis Method (SAAM), and the Active Reviews for
         Intermediate Design (ARID) method. Specific architecture approval criteria are
         dependent on the given purpose of the architecture; however the list below is a good
         baseline:
             1.6.1.1.1. Decision Making: Architecture should be assessed for completeness
             and accuracy in context to supporting specific decisions. Full DOTMLPF review
             is one dimension of completeness. Addressing the mission, information, service,
             and technology areas are another dimension. Additionally the architecture should
             be assessed for its accessibility to decision makers and/or their support staff.
             Additionally architectures should be used to identify gaps and redundancies
             across the enterprise to inform investment decisions.
             1.6.1.1.2. Architecture Feasibility: The architecture should be assessed for
             technical feasibility, business feasibility, and financial feasibility.
             1.6.1.1.3. Architecture Integrity: The architecture should be assessed for
             consistency between the mission/business, information, service, and technology
             areas and their connections.
             1.6.1.1.4. Architecture Agility: The architecture should be assessed for its ability
             to accommodate alternatives based on changes in environment.
8                                AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


    1.6.1.1.5. Interoperable: The architecture should be assessed to ensure that
    solution requirements for interoperability are appropriately represented and that
    standard interfaces (internal and external) utilize standardized vocabularies
    (reference DoDD 4630.8). Assertions for interoperability will be demonstrated
    and supported through the architecture as directed by the appropriate approval
    authority.
       1.6.1.1.5.1. (Added-AFSPC) Space and Cyberspace Vocabulary Reuse:
       AFSPC architectures will utilize the Space and Cyberspace vocabularies in
       developing their integrated dictionary (All View-2 (AV-2)). Reuse of
       common vocabularies is consistent with interoperability guidance included in
       but not limited to CJCSI 6212.01F, Net-Ready Key Performance Parameter,
       21 March 2012 and the DoD Information Enterprise Architecture, Version
       2.0, 10 August 2012. In addition, AFSPC architects will identify additional
       unique terms for inclusion in these common vocabularies for reuse.
    1.6.1.1.6. Dependable: The architecture should be assessed to ensure the solution
    meets the requirement. This will be stated through performance measures based
    on OMB A-11 and Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Consolidated
    Reference Model (CRM) requirements. These requirements and associated
    performance measures should address solution manageability, recoverability and
    serviceability.
    1.6.1.1.7. Useable: The architecture should be assessed for human factors
    (Section 508, ADA), including hardware, software, and human systems (computer
    and machine) integration and interactions.
    1.6.1.1.8. Prepared for Certification: The architecture should be assessed against
    certification criteria. The certification assertions should be prepared using the
    certification scorecard (available on AFAR) as an input to the certification
    process.
    1.6.1.1.9. Security: The architecture should be assessed for adequate
    representation of security issues to support trusted relationships with partners
    driven by policy.
    1.6.1.1.10. Technically Compliant: The architecture should be assessed from a
    technical and overall design perspective seeking to understand whether the right
    technical approaches are being applied for the given solution requirements and
    whether the collection of technologies will work together seamlessly.
       1.6.1.1.10.1. (Added-AFSPC) Cyberspace Superiority Infrastructure (CSI)
       Architecture Alignment: All AFSPC solution (or program) architectures will
       align to the Air Force’s CSI architecture. The CSI Architecture is aligned to
       the Department of Defense (DoD) Information Enterprise Architecture (IEA)
       (a required alignment for solution architectures under the Net-Ready Key
       Performance Parameter (NR-KPP) and describes the common IT and net-
       centric capabilities accessible to all AFSPC and Air Force systems and
       services.
    1.6.1.1.11. Compliant with appropriate Law, Regulation and Policy (LRP):
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                           9


            Architecture will address the LRPs and their associated review, inspection, or
            audit requirements based on the architectures stated purpose and scope.
            1.6.1.1.12. Stakeholder Involvement: The stakeholders are included in the
            approval process, for example, AFSPC/AFNIC for capacity, compliance, and
            supportability.
        1.6.1.2. (Added-AFSPC) AFSPC Architecture Review and Approval. The AFSPC
        Architecture Synchronization Forum will serve as the Architecture Review Board for
        the AFSPC family of architectures and their associate configurations. The AFSPC
        Architecture Synchronization Forum will manage the development, review, approval,
        sharing, and use of AFSPC enterprise, Cyberspace BtA and solution (or program)
        architectures to support planning, development, acquisition and implementation of
        space and cyberspace capabilities. The AFSPC Architecture Synchronization Forum
        will advise, assist and report to the AFSPC Chief Architect
        (https://www.intelink.gov/go/1F1TbjU) in all matters related to architectures.
        Details regarding the AFSPC Architecture Synchronization Forum including
        operations, decision making and organizational roles and responsibilities can be
        found in the AFSPC Architecture Synchronization Forum Charter, July 2013
        (https://www.intelink.gov/go/fUWuE9r).
            1.6.1.2.1. (Added-AFSPC) BtA and solution (or program) architectures will be
            evaluated as described in the AFSPC Architecture Synchronization Forum
            Charter, July 2013 (https://www.intelink.gov/go/fUWuE9r), utilizing the
            criteria described in paragraph 1.6.1.1 and its subparagraphs. Enterprise
            architectures will be evaluated against those criteria described in paragraph
            1.6.1.1 and its subparagraphs that are applicable to the level of the architecture;
            system or service implementation may not be applicable to an enterprise level
            architecture and therefore paragraph 1.6.1.1.7 regarding usability may not be
            assessed.
     1.6.2. Architecture Certification. AF Architectures will be certified by the Air Force
     Chief Architect or a designated Architecture Certification Authority. Certification is
     required for any architecture that has interdependencies with other architectures.
     Certification ensures architectures address AF rules for architecting, as presented in the
     AF Enterprise Architecture (AFEA) Compliance Guidance to meet interoperability
     support requirements as the AF moves toward an optimal set of capabilities.
        1.6.2.1. The goal of AF Architecture Certification is to maintain a minimum common
        standard of Architecture across the Air Force. Accomplishing this goal will assist the
        AF Architecture to achieve multiple objectives:
            1.6.2.1.1. The architecture meets a minimum common standard.
                1.6.2.1.1.1. Discoverable information assets are captured in the Architecture.
                1.6.2.1.1.2. Reusable information assets are captured in the Architecture.
            1.6.2.1.2. The architecture has addressed appropriate compliance requirements.
            1.6.2.1.3. The architecture is Fit-for-Federation (F4F).
                1.6.2.1.3.1. The architecture supports decisions at or above the program level.
10                                     AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


            1.6.2.1.3.2. The architecture support analysis (i.e. such as interoperability,
            redundancy, DOTMLPF impacts, etc.).
        1.6.2.1.3.3. The Federation of architectures provides a means to address Air
        Force Organization / Enterprise issues.
     1.6.2.2. Certification of architectures is intended to streamline the architecture
     development process over time by reducing rework and lowering costs of integration
     and interoperation.
     1.6.2.3. The Architecture Certification Authority will provide a signed architecture
     certification letter indicating the architecture has been reviewed and that the
     architecture meets / does not meet minimum criteria for certification. The
     architecture certification letter will have an attachment documenting the certification
     results which will be presented in a scorecard that rates the architecture against each
     criterion. This scorecard will note any material weaknesses found in the assessed
     architecture, along with a “get well plan” that describes the criteria / requirements that
     need to be addressed. The scorecard and any associated “get well plan” will comprise
     the attachment. The Certification Letter and Scorecard templates are available on the
     AFAR.
     1.6.2.4. Certification will address the following eight (8) criteria:
        1.6.2.4.1. Architecture Approval process was conducted: The architecture has
        been approved based on specific criteria and approval has followed a documented
        process.
        1.6.2.4.2. The Architecture content is valid: The architecture contains valid
        data/information.
        1.6.2.4.3. Architecture is positioned to support decisions: The architecture has
        been assessed for how it supports the defined consumers (purpose) and decisions
        it will be informing.
        1.6.2.4.4. Architecture is positioned to be federated within the Air Force
        Enterprise Architecture: Architecture has related or aligned subordinate and
        parent architectures via the mapping of common architecture information.
        Architecture artifacts are visible and accessible to analysts, planners and decision
        makers at all levels.
        1.6.2.4.5. Architecture is compliant with laws, regulations, and policies: The
        architecture has addressed compliance requirements based on the stated purpose
        and scope.
        1.6.2.4.6. Architecture meets a minimum standard (discovery and use): The
        architecture has been developed to a minimum standard of architecting to ensure
        architecture information is authoritative, discoverable and useable.
        1.6.2.4.7. Architecture meets a minimum AF standard (traceability): The
        architecture has been developed to a minimum standard to deliver auditable
        processes that maintain traceability from NEED to Deployed Capability - the
        solution meets the architecture and the need!
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                           11


              1.6.2.4.8. Architecture is under configuration control: The architecture is static
              upon approval and has identified a process to evolve and maintain configuration
              of architecture information.
          1.6.2.5. AF architecture certification results will be reported through AFAR. This
          will include the certification letter and associated certification scorecard with results.
          1.6.2.6. Designating Additional Certification Authorities. The AF Chief Architect is
          the primary architecture certification authority and will certify AF architectures. To
          enable tiered-accountability, the AF Chief Architect may delegate authority to
          architecting organizations at lower levels of the AF Enterprise to certify subordinate
          architectures. Organizations will not certify architectures they have created or
          sponsored themselves as those must be submitted to the next higher certification
          authority.
   1.7. IT and NSS Standards. As with DoD architectures and the AFEA, adherence to
   approved technical standards is required. The DoD IT Standards Registry (DISR) mandates
   the minimum set of standards and guidelines for the acquisition of all DoD systems that
   produce, use, or exchange information. In accordance with DoDI 4630.8 Procedures for
   Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security
   Systems (NSS), and AFI 63-101 Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management, all AF
   architectures shall use the DoD-mandated IT standards found in the DISR.
       1.7.1. To add, update or delete a standard currently in the DISR, a change request must
       be submitted to the DISR for consideration by DISR Technical Working Group
       representatives after coordination with SAF/A6PA. To use an emerging or retired
       standard or to disregard a DoD-mandated IT standard requires a waiver. The process for
       change requests or waivers is available on the AF Information Technology Standards
       Management web site (see references).
       1.7.2. Infostructure Technology Reference Model (i-TRM): In addition to the DISR, the
       i-TRM is the AF’s authoritative source for enterprise standard IT products, computer
       configurations, platform and service profiles, technical solutions and standard
       configurations of software and hardware. AF will use products from the standard product
       list or receive a waiver from A6/CIO.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. This AFI establishes eight general roles (2.1.1 - 2.1.8) and four specific roles (2.2 - 2.5)
   for architecting. These general roles are independent of the scope of a given architecture
   (Headquarters United States AF (HAF) Functionals, MAJCOMs, Program Management
   Offices, etc).
       2.1.1. An Architect analyzes, defines, builds, maintains, and/or improves an architecture
       for a stated purpose. Architects:
          2.1.1.1. Support decision makers in area of responsibility with architecture data and
          analysis.
          2.1.1.2. Assist users and other architects with understanding the subject architecture
          to ensure an accurate reflection of interdependent capabilities and requirements for
          related architectures.
12                                        AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


        2.1.1.3. Develop and maintain architecture for area of responsibility in accordance
        with this publication
        2.1.1.4. Follow a documented change management process as defined by architecting
        management.
        2.1.1.5. Evaluate commercial products related to architecture and document
        evaluation of suitability.
        2.1.1.6. Develop technical forecasts related to architecture.
        2.1.1.7. Stay current in tools, methods, and frameworks; and maintains all required
        certifications.
        2.1.1.8. Identify, document, assess, and develop a standard profile related to their
        architecture.
        2.1.1.9. Obtain approval recommendation from the Architecture Review Board
        (ARB)
        2.1.1.10. Submit approved architecture to the Architecture Certification Authority for
        certification.
     2.1.2. A User of architecture employs architecture and/or architecture analysis to support
     decision making. In addition, the user exploits architecture to simplify complexity,
     reveal interdependent relationships, identify DOTMLPF gaps, eliminate redundancy and
     maximize resource allocation.
     2.1.3. An Architecture Review Board assesses architectures against Fit for Purpose
     criteria.
        2.1.3.1. The review board may be formal (chartered) or informal, based on the needs
        of the organization and the purpose and scope of the architecture. For example,
        organizations may opt to use existing coordination processes and tools in lieu of
        standing up a formal board, with the approval of the Architecture Approval Authority.
        2.1.3.2. Every organization that sponsors an architecture will conduct a review of the
        architecture, whether at the AFEA, SCF, or lower level.
        2.1.3.3. This review will include the owner of the architecture and stakeholders.
        2.1.3.4. The results of the review will be a recommendation for approval from
        designated Architecture Approval Authority, or recommended changes to the
        architecture to obtain approval.
        2.1.3.5. (Added-AFSPC) The AFSPC Architecture Synchronization Forum
        functions as the Architecture Review Board for AFSPC, acting on behalf of the
        AFSPC Chief Architect, HQ AFSPC/A5 (https://www.intelink.gov/go/1F1TbjU
     2.1.4. An Architecture Approval Authority accepts and signs an architecture as Fit for
     Purpose.
        2.1.4.1. The Architecture Approval Authority directs a thorough review of the
        architecture to determine if it is Fit for Purpose.
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                       13


         2.1.4.2. If warranted, the Architecture Approval Authority accepts and signs the
         architecture approval letter and requests certification.
         2.1.4.3. The Approval Authority will document and publish the assessment results
         and approval letter on AFAR.
     2.1.5. An Architecture Certification Reviewer plans, organizes, and conducts an
     assessment of architectures against AF architecting criteria. Reviewers recommend action
     as to certification to the Architecture Certification Authority. Results will be
     documented and published on AFAR.
     2.1.6. The Architecture Certification Authority accepts and signs an architecture as
     compliant with AF achitecture certifying criteria.
         2.1.6.1. Sends a letter with results to the owner of the architecture and the
         Architecture Approval Authority.
         2.1.6.2. Delegates authority to certify subordinate AF architectures to other
         subordinate AF organizations with the approval of AF Chief Architect.
     2.1.7. Architecting Management plans, organizes, and resources architecting activities.
     They:
         2.1.7.1. Place the architecture under configuration control.
         2.1.7.2. Publish, approved and under-development architecture metadata to AFAR.
         2.1.7.3. Oversee architecture review process and submit recommendation to the
         Architecture Approval Authority.
         2.1.7.4. Ensure architects are trained, and define training and certification
         requirements for local teams.
     2.1.8. Architect Trainer provides education on architecting within the AF.
  2.2. HAF/SAF Functionals, SCF Lead Integrators, MAJCOMs must ensure their areas of
  responsibility are architected. In addition to all other applicable roles, these organizations
  must:
     2.2.1. Participate with SAF/A6PA on establishing and maintaining architecture use
     policy - representing needs of decision makers.
     2.2.2. Plan for and provide financial, manpower, and other resources as needed to carry
     out their architecting responsibilities.
     2.2.3. Appoint a lead to oversee architecture development activities in area of
     responsibility, ensure architecture compliance, and participate in architecture governance
     bodies.
     2.2.4. Develop and use approved architecture data and/or analysis to support decision
     making.
     2.2.5. Ensure Classification and Distribution Statement meet operational/mission and
     classification requirements.
14                                        AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


     2.2.6. Provide AF representation, as required, on DISR technical working groups for
     review and disposition of technical standards in support of SAF/A6 and Air Force Space
     Command in their network management role.
     2.2.7. Ensure efforts lead by Communities of interest and subordinate organizations are
     appropriately architected.
     2.2.8. Participate in other Architecture Review processes in which they are a stakeholder
     (e.g. information exchange, network supportability, compliance issues).
     2.2.9. Will include HQ AFSPC, as lead command for Cyber, in all Architecture Review
     processes as the stakeholder for capacity and supportability on AF networks.
  2.3. The AF CIO will:
     2.3.1. Appoint the AF Chief Architect.
     2.3.2. Establish the AF Chief Architect as the AF Architecture Certification Authority.
     2.3.3. Establish under the Chief Architect, an office responsible for the AFEA and AF
     architecting policy.
  2.4. The AF Chief Architect will:
     2.4.1. Oversee the AFEA development.
     2.4.2. Ensure the AFEA complies with DoD architecture.
     2.4.3. Participate in architecture governance bodies.
     2.4.4. Submit the AFEA to the CIO for approval and release.
     2.4.5. Certify AF architectures or delegate authority to certify AF architectures to other
     AF organizations.
  2.5. The Office of the Chief Architect of the AF will:
     2.5.1. Build and maintain the AFEA.
     2.5.2. Operate, maintain and provide the AFAR.
     2.5.3. Serve as the AF liaison to DARS and post appropriate sections of architectures in
     DARS.
     2.5.4. Serve as the AF Representative to the DoD IT Standards Committee (ITSC).
     2.5.5. Serve as the AF approval authority for waivers to the DISR.
     2.5.6. Represent the AF on activities associated with the Military Communications-
     Electronics Board.
     2.5.7. Review and certify all JCIDS and ISP architectures prior to AFROC review.
     2.5.8. Sponsor and establish architecture education and training requirements and
     oversee and support the development and maintenance of those requirements.
     2.5.9. Represent AF on DoD and academic teams establishing architecture certification
     requirements.
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         15


      2.5.10. Assess and recommend certification of architectures (whole or part) to the AF
      Chief Architect; establish candidate criteria for compliance with law, DoD Directives,
      Joint Staff Instructions, and AF Policy.
      2.5.11. Establish governance to oversee the adjudication, development, assessment,
      alignment, approval, compliance, maintenance, and application of the AFEA and
      subordinate architectures.
      2.5.12. Establish or amend policy and/or guidance, as necessary, on the use of
      architectures (to include architecture information requirements and acceptance criteria) to
      support the AF decision making processes.
      2.5.13. Publish and Maintain AFMAN(s) on AF Architecting.
      2.5.14. Organize and coordinate architecture federation activities both internal and
      external to the AF enterprise.
      2.5.15. Review and certify all JCIDS and ISP architectures prior to AFROC review.
   2.6. (Added-AFSPC) AFSPC (including all those organizations to whom this
   supplement applies) will:
      2.6.1. (Added-AFSPC) Participate in the development, review, approval and
      sustainment of architectures in accordance with the AFSPC Architecture Synchronization
      Forum Charter, July 2013 (https://www.intelink.gov/go/fUWuE9r) (T-2).
      2.6.2. (Added-AFSPC) Leverage the process defined in the Supplement and the AFSPC
      Architecture        Synchronization      Forum         Charter,      July       2013
      (https://www.intelink.gov/go/fUWuE9r) to ensure consistency among its architectures
      across AFSPC’s capability portfolios, as well as to support linkage to other relevant
      architectures including other CFMPs and the Intelligence Community as appropriate (T-
      2).
      2.6.3. (Added-AFSPC) Through the HQ AFSPC Divisions, Requirements Lead,
      Sustainment Leads or equivalent, establish the scope, objective, and priorities for the
      Center architects as well as providing direction and oversight for their areas of
      responsibility (domains, missions, programs) (T-2).
3. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
   3.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
16                                        AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013



  3.2. Records. Records pertaining to architectures created by this publication are retained and
  disposed of according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
  accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).




                                           WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
                                           Information Officer

                                           (AFSPC)

                                           MARTIN WHELAN, Maj Gen, USAF
                                           Director of Requirements
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                       17


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
A Practical Guide to Federal Enterprise Architecture, Version 1.0, February 2001
(http://www.gao.gov/bestpractices/bpeaguide.pdf)
AF Enterprise Architecture (AFEA) Compliance Guidance Guide
(Added-AFSPC) AFSPC Enterprise Architecture AV-1, June 2013
(Added-AFSPC) AFSPC Chief Architect Appointment Letter, 11 July 2013
(Added-AFSPC) Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Architecture Synchronization Forum
Charter, July 2013
(Added-AFSPC) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 11 April 2013
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, April 17, 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecting, 27 June 2006
AFPD 33-1 Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFRIMS RDS at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
Architecture Tradeoff and Analysis Method (ATAM),
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/architecture/tools/atam/
Active Reviews for Intermediate Design (ARID) method,
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/architecture/tools/arid/
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 1 March
2009
(Added-AFSPC) CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
(JCIDS), 10 January 2012
CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National
Security Systems, 15 December, 2008
(Added-AFSPC) CJCSI 6212.01F, Net-Ready Key Performance Parameter, 21 March 2012
DoD Architecture Framework (DoDAF), Version 2.0, DoD Federated Joint Architecture
Working Group: http://cio-nii.defense.gov/sites/dodaf20/
(Added-AFSPC) DoD Information Enterprise Architecture (DoD IEA), Version 2.0, 10 August
2012
DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National
Security Systems (NSS), May 5, 2004
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003
 18                                            AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, February
10, 2009
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT)
and National Security Systems (NSS), June 30, 2004
Federal Enterprise Architecture Consolidated Reference Model (FEA CRM)
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/fea_docs/FEA_CRM_v23_Final_O
ct_2007_Revised.pdf
FEA Practice Guidance (Federal Enterprise Architecture PMO, OMB, dated Nov 2007)
http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/assets/fea_docs/FEA_Practice_Guidance
_Nov_2007.pdf
OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget, June 26, 2008
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, November 28, 2000
Software Architecture Analysis Method (SAAM),
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/library/abstracts/whitepapers/icse16.cfm
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFAR—Air Force Architecture Resource
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFEA—Air Force Enterprise Architecture
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
(Added-AFSPC) AFNET—Air Force Network
(Added-AFSPC) AFNIC— ―Air Force Network Integration Center
(Added-AFSPC) AoA— ―Analysis of Alternatives
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added-AFSPC) AFSMO— ―Air Force Spectrum Management Office
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                               19


(Added-AFSPC) AFSO21— ―Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
(Added-AFSPC) AFSPC— ―Air Force Space Command
ARB—Architecture Review Board
BEA—Business Enterprise Architecture
(Added-AFSPC) BtA— ―Build to Architecture
C2—Command and Control
CCA—Clinger Cohen Act of 1996
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
(Added-AFSPC) CFMP— ―Core Function Master Plan
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CoP—Community of Practice
(Added-AFSPC) CSI— ―Cyberspace Superiority Infrastructure
DCMO—AF Deputy Chief Management Office
DISR—DoD IT Standards Registry
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDAF—DoD Architecture Framework
DoDD—DoD Directive
DoDI—DoD Instruction
(Added-AFSPC) DoD IEA— ―Department of Defense Information Enterprise Architecture
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel,
and Facilities
EA—Enterprise Architecture
EITDR—AF Enterprise IT Data Repository
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative (DoD)
FEA—Federal Enterprise Architecture
FJAWG—Federated Joint Architecture Working Group
GIG—Global Information Grid
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
(Added-AFSPC) HQ— ―Headquarters
IA—Information Assurance
 20                                       AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


IAW—In Accordance With
IEA—Information Enterprise Architecture
IMT—Information Management Tool
(Added-AFSPC) IPP— ―Integrated Planning Process
IS—Information System
(Added-AFSPC) SP—Information Support Plan
IT—Information Technology
i-TRM—AF Infrastructure Technology Reference Model
ITSC—IT Standards Committee
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDR—DoD Metadata Repository
NCES—Net-Centric Enterprise Services
NIAP—National Information Assurance Partnership
NIST—National Institute of Standards
(Added-AFSPC) NR-KPP—Net-Ready Key Performance Parameter
NSS—National Security System
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OSD—Office Secretary of Defense
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SCF—Service Core Function
(Added-AFSPC) SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
(Added-AFSPC) SME—Subject Matter Expert
USC—United States Code
(Added-AFSPC) USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command

Terms
Air Force Architecting—Applying architectural principles and processes across the Air Force
Enterprise. (new).
Air Force Architecture Compliance Criteria—Minimum requirements that must be met by an
AF architecture. These requirements are part of the AFEA and available in the AFEA on AFAR.
(new).
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         21


Air Force Architecture Resource (AFAR)—The authoritative source of architecture data,
policy, guidance, and reference material for the United States Air Force.
(https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-EA).
Air Force Enterprise Architecture (AFEA)—An architecture that describes the Air Force
Enterprise. The AFEA includes internal Air Force elements and processes and their relationships.
The AFEA also defines external relationships between the Air Force Enterprise and external
enterprises (such as DoD, US Navy, etc.). (AFPD 33-4).
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)—is outlined in AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and is located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
AF           Information        Technology          Standards       Management—
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-RQ-CA-01
Architecture—(1) The fundamental organization of a system embodied in its components, their
relationships to each other, and to the environment, and the principles guiding its design and
evolution. (ISO/IEC 42010:2007/IEEE STD 1471-2000). (2) The structure of components, their
relationships and the principles and guidelines governing their design and evolution over time.
(DoDD 4360.05), (CIO Council, A Practical Guide to Federal Enterprise Architecture).
Architecture Framework—A framework or structure that portrays relationships among all the
elements of the subject force, system, or activity. (Adapted from Joint Publication (JP) 1-02,
Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms).
(Added-AFSPC) Build—To Architecture (BtA)—The BtA is a compilation of structured
information to guide acquisition that links the objectives of the AFSPC enterprise architecture to
the Solution Architecture for building a tangible cyberspace capability. The BtA provides
actionable, DODAF-compliant artifacts with technical and phasing information plus
dependencies on other systems. The BtA is a step in portfolio management process whereby
direction is provided to program offices after a funding decision is made.
Capability—The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions
through combinations of means and ways across the doctrine, organization, training, materiel,
leadership and education, personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) to perform a set of tasks to
execute a specified course of action. It is defined by an operational user and expressed in broad
operational terms in the format of an initial capabilities document or a joint DOTMLPF change
recommendation. In the case of materiel proposals/documents, the definition will progressively
evolve to DOTMLPF performance attributes identified in the capability development document
and the capability production document. (CJCSI 3170.01G).
Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI)—A CSAF-designated organization which acts as the
principal integrator for its assigned SCF and the corresponding CFMP. (NEW: Provided by
SAF/A8)
DoD IT Standards Registry (DISR)—DoD Information Technology Standards Registry
(DISR). The DISR (https://disronline.disa.mil) provides the minimal set of rules governing the
arrangement, interaction, and interdependence of system parts or elements, whose purpose is to
ensure that a conformant system satisfies a specified set of requirements. It defines the service
areas, interfaces, standards (DISR elements), and standards profiles applicable to all DoD
systems. Use of the DISR is mandated for the development and acquisition of new or modified
 22                                         AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


fielded IT and NSS systems throughout the Department of Defense. The DISR replaced the Joint
Technical Architecture. (DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information
Technology (IT) and National Security Systems (NSS), April 23, 2007).
DoD Architecture Framework (DoDAF)—The overarching, comprehensive framework and
conceptual model enabling the development of architectures to facilitate DoD managers at all
levels to make key decisions more effectively through organized information sharing across
Department, Joint Capability Areas (JCAs), Component, and Program boundaries. DoDAF V2.0
focuses on architectural data as information required by key DoD decision makers, rather than on
developing individual products. The framework also enables architecture content to be built that
is “Fit-for-Purpose”, as defined and described in Section 1.4. DoDAF is one of the principal
pillars supporting the responsibilities Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD
CIO) in exercise of his responsibilities for development and maintenance of architectures
required under the Clinger-Cohen Act. (DoD Architecture Framework Version 2.0, Volume 1:
Introduction, Overview, and Concepts, Managers Guide, 28 May 2009)
Enterprise—An organization supporting a defined business scope and mission. An enterprise
includes interdependent resources (people, organizations, and technology) that must coordinate
their functions and share information in support of a common mission (or set of related
missions). (Federal CIO Council, A Practical Guide to Federal Enterprise Architecture).
Enterprise Architecture (EA)—The explicit description and documentation of the current and
desired relationships among business and management processes and supporting resources (e.g.,
IT, personnel). It describes the "current architecture" and "target architecture," to include the
rules, standards, and systems life cycle information to optimize and maintain the environment
which the agency wishes to create and maintain by managing its IT portfolio. The EA must also
provide a strategy that will enable the agency to support its current state and also act as the
roadmap for transition to its target environment. These transition processes will include an
agency's capital planning and investment control processes, agency EA planning processes, and
agency systems life cycle methodologies. The EA will define principles and goals and set
direction on such issues as the promotion of interoperability, open systems, public access,
compliance with Government Paperwork Elimination Act, end user satisfaction, and IT security.
The agency must support the EA with a complete inventory of agency information resources,
including personnel, equipment, and funds devoted to information resources management and
information technology, at an appropriate level of detail. (AFPD 33-1, Information Resources
Management).
Federated Architecture—A loosely coupled collection of information assets that
accommodates the uniqueness and specific purpose of disparate architectures and allows for their
autonomy and local governance while enabling the enterprise to benefit from their content. It
provides an approach for aligning, locating, and linking disparate architectures and architecture
information via information exchange standards to deliver a seamless outward appearance to
users. Its content describes mission capabilities and the IT capabilities necessary to respond to
changing mission needs. (Adapted from DoD Federated Joint Architecture Working Group
(FJAWG)). Adjective form: Federate-able – Fit for Federation.
Fit-For-Purpose—an assessment to ensure the quality of data in the architecture supports the
appropriate decision-making process and guides the transformation effort. This should be
AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            23


accomplished through stakeholder review of the architecture data. (Air Force Architecting
Concept of Operations)
Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the Executive Agency. This includes equipment used by a DoD Component
directly, or used by a contractor under a contract with the DoD Component, which requires the
use of such equipment, or requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the
performance of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term "IT" also includes computers,
ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support
services), and related resources. Notwithstanding the above, the term "IT" does not include any
equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. The term "IT"
includes National Security Systems (NSS). (DoD 4360.05).
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)—A Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff process to identify, assess, and prioritize joint military capability needs. The
JCIDS process is a collaborative effort that uses joint concepts and integrated architectures to
identify prioritized capability gaps and integrated DOTMLPF solutions (materiel and non-
materiel) to resolve those gaps. (CJCSI 6212.01E).
National Security System (NSS)—Any telecommunications or information system (IS)
operated by the U.S. Government, the function, operation, or use of which: 1) involves
intelligence activities; 2) involves cryptologic activities related to national security; 3) involves
command and control of military forces; 4) involves equipment that is an integral part of a
weapon or weapon system; or 5) is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence
missions: (this does not include a system that is to be used for routine administrative and
business applications, including payroll, finance, logistics and personnel management
applications). (DoDD 8000.01, 40 USC 11103) NOTE: For IA purposes only, pursuant to AFPD
33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, the term NSS also includes any telecommunications
or IS that is protected at all times by procedures established for managing classified information.
(44 USC 3542(2), DoDD 4360.05).
Process—A functionally or temporally linked collection of structured activities/ tasks aimed at
producing specific services and products for an end-user. (DoDAF v2.0, Vol II, Table 2.4.1-2:
Aliases and Composite Terms Related to Activities)
Program—A directed, funded effort, designed to provide a new, improved, or continuing,
materiel, weapon, or information system capability in response to a validated operational or
business need that supports operational requirements. (NOTE: For the purposes of this
publication, this term is used interchangeably with the definition for Acquisition Program as
defined in DoDD 5000.01), (AFPD 33-4).
Service—A mechanism to enable access to a set of one or more capabilities , where the access is
provided using a prescribed interface and is exercised consistent with constraints and policies as
specified by the service description. (DoDAF 2.0).
Service Core Functions (SCF)—Functional areas that delineate the appropriate and assigned
core duties, missions, and tasks of the Air Force as an organization, responsibility for each of
which is assigned to CFLIs. SCFs express the ways in which the Air Force is particularly and
 24                                         AFI33-401_AFSPCSUP_I 30 SEPTEMBER 2013


appropriately suited to contribute to national security, but they do not necessarily express every
aspect of what the Air Force contributes to the nation. (NEW: Provided by SAF/A8).
Standards Profile—An architecture Standards Profile is the set of rules that governs system
implementation and operation. In most cases, especially in describing architecture with less than
a department-wide scope, building a Standards Profile will consist of identifying the applicable
portions of existing standards guidance documentation, tailoring those portions in accordance
within the latitude allowed, and filling in any gaps. This architecture view references the
technical standards that apply to the architecture and how they need to be, or have been,
implemented. The profile is time-phased to facilitate a structured, disciplined process of system
development and evolution. Time phasing also promotes the consideration of emerging
technologies and the likelihood of current technologies and standards becoming obsolete. (A
Practical Guide to Federal Enterprise Architecture, V1.0).
Tiered-accountability - Tiered Accountability (TA)—is the distribution of authority and
responsibility to a DoD organization for an element of the DoD EA. Under TA, DoD is defining
and building enterprise-wide capabilities that include data standards, business rules, enabling
systems, and an associated layer of interfaces for Department, specified segments of the
enterprise (e.g., JCA, DoD Components), and Programmatic solutions. Each tier has specific
goals, as well as responsibilities to the tiers above or below them.
