BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-807
HEADQUARTERS 81ST TRAINING WING                                 KEESLER AIR FORCE BASE
(AETC)                                                                        Supplement

                                                                         16 JUNE 2000
                                                    CERTIFIED CURRENT 5 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                    WEEKLY AND DAILY SCHEDULING OF
                                                     WORK ANDHOLIDAY OBSERVANCES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 81 MSS/DPCE                                       Certified by: 81 MSS/CC (Lt Col Mary L.
Supersedes: AFI 36-807/Keesler AFB                                                     Purdue)
            Sup 1, 6 Dec 96.                                                           Pages: 3


AFI 36-807, 21 Jun 99, is supplemented as follows. This directive applies to organizations
serviced by the Keesler AFB Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF). This supplement applies to all
assigned, attached and/or associate units supported by the 81st Training Wing at Keesler AFB
MS, including Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changed to align
with new AFI and to address personnel work scheduling.
2.5.1. (Added) A work schedule consists of the span of hours in which employees are authorized
to perform their work-related duties, e.g., compressed, flexible, basic workweek (40 hrs.).
Within the work schedule, the employees’ duty hours are set, e.g., 0700-1700 hours (9 hours,
plus the lunch hour). The employees must remain within the work schedule unless an exception
 2         AFI36-807_KEESLERSFBSUP 16 June 2000 Certified Current 5 January 2011


is granted by appropriate levels of authority. Several work schedules are authorized within the
Federal Government. The schedule used most often at Keesler, however, is the compressed
work schedule, defined at para 2.5.2.
2.5.2. (Added) A compressed work schedule (CWS) is authorized for civilian employees
assigned to Keesler AFB organizations and serviced by the CPF, except for employees assigned
to exempted organizations. For most full-time employees, the CWS is normally a “5-4/9”
schedule, consisting of eight 9-hour days and one 8-hour day per pay period. The CWS day off
will be observed by most employees every other Friday, which is normally the civilian pay day.
Employees assigned to organizations having variations of the “5-4/9” schedule will follow the
work schedule and CWS day off approved for that organization. Under the CWS, as well as
most other schedules, the beginning and ending duty time is set by the respective commander as
defined at para 2.5.3.
2.5.3. (Added) Work schedules and duty hours for 81st Training Wing (AETC) civilian
employees are set by the Wing Commander. Group Commanders are granted authority to
change work schedules and tours of duty. Supervisors may adjust duty hours provided that the
employee remains in the same work schedule. Any changes in work hours or schedules must be
in accordance with local negotiated agreements.
2.5.4. (Added) Tenant units may work a traditional schedule or adopt any schedule which meets
their mission requirements, including a flexible schedule. Under a flexible schedule, the Tenant
Unit Commander sets the overall range of working hours, e.g., 0600 to 1800 hours. The
employee is basically able to adjust his/her working hours each day, without advance supervisory
approval, as long as he/she is on duty during specified core hours and works the required number
of hours, e.g., 8 hours per day, before the end of the duty day. If a unit elects to work under a
flexible schedule, it must ensure its employees comply completely with the provisions of the
schedule. Employees working a flexible schedule may earn credit hours, but cannot earn a
scheduled day off as provided under CWS. Employees cannot combine flexible and compressed
work schedules.
2.5.5. (Added) Organizations wishing to obtain exemption from the CWS or modification to the
basic CWS schedule will submit a request through the chain of command to their Group or
Tenant Commander for approval/disapproval. If an exemption is approved, the commander will
provide appropriate notification to the appropriate employee union through the Work Force
Effectiveness Element, CPF, IAW United States Code, Title 5, Chapter 61, Section 6131.
2.13.1. (Added) On-Call. IAW Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, 551.431, Special
Situations – On Call Status, an employee will be considered off duty and time spent in an on-call
status shall not be considered hours of work (compensated) if the employee is allowed to leave a
telephone number or to carry an electronic device for the purpose of being notified. Even if the
employee is required to remain within a reasonable call-back radius, hours of work do not begin
until the employee performs work. Work would include time spent resolving work related
issues. The two-hour minimum of compensation would only apply when the employee actually
reported to the work site.
4.6. (Added) Personnel TDY to Another Operating Location.
4.6. l. (Added)Supervisors of CWS employees who perform temporary duty (TDY) assignments
may take one of the following actions regarding their work schedule:
AFI36-807_KEESLERSFBSUP 16 June 2000 Certified Current 5 January 2011                      3


4.6.1.1. (Added) Modify the employees work schedules and place them on a regular five-day, 8-
hour-a-day work schedule for the duration of their TDY assignment.
4.6.1.2. (Added) Upon completion of the TDY assignment, release employees from duty once
they have performed 80 hours of work in the pay period.
4.6.1.3. (Added) Upon completion of the TDY assignment, compensate employees through
overtime or compensatory time off, as appropriate, for hours worked in excess of 80 hours
during the pay period. Supervisors are reminded that WG, WL, and WS employees are entitled
to compensatory time off or overtime at their request.




                                       ELIZABETH A. HARRELL, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Commander, 81st Training Wing
