BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-207
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                   AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                      Supplement
                                                                                              1 MAY 2000
                                                                             Certified Current May 8 2007

                                                                                                   Security

                                                     ARMING AND USE OF FORCE BY AIR FORCE
                                                                              PERSONNEL

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/SFOT                                           Certified by: HQ AFRC/SF (Col Mungavin)
Supersedes AFI 31-207/AFRC Sup 1,                                                          Pages: 3
           6 November 1995

The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFRC/SFOT (CMSgt Simonton). This supplement implements and
extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-207, 1 August 1999. It applies to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) military, civilian and contract personnel, as well as military personnel from
other US military branches assigned or attached to AFRC units. The AFI is printed word-for-word with-
out editorial review. AFRC supplementary material is indicated by “(AFRC)” in boldface type. This sup-
plement describes AFRC procedures to be used in conjunction with the basic instruction. Upon receipt of
this integrated supplement discard the Air Force basic.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This supplement has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1.3.4.3.2. The use of pepper spray is authorized for AFRC SF personnel. Thorough training and adher-
ence to state law in the use of pepper spray is critical and required. Generally, you can expect to use pep-
per spray when the subject’s actions are located within the Resistant (Active) portion of the Use of Force
Model. Units will report discharge of pepper spray using the format included in Attachment 6.
1.3.4.3.3. The use of the baton is authorized for AFRC SF personnel. Thorough training in the use of the
baton is critical and required. Generally, you can expect to use the baton against a subject whose actions
place him/her within the Assaultive (bodily harm) portion of the Use of Force Model.
2.1.1.5. (Added) Squadron commanders may appoint other persons, including civilian personnel, as their
principle designees to authorize persons in their organizations to openly bear and use firearms. Units
maintaining weapons in the Security Force (SF) armory will forward a copy of the arming authorization
letter to the SF before issuance of weapons
2                                                                 AFI31-207_AFRCSUP 1 MAY 2000


2.1.2.3. Includes authorization for personnel assigned to aircraft mission security teams (MST) to carry
concealed firearms when it is warranted due to the sensitivities of openly bearing firearms at enroute
stops, provided that concealed firearms are not prohibited by the foreign clearance guide or the host
nation.
2.3.10. (Added) Military, civilian, and contract civilian personnel with owner/user security requirements
of AFRC resources and assets.
2.3.11. (Added) Personnel engaged in bird control, with other than blank ammunition, are considered
armed.
2.4.2.1. Within AFRC, these aircrew members are considered Group C personnel.
2.4.2.10. Within AFRC, CLSS personnel are Group B but qualify every two years.
2.6.6.1. (Added) For suspensions and/or temporary withdrawal to bear firearms, use guidance identified
in paragraph 2.6.6. (that is, less than 72 hours, oral notification is authorized; beyond 72 hours, written
notification required). When oral notification is used, it is imperative that unit commanders develop pro-
cedures to ensure all armorers are informed when an individual’s authority to bear firearms has been
removed. Mere pass-on is insufficient.
2.10.1. Document use of force training on an approved automated data system with a backup on an AF
Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS.
2.11.2. Security Forces commanders may authorize retention of the AF Form 523 by members assigned
to enroute aircraft security details (MST) and who may be alerted or recalled on short notice to deploy
with an aircraft.
2.11.4. Within Air Force Reserve Command, the MAJCOM arming authority is HQ AFRC/SF.
2.12.1. If a round is chambered during response to an actual incident, ensure the weapon is properly
cleared upon termination of the response.
2.12.2. Weapon T.O.s specify the safety requirements and safe distances for using blank ammunition.
2.12.2.1. (Added) Store blank ammunition in separate containers from live ammunition. To ensure
appropriate segregation and storage, blank ammunition and live ammunition will not be stored
side-by-side.
2.12.2.2. (Added) During any exercise where blank ammunition is used, an officer and/or NCO will:
2.12.2.2.1. (Added) Physically inspect all exercise participants to ensure they are not carrying live ammu-
nition.
2.12.2.2.2. (Added) Account for and collect all unused blank ammunition at the end of the exercise.
2.12.4. The blood alcohol content (BAC) standard for AFRC personnel bearing firearms is ZERO. No
person is allowed to bear firearms when any measurable alcohol is present in the body.
2.12.9. (Added) Installation CSF will develop and implement written guidelines for firearms safety tai-
lored specifically to SF exercises/training. In doing so, they must, at a minimum:
2.12.9.1. (Added) Establish local procedures for conducting exercises/training with blank ammunition
with or without MILES equipment attached.
2.12.9.2. (Added) Establish local procedures for conducting exercises/training with live ammunition.
AFI31-207_AFRCSUP 1 MAY 2000                                                                              3


2.12.9.3. (Added) Address procedures for clearing/emptying weapons prior to leaving the play box upon
completion of any exercise scenario.
2.12.9.4. (Added) Address emergency action procedures should an accident/incident occur.
2.12.9.5. (Added) Establish notification procedures prior to exercise STARTEX, including at a minimum:
2.12.9.5.1. (Added) OIC or Superintendent of Operations Branch or Training and Resources Branch.
2.12.9.6. (Added) Establish weapons/ammunition disposition procedures in the event an exercise partici-
pant becomes injured, sick, or incapacitated for any reason.
2.12.9.7. (Added) Establish local procedures ensuring 100% accountability of exercise/training ammuni-
tion.
2.12.9.8. (Added) Establish a training and qualification program for exercise/training supervisors.
2.12.9.9. (Added) Ensure radio contact is maintained with the SF control center or range control during
all exercises.
2.12.9.10. (Added) Ensure personnel deploying to exercises and training centers conduct detailed inspec-
tions of their persons and equipment to detect live munitions prior to departing home station.
2.12.9.11. (Added) Obtain consent of the installation commander and coordinate with the SJA and the
installation safety office before any non-military, non-DOD personnel are given USAF weapons or
ammunition or are allowed to participate in military exercises/training/demonstrations. Note: Reservists
not in military status are civilians and their participation should be scrutinized.
2.13.2. Report ALL firearms discharges, accidental or deliberate and regardless of fatality, injury, or pos-
sible adverse publicity, to HQ AFRC/SF within 24 hours. For discharges not involving fatality, injury or
adverse publicity, use the report format in, Attachment 6, Incident Summary, only.
2.16. An on-duty Security Forces (SF) member (military and civilian) performing official military duties
may bear firearms in an Air Force medical treatment facility. SF personnel seeking medical treatment
should be relieved of duty and turn in their firearm prior to going to the medical facility. However, in
emergency circumstances, firearms are relinquished to another SF member who turns it in to the armory
according to proper weapons handling procedures.



                                                JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Maj Gen, USAF
                                                Commander
