BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7063
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                           13 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                                                              Certified Current 17 November 2009
                                                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                                        AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE
                                                                                                    PROGRAM



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILEPB (Ms Lynn Engelman)                                                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/ILEP
                                                                                                                  (Col Mark Pohlmeier)
Supersedes AFI 32-7063, 17 April 2002                                                                                        Pages: 23
                                                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, by identifying the requirements to
develop, implement, and maintain the Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) program. It also
implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 4165.57, Air Installations Compatible Use Zones,
November 8, 1977. It applies to all Air Force installations with active runways located in the United
States and its territories, including government-owned, contractor-operated facilities, except those instal-
lations exempted under this instruction. Major command (MAJCOM) civil engineers (CE), at their dis-
cretion, may apply the AICUZ program, in whole or part, to overseas installations according to host
country agreements or specific requests.
This instruction interfaces with AFI 32-7061, Environmental Impact Analysis Process (formerly AFR
19-2) , and AFI 32-7062, Base Comprehensive Planning (formerly AFR 86-4).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. This change updates the OPR information for this
AFI and inserts information on the Joint Land Use Study program paragraph 1.3.11.); information on the
nomination of installations/ranges for Joint Land Use Studies (paragraph 1.3.11.1., and paragraphs
1.3.11.1.1.-1.3.11.1.5.); and identifies the requirement to coordinated planning efforts that relate to
off-base activities with any Joint Land Use Studies that may be under-way. See the last attachment of the
publication, IC 2005-1 for the complete IC. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.

Chapter 1— HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION                                                                                                         3
      1.1.    Background. ...............................................................................................................      3
      1.2.    Concept: .....................................................................................................................   3
      1.3.    Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................      4
2                                                                                            AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


Chapter 2— TECHNICAL CRITERIA                                                                                                                     12
    2.1.   General. ......................................................................................................................        12
    2.2.   Height of Obstructions. ..............................................................................................                 12
    2.3.   Accident Potential. .....................................................................................................              12
    2.4.   Noise. .........................................................................................................................       12
    2.5.   Land Use Compatibility Guidelines. .........................................................................                           12

Chapter 3— AICUZ STUDIES AND UPDATING                                                                                                             13
    3.1.   AICUZ Study: ............................................................................................................              13
    3.2.   AICUZ Study Updating: ............................................................................................                     14
    3.3.   Joint/Dual-Use Installations: ......................................................................................                   16
    3.4.   Land Use Compatibility Study: .................................................................................                        16

Chapter 4— REAL PROPERTY INTEREST ACQUISITION                                                                                                     17
    4.1.   General Information. ..................................................................................................                17

Chapter 5— HOW AICUZ APPLIES TO AIR FORCE LAND AND FACILITIES                                                                                     18
    5.1.   General Information. ..................................................................................................                18
    5.2.   Land Use in the Clear Zone: ......................................................................................                     18
    5.3.   Forms Prescribed.               ....................................................................................................   19

Attachment 1— IC 98-1 TO AFI 32-7063, AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE
             ZONE PROGRAM                                                                                                                         20

Attachment 2— IC 2002-1 TO AFI 32-7063 AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE
             ZONE PROGRAM                                                                                                                         21

Attachment 3— IC 2005-1 TO AFI 32-7063, AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE
             ZONE PROGRAM                                                                                                                         22
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                                   3


                                                  Chapter 1

                                  HOW TO USE THIS INSTRUCTION

1.1. Background. The procedures in this instruction are essential to develop, implement, and maintain
an AICUZ program in compliance with all applicable Federal, state, and local standards.
   1.1.1. Office of Management and Budget, Federal Management Circular 75-2, Compatible Land Uses
   at Federal Airfields, provides the basis for this instruction. This circular requires federal agencies
   operating airfields to work with local, regional, state, and other federal officials on compatible land
   use planning. It requires other federal agencies to ensure their programs serve to foster compatible
   land use according to plans (such as AICUZ) developed by the federal agency operating an airfield.
   1.1.2. DoD Instruction 4165.57 implements the circular and requires the military departments to
   develop, implement, and maintain an AICUZ program for each installation. Military departments
   must develop and update as necessary AICUZ studies which contain an analysis of land use compati-
   bility problems and potential solutions. This DoD Instruction also:
       1.1.2.1. Sets forth DoD policy on achieving compatible use of public and private lands in the
       vicinity of military airfields.
       1.1.2.2. Defines:
           •    Required restrictions on the uses and heights of natural and manmade objects in the vicin-
                ity of air installations to provide for safety of flight and to ensure that people and facilities
                are not concentrated in areas susceptible to aircraft accidents.
           •    Desirable restrictions on land use to ensure its compatibility with characteristics, including
                noise, of air installation operations.
       1.1.2.3. Describes the procedures by which the AICUZ program is defined.
       1.1.2.4. Provides policy on the extent of government interest in real property within these zones
       which is retained or acquired to protect the operational capability of active military airfields (sub-
       ject in each case to the availability of required authorizations and appropriations).

1.2. Concept:
   1.2.1. This instruction is not intended to duplicate Federal, state, and local standards but is intended
   to provide MAJCOMs and installations with a framework to comply with these requirements accord-
   ing to AFPD 32-70.
   1.2.2. MAJCOMs provide additional implementing guidance in their supplemental publication(s) to
   this instruction. The MAJCOM supplement must identify the specific offices which have implement-
   ing responsibility and include any implementing guidance needed to comply with this instruction.
   1.2.3. The AICUZ program objectives are to:
       •   Assist local, regional, state, and federal officials in protecting and promoting the public health,
           safety, and welfare by promoting compatible development within the AICUZ area of influ-
           ence.
4                                                                   AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


       •   Protect Air Force operational capability from the effects of land use which are incompatible
           with aircraft operations.

1.3. Responsibilities:
    1.3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations,
    and Environment (SAF/MI):
       •   Provides policy oversight for the AICUZ program.
    1.3.2. Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF) Responsibilities:
       1.3.2.1. The Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/CE):
           •   Oversees AICUZ program execution.
           •   Develops and interprets policy.
           •   Monitors policies, plans, programs, and projects of other federal agencies at headquarters
               level that may affect the AICUZ policies and procedures.
           •   Advocates for resources required to support the AICUZ program.
       1.3.2.2. The Judge Advocate General (HQ USAF/JA). HQ USAF/JA through the Air Force
       Legal Services Agency, Environmental Law and Litigation Division (AFLSA/JACE), provides
       legal advice on all aspects of the AICUZ program. Through AFLSA/JACE legal staff at each
       Regional Compliance Office, provides legal advice on region-specific matters relating to AICUZ
       programs.
    1.3.3. Field Operating Agency Responsibilities:
       1.3.3.1. Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence Regional Compliance Offices
       (AFCEE RCO). AFCEE RCO will:
           •   Monitor the activities, plans, programs, and projects of state legislatures and state and fed-
               eral regional agencies that may affect land use within the AICUZ.
           •   Inform these agencies of the general AICUZ program recommendations.
           •   Take formal positions (in writing or through testimony in meetings or hearings) as
               required, following coordination with HQ USAF/CEV, AFCEE/DG, and the affected
               MAJCOM/CE.
       1.3.3.2. Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence/Design Group ( A F C E E / D G ) .
       AFCEE/DG in order to support and monitor the AICUZ program, will:
           •   Maintain the central archive for all information processed through the computer programs
               for AICUZ studies, and other noise-related programming.
           •   Maintain an official historical and current AICUZ study library for all installations.
           •   Provide technical assistance, quality assurance, data manipulation, and retrieval functions
               for HQ USAF/CEV, AFCEE RCO, MAJCOM/CE, and the installations, as requested.
           •   Inform MAJCOM/CEs of all actions involving installations under their command for
               which other parties have requested information and/or assistance.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                          5


        •   Provide AICUZ training and inform MAJCOM/CEs of current changes in the AICUZ pro-
            gram and all associated computer programs.
  1.3.4. MAJCOM Responsibilities:
     1.3.4.1. Broad responsibilities are assigned only to MAJCOM two-letter office functional areas to
     allow flexibility at each MAJCOM for implementing this instruction. All references to MAJ-
     COMs in this instruction include the Headquarters Air Force Reserve (HQ AFRES), the Air
     National Guard Readiness Center (ANGRC) and other agencies designated as "MAJCOM equiv-
     alent" by HQ USAF.
     1.3.4.2. Each MAJCOM/CE establishes and maintains an AICUZ program at each installation
     with an active runway. The AICUZ program must include full, continuous representative partici-
     pation from installation civil engineering, operations, air traffic control, public affairs, legal,
     safety, maintenance, comptroller, bioenvironmental engineering, weather, and other appropriate
     functional areas. The installation Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) coordinates
     involvement. MAJCOM may delegate responsibilities described in this instruction to installa-
     tions, with the exception of MAJCOM approval, waiver, and exemption authorities.
     1.3.4.3. The Air Force conducts the AICUZ program on a continuing basis through six phases:
        •   Phase I: MAJCOM/CE gathers, updates, and analyzes installation AICUZ data, and cer-
            tifies data accuracy.
        •   Phase II: MAJCOM/CE reviews and validates data.
        •   Phase III: At the discretion of the MAJCOM/CE, AFCEE/DG, a contractor, or the MAJ-
            COM/CE staff prepares draft noise contour maps for MAJCOM/CE approval. The MAJ-
            COM/CE conducts technical review. AFCEE/DG will perform the MAJCOM/CE
            technical review upon MAJCOM/CE request, but the MAJCOM/CE will provide AFCEE/
            DG all data related to contour map development in support of AFCEE/DG functions
            described in 1.3.3.2.paragraph 1.3.3.2. After MAJCOM/CE completes all corrections, the
            map preparers complete final AICUZ maps. Once the map preparers finalize the maps,
            they forward a copy of all information used in the generation of the noise contours to
            AFCEE/DG for filing in the central archive.
        •   Phase IV: At the discretion of the MAJCOM/CE, AFCEE/DG, a contractor, or the MAJ-
            COM/CE prepares and updates the installation AICUZ study or amendment, the imple-
            mentation and maintenance plan, and the citizens brochure. The MAJCOM/CE approves
            each document, after technical review. At MAJCOM/CE request, AFCEE/DG provides
            assistance.
        •   Phase V: MAJCOM/CE releases the installation AICUZ update study in a public meeting
            with local and areawide officials. HQ USAF/CEV coordinates with the congressional del-
            egations (before public release) and federal officials (after public release) in Washington,
            D.C. The appropriate AFCEE RCO coordinates the study with federal regional offices
            after public release. The MAJCOM/CE ensures coordination of the study with the Execu-
            tive Order (EO) 12372, Interagency Review of Federal Programs, state single point of
            contact immediately after public release.
        •   Phase VI: In the AICUZ implementation and maintenance process, the MAJCOM/CE
            ensures the Air Force takes an active part in local and areawide planning and participates
6                                                                 AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


              through the EO 12372 state single point of contact (SPOC) coordination process; the
              AFCEE/RCO works federal regional coordination processes; and HQ USAF/CEV main-
              tains interagency coordination with federal officials in Washington, D.C.
    1.3.5. Phase I - Data Gathering, Updating, and Analyzing:
       1.3.5.1. General. Each MAJCOM/CE and Director of Operations (MAJCOM/DO) reviews
       AICUZ aircraft operational and maintenance data at least every 2 years or as part of an Environ-
       mental Impact Analysis Process (EIAP) evaluation (per AFPD 32-70, AFI 32-7061, Environmen-
       tal Impact Analysis Process (formerly AFR 19-2), AFI 13-201, US Air Force Airspace
       Management (formerly AFRs 55-2 and 55-34), and AFI 13-213, Airfield Management (formerly
       AFR 55-48), to determine the need for an AICUZ update. Should the noise exposure for aircraft
       operations result in a change of Day-Night Average Sound Level (DNL) of 2 decibels (dBs) or
       more as compared to the noise contour map (in the last publicly released AICUZ study) for any
       noise sensitive area, MAJCOM/CE initiates AICUZ updating actions. The AICUZ Handbook, a
       guidance document for the AICUZ Program, describes all data collection procedures. By 1 July,
       each even year, MAJCOM/CE sends AFCEE/DG an AICUZ status update and review schedule
       for the next 24 months for each installation having an AICUZ requirement. The MAJCOM/CE
       meets this requirement by responding to the Biennial AICUZ Status Survey (RCS:
       HAF-CEV[B.E.]9426), called by AFCEE/DG. The MAJCOM/CE must obtain either updated
       installation aircraft operational and maintenance data or an installation's statement that the data
       used for the current published AICUZ study or amendment is still valid (installation EPC coordi-
       nation is needed). MAJCOM/CE sends AFCEE/DG updated operational and maintenance data or
       MAJCOM/CE endorsed data validity statements from the installations. MAJCOM/CE fully eval-
       uates all proposed operational and maintenance changes through the EIAP prior to implementa-
       tion under AFPD 32-70, AFI 32-7061, AFI 13-201, and AFI 13-213. The AICUZ Handbook
       contains general guidance for assessing operational and maintenance data, and the necessity for
       further evaluation and possible rerun of Phase III AICUZ maps.
       1.3.5.2. MAJCOM/CE. Will accomplish the following actions at each installation with an
       AICUZ requirement:
          1.3.5.2.1. Manage the review, analysis, and validation of AICUZ data as well as any waivers/
          exemptions of or to the AICUZ requirement every 2 years, or more frequently as required.
          1.3.5.2.2. Consolidate and send AFCEE/DG updated operational and maintenance data.
          1.3.5.2.3. Update the AICUZ file and historical documentation (because of litigation require-
          ments, retaining AICUZ files indefinitely is necessary [AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposi-
          tion--Standards, formerly AFR 4-50, volume 2, applies]).
          1.3.5.2.4. Update the following land use descriptions or analyses according to the AICUZ
          Handbook:
              •   Existing land use.
              •   Future land use.
              •   Existing zoning.
              •   Planned developments.
              •   Incompatible land use.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            7


NOTE: The above land use descriptions are based on an analysis of all projects that affect land use in the
AICUZ. They contain existing land use, existing zoning, and proposed land use plans that identify exist-
ing and anticipated compatible and incompatible land uses.
       1.3.5.3. MAJCOM Operations. Will accomplish the following actions at each installation with
       an AICUZ requirement:
           •   Update aircraft operational data and provide the data to the Base CE, according to AFI
               13-201 and the AICUZ Handbook; coordinate information through the installation EPC.
           •   Per MAJCOM/CE request, coordinate all AICUZ matters affecting airspace use with the
               Air Force representative to the Federal Aviation Administration Regional Office.
           •   Update the maintenance data relative to flight line engine runups according to the AICUZ
               Handbook and provide it to the Base CE.
           •   Evaluate all proposed operational and flight line maintenance changes through the EIAP
               according to the procedures and requirements of AFPD 32-70, AFI 32-7061, AFI 13-201,
               and AFI 13-213; coordinate the evaluation through the installation EPC and the MAJ-
               COM/CE.
       1.3.5.4. MAJCOM Logistics. Will accomplish the following actions at each installation with an
       AICUZ requirement:
           •   Update maintenance data from engine test cells according to the AICUZ Handbook and
               provide it to the Base CE.
           •   Evaluate all proposed test cell and test stand maintenance changes through the EIAP
               according to the procedures and requirements of AFPD 32-70 and AFI 32-7061. Coordi-
               nate the evaluation through the installation EPC and the Base CE.
       1.3.5.5. MAJCOM Safety Office. Identifies all safety considerations to the MAJCOM opera-
       tions for analysis of operational changes.
       1.3.5.6. MAJCOM Bioenvironmental Engineer. Assists in evaluating specific noise events at
       each installation as required.
       1.3.5.7. MAJCOM Weather Office. Provides meteorological data to MAJCOM operations for
       analysis of operational changes, and to the Base CE as needed.
       1.3.5.8. MAJCOM Judge Advocate. Accomplishes the following actions at each installation.
       Update the following descriptions and analyses according to the AICUZ Handbook:
           •   State land use related legislation.
           •   Local ordinances.
           •   Legal (court) decisions.
           •   Legal descriptions (land).
       1.3.5.9. MAJCOM Public Affairs Office. Will accomplish the following actions at each instal-
       lation. Serve as a focal point for working with local media and handling media and public inquir-
       ies regarding AICUZ.
       Assist the installation commander with AICUZ as otherwise designated.
8                                                                   AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


       1.3.5.10. MAJCOM Air Traffic Control Office (ATCO). Will accomplish the following
       actions at each installation:
           •   Update any navigation aid changes.
           •   Update any standard approaches or departures.
           •   Update any standard local patterns.
           •   Provide this information to the Base CE.
    1.3.6. Phase II - Data Review and Validation. MAJCOM/CE and Base CE review updated Phase I
    data at least every 2 years or as part of the EIAP evaluation of a proposed aircraft operational or main-
    tenance change, mission realignment, or mission basing, whichever occurs first. If, after reviewing
    operational and maintenance data, the MAJCOM/CE determines (from AICUZ Handbook guidelines)
    that rerun of the AICUZ noise contours is warranted, the MAJCOM/CE proceeds with Phase III.
    1.3.7. Phase III - AICUZ Maps Preparation. After the MAJCOM/CE certifies the updated aircraft
    operational and maintenance data is accurate, and map preparers produce noise contours in draft form,
    the MAJCOM/CE determines the need for the public release of an updated AICUZ study. MAJ-
    COM/CE establishes and maintains coordination throughout the process with AFCEE/DG. The map
    preparers provide copies of the completed maps, including data input, program output, camera-ready
    contour overlays and computer generated drawing files on disk for reproduction to the MAJCOM/CE,
    AFCEE/DG, and the installation. If required, AFCEE/DG forwards technical guidance to the MAJ-
    COM/CE for conducting Phase IV.
    1.3.8. Phase IV - Preparation of Full AICUZ Study Update or Page Insert Amendment and
    Implementation and Maintenance Plan. MAJCOM/CE prepares and coordinates the AICUZ study
    update or amendment and the AICUZ Implementation and Maintenance Plan (IMP). MAJCOM/CE
    processes AICUZ study documents according to the AICUZ Handbook and any additional technical
    guidance that AFCEE/DG issues after the MAJCOM has completed Phase III. MAJCOM/CE
    approves these documents after the MAJCOM accomplishes the technical review. The MAJCOM/CE
    provides a copy of all approval documentation to AFCEE/DG. MAJCOM/PA and JA assist in prepar-
    ing the AICUZ IMP. Other staff offices assist in preparing the study or amendment as needed.
    1.3.9. Phase V - AICUZ Study or Amendment Public Release:
       1.3.9.1. MAJCOM/CE approves and ensures release of the AICUZ study or amendment in a pub-
       lic meeting and immediately informs AFCEE/DG of AICUZ approvals as well as the planned
       AICUZ public release date. MAJCOM/CE, Operations, PA, and JA assist with public releases.
       For unique cases such as a minor amendment to a recent full AICUZ study update, MAJCOM/CE
       may consider waiving the public meeting requirement (In such cases, MAJCOM/CE shall imme-
       diately inform AFCEE/DG and provide AFCEE/DG related documentation). However, the MAJ-
       COM/CE sends copies of the study to all parties typically invited to the public release meeting, or
       who have reviewed a previous study or update. Prior to public release, MAJCOM/CE provides
       sufficient copies of the AICUZ study to AFCEE/DG, appropriate AFCEE RCO, and HQ USAF/
       CEV. Immediately following the public release, MAJCOM/CE provides copies of the AICUZ
       study to the affected state SPOC(s) or other pertinent state and local agencies designated under the
       state process.
       1.3.9.2. Appropriate AFCEE RCO distributes the study or amendment (provided by MAJCOM/
       CE) to appropriate federal regional officials after public release.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            9


     1.3.9.3. HQ USAF/CEV coordinates with and distributes the study or amendment (provided by
     MAJCOM/CE) to federal agency officials and congressional officials in Washington, D.C. HQ
     USAF/CEV conducts con-gressional coordination through the Secretary of the Air Force, Office
     of Legislative Liaison, prior to the public release meeting.
     1.3.9.4. MAJCOM/CE will maintain a copy of the AICUZ map and a copy of the AICUZ study in
     each installation Housing Referral Office so Air Force personnel seeking offbase housing have the
     opportunity to review noise and accident potential effects on adjacent land areas.
  1.3.10. Phase VI - AICUZ Implementation and Maintenance:
     1.3.10.1. General. The success of the AICUZ program depends on local government acceptance
     as well as actions by private individuals and other agency officials. Local officials must under-
     stand the AICUZ program, in order to effectively implement AICUZ. MAJCOM/CE encourages
     increased public understanding through a continuous flow of public information from the installa-
     tion and by Air Force installation participation in interagency and intergovernmental coordination
     and planning processes at the local, areawide, state, federal regional, and federal headquarters lev-
     els.
     1.3.10.2. MAJCOM/CE accomplishes the following actions at each installation with an AICUZ
     requirement:
        •   Monitor development plans, programs, and projects that may affect land use within the
            AICUZ.
        •   Inform local and regional officials and the public of AICUZ considerations and take for-
            mal positions (in writing and through testimony at meetings or hearings) as required.
        •   Participate in local government land use planning and control meetings (boards, commis-
            sions, and council).
        •   Notify the higher headquarters AICUZ staff within 1 workday of any offbase proposal or
            action that would result in incompatible land use according to the AICUZ study or amend-
            ment.
        •   Review AICUZ data as part of EIAP evaluation or at least once every 2 years.
        •   Conduct all public AICUZ matters according to AFI 35-202, Environmental Matters (for-
            merly AFR 190-1).
        •   Ensure that all AICUZ presentations and appearances by Air Force personnel are con-
            ducted according to HQ USAF/CEV policy and guidance (approval from AFLSA/JACE
            for such presentations and appearances [per AFI 51-301, Civil Litigation, formerly AFRs
            110-5, 110-10, and 110-24] is not required). The legal and public affairs offices must be
            advised of all proposed AICUZ presentations and appearances.
        •   Keep higher headquarters informed of all significant AICUZ events, including planned
            offbase developments within the AICUZ area (above the DNL 65 contour and within the
            APZs).
        •   Advise the installation legal office (per AFI 51-301) and higher headquarters if an AICUZ
            study or amendment is, or may become, the subject of a court suit.
        •   Keep complete AICUZ files according to AFMAN 37-139.
10                                                                    AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


            •   Ensure that AICUZ activities are managed and maintained on a continuing basis and in a
                timely manner with emphasis on monitoring aircraft operational and maintenance propos-
                als and actions; monitoring offbase land development proposals and actions; and ensuring
                current, accurate AICUZ studies.
            •   Provide advance general notice to local jurisdictions of potential changes to the AICUZ
                study and the affected areas.
            •   Identify and publicly discuss potential land use conflicts with the local community; and
                provide effective inputs to local authorities, private developers, and the public in their land
                use deliberations and approval processes.
            •   Assist installations as required and keep HQ USAF/CEV, AFCEE/DG and the appropriate
                AFCEE RCO informed of all significant AICUZ program events (provide in a timely
                manner all relevant data and information to AFCEE/DG in support of AFCEE/DG respon-
                sibilities described in paragraph 1.3.3.2.), and conduct the Biennial AICUZ Status Survey,
                when called by AFCEE/DG.
     1.3.11. Joint Land Use Studies.
     The OSD Office of Economic Adjustment’s (OEA) Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) program is designed
     to encourage and assist local communities in implementing AICUZ land use recommendations. A
     major objective of the JLUS program is to promote responsible community growth in concert with
     sustainment of the Air Force Mission. OEA can provide technical and financial assistance for collab-
     orative planning to communities that participate in the JLUS program. These cooperative-planning
     efforts can lead to the implementation of effective compatible development measures.
        1.3.11.1. Joint Land Use Study Nominations.
        AF/ILEPB will issue an annual call for MAJCOMs JLUS nominations. MAJCOMS should con-
        sider nominating installations or ranges that have been adversely affected or have the potential to
        become adversely affected by incompatible civilian development.
        All nominations will include the following supporting information:
            1.3.11.1.1. A description of the nature and extent of the incompatible civilian development, or
            the potential for such incompatible civilian development
            1.3.11.1.2. A statement of the installation/range leadership’s commitment to support a JLUS
            1.3.11.1.3. A current or in-progress AICUZ study if available, and other documented
            encroachment caused by incompatible civilian development
            1.3.11.1.4. Points of contact at the Major Command and nominated installation/range
            1.3.11.1.5. A statement of the reasonable expectation that the affected local government will
            likely participate in a JLUS
        1.3.11.2. Coordinated Planning
        Any installation/range planning activities that may affect, be affected by or may involve off-base
        activities (e.g. AICUZ, Integrated Natural Resource Management Plans, General plans, or other
        encroachment efforts, such as activities taken under the authority granted in Title 10, Section
        2684a), and any on-going, or pending JLUS efforts should be coordinated. Establishing effective
        communication and coordination of interrelated efforts will be instrumental in developing inte-
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                       11


     grated strategies to achieve mutual goals and objectives to sustain an installation/ranges future
     ability to support mission changes.
12                                                                  AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                                 Chapter 2

                                        TECHNICAL CRITERIA

2.1. General. The AICUZ area of influence for each installation consists of:
     •   Land areas on which certain uses may obstruct the airspace or otherwise be hazardous to aircraft
         operations.
     •   Land areas exposed to aircraft operations that affect public health, safety, or welfare, defined as
         being within the A-Weighted, DNL 65 dB (Community Noise Equivalent Level [CNEL] 60 dB in
         California) noise contour.
     •   Land areas within clear zones and accident potential zones of an Air Force base with active run-
         ways.

2.2. Height of Obstructions. AICUZ study preparers (see paragraph 1.3.4.3.) use the land area and
height restrictions explained in AFI 32-1026, Planning and Design of Airfields (formerly AFR 86-14), for
determining airspace obstructions. The Federal Aviation Administration's 14 CFR, FAR Part 77, Subpart
C establishes standards for determining obstructions in navigable airspace.

2.3. Accident Potential. DoD Instruction 4165.57 is the basis for determining clear zones (CZ) and acci-
dent potential zones (APZ) which are described in the AICUZ Handbook.

2.4. Noise. AICUZ study preparers develop noise contours by using aircraft operational, maintenance,
and other required data from the installations. The contours represent DNL which are symbolized math-
ematically as Ldn (Ldn 65 dB, Ldn 75 dB etc.). AICUZ study preparers plot contours for DNLs of 65, 70,
75 and 80-plus dBs for AICUZ maps. MAJCOM/CE conducts technical review and approval before pub-
lic release of individual maps (AFCEE/DG provides technical review, as requested). MAJCOM/CE
immediately informs AFCEE/DG regarding the release of individual AICUZ maps, and provides related
documentation to AFCEE/DG. If requested by local communities, AICUZ study preparers plot the CNEL
contours for California installations (including the CNEL 60 dB contour) and submit them to local offi-
cials, per state requirements. For California, the installation AICUZ study preparers include CNEL noise
contours in addition to DNL contours. Noise contour preparers develop maps with the DNL 85-plus dB
contour only for the EIAP and on-base siting use. AICUZ studies do not contain DNL 85-plus dB noise
contours.

2.5. Land Use Compatibility Guidelines. Land use compatibility guidelines (AICUZ Handbook, vol-
ume I,) cover both on-base and offbase land use. Other federal agencies further define these guidelines in
the following publications:
     •   Community Noise Exposure Resulting from Aircraft Operations: Application Guide for Predictive
         Procedure, AMRL-TR-73-105, NOV 1974.
     •   Information on Levels of Environmental Noise Requisite to Protect Public Health and Welfare
         with Margin of Safety, EPA Report 550/9 - 74 - 004, MAR 1974.
     •   Guidelines for Considering Noise in Land Use Planning and Control, Federal Interagency Com-
         mittee on Urban Noise, June 1980, U.S. Government Printing Office: 1981-337-066/8071.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             13


                                                 Chapter 3

                                       AICUZ STUDIES AND UPDATING

3.1. AICUZ Study:
    3.1.1. MAJCOM/CE prepares, releases, and maintains AICUZ studies for each installation and auxil-
    iary airfield with active runways. The AICUZ study defines and maps aircraft noise contours, runway
    clear zones, and accident potential zones around the installation. After technical review, MAJCOM/
    CE approves exemptions where the AICUZ does not extend beyond installation boundaries or where
    there are less than 10 jet or 25 propeller-driven aircraft operations on a runway on an average busy
    day. MAJCOM/CE shall immediately inform AFCEE/DG and provide all exemption correspondence
    to AFCEE/DG. MAJCOM/CE evaluates all operations including those on secondary runways.
    3.1.2. Typically, an AICUZ study reflects aircraft operations as currently flown at an installation.
    Under certain circumstances, in cooperation with local communities and with approval from MAJ-
    COM/CE, AICUZ study preparers may substitute projected contours based upon unclassified long
    range plans for future aircraft operations, for contours reflecting current operations in AICUZ studies.
    MAJCOM/CE provides a copy of MAJCOM approval documentation to AFCEE/DG. However,
    MAJCOM/CE may not release such projected contours as part of an AICUZ study, if these contours
    represent projected aircraft operations in an unreleased EIAP document. In such cases, MAJCOM/CE
    will release AICUZ studies reflecting proposed EIAP actions after, but within 120 days of public
    announcement of a final decision to implement a proposed change for which the Air Force has either
    made an Environmental Assessment Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI), or has filed a final
    Environmental Impact Statement Record of Decision (EIS ROD) with the EPA.
    3.1.3. An AICUZ study contains specific land use compatibility recommendations based on an anal-
    ysis of the relationships between aircraft operational effects and existing land use, existing and pro-
    posed zoning, and planned or anticipated land use. AICUZ study preparers map and discuss existing
    and future compatible and incompatible land uses. They develop the AICUZ study according to the
    AICUZ Handbook. MAJCOM/CE reviews and approves the AICUZ study. MAJCOM/CE provides
    a copy of approval documentation to AFCEE/DG. An AICUZ study contains the following elements:
Volume I
     1. Signed and dated transmittal letter.
     2. Introduction to AICUZ; Purpose, need, process and procedure.
     3. Installation description (mission, economic impact, and flying
activity).
     4. Brief description of the basis for land use compatibility/incompatibility.
             a. Accident potential.
             b. Noise.
             c. Height restrictions.
             d. Any additional local considerations.
14                                                                 AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


      5. Recommendations/guidelines for determining compatible land (land use compatibility tables and
text).
     6. Land use analysis.
            a. Existing land use.
            b. Zoning and any other ongoing implementation actions.
            c. Future land use.
            d. Incompatible development.
     7. Maps with appropriate narrative.
            a. Vicinity map.
            b. Flight tracks map.
            c. Separate accident potential zones map (optional).
            d. Separate noise contour map (optional).
            e. Composite AICUZ map (combined noise contour and accident zone map, 7c combined with
     7d).
            f. Existing offbase land use overlaid on 7e map.
            g. Existing offbase zoning overlaid on 7e map.
            h. Future offbase land use overlaid on 7e map.
     8. Implementation and maintenance responsibilities.
     9. Installation points of contact.
Volume II
     1. AICUZ concept, program, methodology and policies.
     2. Accident potential zones.
     3. Description of the noise environment.
     4. Height and obstruction criteria.
     5. Noise level reduction guidelines.
     6. Sample population density guidelines.
Volume III
     1. AICUZ implementation and maintenance plan (internal use only).
     2. Citizens brochure (optional).
Note: The AICUZ Handbook, volume III, contains formats for AICUZ studies as well as AICUZ page
insert amendments.

3.2. AICUZ Study Updating:
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            15


  3.2.1. For proposed actions, such as major operational or maintenance modifications, mission realign-
  ments, or mission basings, the MAJCOM/CE reviews AICUZ aircraft operational and maintenance
  data as part of the EIAP, according to AFPD 32-70, AFI 32-7061, AFI 13-201, and AFI 13-213.
  3.2.2. MAJCOM/CE initiates AICUZ evaluation when the need for an Environmental Assessment
  (EA) or the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) becomes known or at least every 2 years.
  3.2.3. MAJCOM/CE determines if the proposed action will require AICUZ updating action. MAJ-
  COM/CE makes this determination prior to either making a FONSI or making a DEIS available for
  public comment.
  3.2.4. MAJCOM/CE could require AICUZ updating action even if a proposed action does not consti-
  tute a major federal action requiring EIAP or there is a finding of no significant impact on the physical
  or human environment under the National Environmental Policy Act (i.e., if noise contours become
  smaller, etc.).
  3.2.5. MAJCOM/CE initiates AICUZ updating actions if the noise exposure map for aircraft opera-
  tions changes by DNL 2 dB or more in any noise sensitive areas from the noise contour map in the last
  publicly released AICUZ study. Either individual or cumulative mission/operations changes may
  cause noise exposure map changes. and may be in regard to existing operations or operations pro-
  posed in EIAP documentation.
  3.2.6. AICUZ study updating is not required if:
     •   MAJCOM/CE determines that the specific situation does not warrant an update (MAJCOM/
         CE immediately informs AFCEE/DG and supplies related documentation).
     •   The local community has adopted the AICUZ study and the applicable zoning ordinances in
         effect meet the recommended compatible land uses for the reduced or expanded AICUZ.
         MAJCOM/CE must clearly document local government acceptance, with an airport compre-
         hensive land use plan, general land use plan, zoning ordinance and/or zoning map. MAJ-
         COM/CE approves this exemption to the AICUZ requirement. MAJCOM/CE immediately
         informs AFCEE/DG and supplies related documentation. Where the MAJCOM/CE has
         issued an exemption, the MAJCOM/CE forwards a new map of the AICUZ to the lead local
         planning agency and specific federal agencies (FAA, HUD, VA, and FmHA). The lead plan-
         ning agency should have a written request on file with the Base CE for maintaining the exist-
         ing AICUZ study. MAJCOM/CE should make the new map an attachment to the existing
         AICUZ study.
  3.2.7. For AICUZ study updates or amendments reflecting an approved action, MAJCOM/CE must
  provide public release of the study after, but within 120 days, of the public announcement of a final
  decision to implement a proposed action for which the Air Force either has made a FONSI, or has
  filed an EIS ROD with the EPA. Where no EIAP has taken place, public release of an AICUZ must
  occur within 120 days of the determination that AICUZ updating is required.
  3.2.8. An AICUZ update includes an installation commander-signed and dated transmittal letter to the
  governments and citizens of the local communities. It describes the changes, tells why they were
  made, and includes either a completely revised AICUZ document, or an AICUZ amendment consist-
  ing of revised pages for insertion into the last publicly released AICUZ study. The AICUZ Handbook
  contains guidance on the applicable situations.
16                                                                   AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


     3.2.9. MAJCOM/CE approves each AICUZ update before public release. The MAJCOM/CE shall
     provide a copy of all approval documentation to AFCEE/DG.

3.3. Joint/Dual-Use Installations:
     3.3.1. AICUZ requirements also apply to Air Force-owned runways, taxiways, and other necessary
     facilities where non-Air Force aircraft operations are conducted (joint-use). MAJCOM/CE should
     include each operation in the AICUZ study.
     3.3.2. Where the Air Force operates a major air installation as part of an arrangement in which the Air
     Force does not own or operate the runways (dual-use), MAJCOM/CE develops and submits a noise
     contour map (including both military and civil operations) to the airfield operator with a request that
     the airfield operator prepare and publish an AICUZ study or equivalent for the installation. If the air-
     field operator does not agree, the MAJCOM/CE turns over all AICUZ materials to the airfield opera-
     tor and refers all land use compatibility matters to the airfield operator. The Air Force assists as
     required.
     3.3.3. If an Air Force unit is located on a non-Air Force-owned or -operated airfield, the MAJCOM/
     CE must inform the airfield operators of the AICUZ program and suggest the airfield operator prepare
     an AICUZ study or equivalent.

3.4. Land Use Compatibility Study:
     3.4.1. MAJCOM/CE will conduct reviews every 2 years to assess in detail the local government
     adoption of the most recent AICUZ study recommendations. The review contains a thorough analysis
     of the successes, actions and policies by local communities to implement the AICUZ study recom-
     mendations. This review includes a review and synopsis of all affected local government comprehen-
     sive land use plans, development plans, zoning plans, zoning maps, and ordinances at a minimum. It
     also includes transportation plans, subdivision plots, and other proposals within the airfield environs
     pertinent to the AICUZ study. The evaluation includes variances, and other zoning actions allowing
     conditional uses. MAJCOM/CE reports the results of this evaluation to AFCEE/DG (with a copy to
     HQ USAF/CEV) in the Biennial AICUZ Status Survey called by AFCEE/DG (the AICUZ Handbook,
     volume I, provides details regarding the Biennial AICUZ Status Survey).
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              17


                                                Chapter 4

                           REAL PROPERTY INTEREST ACQUISITION

4.1. General Information. The Installation CE should acquire a real property interest in fee or through
appropriate restrictive easements over all land within the clear zones whenever practicable. In the event
adjacent land is owned by another federal agency, formal agreements must be obtained to restrict land use
in accordance with AFI 32-7063. HQ USAF/ILEPB in coordination with SAF/IEI will determine excep-
tions to clear zone boundary and the real property interest to be acquired on a case by case basis. The only
real property interests to be acquired are those necessary to prevent incompatible land use, or to prohibit
uses generating increased incompatibility (e.g. increased density, increased structure height, etc) in the
clear zone (except at certain dual-use installations that are exempt from the clear zone acquisition pro-
gram [see paragraph 3.3.]). The Installation CE is responsible for identifying private lands within the clear
zone, determining the real property interest to be acquired, and funding the acquisitions through program-
ming avenues. The Installation CE acquires all real property interests in accordance with AFI 32-9001,
Acquisition of Real Property). The AICUZ Handbook, AFH 32-7084, AICUZ Program Managers Guide,
1 Mar 99, further describes the clear zones. MAJCOM/CE must immediately inform USAF/ILEPB con-
cerning acquisition actions under this chapter.
18                                                                    AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                                  Chapter 5

                 HOW AICUZ APPLIES TO AIR FORCE LAND AND FACILITIES

5.1. General Information. New Air Force facility sitings, construction, and land use designations must
be consistent with the published AICUZ land use compatibility guidelines and height restrictions for that
installation (AICUZ Handbook, volume I).

5.2. Land Use in the Clear Zone:
     5.2.1. Existing Air Force facilities and land uses may continue in the clear zone; however, the Base
     Civil Engineers will program replacement facilities as part of the normal planning and programming
     process and site such replacement facilities outside the clear zone. Base Civil Engineers should relo-
     cate people-intensive facilities and facilities for other than flight-operations outside the clear zones
     where possible. Navigational aids and essential operational requirements are exceptions, which,
     because of their functions, are located in the clear zone for optimum performance. MAJCOM/CE
     must approve alteration, minor additions, or improvements of facilities in the clear zone. Base Civil
     Engineer’s must observe a 3,000 foot wide minimum clear zone for new construction of proposed Air
     Force facilities regardless of the established clear zone dimensions or existing facilities. The installa-
     tion must fully justify and the MAJCOM/CE must approve any deviation from this construction
     restriction.
     5.2.2. The Air Force (or others under Air Force permit) must not plan, locate, or construct a new use
     or facility within the boundaries of the CZ except for the following allowed uses:
        •   Agriculture, with the exception of orchards (trees), grains, or other crops or vegetation that
            unnecessarily attract birds or wildlife.
        •   Livestock grazing (excluding feed and dairy lots).
        •   Permanent open space.
        •   Existing or new water areas, provided they do not create bird strike hazards.
        •   Rights-of way for single track railroads and fenced, two-lane highways without sidewalks or
            bicycle trails, provided they do not violate obstacle clearance criteria.
        •   Rights-of-way for communications and utilities provided all facilities are at grade level or
            underground.
        •   Essential navigation aids and operational facilities, provided there are no feasible alternatives
            (MAJCOM/CE approval is required).
        •    Note: Refer to AFI 32-1026, for additional guidance on appropriate land uses within clear
            zones.
     5.2.3. The following uses are specifically prohibited within the CZ:
        •   A use that releases any substance into the air that would impair visibility or otherwise inter-
            fere with operating aircraft, such as, but not limited to, steam, dust, and smoke.
        •   A use that produces electrical emissions, which would interfere with aircraft and Air Force
            communications or navigational aid systems, or aircraft navigational equipment.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                            19


      •   A use that produces light emissions either direct or indirect (reflective) which might interfere
          with pilot vision.
      •   A use that would unnecessarily attract birds or waterfowl such as, but not limited to, operation
          of sanitary landfills, maintenance of feeding stations, or growing certain types of crops or veg-
          etation.
      •   Explosives facilities or activities must be excluded from the CZ as described in AFI 91-201,
          Explosive Safety Standards (formerly AFR 127-100).
   5.2.4. Consistent with applicable historic preservation requirements, MAJCOM/CE must demolish or
   relocate buildings on newly acquired fee land within the CZ and must ensure the rubble is removed.
   MAJCOM/CE easement acquisitions must conform to the estate acquired. Through programming
   avenues, the MAJCOM/CE is responsible for any further relocation of above ground utilities, fencing,
   and any grading or seeding. In addition, the MAJCOM/CE determines what is done with roads and
   sidewalks that terminate in the acquired area.

5.3. Forms Prescribed. AF Form 3997, General Airfield Data; AF Form 3998, Specific Noise Sensi-
tive Locations; AF Form 3999, Based Aircraft Operations; AF Form 4000, Transient Aircraft Oper-
ations; AF Form 4002, Flight Track Inventory for Runway _____; AF Form 4001, Flight Track and
Profile; AF Form 4003, Ground Runup Locations; AF Form 4004, Engine Ground Runup Summary.



                                              JAMES E. McCARTHY, Maj General, USAF
                                              The Civil Engineer
20                                                            AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                          Attachment 1

                               IC 98-1 TO AFI 32-7063,
                 AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE PROGRAM

1 OCTOBER 1998


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This interim change (IC) 98-1 prescribes new AF Forms 3997, 3998, 3999, 4000, 4001, 4002, 4003, and
4004. These forms are illustrated in AFH 32-7084, AICUZ Program Manager’s Guide.
Forms Prescribed. AF Form 3997, General Airfield Data; AF Form 3998, Specific Noise Sensitive
Locations; AF Form 3999, Based Aircraft Operations; AF Form 4000, Transient Aircraft Opera-
tions; AF Form 4002, Flight Track Inventory for Runway _____; AF Form 4001, Flight Track and
Profile; AF Form 4003, Ground Runup Locations; AF Form 4004, Engine Ground Runup Summary.
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                              21


                                               Attachment 2

                                 IC 2002-1 TO AFI 32-7063
                   AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE PROGRAM


17 APRIL 2002


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS


This interim change (IC) 2002-1 provides guidance for clear zone acquisition and clarifies MAJCOM/CE
approval authority regarding clear zones.


4.1. General Information. The Installation CE should acquire a real property interest in fee or through
appropriate restrictive easements over all land within the clear zones whenever practicable. In the event
adjacent land is owned by another federal agency, formal agreements must be obtained to restrict land use
in accordance with AFI 32-7063. HQ USAF/ILEPB in coordination with SAF/IEI will determine excep-
tions to clear zone boundary and the real property interest to be acquired on a case by case basis. The only
real property interests to be acquired are those necessary to prevent incompatible land use, or to prohibit
uses generating increased incompatibility (e.g. increased density, increased structure height, etc) in the
clear zone (except at certain dual-use installations that are exempt from the clear zone acquisition pro-
gram [see paragraph 3.3.]). The Installation CE is responsible for identifying private lands within the clear
zone, determining the real property interest to be acquired, and funding the acquisitions through program-
ming avenues. The Installation CE acquires all real property interests in accordance with AFI 32-9001,
Acquisition of Real Property). The AICUZ Handbook, AFH 32-7084, AICUZ Program Managers Guide,
1 Mar 99, further describes the clear zones. MAJCOM/CE must immediately inform USAF/ILEPB con-
cerning acquisition actions under this chapter.
5.2 Land Use in the Clear Zone:
5.2.1. Existing Air Force facilities and land uses may continue in the clear zone; however, the Base Civil
Engineers will program replacement facilities as part of the normal planning and programming process
and site such replacement facilities outside the clear zone. Base Civil Engineers should relocate peo-
ple-intensive facilities and facilities for other than flight-operations outside the clear zones where possi-
ble. Navigational aids and essential operational requirements are exceptions, which, because of their
functions, are located in the clear zone for optimum performance. MAJCOM/CE must approve alteration,
minor additions, or improvements of facilities in the clear zone. Base Civil Engineer’s must observe a
3,000 foot wide minimum clear zone for new construction of proposed Air Force facilities regardless of
the established clear zone dimensions or existing facilities. The installation must fully justify and the
MAJCOM/CE must approve any deviation from this construction restriction.
22                                                                  AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                              Attachment 3

                               IC 2005-1 TO AFI 32-7063,
                  AIR INSTALLATION COMPATIBLE USE ZONE PROGRAM
13 September 2005
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2005-1. This change updates the OPR information for this
AFI and inserts information on the Joint Land Use Study program paragraph 1.3.11.); information on the
nomination of installations/ranges for Joint Land Use Studies (paragraph 1.3.11.1., and paragraphs
1.3.11.1.1.-1.3.11.1.5.); and identifies the requirement to coordinated planning efforts that relate to
off-base activities with any Joint Land Use Studies that may be under-way. See the last attachment of the
publication, IC 2005-1 for the complete IC. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


OPR: HQ USAF/ILEPB (Ms Lynn Engelman)
Certified by HQ USAF/ILEP (Col Mark Pohlmeier)
Supersedes AFI 32-7063, 17 April 2002


1.3.11. Joint Land Use Studies.
The OSD Office of Economic Adjustment’s (OEA) Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) program is designed to
encourage and assist local communities in implementing AICUZ land use recommendations. A major
objective of the JLUS program is to promote responsible community growth in concert with sustainment
of the Air Force Mission. OEA can provide technical and financial assistance for collaborative planning
to communities that participate in the JLUS program. These cooperative-planning efforts can lead to the
implementation of effective compatible development measures.
1.3.11.1. Joint Land Use Study Nominations.
AF/ILEPB will issue an annual call for MAJCOMs JLUS nominations. MAJCOMS should consider nom-
inating installations or ranges that have been adversely affected or have the potential to become adversely
affected by incompatible civilian development.
All nominations will include the following supporting information:
1.3.11.1.1. A description of the nature and extent of the incompatible civilian development, or the poten-
tial for such incompatible civilian development
1.3.11.1.2. A statement of the installation/range leadership’s commitment to support a JLUS
1.3.11.1.3. A current or in-progress AICUZ study if available, and other documented encroachment
caused by incompatible civilian development
1.3.11.1.4. Points of contact at the Major Command and nominated installation/range
1.3.11.1.5. A statement of the reasonable expectation that the affected local government will likely partic-
ipate in a JLUS
1.3.11.2. Coordinated Planning
AFI32-7063 13 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             23


Any installation/range planning activities that may affect, be affected by or may involve off-base activi-
ties (e.g. AICUZ, Integrated Natural Resource Management Plans, General plans, or other encroachment
efforts, such as activities taken under the authority granted in Title 10, Section 2684a), and any on-going,
or pending JLUS efforts should be coordinated. Establishing effective communication and coordination
of interrelated efforts will be instrumental in developing integrated strategies to achieve mutual goals and
objectives to sustain an installation/ranges future ability to support mission changes.
