BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
4TH FIGHTER WING (ACC)
                                                              SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                   Supplement 1
                                                                                               30 MAY 2002

                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                          THE FIRE PROTECTION OPERATIONS AND
                                                                     FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 4 CES/CEF (James E. Hawley)                       Certified by: 4 CES/CC (Lt Col Kevin E. Rumsey)
Supersedes AFI 32-2001, SJ SUP 1, 27 March 00                                                Pages: 17
                                                                                        Distribution: F

AFI 32-2001, 1 April 1999, is supplemented as follows. This instruction establishes policy and proce-
dures and assigns responsibilities and requirements to ensure a comprehensive fire prevention and protec-
tion program for Seymour Johnson AFB. It applies to all military personnel, their family members,
civilian personnel, concessionaires and tenants on Seymour Johnson AFB. Violations of specific prohibi-
tions and requirements of this instruction by military personnel may result in disciplinary action under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations by civilian personnel may result in appropriate dis-
ciplinary action to include administrative action such as reprimand or criminal prosecution under applica-
ble State and Federal statutes.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
A bar ( | ) indicates change from the previous edition.
1.5.1. (Added) The Base Civil Engineer, 4th Civil Engineer Squadron (4 CES/CC), is the staff officer
designated as the Base Fire Marshal and serves as an advisor to the 4th Support Group Commander (4
SPTG/CC) on fire protection matters and also supervises the Fire Protection Flight (4 CES/CEF).
1.6.1. (Added) The Fire Chief is the Fire Protection Flight Chief and is responsible to the Base Fire Mar-
shal for establishing and managing an effective fire protection and prevention program. Through the
Assistant Chief for Fire Prevention, the Fire Chief develops and administers the installation Fire Preven-
tion Program.
1.6.1.1. (Added) The Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer will assume initial on-scene commander (OSC)
duties until relieved by a qualified representative. The Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer will provide assis-
tance to the OSC with establishing priorities based on existing plans; however he retains authority over all
fire suppression and rescue operations.
1.8. (Added) Functional Managers. The functional manager is the commander or senior operating official
at any level who exercises managerial control of an activity or operation. Functional managers are respon-
2                                          AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


sible for administering the fire prevention program within their functional area and for initiating correc-
tive action on fire hazards and fire deficiencies.
1.8.1. (Added) Unit commanders/supervisors are responsible at all levels for ensuring sound fire preven-
tion procedures are established and practiced in each activity or facility under their jurisdiction. They will
enforce this instruction as it pertains to the buildings, areas, and property under their control and are
responsible for the following:
1.8.1.1. (Added) Ensure all newly enlisted and civilian personnel are given fire prevention and fire extin-
guisher training within 30 days of assignment, excluding personnel enrolled in F-15 E formal training.
This training will be accomplished through the base Right Start Plus Program and First Term Airmen
Center (FTAC).
1.8.1.2. (Added) Ensure that all personnel are knowledgeable of required fire/emergency reporting proce-
dures, use of fire extinguishers, and fire prevention practices.
1.8.1.3. (Added) Ensure that fire prevention inspections and practices in facilities, rooms, or areas that are
under continuous lock and key are the responsibility of the individual supervisor maintaining that secured
area. Additionally, it is their responsibility to arrange/provide access to these facilities for the Fire Protec-
tion Flight to perform scheduled fire prevention visits.
1.8.1.4. (Added) Review for completeness the corrective actions required and the corrective actions taken
on AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report. The unit commander must sign and date the reverse
side of the form.
1.8.1.5. (Added) The Security Forces Desk (4 SFS/SFD) will be notified at extension 2-1211 to take
action against personnel who willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems/devices, or who fail
to comply with the fire prevention policies or practices which, through misconduct, disregard for fire
directives, or negligence result in fire loss or damage to government property.
2.4. Facility Managers:
2.4.1. (Added) Each facility manager (as designated in AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and
Reporting) is responsible to the unit commander for the fire-safe condition of all facilities under their
jurisdiction. The facility manager or designated alternate will accompany the Fire Prevention Inspector
during the fire prevention visit and take immediate corrective action on fire hazards or discrepancies
found during the inspection.
2.4.2. (Added) In addition to accompanying the fire prevention inspector during inspections, facility
managers will accomplish those fire prevention duties as outlined elsewhere in this instruction.
2.4.3. (Added) The facility manager will document checks of all fire extinguishers, fire doors, exits, exit
lights, and emergency lights to ensure proper operating conditions. Report all discrepancies on AF Form
332 to the Operations Flight (CEO) for corrective action. Discrepancies involving fire extinguishers can
be referred to the Fire Prevention Office at extension 2-4109.
2.4.4. (Added) The facility manager will ensure that the fire/emergency reporting number (911) is affixed
to every telephone. These stickers may be acquired from the Fire Prevention Office.
2.4.5. (Added) The facility manager will ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of fire/emergency
reporting, evacuation procedures, and the activation procedures for all installed fire suppression/alarm
systems.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                              3


2.4.6. (Added) The facility manager will inspect all designated smoking areas to ensure proper recepta-
cles are provided for the disposal of smoking materials, such as butt cans.
2.4.7. (Added) The facility manager will ensure a closing or end-of-shift inspection is accomplished at
the end of each workday or activity to ensure the facility or area is left in a fire-safe manner.
2.4.8. (Added) The facility manager will ensure that evacuation plans are posted throughout facilities
with exits that are not readily apparent, or facilities that normally occupy personnel on a temporary basis
and are not familiar with that facility.
2.5. (Added) Chief, Engineering Flight (CEC), will establish procedures to ensure the Fire Prevention
Office is notified of all pre-construction/pre-performance conferences. A fire protection representative
must attend these conferences to coordinate fire prevention requirements with contractors.
2.6. (Added) Concessionaires. 4th Services Squadron/AAFES are responsible for fire prevention in their
work areas and will comply with this instruction.
2.7. (Added) Contractor Operations. 4 CES is responsible for compliance with Department of Labor
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards and for the protection of their employ-
ees. Contractors will be provided with a copy of the Contractors Fire Prevention Guide by the Fire Pre-
vention Office during pre-performance conferences; this guide will be used as a reference for fire safety
during construction operations.
3.4.1.1. (Added) The Fire Prevention Office manages, enforces, and executes the Fire Prevention Pro-
gram. The fire prevention inspector shall conduct a thorough inspection that contributes to fire safety of
the unit being inspected and gains the desired results for the fire protection organization.
3.4.1.2. (Added) Scheduled fire prevention visits will be conducted on a quarterly, semiannual, or annual
basis (determined by the Fire Chief) depending on the occupancy and the hazards in the facility or area.
3.4.1.3. (Added) Walk-through visits will be conducted on a no-notice basis when increased activity or
the nature of special work or functions dictates, to include periods of evening operations. Follow-up
inspections on previously identified fire hazards and deficiencies will be conducted in this manner.
3.4.1.4. (Added) The facility manager or designated alternate will accompany the fire prevention inspec-
tor on all visits.
3.4.1.5. (Added) Fire hazards noted during the inspection will be corrected on the spot if at all possible.
If the fire hazard or condition poses an imminent danger, prompt action will be taken to eliminate or
reduce the danger. When the hazard involves an operation or process that must be stopped and action is
not taken to do so, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, 4th Fighter Wing Safety Officer, and the functional man-
ager concerned will be notified to observe and resolve the hazardous condition. If the problem cannot be
resolved, the 4th Support Group Commander and/or the 4th Fighter Wing Commander will be notified.
3.4.1.6. (Added) Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) will be assigned to fire hazards and fire deficiencies in
accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, and the Air Force Occu-
pational, Safety, and Health (AFOSH) Program.
3.4.4.1. (Added) The AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, is annotated to show any fire defi-
ciency found. The fire inspector will provide the facility manager the original copy of the AF Form 1487
and brief them on the hazards noted with recommendations for corrective actions. The facility manager
must indicate the actions taken on the reverse side of the form have the functional manager sign and date
and return the form to the Fire Prevention Office within the specified time.
4                                          AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


3.4.4.2. (Added) Fire prevention visit reports identifying hazards or deficiencies that require submission
of an AF Form 332, Civil Engineer Work Request, to 4 CES/CEO for corrective action will show full
justification with references.
3.4.4.3. (Added) The facility functional manager will start immediate correction of the fire hazard or fire
deficiency. Any hazard or deficiency not corrected within 30 days will be annotated on an AF Form 3,
USAF Hazard Abatement Plan, IAW AFI 91-301.
3.8. (Added) Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures:
3.8.1. (Added) Immediate and accurate reporting of a fire or emergency is essential to minimize fire vehi-
cle response time. Any person discovering a fire, or potential fire or emergency situation, must report it
immediately to the Fire Protection Flight (dial 911). This includes any fire whether it has burned itself out
or has been extinguished without the aid of the Fire Protection Flight.
3.9. (Added) Fire/Emergency Evacuation Procedures.
3.9.1. (Added) Sound the alarm, both mechanically and verbally. In buildings equipped with fire alarm
systems, activate the nearest fire alarm pull station. In buildings not equipped with fire alarm systems,
sound the alarm verbally.
3.9.2. (Added) Call the Fire Protection Flight (dial 911). When reporting a fire or emergency give your
name and telephone number, location/address of the emergency, and type of fire or emergency. Remain on
the telephone. DO NOT HANG UP until released by the Fire Protection Flight operator.
3.9.3. (Added) Ensure all personnel are evacuated from the facility and assemble at a designated area at
least 50 feet from the facility and ensure accountability of all personnel.
3.9.4. (Added) Extinguish the fire, if possible, using fire extinguishers on fires that have just started or are
small in size. If the fire is uncontrollable, abandon firefighting efforts and evacuate the building. Do not
become trapped and always maintain a clear egress path to safety.
3.9.5. (Added) Designate at least one individual outside the building to direct Fire Protection Flight per-
sonnel to the location of the fire or emergency.
5. (Added) Yielding to Emergency Vehicles: All Fire Protection Flight vehicles responding to an emer-
gency have the right-of-way over all other traffic. Upon hearing or observing approaching emergency
vehicles with warning lights and/or siren in operation, traffic will immediately clear all intersections,
move as far as possible to the right, come to a complete stop and remain stopped until all visible respond-
ing emergency vehicles have passed.
5.1. (Added) Do not follow closer than 500 feet behind responding emergency vehicles.
5.2. (Added) Vehicles will not pass stationary fire vehicles with warning lights operating, proceed past a
fire scene, or drive over a fire hose unless directed to do so by Fire Protection Flight or Security Forces
personnel.
6. (Added) Fire Lanes/Restricted Parking. Fire lanes are restricted to vehicle parking and will remain
unobstructed at all times. Restricted parking areas around buildings are identified and no parking is
allowed in these areas.
7. (Added) Fire Hydrants.
7.1. (Added) Fire hydrants will not be used by any person other than Fire Protection Flight personnel,
except when permission is granted by the Fire Chief or a designated representative.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                                 5


7.2. (Added) Access to fire hydrants, post indicator valves, and sprinkler system connections will be
maintained by a clearance of at least 15 feet. Parking vehicles or equipment within 15 feet of a fire
hydrant is prohibited.
7.3. (Added) Items such as trees, bushes, signs, fences, or any other obstacles will not obstruct or conceal
a fire hydrant, post indicator valve, or sprinkler system connection.
7.4. (Added) Tampering with fire hydrants, such as removing caps or turning the hydrants on, is strictly
prohibited.
7.5. (Added) Water mains and fire hydrants will not be shut off, nor will any maintenance be performed
that could interfere with the water supply without prior notification of at least 24 hours to the Fire Protec-
tion Flight. The only exception to this requirement is if emergency repair is necessary.
7.6. (Added) Utilities Maintenance (CEOIU) will notify the Fire Protection Flight of proposed water cur-
tailments which affect fire hydrants. CEOIU will also identify inactive/defective fire hydrants by placing
the appropriate OUT OF SERVICE placard on the hydrant.
8. Fire Extinguishers.
8.1. (Added) Fire prevention personnel will determine the type, number, distribution and placement of
portable fire extinguishers as outlined in AFOSH Standard 91-56 and National Fire Protection Associa-
tion (NFPA) Standard 10 of the National Fire Codes.
8.2. (Added) The using organization of a facility is responsible for the purchase and maintenance of por-
table fire extinguishers. Extinguisher source and vendor maintenance information can be found in Appen-
dix A to this publication.
8.3. (Added) Fire extinguishers that have been used to extinguish a fire, have been accidentally dis-
charged, or become inoperative must be re-serviced and/or repaired by a vendor as soon as possible, see
Appendix A for more information. The facility manager will ensure that a replacement fire extinguisher is
placed in the location of the unserviceable extinguisher until the unserviceable extinguisher has been
repaired or replaced. Extinguishers that have broken seals and/or missing pins may be brought to the Fire
Prevention Office, Building 4600, for inspection and to replace these items.
8.4. (Added) Fire extinguishers will not be blocked from immediate use or obscured from sight. Signs
marking the location of the fire extinguisher will be posted when the extinguisher cannot be seen clearly.
8.5. (Added) Fire extinguishers will be permanently mounted to walls using an approved bracket or
placed in recessed/semi-recessed fire extinguisher cabinets. No fire extinguisher will be repositioned to
another location without the approval of the Fire Prevention Office.
8.6. (Added) Fire extinguishers will not be used for any purpose other than the extinguishment of fires.
Appropriate disciplinary action will be initiated against personnel willfully misusing fire extinguishers.
8.7. (Added) Fire extinguishers and installed fire suppression systems will be inspected monthly; these
inspections shall be documented by the facility manager or alternate facility manager.
9. (Added) Flight line Fire Extinguishers.
9.1. (Added) The number and type of wheel-mounted flight line fire extinguishers authorized for Sey-
mour Johnson AFB are established in Table of Allowance (TA) 490. Once issued to the Fire Protection
Flight, these extinguishers are released to the flight line area, to be used as needed. They will not be
assigned to each using organization.
6                                          AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


9.2. (Added) The using organization is responsible for moving the extinguishers within their work/ramp
area to meet required coverage during maintenance and aircraft engine starts as outlined in Technical
Order 00-25-172.
9.3. (Added) If an extinguisher is used or found to require servicing, the using organization will notify the
Fire Protection Flight. The using organization will deliver the flight line fire extinguisher to the repair
holding area on the flight line side of the main fire station (Bldg 4600).
9.4. (Added) Halon 1211 flight line fire extinguishers (150 lb) will not be palletized or prepared for
deployment without written authorization of the Fire Chief.
10. (Added) Fire Evacuation Drills.
10.1. (Added) Fire evacuation drills are the responsibility of the facility manager to ensure the safe evac-
uation of personnel in case of fire. The intent of the fire drill is to expose occupants to the sound of the fire
alarm system, test capacity of the fire exits, and to practice organizational fire-reaction plans.
10.1.1. (Added) Unit commanders may conduct fire evacuation drills at their discretion. Fire alarm sys-
tems will not be used to conduct fire evacuation drills without prior coordination with the Fire Protection
Flight.
10.2. (Added) Fire evacuation drills will be conducted at the following intervals for the following occu-
pancies:
10.2.1. (Added) Hospitals/Clinics: Fire drills will be conducted at a minimum once per quarter for each
work shift.
10.2.2. (Added) Child Development Centers: Fire drills will be conducted in each child-care facility on a
monthly basis for staff training.
10.2.3. (Added) Places of Public Assembly: Managers of these facilities must conduct quarterly fire drills
of employees to ensure their familiarity with fire-evacuation procedures. No requirement exists for fire
drills that require the public to evacuate the premises.
10.3. (Added) The Fire Chief may direct fire drills in any facility where the need for such drills is indi-
cated.
11. (Added) Fire Exits and Exit Lights:
11.1. (Added) Fire exit capacity and arrangement will be in accordance with NFPA Standard 101, Life
Safety Code.
11.1.1. (Added) Exit doors in occupied facilities will remain unlocked and unobstructed at all times,
except during specialized force protection situations. No special tools or knowledge will be required to
exit the facility.
11.1.2. (Added) Exit doors must swing in the direction of exit travel when 50 or more personnel occupy
the facility.
11.1.3. (Added) Exit doors shall be equipped with panic hardware devices in public assemblies, educa-
tional occupancies and day care centers.
11.1.4. (Added) Building exits will be kept clear at all times and properly identified by exit signs that will
be readily visible from any direction of exit access IAW NFPA 101.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                                7


11.1.5. (Added) Do not obstruct exits or exit signs with draperies, decorations, placards, tables, chairs,
furniture, etc., except when the exit is staffed with personnel for force protection situations.
11.1.6. (Added) Padlocks, chains, sliding bolts, or any device that retards the intended safety action of the
panic hardware will not be installed on doors.
11.1.7. (Added) If exits become inoperative for any reason, the facility manager will ensure immediate
corrective action is taken to correct the problem.
11.2. (Added) Fire-exit signs shall be suitably illuminated by a reliable light source. External and internal
illuminated exit signs shall be visible in both the normal and emergency lighting modes. Burned-out lights
or inoperative battery backups will be immediately reported to the Civil Engineer Service Call at exten-
sion 2-5139.
12. (Added) Fire Prevention Training:
12.1. (Added) Upon request, fire prevention personnel will conduct fire prevention training for any orga-
nization or social group. This training is available on any fire-safety-related subject and may consist of
lectures, films, and demonstrations.
12.1.1. (Added) Fire extinguisher education is required for all personnel upon assignment and annually
thereafter. This education will include general principles of fire extinguisher and extinguishing systems
use and the hazards involved with initial-stage firefighting.
12.1.2. (Added) Fire extinguisher training (initial hands-on) is required for all newly assigned aircraft
maintenance and servicing personnel on the use of the 150-pound Halon 1211 flight line fire extinguisher.
After initial training, personnel will receive annual refresher education on the proper use of these extin-
guishers.
12.2. (Added) Personnel who work in areas protected by one of the following types of installed fire sup-
pression systems will receive initial education and annual refresher education thereafter:
12.2.1. (Added) Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) extinguishing systems.
12.2.2. (Added) Halon 1301 total-flooding systems.
12.2.3. (Added) Carbon dioxide (CO2) total-flooding systems.
12.2.4. (Added) Dry-chemical extinguishing systems.
13. (Added) Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Materials:
13.1. (Added) Industrial areas are defined as, but not limited to, all hangar bays, craftsman shops, vehicle
maintenance shops, fuel shops, paint shops, warehouses, storage areas, or areas where processes, servic-
ing, testing, or fabricating is done. AS A RULE, SMOKING IS PROHIBITED IN THESE AREAS.
13.1.1. (Added) Smoking is not allowed within 100 feet of a hydrant fueling system or aircraft being
defueled or refueled.
13.1.2. (Added) Smoking is not allowed within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft repair docks, paint shops,
flammable liquid storage locations or similar locations where concentrations of flammable/combustible
vapors/dust may be found.
13.1.3. (Added) Smoking on the flight line, including the runway, taxiway, ramp, and apron areas, must
be approved with a letter of authorization.
8                                        AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


13.1.4. (Added) Smoking within the munitions storage areas must be approved with a letter of authoriza-
tion signed by the base fire chief IAW AFMAN 91-201.
13.1.5. (Added) Smoking is not allowed in government-owned or leased vehicles IAW AFI 40-102.
13.2. (Added) Smoking is only permitted in areas that are designated as smoking areas as listed in AFI
40-102 or as approved by the installation commander.
13.3. (Added) Smoking is prohibited while reclining or lying on a bed.
13.4. (Added) An adequate number of ashtrays and appropriate receptacles will be used for the disposal
of smoking materials and will be provided in all buildings and areas where smoking is permitted.
13.5. (Added) Supervisors will inspect smoking areas to ensure all smoking materials have been properly
disposed of at the end of each duty day.
13.6. (Added) Smoking material receptacles will be emptied weekly, or more often as needed, by using
water to thoroughly wet down the contents to ensure they are extinguished before combining them with
other wastes in dumpsters, trash collection barrels, etc.
14. (Added) Electrical Installation, Appliances, and Heating Equipment:
14.1. (Added) All electrical services and installations will conform with the NFPA Standard 70, National
Electrical Code. Only Civil Engineer electricians and contract service electricians or licensed individuals
may alter/repair electrical wiring, outlets, etc. Unauthorized wiring will be removed at the occupant's
expense, as determined by the Base Civil Engineer.
14.1.1. (Added) All switches, outlet receptacles, fuse/circuit breakers, and junction boxes must have suit-
able cover plates.
14.1.2. (Added) Fuses/Circuit breakers will not be bridged, bypassed, replaced with one of a larger capac-
ity to prevent tripping, or secured in the OPEN position.
14.1.3. (Added) All portable extension cords will be equipped with nonconductive plugs and kept in good
condition.
14.1.4. (Added) Extension cords will not be used in lieu of permanent electrical wiring.
14.1.5. (Added) Extension cords will not be spliced or taped, nor draped over nails or metal objects, run
through windows or doors, run under rugs, or placed or fixed in a way that may subject the wiring to phys-
ical damage.
14.1.6. Added) The use of excessive extension cords by means of multiple-outlet plugs from single out-
lets is prohibited unless the multiple outlets is fused at no more than 15 amperes. Surge protectors meet
this requirement.
14.1.7. (Added) Worn or deteriorated electrical cords will be removed from service and replaced imme-
diately.
14.1.8. (Added) All extension cords must be of sufficient gauge to carry the ampere load of the attached
equipment without heating the extension cord, plugs, or other components.
14.1.9. (Added) Extension cords must have the Underwriter's Laboratory (UL), Factory Mutual (FM), or
other nationally recognized testing authority seal of approval.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                             9


14.2. (Added) Explosion-proof electrical equipment will be used in hazardous locations where flamma-
ble gases/vapors are present and as required by the National Electric Code.
14.3. (Added) Heat-producing appliances such as coffeepots will be disconnected from wall outlets when
no longer in use. Automatic-timing devices will not be used. Coffeepots and any other heat-producing
device will be placed on noncombustible surfaces.
14.3.1. (Added) Cooking with conventional high-heat producing appliances is prohibited in all buildings
except those having specific areas designated as kitchen facilities.
14.4. (Added) Open element electrical heaters not equipped with an operable safety shut-off (trip switch)
are prohibited for use.
14.4.1. (Added) Open-element electrical or gas-fired heaters are prohibited in areas susceptible to explo-
sive/flammable vapors, gases, or dust.
14.4.2. (Added) Gas-fired portable heaters are only authorized for use in construction areas.
14.4.3. (Added) Only assigned/qualified heating maintenance personnel are authorized to adjust gas-fired
heaters or boilers.
15. (Added) Flammable/Combustible Liquids/Liquefied Petroleum (LP) Gas Storage:
15.1. (Added) Positive control measures will be taken to keep flammable/combustible liquids and vapors
from all sources of ignition. Specific guidance on the storage of flammable/ combustible liquids is con-
tained in AFOSH Standard 91-43, Flammable/Combustible Liquids; NFPA Standard 30, Flammable and
Combustible Liquids Code; and NFPA Standard 99, Standard for Health Care Facilities. Requirements
for the transportation of flammable and combustible liquids are contained in the U.S. Department of
Transportation regulations or in NFPA 385, Standard for Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible
Liquids.
15.2. (Added) Flammable liquids and other hazardous materials such as paints, spray paints, flammable
thinners, gasoline, diesel fuel, etc, will be stored in an approved manner or in approved containers.
15.2.1. (Added) All flammable liquid containers must be labeled to clearly identify contents.
15.2.2. (Added) Dispensing and storage containers, such as tanks and drums, will be bonded and
grounded at all times.
15.2.3. (Added) Nozzles used to dispense flammable liquids will be spring loaded or otherwise self-clos-
ing when hand pressure is released. Under no circumstances will they be wired or bolted in the open posi-
tion when dispensing flammable liquids.
15.2.4. (Added) Containers of flammable/combustible liquids will remain tightly sealed except when
transferred, poured, or applied.
15.2.5. (Added) Approved safety cans will be used for transporting and dispensing flammable/combusti-
ble liquids in quantities of 5 gallons or more.
15.2.6. (Added) All cleaning tanks and vats will be equipped with self-closing metal lids with fusible
links. Only approved solvents designated for the purpose of cleaning will be used in these tanks/vats.
15.3. (Added) Flammable/combustible liquids stored inside buildings will be stored in flammable storage
cabinets that comply with the requirements of AFOSH Standard 91-43 or NFPA Standard 30.
10                                       AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


15.3.1. (Added) Flammable storage cabinets will be labeled in conspicuous lettering, readable from 50
feet away, “Flammable - Keep Fire Away.”
15.3.2. (Added) The use of flammable liquid storage cabinets is limited to those organizations whose pri-
mary work activity requires the use of flammable/combustible liquids at least daily.
15.3.3. (Added) When not in use, all flammable/combustible liquids will be stored inside the storage cab-
inet. No more than a 1-day supply will be outside the cabinet at any time.
15.3.4. (Added) Flammable-liquid storage cabinets will be limited to three cabinets per fire area (IAW
NFPA 30), unless approved in writing by the Fire Prevention Office.
15.3.5. (Added) Flammable-storage cabinets will have ventilation ports capped with bung caps when
inside a building; bung caps will be removed when storage cabinets are located outside a building.
15.3.6. (Added) Storage in flammable-liquid cabinets will be limited to flammable/combustible liquids
only. All containers will have tight-fitting lids or covers.
15.3.7. (Added) Total quantities of flammable/combustible liquids permitted per storage cabinet will be
IAW AFOSH Standard 91-43.
15.3.8. (Added) Inventory sheets will be posted on the front of the storage cabinet, listing the contents
and maximum quantities stored within.
15.4. (Added) The use of exterior flammable/combustible liquid-storage facilities is limited to those
organizations whose primary work activities use such liquids at least once a week.
15.4.1. (Added) Exterior storage facilities will be located at least 50 feet away from other buildings or
hazardous operations and identified with conspicuous lettering, readable from 50 feet, "Flammable - Keep
Fire Away." Exception: storage facilities may be located adjacent to blank exterior walls having a 2-hour
fire rating.
15.4.2. (Added) The exterior storage facility may be conventional metal or wooden lockers, sheds (metal,
masonry, or wood), conexes, or similar structures.
15.4.3. (Added) The storage area must be protected against tampering and shall be kept free of weeds,
debris, and other combustible materials not necessary to the storage.
15.5. (Added) Gasoline powered equipment will not be refueled while running, hot, or inside buildings
where vapors can accumulate.
15.6. (Added) Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders, used for barbecues, etc., may be stored inside a
facility as long as the cylinder is stored in a lockable, metal locker to prevent tampering with valves and
pilferage of the cylinder.
16. (Added) Welding, Cutting, and Use of Open Flame Torches:
16.1. (Added) Welding, cutting, and brazing operations will be conducted IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5,
Welding, Cutting, and Brazing and NFPA Standard 51, Welding and Cutting. When welding operations
are conducted outside approved welding shops, an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing
Permit, will be issued by the Fire Protection Flight prior to the start of any operation. The Welding, Cut-
ting, and Brazing Permit must be posted in a visible location at the job site.
16.1.1. (Added) The supervisor in charge of the operation is responsible for obtaining the AF Form 592
from the Fire Protection Flight. Operations will not commence until approval has been given by the Fire
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                             11


Protection Flight. The supervisor in charge of the operation is responsible for compliance with the precau-
tions and instructions outlined on the permit and as directed by the fire prevention inspector.
16.2. (Added) Prior to beginning any welding operation, personnel will ensure that all combustible mate-
rials/vegetation within 35 feet of the operation have been removed and the proper type/class of fire extin-
guisher is immediately available.
16.2.1. (Added) Where the removal of combustible materials is impractical, a suitable fire-resistive shield
or welding blanket will be placed between the materials and the welding operation. A fire watch or Fire
Protection Flight standby will be required.
16.2.2. (Added) Welding will not be permitted in the vicinity of flammable or explosive materials until
the possibility of fire or explosion has been eliminated.
16.2.3. (Added) Before welding or cutting on flammable liquid tanks, cylinders, or containers which con-
tain flammable liquids (compressed gas cylinders and pipelines are excluded) they will be thoroughly
washed, steamed, and filled with water or inerted with nitrogen. Extreme care will be taken to eliminate
the accumulation of vapors by proper venting or positioning of the container during the filling operation.
16.2.4. (Added) To ensure an explosive mixture does not exist, the area or tank will be sampled using a
flammable/explosive gas detector.
16.2.5. (Added) When aircraft parts require welding, they will be removed from the aircraft when possi-
ble and welded in the appropriate welding shop. When this is not possible, an AF Form 592, USAF Weld-
ing, Cutting, and Brazing Permit, shall be filled out and coordinated with the Fire Protection Flight. In
addition, an inspection of the area and situation will be performed by the Fire Protection Flight.
16.2.6. (Added) When welding and cutting operations are completed, the area will be thoroughly and
carefully checked to ensure no fire hazard exists.
17. (Added) Open Burning and Fireworks:
17.1. (Added) Open burning (campfires, trash/waste burning, grass, bonfires, etc,) are prohibited unless
approved in writing by the Fire Chief and the Environmental Flight (CEV).
17.2. The individual use of fireworks on Seymour Johnson AFB is prohibited. Fireworks used during
base-sponsored activities, such as a Fourth of July fireworks display, will be set up and discharged by
properly trained and qualified personnel from a licensed commercial firm.
18. (Added) Ammunition and Explosives:
18.1. (Added) The storage, handling, and maintenance of these materials will be in strict compliance with
AF Manual 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
18.1.1. (Added) Fire symbols will be posted on the outside of facilities that contain ammunition or explo-
sives. Posting of half-sized symbols is required for inside munitions storage areas. Fire symbols will be
posted on doors leading into rooms or areas where munitions are stored.
18.1.2. (Added) A copy of the Facility Explosive License (AF Form 2047) will be forwarded to the Fire
Prevention Office and maintained on file.
18.2. (Added) Maintenance Operations Center (4 FW/MOC) will advise the Fire Alarm Communications
Center (FACC) of munitions status. MOC shall report all movements of munitions, load status, and fire
symbol of affected munitions. MOC will maintain status (fire symbol) of each munitions storage facility.
12                                        AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


18.3. (Added) Munitions control personnel shall notify the MOC of any changes in an aircraft's munitions
load status and any change of fire symbol for a munitions storage facility.
19. (Added) Housekeeping:
19.1. (Added) Good housekeeping, cleanliness, and orderliness in day-to-day activities, is the basic intent
of fire prevention. In general terms, any condition relative to the cleanliness of a building that could com-
promise fire safety constitutes poor housekeeping and may be identified as a fire hazard. Commanders,
facility managers, and supervisors are responsible for maintaining a high state of cleanliness and orderli-
ness throughout their building.
19.2. (Added) Trash and rubbish containers used in all areas must have lids. Office trash receptacles are
exempted from this requirement.
19.3. (Added) Outside trash and rubbish collection containers must be kept closed and will be located not
less than 15 feet from any portion of a building or be separated from adjacent structures by an enclosure
or wall.
19.4. (Added) Dirty rags or dirty speedy dry will be stored in separate metal containers with suitable lids
and labeled as to its contents.
19.5. (Added) Storage of extraneous materials in utility, air conditioning, compressor/air handling, gener-
ator, or telephone communication rooms or under stairwells is prohibited. Attics may be used for storage
only when the area contains permanently installed floors.
19.6. (Added) Boiler, equipment, or other utility rooms will not be utilized as storage rooms for gaso-
line-powered equipment.
20. (Added) Warehouse/Storage Facilities:
20.1. (Added) These facilities will meet the requirements set forth in the National Fire Codes. Buildings
used for storage and warehouses will have aisles between stacks, racks, and stored materials. Stacks will
be properly maintained to inhibit the spread of fire. Aisle width will be determined by the appropriate
directives or by fire prevention personnel.
20.1.1. (Added) Stored materials will be kept at least 18 inches away from ceiling light fixtures, sprinkler
heads, and heat, smoke, and fire detectors.
20.1.2. (Added) If stacks of materials are over 15 feet high, the clearance for stored materials will be 36
inches from sprinkler heads.
20.2. (Added) Power equipment such as mowers, weed eaters, blowers, and generators will be de-fueled
prior to storage in any area within a facility or storage area.
21. (Added) Dormitories, Visiting Officers/Airman's Quarters, and Temporary Lodging Quarters:
21.1. (Added) These facilities pose a high loss of life potential where the careless act of one person places
many people in jeopardy. Therefore, the strict compliance and enforcement of fire prevention and fire
safety standards are especially important. Personnel will not be quartered in other than designated sleep-
ing facilities unless approved by the Fire Chief or a designated representative.
21.2. (Added) The following items are prohibited in dormitories and billeting:
21.2.1. (Added) Candles, incense, or any open-flame devices, which produce a constant flame.
21.2.2. (Added) Firearms and ammunition.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                                 13


21.2.3. (Added) Explosives or pyrotechnics (including fireworks).
21.2.4. (Added) Flammable/combustible liquids. This does not apply to small amounts of lighter fluid or
butane for refilling cigarette lighters or model glue and paints.
21.2.5. (Added) Cooking utensils or appliances, other than coffee makers, toasters, and microwave
ovens. (Skillets and deep-fat fryers are allowed for use in facilities equipped with a common area kitchen
only).
21.2.6. (Added) Motorcycle storage and/or maintenance.
21.3. (Added) Cooking activities such as skillets, deep-fat fryers, etc., will be restricted to those areas
equipped with kitchen facilities. While in use, these cooking appliances will be monitored by the user.
21.4. (Added) Appliances such as hair dryers, curling irons, and electric blankets shall be unplugged from
the wall receptacle when not in use. The use of electrical extension cords on these items is prohibited.
21.5. (Added) Curtains and draperies must be flame resistant. The activity or individual installing cur-
tains or draperies must provide the Fire Protection Flight with a copy of the manufacturer's certification
stating the material is flame resistant.
21.6. (Added) Utility and linen-storage rooms throughout dormitories and billeting will be kept neat,
clean, and orderly at all times.
21.6.1. (Added) Fire-alarm panels and electrical panels will be unobstructed and accessible at all times.
21.6.2. (Added) A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be maintained around water heaters, hot-water
pipes, and furnaces.
21.6.3. (Added) If rack storage is used, a clearance of at least 18 inches will be maintained between
rack-storage materials and the ceiling/ceiling fixtures or fire-detection devices.
21.8. (Added) Dormitory managers may store small gasoline-powered equipment in an enclosed 1-hour
fire-rated storage room.
21.9. (Added) Lint trap in dryers will be cleaned after each use.
22. (Added) Family Housing and Mobile Homes:
22.1. (Added) The occupants have the primary responsibility for fire prevention in the home. Every occu-
pant must practice good cooking habits to eliminate careless kitchen grease fires in the home. DO NOT
LEAVE THE KITCHEN STOVE UNATTENDED WHILE COOKING. Negligence and carelessness
could result in the occupant being held liable for the damage. Rubbish in garages, carports, and closets are
another breeding place for home fires. Smoke detectors must be checked on a monthly basis. Too often,
fire hazards go unnoticed and undetected until it is too late. Sponsors are fully responsible for the action
of their dependents concerning fire prevention.
23. (Added) Public Assembly Facilities:
23.1. (Added) Places of public assembly include, but are not limited to, clubs, MWR recreational facili-
ties, AAFES facilities, commissary, child-development centers, chapels, dining facilities, and snack bars.
These facilities present a high life-loss potential resulting from the possibility of panic and require special
fire-prevention measures.
14                                        AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


23.1.1. (Added) Managers/supervisors of public-assembly facilities will ensure a responsible individual
is assigned during hours of operation to ensure complete and orderly evacuation of the building in an
emergency and for prompt notification of the Fire Protection Flight.
23.1.2. (Added) Operating personnel are designated to check exit doors daily prior to the entry of patrons
to ensure that doors are unlocked and that the panic hardware is operational.
23.1.3. (Added) Aisles leading to exits are not to be obstructed by tables, decorations, displays, partitions,
or portable seating, etc, at any time.
23.2. (Added) Managers/supervisors of public assembly facilities will establish and maintain a fire pre-
vention certification-training folder for all employees/workers. The certification training ensures the
employees have been properly trained and understand their fire prevention duties and responsibilities
within their work area. The certification training includes documented quarterly exercises for employees
(building evacuation is not required) and the immediate indoctrination of newly hired employees.
23.3. (Added) The Fire Prevention Office will be notified, at extension 2-4109, prior to any major social
event, activity, or concessionaire set-up that involves temporary decorations or unusual interior arrange-
ments. At the time of notification, the Fire Protection Flight will inspect the facility to ensure all
fire-safety measures have been taken.
23.4. (Added) The maximum capacity or occupant load must be posted in the main offices of all public
assembly places. Capacity or occupancy load is not to exceed the maximum standard as set forth in NFPA
101, Life Safety Code.
23.5. (Added) The Fire Protection Flight will be provided a copy of the manufacturer's certification
showing that curtains and draperies purchased for use in these facilities are flame resistant.
23.6. (Added) For those public assembly places with commercial-type cooking facilities, the following
requirements apply:
23.6.1. (Added) A minimum of one 10 lb. class BC rated fire extinguisher will be located within close
proximity of deep-fat fryer units but not located in such a position that it cannot be reached in case of a
fire.
23.6.2. (Added) Each deep-fat fryer or cooking unit will be appropriately placed under an exhaust hood
system to be protected by an installed dry/wet-chemical fire-extinguishing system.
23.6.3. (Added) Each independently operated cooking well or deep fat fryer unit will be equipped with a
primary and secondary thermostat. The temperature setting of the primary thermostat is not to exceed 400
degrees Fahrenheit, and the secondary thermostat must be a nonadjustable, fusible or manual resetting
thermostat with a maximum cut-off temperature not to exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit.
23.6.4. (Added) Deep-fat fryer units with either primary or secondary thermostatic control devices out of
service or calibration will not be placed into operation until they have been repaired and certified by elec-
trical technicians. The using organization shall immediately notify the Fire Prevention Office when a
deep-fat fryer is placed in a nonoperational status.
23.6.5. (Added) Newly procured or replaced deep-fat fryer units will not be placed in service until pri-
mary and secondary thermostats have been tested, certified, and tagged by electrical technicians.
23.6.6. (Added) Thermostats will be tested annually by the appropriate Civil Engineer shop or certified
contract electrician.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                              15


23.6.7. (Added) Hood and exhaust-duct systems servicing kitchen equipment must be thoroughly cleaned
to bare metal at least every six months to prevent grease accumulation. This cleaning cycle applies to fans,
roofs, louvers, ductwork, and exterior walls. Specific guidance for cleaning is found in NFPA Standard
96. Documentation must be available to show when cleaning of the ducts and filters were accomplished.
23.6.8. (Added) Ensure thorough cleaning of all installed grease filters, exposed surfaces of the exhaust
hoods, and the cooking equipment itself to prevent the accumulation grease. This cleaning must be
accomplished daily as a minimum, or more often if necessary.
23.6.9. (Added) Cooking is unauthorized anytime a filter or part of a filter is not in place and in proper
operating condition.
23.6.10. (Added) Cooking is unauthorized without the exhaust fan operating.
24. (Added) Decorations and Furnishings:
24.1. (Added) All decorations to be used in public assembly facilities and the proposed arrangement of
such decorations will be inspected by the Fire Protection Flight to ensure compliance before installation.
Contact the Fire Prevention Office, extension 2-4111, to arrange for an inspection. Decorations not meet-
ing NFPA code requirements and/or Air Force directives will be removed.
24.2. (Added) Christmas tree lighting and wiring must be in good physical condition with no splices or
short-circuiting in the wire. Indoor lighting will not be used for outdoor use.
24.3. (Added) Outdoor lights and wiring will be in good physical condition, approved for outdoor use by
the manufacturer, and will be weatherproof.
24.4. (Added) The use of live Christmas trees is prohibited in assembly, educational, health-care, deten-
tion/correctional, mercantile, billeting, or dormitory occupancies. Exception: Trees may be permitted in
areas protected by automatic sprinkler systems. In occupancies where natural cut trees are permitted, the
trunk of the tree will be placed in a suitable stand with adequate water. The water level shall be checked
on a daily basis. The tree shall be removed from the facility immediately upon evidence of dryness. Arti-
ficial trees shall be labeled, identified, or otherwise certified by the manufacturer as being “flame retar-
dant” or “flame resistive”. Prior to purchasing a live tree, please contact the Fire Protection Flight,
extension 2-4109.
24.5. (Added) Christmas tree lights will be unplugged when the area or facility is unoccupied. Christmas
tree lights will not be used on metal Christmas trees due to the possible hazard of shock or electrocution.
24.6. (Added) Decorations will not be placed where they would restrict or impede fire evacuation routes
or block access to exits.
25. (Added) Self-Help Work Projects:
25.1. (Added) All self-help work must be approved in advance on an AF Form 332, Civil Engineer
Work Request. Each AF Form 332 must be coordinated with the Fire Prevention Office. The purpose of
this coordination is to ensure that the construction, renovation, or structural alteration does not compro-
mise fire protection safety. The Fire Prevention Office will review each AF Form 332, and make appropri-
ate comments and recommendations relative to fire protection. Unapproved self-help work that has
created a fire hazard or fire deficiency will be identified on an AF Form 1487.
16                                        AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002


25.2. (Added) Personnel accomplishing self-help work will not shut down, disconnect, alter, modify, or
in any way impede the operation of a fire-suppression or fire-detection system without approval of the
Fire Protection Flight.
25.3. (Added) The facility manager will notify the Fire Prevention Office when approved self-help work
that constructs or structurally alters a facility begins. The Fire Prevention Office may feel it necessary to
inspect the area affected.
26. (Added) Aircraft Hangars and Docks:
26.1. (Added) It is the responsibility of the crew chief of the aircraft to have adequate fire extinguishers
available before performing any maintenance function on the ramp area. When maintenance is performed
inside a hangar, fire protection is provided by the permanently installed fire suppression system.
26.2. (Added) Refueling and defueling of an aircraft in a hangar or nose dock is prohibited.
26.3. (Added) An operating instruction covering removal of aircraft from hangars in case of fire will be
provided by and available to personnel working in the hangar area.
26.4. (Added) The use of flammable solvents to clean aircraft is prohibited.
26.5. (Added) Electrical fixtures and appliances will be of the type approved for these locations. Fire
lanes will be maintained around all aircraft hangars and nose docks to allow access of firefighting equip-
ment.
26.6. (Added) Fire doors separating hangar floor from shops and offices must be closed at all times and
free from obstructions.
26.7. (Added) Spray painting is prohibited in any hangar not specified as a paint/corrosion control facil-
ity.
26.8. (Added) Gasoline-powered air compressors will not be positioned in aircraft hangars.
26.9. (Added) Vehicles not equipped with approved spark arrestors will not be operated inside hangars or
docks.
26.10. (Added) The parking of any type of vehicle, including ground-power units, support equipment, or
components thereof, is prohibited inside hangars with the exception of vehicles loading and unloading
materials/supplies.
26.11. (Added) Foam turrets for under-wing fuselage fire protection are preset for automatic oscillation.
Turrets should not be moved (except by Fire Protection Flight personnel) and areas protected by turrets
will be kept clear of all obstacles.
27. (Added) Conflict in Guidance:
27.1. (Added) When a conflict occurs between written directives, the most stringent directive will take
precedence.
AFI32-2001_SEYMOURJOHSONAFBSUP1 30 MAY 2002                                                      17


                                         Attachment 8 (Added)

     ACCEPTANCE OF GOVERNMENT CREDIT CARD FOR MAINTENANCE AND/OR
                             PURCHASES
Although we cannot advertise for vendors, nor can we recommend specific vendors, the following com-
panies will accept the government credit card for maintenance and/or purchases.
Kan-Seek Office & Safety Equipment
115 N. Center Street
Goldsboro, NC
658-0020
Buck’s Fire Extinguisher Sales & Service
PO Box 142
Pikeville, NC
242-4871
Michael’s Electronics
1048 Bragg Blvd.
Fayetteville, NC
910-486-6270
Government purchase information:
5 lb dry chemical, vehicle type extinguisher:
NSN: 4210-00-165-4703
10 lb dry chemical, general-purpose type extinguisher:
NSN: 4210-00-889-2491
20 lb dry chemical, commercial kitchen type extinguisher:
NSN: 4210-00-889-2492
The Seymour Johnson Local Purchase Store:
10 lb dry chemical, general-purpose extinguisher




                                                   DAVID M. EDGINGTON, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                   Commander, 4th Fighter Wing
