     BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
     SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               9 SEPTEMBER 2008
                                                                  AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
                                                                                   Supplement
                                                                               16 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                              460TH SPACE WING
                                                                                      Supplement
                                                                                     1 MARCH 2011

                                                                                   Civil Engineering

                                                      FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

     ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                    Publishing website at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

     RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

     OPR: AFCESA/CEXF                                         Certified by: AF/A7CX (Col Donald L.
     Supersedes: AFI32-2001, 1 April 1999                                                 Gleason)
                                                                                         Pages: 72
                                        (AFSPC)
     OPR: A4/7XF (Mr Patrick Rodriguez)                     Certified by: A7D (Colonel Carlos Cruz-
     Supersedes: AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP1, 1                                                 Gonzalez)
                 May 2002                                                                   Pages:5
                                           (460SW)
     OPR: 460 CES/CEF                              Certified by: 460 CES/CC (Lt Col George
     Supersedes: 460 ABWI 32-2001, 6 Jun 03                                       E. Petty)
                                                                                  Pages:27


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, and
Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services
Program, Department of Labor – Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR), Air Force Instructions (AFI), and National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA) standards as they are adopted and/or implemented by NFPA Technical Information Guides
(TIG). It applies to personnel who develop and implement fire emergency services (FES) programs at
Air Force installations worldwide including expeditionary locations, facilities, and contractor-operated
facilities. For government-owned/contractor-operated and contractor-owned/contractor-operated
facilities, contracts shall be revised to comply with this instruction when such contracts are extended,
 2                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


revised or rewritten and when new delivery orders are applied to existing contracts. This instruction does
not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) firefighters when in
training status. Additionally, selected paragraphs of this publication do not apply to the ANG and will be
modified by ANG supplements. Refer to AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF)
Program, and Air Force Reserve Command and Air National Guard supplements for applicability. Users
should send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM), Air National Guard, and Headquarters Air Force
Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA), 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319, to
USAF/A7CX, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1260. Forms may be electronically
forwarded to AFCESA/ CEXF Corporate Mailbox, HQAFCESA.CEXF@tyndall.af.mil. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of the NFPA or any commercial
products, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the USAF. When
using Personally Identifiable Information (name, rank, etc. IAW DoD 5400.11-R/ AFI 33-332 Privacy
Act statements must be accompanied/ attached or on printed forms.

(AFSPC) The OPR for this supplement is HQ AFSPC/A4/7XF. This supplement implements and
extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program. The
AFI is published word-for-word without editorial review. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)
supplemental material is indicated in bold face. This supplement describes AFSPC’s procedures for use
in conjunction with the basic AFI. Its purpose is to prescribe unit mission, organization and
responsibilities of the AFSPC Fire Emergency Service Flight. It applies to all AFSPC Fire Emergency
Service Flights. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) nor Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC). Users are encouraged to make recommendations to change guidance in this
publication. Forward AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to
HQ AFSPC/A4/7XF, 150 Vandenberg St., Suite 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4150. Upon receipt of
this integrated supplement, discard the previous AFSPC publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

(460SW) This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services
Program. This instruction outlines the policies, responsibilities, procedures, and standards to provide
maximum safety to all personnel (military, civilian, contractors, tenant units, and concessionaires),
permanently or temporarily assigned to any property within Buckley Air Force Base and off base
supported sites including Air National Guard (ANG) units. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command units. See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and supporting information. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) 460th Civil Engineer Squadron, Fire and Emergency Services (460 CES/CEF), 380 S. Aspen Dr.
(Stop 86), Buckley Air Force Base, CO 80011-9522, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the base publications/forms manager
(460 SCS/SCOKP). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   3


(460SW)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been completely revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision changes the title from The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program to
Fire Emergency Services Program; redefines roles and responsibilities; institutionalizes professional
gear processes; establishes the scope and level of service objectives, embraces risk assessment and
management principles, incorporates the Automated Civil Engineer System Fire Department (ACES-
FD); updates training proficiency requirements; integrates Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
and High Yield Explosives (CBRNE) response; revises fire incident reporting procedures; formalizes the
process of adopting and implementing NFPA standards; and implements DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and
Emergency Services Program.

(AFSPC) This document has been revised and includes specific items that pertain to AFSPC Fire
Emergency Service flights, such as NFPA 1500 reporting; civilian participation in a wellness program;
Fire Chief responsibilities when programming for training aids; ICBM areas of interest and guidance for
wild land firefighting programs.

(460SW) Summary of CHANGES

(460SW) This document has been completely revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
changes the title from The Fire Protection and Base Fire Prevention Program to Fire Emergency
Services Program; redefines roles and responsibilities, revises fire incident reporting procedures, and
formalizes the process of adopting and implementing NFPA standards. The Fire Inspection Checklist is
no longer in use. Guidance were added in privatized housing, smoke detector, fire extinguisher repair
and/or service, and facility manager responsibilities. Clarifies welding, cutting and brazing
requirements, cooking in Air Force facilities, and provides further guidance for decorations and
furnishings. Fire Emergency Services Program, redefines roles and responsibilities, establishes the
scope and level of program objectives, authority having jurisdiction, updates Fire Prevention Program
compliance, Storage, Flammable Gases, Ammunition and Explosives, Fire Extinguisher Program, Fire
Hydrants, Fire Detection, Suppression, and Alarm Systems, Fire Protection Engineering, Construction,
Contractor Operations, Concessionaires, Vendors, Fire Safety Deficiency, Deviations, Emergency
Services Support, Special Events, and Fire Investigations.
 4                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011



                                               Chapter 1

                                         RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. USAF.
     1.1.1. USAF/A7C. The Office of The Civil Engineer provides Fire Emergency Services (FES)
     program policy and resources that enable FES capability to protect AF personnel and property. The
     Civil Engineer, is the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ) for Air Force FES guidance. Authority is
     delegated to The Air Force Fire Chief to interpret policy and approve equivalencies after
     consultation with the Civil Engineer Fire Panel (CEFP).
     1.1.2. USAF/A7CX. The Readiness and Emergency Management Division in the Office of The
     Civil Engineer provides FES program guidance development through AFCESA.
1.2. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA). AFCESA provides FES program
management and functional oversight within the Readiness Support Directorate (CEX), FES Division
(CEXF). The FES Division Chief is The Air Force Fire Chief.
     1.2.1. The AFCESA/CEXF staff assists USAF/A7CX staff in the development of policy and
     providing functional oversight. The staff provides technical services to the major commands and
     base FES personnel, advocates for resources and develops plans and programs to facilitate policy
     execution. Additionally, AFCESA/CEXF is responsible for centralized procurement of AF-wide
     FES purchases.
     1.2.2. The AF Fire Chief is delegated authority to manage the DoD Fire Emergency Services
     Certification System for the Secretary of the Air Force, as required by DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and
     Emergency Services Program. Additionally, this individual serves as the senior FES advisor and
     represents the AF where FES issues are concerned.
     1.2.3. The AF FES Career Field Manager (CFM) is the senior enlisted advisor for the FES
     functional community. The CFM develops, prepares, and coordinates new fire emergency services
     policy or change proposals for the AF Civil Engineer. Additionally, this individual provides central
     oversight for career field education and training issues, manages education and training programs,
     and coordinates all force structure changes for the career field.
     1.2.4. The AFCESA/CEXF staff serves as functional area representatives to the Federal Emergency
     Management Agency (FEMA) Federal Firefighter Task Group; National Fire Protection Association
     (NFPA) standards committees; USAF/A4R/A4P and Vehicle Transportation Acquisition Council
     (VTAC); Civil Engineer Career Program (CECP) Work Force Management Panel (CECP-WFMP)
     and Civil Engineer Policy Council (CEPC); Civil Engineer Education and Training Review Council
     (ETRC); DoD Wildland and Urban Interface Fire Fighting Task Group; North Atlantic Treaty
     Organization (NATO) Crash Fire Fighting and Rescue Panel (CFRP) and Air Operations and
     Services Working Group (AOSWG); International Fire Service Accreditation Congress (IFSAC) and
     National Professional Qualifications Standards Board (ProBoard); Air Force Research Laboratory
     (AFRL); and DoD Fire and Emergency Services Working Group (F&ESWG).
     1.2.5. AFCESA/CEXF executes the Firefighting Vehicle Modernization Plan (FFVMP) and
     manages vehicle procurement through Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC). This plan is
     reviewed annually and adjusted when appropriate before the budget cycle.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                       5


1.3. Civil Engineer Fire Panel (CEFP). The CEFP serves as the forum to facilitate communications
and develop consensus on new policies that affect FES programs. The CEFP charters working groups to
address specific issues.
   1.3.1. The CEFP assists The Air Force Fire Chief to identify and resolve FES issues. The CEFP
   reviews policy for currency, recommends changes in policy, proposes new technologies to improve
   FES and assists to develop strategic goals and initiatives.
   1.3.2. The CEFP is co-chaired by USAF/A7CXR and The Air Force Fire Chief. Members include
   the senior FES representative on major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA) to
   include the Air National Guard (ANG) and direct reporting units (DRU) staffs or their designated
   representatives. Co-chairs vote in case of tie. Advisors to the CEFP are invited as needed by the
   chairpersons.
1.4. MAJCOM, FOA, DRU Commanders. Commanders execute FES policy within their
organizations.
1.5. MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Civil Engineers and The Director, Installation and Mission
Support. The MAJCOM A7 provides command level oversight and is responsible to the MAJCOM
CC for executing FES programs within their respective commands. They ensure installation FES flights
are organized, trained and equipped to execute their respective missions. Staffs include a Command Fire
Chief with appropriate staff to provide day-to-day management of FES programs. The Command Fire
Chief is considered the Subject Matter Expert within the command for all FES related issues.
1.6. Command Fire Chief. This individual serves as the senior FES advisor to senior leaders and is the
spokesperson for the command at forums where FES is an issue. The Command Fire Chief is delegated
authority to manage the command’s FES program.
   1.6.1. The Command Fire Emergency Services staffs develop FES policies, guidance, oversight and
   technical services to the installations. This includes the advocacy and facilitation of resources and
   the development of plans to facilitate execution of policy associated with FES programs.
1.7. Installation Commander. The installation commander is responsible for the fire safety of
personnel and property under their control, provided for by the FES programs contained in this
instruction. This responsibility is discharged through the Fire Marshal and executed by the Fire Chief.
The installation commander reviews and approves Operational Risk Management (ORM) plans that
address facility fire safety and reductions in FES capability. The Fire Marshal and Fire Chief provide
periodic updates to keep the commander aware of FES capability and risk.
1.7. (460SW)Installation Commander. The commander is responsible for protecting the resources
under his jurisdiction from fire. Personnel of the host organization and tenants have a major interest in
fire protection. However, the installation commander exercises primary responsibility through the civil
engineer. Installation commanders implement directives of higher headquarters to control local fire
hazards.
   1.7.1. Installation commanders responsible for small installations such as radar sites, auxiliary fields
   with few facilities or infrequent aircraft operations will need to determine, with MAJCOM A7
   concurrence, if a FES flight is warranted for their mission. The installation commander, with advice
   from the Command Fire Chief, develops an ORM plan to determine alternatives to an on-site fire
   department. Key considerations are preventing fires, workplace fire safety education, capability to
   provide early intervention at fires, and managing fires that have progressed beyond the incipient
 6                                    AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


     stages. When the installation commander concludes that an on-site fire department is not justified,
     they appoint a Fire Safety Manager and send the ORM to the MAJCOM A7 for approval by the
     MAJCOM CC.
     1.7.2. The Fire Safety Manager (reference paragraph 1.7.1), manages FES programs at installations
     without an on-site fire department. These individuals are responsible to oversee the execution of the
     ORM plan approved in 1.7.1
1.8. Fire Marshal. The Civil Engineer (CE) Squadron or CE Group Commander or the Base Civil
Engineer (BCE) is the Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal is responsible to the Installation Commander for
oversight of FES programs and provides the Fire Chief the resources available to execute the FES
mission. Fire Marshals shall attend the Fire Marshal Course at the Louis F. Garland Fire Academy
within six months of assuming Fire Marshal duties.
     1.8.1. The CE Programs Flight Chief is responsible to the Fire Marshal to ensure all construction
     projects are designed with all required fire safety features. The CE Operations Flight Chief (or
     contractor operations service) is responsible to the Fire Marshal for inspection, testing, maintenance
     and documentation associated with all fire detection, notification, suppression and water distribution
     systems.
1.9. Fire Chief. The Installation Fire Chief is the FES Flight Chief and is directly responsible to the
Fire Marshal for establishing, executing and maintaining FES programs; determining the resources
required; conducting risk assessments; advising commanders regarding risk and capability, and
implementing risk management actions. Fire Chiefs develop ORM plans that address reduced FES
capability.
     1.9.1. Fire Chiefs develop a variety of standard operating instructions, guides, plans and procedures
     according to local, AF, and statutory requirements. A summary of these requirements are listed in
     the Fire Emergency Services Assessment Program (FESAP). The FESAP is a dynamic document
     maintained by AFCESA/CEXF and available at the AF FES CoP.
     1.9.2. The Fire Chief will develop an Organizational Statement identifying the scope of services
     provided based upon the unique mission requirements of the installation.
1.10. (Added-460SW) Authentic Standards and References. The Department of Defense (DoD),
Air Force, Air Force Office of Safety and Health (AFOSH), Space Command instructions, directives,
policies, and the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards are applicable. The Base Fire
Chief and/or Base Fire Marshal will determine the criteria for hazardous conditions where no criterion is
developed.
1.11. (Added-460SW) Individual. To prevent the unnecessary loss of life and property each
organization, including military family housing occupants must carry out a continuous fire prevention
program. Commanders and supervisors at all levels will ensure sound fire prevention procedures are
established and practiced in their area of responsibility. This will help to eliminate fire hazards and
unsafe conditions. All military and civilian personnel will actively assist and participate in the fire
prevention program. Immediately report any hazards and deficiencies to the proper authority to correct
any actions.
1.12. (Added-460SW) Commanders. Along with normal distribution, each flight commander, tenant
unit commander, and facility manager will maintain a copy of this instruction. Continuously emphasize
the contents of this instruction at appropriate briefings. Flight commanders will initiate appropriate
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                    7


administrative or disciplinary action where there is willful misconduct, or negligence involving fire
prevention policies and fire loss to government property. Violators will reimburse the government when
found liable.
1.13. (Added-460SW) Assistant Chief (AC) of Fire Prevention. Manages the Fire Prevention
Program. Ensures facilities are scheduled for fire hazard assessments and that these assessments are
accomplished. Conducts plan design review, public fire education, and oversees testing of installed fire
detection and fire suppression systems.
   1.13.1. (Added-460SW) Develops fire prevention training programs, and conducts promotional
   activities related to public fire education, including seasonal and special interest items.
   1.13.2. (Added-460SW) Monitors and assists in reviewing AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit
   Report, Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Program, and the Hazard Abatement Plan. Ensures base
   personnel follow procedures to report hazards and deficiencies noted during inspections. Conducts
   fire prevention visits, identifies, and documents fire hazards. Management of documented fire
   hazards will be conducted and processed by the Fire and Emergency Service (F&ES) as directed in
   AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program.
   1.13.3. (Added-460SW) Monitors the fire inspection process. Ensures inspection frequencies are
   adhered to and an adequate number of unscheduled inspections are conducted.
   1.13.4. (Added-460SW) Inspects new construction for inclusion of fire protection features, and
   verifies the operation of installed fire protection equipment and systems.
   1.13.5. (Added-460SW) Checks fire detection, suppression systems, and equipment for proper
   placement. As required, accompanies civil engineer personnel and civilian contractors during
   systems maintenance, and performance tests.
   1.13.6. (Added-460SW) Advises the base population in sound and current fire prevention methods.
1.14. (Added-460SW) Facility Managers.
   1.14.1. (Added-460SW) Facility managers are responsible for the fire safe conditions of facilities
   and areas under their jurisdiction. They maintain relevant records and equipment pertaining to fire
   safety. The facility manager or an alternate accompanies the fire inspector during scheduled fire
   prevention inspections, and takes immediate corrective action of fire hazards noted during the
   inspection. Each facility manager shall:
       1.14.1.1. (Added-460SW) Accomplish fire inspections using locally generated AF IMT 2519,
       All Purpose Checklist.
       1.14.1.2. (Added-460SW) Inform their flight commander or his/her designated representative
       of all matters concerning fire safety.
       1.14.1.3. (Added-460SW) Ensure all assigned personnel receive a complete fire prevention
       briefing and enforce sound fire prevention practices in their work area within 30 days of
       employment. Review AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
       Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program, for specific requirements and documentation.
       1.14.1.4. (Added-460SW) Immediately inform the F&ES if installed fire detection/suppression
       systems have been damaged (by accident or by contact with handling equipment).
 8                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


        1.14.1.5. (Added-460SW) Request F&ES to provide appropriate fire prevention lectures and
        demonstrations. Schedule lectures to obtain the largest audience.
        1.14.1.6. (Added-460SW) If fire or life safety deficiencies are noted during a scheduled or
        unscheduled fire hazard assessment visit, make corrective actions and annotate them on the
        reverse side of the AF 1487. Next, file a copy of the report, and forward the original report to
        the functional manager. If an item cannot be corrected within 30 days, a Risk Assessment Code
        (RAC) will be assigned as required by AFI 91-301, paragraph 16. RAC 1, 2, or 3 requiring more
        than 30 calendar days to abate must be entered into the installation’s formal hazard abatement
        plan. The functional manager will initiate an AF IMT 3, Hazard Abatement Plan, to start the
        process.
        1.14.1.7. (Added-460SW) Conduct fire drills annually. Coordinate and schedule all fire drills
        requiring the use of building fire alarm systems with the F&ES at least 48 hours before
        conducting the fire drill. Call the Fire Prevention office at extension (720) 847-9926/9270 to
        schedule fire drills.
        1.14.1.8. (Added-460SW) Check and annotate monthly visual inspections of all facility
        firefighting equipment. Replace all discharged, damaged, and unserviceable fire extinguishers
        with a type approved by the Fire Prevention office at 847-9926/9270. Note: F&ES assistance is
        not intended to be the primary source of training, but rather a supplemental source of new
        information.
1.15. (Added-460SW) Managers and Supervisors of Public Assembly and Recreational Facilities.
     1.15.1. (Added-460SW) Develop a written fire prevention and fire reaction training program for
     employees complying with AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
     Standard. Document quarterly employee fire drills (building evacuation is not required). Use AF
     Form 1085, Fire Protection Training Report, or computer-generated product to document and certify
     all training for employees. The Fire Prevention office will maintain a folder on calibration of deep
     fat fryers, kitchen hood, duct cleaning receipts, and hood chemical system inspection.
     1.15.2. (Added-460SW) Provide fire extinguisher and fire alarm system training for employees.
     Ensure employees working in the kitchen receive training semiannually on the kitchen hood
     chemical suppression system. The Fire Prevention office can assist you if required.
     1.15.3. (Added-460SW) Designate personnel authorized to conduct fire safety inspections at the
     close of each business day. Prepare a checklist to use when securing the facility using locally
     generated AF IMT 2519.
     1.15.4. (Added-460SW) Conduct a fire evacuation drill at least once every quarter for buildings of
     public assembly. Patrons/visitors are not required to evacuate public assembly buildings during such
     drills. See AFOSH STD 91-501, paragraph 6.2.15. for specific requirements.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                        9


                                                Chapter 2

                                     MISSION AND STANDARDS

2.1. Mission. The mission of a Fire Emergency Services (FES) flight is to provide fire prevention and
protection, fire fighting, rescue, and Hazardous Materials (HazMat) response capabilities to prevent or
minimize injury, loss of life, and damage to property and the environment.
2.2. Goal. The goal of FES flights is to protect AF personnel, property and missions from all hazards.
Resources are authorized to deliver required capabilities to manage the core missions of the flight.
2.3. Organization. FES flights are organized as a part of civil engineer squadrons (CES) within a civil
engineer or mission support group.
2.4. Objectives. Fire prevention is a primary objective of the flight. This objective is achieved with an
aggressive and effective fire prevention program consisting of fire safety education, inspections,
enforcement and facility design review. A secondary objective is early intervention at emergency events
by occupants, operators, and automatic fire protection systems. Finally, the third objective is to intervene
early with firefighters when FES events occur. This multi-phased approach ensures mitigating actions
are initiated as soon as possible to minimize consequences of the incident.
2.5. Scope of Services. Firefighters respond to emergency events on AF or Joint Base installations that
poses risk to personnel or property and employ management actions within the limits of available
resources. These include natural or man-made incidents requiring fire suppression, hazard mitigation,
rescue and management of hazardous materials incidents (including chemical, biological, radiological,
nuclear, and high yield explosive (CBRNE) agents) that result from accidents or terrorism. In addition,
the scope of services includes assisting the primary Emergency Medical Services (EMS) provider within
the limits of available resources.
   2.5.1. Core missions include on-scene incident management, fire prevention, fire fighting, rescue,
   managing HazMat incidents, and assisting the primary EMS providers as determined by local
   agreements and only when FES resources are available.
   2.5.2. (Added-AFSPC) All Statements of Work for contracted fire protection services at
   government owned or operated installations shall be coordinated through and approved by the
   MAJCOM Fire Emergency Services office prior to contract award.
2.6. Standards and Regulatory Guidance. NFPA standards and recommended practices affecting
FES operations are adopted either as written or as implemented with specific Technical Implementation
Guides (TIG).
   2.6.1. AF FES policy and guidance will be implemented through TIGs approved by The AF Fire
   Chief. The TIGs reflect AF mission and priorities and ensure implementation of NFPA standards are
   consistent with Air Force policy and guidance.
   2.6.2. The Air Force Fire Chief shall establish working groups consisting of members nominated by
   the Command Fire Chiefs and representatives from labor and other functional areas when
   appropriate to assist in the development of TIGs. The Air Force Civil Engineer approves the
   implementation of all TIGs when deviations to policy exist. TIGs will be coordinated with all
   MAJCOM Civil Engineers prior to implementation.
 10                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


   2.6.3. Fire protection requirements for facilities are contained in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-
   600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities and Engineering Technical Letters (ETL). NFPA
   standards (excluding facility design, engineering, and life safety requirements) will not be
   implemented for one year after publication to allow time for analysis and development of a TIG.
   One year after publication, the standard is effective unless otherwise directed by The Air Force Fire
   Chief. TIGs will be numbered according to the NFPA standard they implement and the edition of the
   standard. For example, NFPA TIG 1710-01 implements NFPA Std. 1710, 2001 edition. TIGs remain
   in effect until superseded, withdrawn, or one year following a new edition of the NFPA standard.
   NFPA TIGs are available on the AF FES CoP web site.
   2.6.4. North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Standardization Agreements (STANAGs). Units
   assigned to and that execute NATO missions implement NATO STANAGs as ratified by the United
   States. Ratification and applicability of NATO STANAGs are located at http://nsa.nato.int/.
   2.6.5. (Added-AFSPC) Fire Chiefs shall use the NFPA 1500 report in conjunction with the FESAP
   to perform flight assessments at least annually. Report non-compliant items to the MAJCOM FES
   office NLT 15 Jan of each calendar year.
2.7. Staffing. DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program, requires DoD components
to determine their scope of service (see paragraph 2.5), level of service objectives and document staffing
levels required to meet those objectives, assuming ―one major incident‖ at a time. A major incident is
one that requires the full on-duty staffing of the fire department. Multiple minor events may occur but
major events are rare.
   2.7.1. Each flight receives primary resources (manpower and vehicles) to manage the flight, prevent
   fires (fire prevention section), manage training (training section), and provide emergency response
   and incident management capability (operations section). The operations section is calculated on a
   72-hour work week. All other positions are earned based on a 40-hour workweek but may work up
   to 60-hours to support operations when approved by the commander.
   2.7.2. Adjusted Manpower for Operations (AMO) is the total number of operations personnel
   needed to accomplish all fire ground tasks without multi-tasking. AMO is determined by dividing
   the total authorizations for operations by the manpower availability factor 2.64. The result is the
   number of personnel expected for duty when all authorized personnel are available. The AMO is
   based on typical structural and aircraft firefighting tasks (see paragraph A.4.3.).
2.8. Levels of Service. The Air Force has determined that each FES flight will provide a level of
service (LOS) commensurate with the risk. The LOS are expressed as the Optimum Level of Service
(OLS), Reduced Level of Service (RLS) and Critical Level of Service (CLS). Manpower and vehicle
authorizations are based on the OLS. Attachment 3 provides objectives for FES operations and
personnel and vehicle levels of service.
   2.8.1. It is assumed that only one major FES event will occur at a time at an installation. Based on
   historic emergency response data, the most probable major fire emergency event is a fire at one
   location inside or outside an aircraft, or a fire in a structure that has not progressed beyond the
   room/area of origin.
   2.8.2. Fire Chiefs must carefully consider the objectives of fire fighting operations as they allocate
   resources. These objectives depend on the type of fire attack, offensive (small contained fire) or
   defensive (fire is too large/dangerous for direct attack). For offensive fire attack, the objective is to
   quickly extinguish the fire and rescue any victims. For defensive fire attack, the objective is to
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                      11


  protect exposures to the fire, account for exposed personnel and rescue if possible. These objectives
  do not change but the point at which an offensive attack changes to defensive attack can change
  according to available resources.
  2.8.3. The OLS is available when 90 to 100 percent of the AMO and 90 percent of required agent
  are available. During OLS, fire fighting forces can expect successful outcomes when a structural fire
  is confined to the room/area of origin, offensive fire attack operations can be initiated prior to
  flashover and required fire fighting vehicles are available. For aircraft fires, fire fighting forces can
  expect success when the fire is limited to a single aircraft and all fire fighting agent is available.
  2.8.4. The RLS is when available resources are less than the OLS requirements but greater than
  CLS. This varying level of service allows adequate fire ground capability based on historic
  emergency response data and the most probable major fire emergency event. This level of service
  would be expected and acceptable when resources are not available due to various circumstances
  such as AEF deployments, sick leaves, etc. During this level of service, adequate firefighting
  capability can be provided by utilizing cross staffing, selective response and sound fire ground
  tactics. During RLS, fire fighting forces can expect successful outcomes when a structural fire is
  confined to the room/area of origin, offensive fire attack operations can be initiated prior to flashover
  and required fire fighting vehicles are available. For aircraft fires, fire fighting forces can expect
  success when all fire fighting agent is available and the fire is limited to one location. However,
  initially responding firefighters may not be able to sustain emergency operations without
  supplemental resources.
     2.8.4.1. During RLS, the Fire Chief allocates resources according to local risk factors with the
     goal to provide the highest level of service during higher risk periods. At the top of this level of
     service objectives can be achieved at most fire ground operations. As the level of capability
     decreases, increased cross-manned and multi-tasked by firefighters on the scene will be
     necessary to accomplish critical fire ground tasks. As the capability further decreases, the level
     of service will be reduced and the safety of firefighters on the scene must be considered.
     Example 1: Top End of RLS: 1st Run Engine w/4 FF on scene within 7 min, 2nd Run Engine
     w/4 FF, Rescue w/3 FF, and Chief 2 on scene w/in 12 min. Total of 12 firefighters on scene
     within required response times. Example 2: As manning decreases, 1st Run w/4 FF w/in 7 min,
     2nd Run w/4 FF and Chief 2 w/in 12 min. Total of 9 firefighters on scene within required
     response times. These examples meet the Air Force Level of Service policy.
  2.8.5. The CLS is the absolute minimum level of service and is only permitted for short durations.
  During this level of service at least one appropriate firefighting vehicle and a minimum of 7
  firefighters must be available to respond to each FDZ within the emergency response time standard.
  At the CLS, fire fighting forces can expect successful outcomes when a structural fire is confined to
  the room/area of origin, offensive fire attack operations can be initiated prior to flashover and at least
  one pumper vehicle is available. For aircraft fires, fire fighting forces can provide initial fire
  suppression operations when at least one ARFF vehicle is available, the fire is limited to one
  location and the fire does not involve the aircraft’s fuel system. Firefighting crews may provide
  limited search and rescue, and property conservation during this period; however, these capabilities
  cannot be sustained without additional resources. Example: 1st Run w/ 4 FF on scene w/in 7
  minutes, Rescue w/2 FF and Chief 2 on scene w/in 12. Total of 7 firefighters on scene within
  required response times. These examples meet the Air Force Level of Service policy.
 12                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


       2.8.5.1. Deviating below CLS, is not permitted. Below CLS, interior operations must be
       suspended except to perform rescue when at least 4 firefighters are available. Interior fire attack
       is not permitted unless a dedicated rapid intervention team is available. If resources are not
       available to sustain CLS, the Fire Chief prepares an ORM plan as described in paragraph 2.10 of
       this instruction.
   2.8.6. To ensure crew integrity and prevent negatively impacting response times due to disruptions
   in emergency response posture, military firefighters shall be authorized Basic Allowance for
   Subsistence (BAS).
2.9. Standards of Response Coverage (SORC). The Fire Chief will establish a Standard of Response
Coverage which is defined as ―written policies and procedures that establish the distribution and
concentration of fixed and mobile resources of an organization.‖ SORC is a system that includes an
analysis of risks and expectations to assist in making decisions on deployment issues.
   2.9.1. Fire Response Districts (FRD). FRD defines the area of responsibility for first-response
   apparatus. Fire response districts are developed to ensure arrival of appropriate levels of staffing and
   equipment in accordance with required response times found in DoDI 6055.06
       2.9.1.1. Response time standards ensure firefighters intervene as soon as practical at the
       beginning of an event to minimize damage and avoid a major FES event. Locate fire stations and
       assign vehicles and staffing to comply with the response standards in Attachment 3 (taken from
       DoDI 6055.06 (21 Dec 06).
   2.9.2. Fire Demand Zones (FDZ). Within each FRD, fire demand zones are established based on
   pre-planning and historical response data to identify specific requirements/demands for FES
   incidents. FDZ are influenced by geography, special hazards, type of construction, and occupancy.
   All facilities should be identified within a FDZ with required resources capable of meeting response
   times to the facilities 90% of the time. Resources from multiple FRDs can be utilized to meet the
   FDZ requirements.
2.10. Master Planning. Fire Chiefs will develop a master plan that coordinates the vision, mission,
values, and goals of the FES flight. The master plan utilizes a service-area-wide balanced and cost
effective hazard management strategy that takes into consideration existing conditions and anticipates
overall community growth.
2.11. Deviations from FES Policy. FES policy is derived from DoDI 6055.06, AFPD 32-20, OSHA
regulations and NFPA standards, as implemented by this instruction. Deviating from AF policy may
impact the level of service of the FES flight and increase risk to AF personnel and property. The Fire
Chief, as the installation commander’s FES risk advisor, assesses the risk resulting from all deviations
from AF policy.
   2.11.1. Short-Term Deviations. Short-term deviations are caused by immediate unavoidable
   circumstances that reduce capability or situations that cause a deviation from other FES policy for
   less than 90 days continuously. Short- term deviations are normally resolved at the Fire Chief level.
   The Fire Chief will establish risk management plans, response plans and standard operating
   procedures to deal with reductions in manpower and vehicle resources. Reductions in levels of
   service are reported as instructed in paragraph 6.5 If the Fire Chief determines the need for an ORM
   plan it will be approved by the BCE and reviewed by the installation commander.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                  13


  2.11.2. Temporary Deviations. Temporary deviations are situations that reduce capability or
  situations that cause a deviation from other FES policy for more than 90 days but less than one year.
  The Fire Chief prepares an ORM plan that includes a get-well date within one year of ORM
  approval date. Temporary deviations and ORM must be approved by the installation commander
  and reviewed by the MAJCOM/CV. Approved deviations are valid for up to one year from the date
  of approval. The fire chief will forward a copy of the approved temporary waiver to the command
  FES office within 7 days of approval.
  2.11.3. Long-Term Deviations. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) has delegated Long-Term
  Deviation authority to the Air Force Civil Engineer. When deviations from this instruction are not
  expected to be remedied, the installation commander will seek a Long-Term Deviation from the Air
  Force Civil Engineer through the MAJCOM/A7. A review of all Long-Term Deviations must be
  conducted every three years to determine validity. AFCESA will brief new AF Civil Engineers on all
  existing Long-Term Deviations.
  2.11.4. Reporting Deviations. Command Fire Chiefs provide a copy of all approved temporary and
  long-term deviations to AFCESA/CEXF no later than 31 Oct of each year. The Air Force Fire Chief
  will provide copies of all temporary and long-term deviations from DoDI 6055.06 to the
  DUSD(I&E).
 14                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                               Chapter 3

                            FES ORGANIZATION AND PROGRAMS

3.1. Flight Organization. FES organizational structure is broadly categorized as Management and
Administration, Fire Prevention, Training, and Operations. The FES management staff provides
administration, communication, oversight and supervision for the flight. It consists of the Fire Chief,
Deputy Fire Chief, Operations Assistant Chief (one per shift), Training Assistant Chief and Fire
Prevention Assistant Chief. The administrative staff consists of fire inspectors, emergency center
dispatchers and an administrative assistant.
   3.1.1. Except for the administrative assistant/secretary and dispatchers, all positions are GS-081,
   Pay Bands YL/N, and Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 3E7XX. Dispatchers are GS-2151.
   Dispatchers will be civilian except at locations where Air Force civilian positions are not authorized.
   When necessary, military 3E7XX personnel may be assigned dispatcher duties on a rotational basis,
   however; Fire Chiefs will ensure the tour length is minimal and does not impact operational
   proficiency training needs.
   3.1.2. To maximize personnel availability, work schedules for all FES personnel (military and
   civilian) may include a 24-hour shift. Fire chiefs should consider using administrative personnel to
   mitigate personnel shortages in FES operations.
   3.1.3. Fire Marshals will ensure FES personnel are not assigned additional duties outside the FES
   flight that reduce personnel availability and capability to safely perform FES operations when called.
3.2. Management. The Fire Chief establishes and maintains FES programs to ensure the protection of
Air Force personnel and property, while ensuring firefighter safety.
   3.2.1. FES Assessment Program (FESAP) is based on national consensus standards, OSHA
   regulations, and DoD and AF specific guidance and policy. The assessment provides benchmarks to
   promote efficiency, sound management practices and to verify compliance with regulatory
   requirements. Command Inspector General (IG) teams will adopt the AF FESAP as the standard
   inspection checklist. Command Fire Chiefs will develop supplemental information to address unique
   mission requirements. Fire Chiefs will use this program to satisfy the self-inspection requirements
   specified in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities.
   3.2.2. Firefighter Fitness and Wellness Program is applicable for all AF firefighters whose position
   descriptions require participation in emergency incident operations. In addition to Air Force fitness
   requirements applicable to Airmen, all firefighters shall participate in a fitness and wellness program
   consistent with NFPA Std. 1500, Occupational Safety and Health Program as established by the Fire
   Chief. Individuals not physically capable of performing essential job functions will be referred to the
   appropriate medical authority for a fitness-for-duty evaluation in accordance with 5 CFR, Part 339,
   Medical Qualification Determination.
       3.2.2.1. (Added-AFSPC) Civilian personnel in series 0081working an extended workweek
       (i.e., 56-60 hours) are considered to be in support of operations and may be required to
       participate in emergency incident operations. As such, they are required to participate in a
       fitness and wellness program.
   3.2.3. Occupational Safety and Health Program is should comply with NFPA Std. 1500, for FES
   flights. The Fire Chief will complete ORM plans addressing non-compliance with NFPA Std. 1500.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                     15


   3.2.4. Wildland Fire Management Program (WFMP). In accordance with AFI 32-7064, Integrated
   Natural Resources Management, the Fire Chief will determine the number and types of certifications
   required for the expected level of involvement prescribed in the WFMP. When firefighters are
   required to combat wildland fire fighting beyond the incipient stages, training will be provided to
   meet NFPA Std. 1051, Wildland Firefighter Professional Qualifications, certification standards and
   may also be required to meet additional National Wildland Coordinating Group (NWCG) Wildland
   Fire Qualification Subsystem Guide (PMS 310-1/NFES 1414) qualifications. The WFMP may assist
   in determining required suppression resources to respond to installation wildfire hazards.
   3.2.5. (Added-AFSPC) Fire Protection Status Report. The Fire Chief submits a electronic monthly
   status report to HQ AFSPC/A4/7XF NLT the 5th day of each month. The report format is available
   from the MAJCOM FES office.
3.3. FES Fire Prevention. The objectives of the Fire Prevention Program are to prevent fires, facilitate
early intervention at fires that occur, and ensure the safety of exposed personnel during fires. These
objectives are accomplished through four program elements: FES facility plan reviews, fire prevention
inspections, code enforcement and fire safety education.
3.3. (460SW)F&ES Fire Prevention. The objective of the fire prevention program is to eliminate all
causes of fire. The importance of a good fire prevention program cannot be overemphasized. It is vital
to the effective accomplishment of the mission. The destructiveness of a fire could easily cause mission
failure or serious delays in mission accomplishment.
   3.3.1. Execution of the Fire Prevention program is a priority for the flight. The fire prevention
   program shall be properly staffed IAW DoDI 6055.06, with DoD certified fire inspectors. It is
   recommended AF fire inspectors attend the DoDFA Fire Inspectors course.
   3.3.2. Civil Engineer Programs (CEP) flight personnel manage fire protection engineering
   requirements as prescribed by the current edition of Unified Facility Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire
   Protection Engineering for Facilities. The CEP flight shall perform design reviews to ensure
   inclusion of UFC 3-600-01, Engineer Technical Letters (ETL), NFPA codes and applicable host
   nation standards.
       3.3.2.1. Projects involving design or modification of fire rated construction, fire detection, fire
       suppression, or life safety systems require the services and review of a qualified fire protection
       engineer meeting the requirements of UFC 3-600-01. The fire protection engineer is an integral
       part of the design team, and must be involved in every aspect of the design as it relates to fire
       protection.
       3.3.2.2. Fire inspectors should not conduct technical design reviews (hydraulic calculations,
       occupant load/exit calculations, etc.), but shall review plans to ensure all required features are
       present and local emergency response elements are incorporated (i.e., accessibility to facility,
       location of fire hydrants, etc.).
       3.3.2.3. The Fire Chief will provide design review comments to the CEP Flight Chief for
       incorporation in projects. This is normally achieved utilizing the fire prevention section.
   3.3.3. Fire prevention inspections are conducted at least annually for all facilities. Family housing is
   excluded except for common areas in multi-family housing units and privatized housing when
   directed by local agreements. Common areas include laundry rooms, game rooms, stairwells,
16                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


 hallways, elevators, etc. The Fire Chief may institute more frequent inspections to include
 unannounced and after hours inspections.
     3.3.3.1. Objectives of fire prevention inspections include identifying and correcting fire safety
     hazards (conditions that can cause a fire) and Fire Safety Deficiencies (FSD) (conditions that
     cannot directly cause a fire but will increase risk to personnel or property if a fire occurs).
        3.3.3.1.1. NFPA 1, Uniform Fire Code TIG, provides the standard for fire prevention
        inspection requirements except as modified by UFC 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering
        for Facilities. Due to the complexity of AF missions and facilities, other AF Instructions or
        publications may apply.
        3.3.3.1.2. UFC 3-600-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and
        Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, provides the standard for installed fire
        detection/suppression system inspection requirements. Technical guidance on the execution
        of the identified tasks is found in specific NFPA Standards and Guides as well as the
        system’s manufacturer’s guidance.
     3.3.3.2. Facility managers or their designee shall accompany the fire inspector during the
     inspection. Functional managers must sign any AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Reports,
     issued against facilities and operations under their control that identified uncorrected hazards or
     FSDs.
 3.3.4. Code enforcement includes authority delegated by the installation commander to the Fire
 Chief to affect actions necessary to correct fire hazards and deficiencies. The using organization’s
 commander is responsible for ORMs to mitigate fire hazards and deficiencies for their area of
 responsibility. The Fire Chief is responsible to track mitigation actions until deficiency is corrected
 or waived.
     3.3.4.1. Using organization’s commander is responsible to correct fire hazards and deficiencies.
     The Fire Chief establishes reasonable timelines for the initiation of corrective actions. When
     these timelines are not met, the Fire Chief notifies the next higher commander progressively up
     to the installation commander.
     3.3.4.2. Management of fire hazards will be IAW AFI 91-301, Inspector General Complaints
     Resolution. Fire hazards must be corrected on the spot or annotated on AF Form 1487, Fire
     Prevention Visit Report. Fire inspectors may be delegated authority by the Fire Chief to initiate
     required corrective actions to ensure the safety of personnel and resources. This may include
     requiring using organization to lock out/tag out defective equipment, stop hazardous operations,
     and restrict occupancy or use of facilities.
     3.3.4.3. FSDs are prioritized according to the risk they pose. Fire inspectors document FSDs on
     AF Form 1487 and determine the FSD Code. When deficiencies cannot be corrected
     immediately, the using organization’s commander initiates corrective action and prepares an
     ORM plan that mitigates the impact of the FSD. The ORM plan must ensure the safety of all
     occupants to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief. The ORM plan must be approved by the
     installation commander.
 3.3.5. Fire safety education is an essential part of workplace safety training, and is promoted during
 fire inspections and other personal contacts. It may be tailored for specific audiences and purposes,
 such as fire extinguisher training or public assembly employee training. Fire safety education
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                       17


   objectives are to equip personnel with the information needed to prevent fires, protect themselves
   and intervene early when fire occurs.
      3.3.5.1. Fire Prevention Week (normally the first week of October) is a nationally established
      period to provide fire safety education to employees, their families and the public. FESs are
      encouraged to hold Open Houses and other events to publicize the annual fire safety message.
      The Fire Chief should budget for fire prevention and/or safety materials, including nominal value
      incentive and educational items, as an integral part of the Public Fire Education Program to
      promote fire prevention and safety IAW DoDI 6055.06
   3.3.6. Use AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record, or automated product
   as a checklist and to record results of facility inspections. Facility inspection records shall be entered
   into ACES-FD.
   3.3.7. Use AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, or automated product, to identify the
   condition of the fire prevention program to commanders. Fire prevention visit reports shall be
   entered into ACES-FD.
   3.3.8. Installed Fire Protection Systems. Fire Chiefs must monitor the status of systems and devices
   provided to facilitate fire safety for personnel and property. The CE Operations (CEO) Flight is
   responsible to maintain these systems. This includes the procurement of agents required for re-
   servicing fire suppression systems.
      3.3.8.1. The CEO Flight Chief ensures the inspection, testing, repair, and maintenance of fire
      protection systems and water distribution systems are conducted in accordance with UFC 3-600-
      02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection
      Systems; and UFC 3-230-02, Operation and Maintenance: Water Supply Systems. Fire protection
      system impairments and systems out of service, to include water distribution systems, must be
      reported immediately to the Emergency Communication Center (ECC) and FES fire prevention
      office. CEO Flight Chief will prioritize repair of fire protection systems IAW AFPAM 32-1004,
      Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance
      3.3.8.2. CEO personnel or contractor equivalent must record all water distribution tests on AF
      Form 1027, Water Flow Test Record, or automated product, and provide copies to the Fire
      Chief annually.
3.4. FES Training. The Fire Chief establishes a program that encompasses certification, and
proficiency training requirements. All military AFSC 3E7XX, civilian GS-0081 and NSPS, GS-2151
(serving as FES Dispatchers) and contractor-operated fire department members will be certified
according to DoD 6055.06-M, DoD Fire & Emergency Services Certification System, (FESCS).
   3.4.1. FES personnel shall meet the training requirements IAW NFPA Std. 1500 Chapter 5 as
   specified in the FESAP. Trainers shall record all FES proficiency and certification training in ACES-
   FD.
   3.4.2. Where foreign national/host nation firefighters are employed, fire chiefs with MAJCOM
   coordination and approval, have the authority to approve equivalent certification and training
   requirements according to specific job assignments and agreements with the host nation. Fire Chiefs
   will ensure certification requirements are equal to or exceed NFPA standards and those outlined in
   the FESCS.
18                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


 3.4.3. Training to achieve FESCS certification is a personal responsibility. Supervisors facilitate
 certification by providing guidance, access to training materials, instruction, and through
 performance testing required for certification. Training to achieve FESCS certification is available to
 each AF employee at no cost to the unit or individual. Fire chiefs may approve attendance at
 AF/DoD formal training venues. Acquiring training for FESCS certification from external (non-
 AF/DoD) contract sources at government expense requires review and approval by the Command
 Fire Chief.
 3.4.4. Certification in the FESCS will be granted only for skills required for the current duty
 position and the next-higher position to which an individual may be promoted (Exception: When
 directed by the Fire Chief, vehicle crew members may accomplish Fire Inspector II certifications to
 allow ―crew inspections‖ of facilities as appropriate). Certifications will not be issued for training or
 testing more than five years old. Command Fire Chiefs may approve waivers based on unique
 mission needs. All MAJCOM approved waivers will be included in the individual certification
 package when submitted to AFCESA/CEXF for consideration.
 3.4.5. Deployed firefighters will meet forward operating location proficiency training requirements
 and are exempt from home station proficiency training during the period of deployment. Upon return
 from deployment, home station proficiency training may be credited as current on the date of return
 to duty with approval of the Fire Chief. Training for recurring certifications must be completed
 based on required timelines, example: HazMat, Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) etc.
 3.4.6. AFCESA/CEXF is responsible for approving and investigating effective and cost-efficient
 methods to provide proficiency, Phase 2 commissioning and certification training. AFCESA/CEOA
 maintains environmentally acceptable design plans and drawings for aircraft live-fire training
 facilities and is responsible for Phase 1 commissioning and design modifications. Aircraft live-fire
 training facilities will be maintained and operated in accordance with Technical Order (TO) 35E1-2-
 13-1, Operation and Maintenance Instruction Manual Aircraft Fire Training Facility. This TO is
 managed by the AFCESA/CEXF Technical Content Manager (TCM). Mobile fire trainers will be
 operated and maintained in accordance with manufacturer specifications and instructions. Structural
 fire training facility designs and commercially procured products must satisfy the performance test
 elements of Firefighter II, as specified in NFPA Std. 1001, Standard for Firefighter Professional
 Qualifications. Structural fire training facilities using liquid petroleum gas for fire training will meet
 national safety standards. All live-fire structural training shall be conducted in accordance with
 NFPA Std. 1500 and NFPA Std. 1403, Standard on Live Fire Training Evolutions.
 3.4.7. (Added-AFSPC) The Fire Chief will program for a noncombustible multistory structural
 training simulator. The simulator must be designed to support live fire training in at least one interior
 room. Also include provisions to conduct above and below ground fire attack, vertical and horizontal
 ventilation, rappelling, extension ladder operations and sprinkler/standpipe operations.
     3.4.7.1. (Added-AFSPC) The Fire Chief at each installation with a flying mission will program
     for a permanent aircraft live fire training facility. This trainer must comply with the HQ
     AFCESA/CEOA acceptable design plans and drawings, and must be maintained as outlined in
     3.4.6 above.
 3.4.8. (Added-AFSPC) Annual training will be conducted on all mission assigned aircraft to
 maintain proficiency in opening aircraft engine cowlings, emergency shutdown procedures for
 aircraft ground equipment and fire fighting operations involving advanced composite materials. The
 Fire Chief determines the requirement for transient aircraft.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                    19


   3.4.9. (Added-AFSPC) Aircraft live fire training (Aircraft live fire training shall be provided to all
   members as often as necessary to meet this requirement, but not less than twice each year). The fire
   chief will determine specific scenarios based on the following:
       3.4.9.1. (Added-AFSPC) Engine fires (inboard, outboard, high tail, or running fuel).
       3.4.9.2. (Added-AFSPC) Exterior (pool fires involving fuselage, right or left wing).
       3.4.9.3. (Added-AFSPC) Interior (flight deck, cargo, or passenger compartments).
       3.4.9.4. (Added-AFSPC) Miscellaneous fires (wheel well, battery compartment, or auxiliary
       power unit).
   3.4.10. (Added-AFSPC) Conduct comprehensive pre-exercise briefings and post-exercise critiques
   for all training exercises. Unannounced exercises conducted with the approval of the Fire Chief are
   exempt from pre-exercise briefings.
   3.4.11. (Added-AFSPC) Assistant Chief’s for Training shall develop and implement a variety of
   scenarios to challenge responding crews during size up and tactical operations, i.e. delaying response
   of the rescue crew to evaluate competencies of engine and ARFF crews during aircraft egress
   evaluations.
   3.4.12. (Added-AFSPC) For ICBM Wings (to include Vandenberg), Fire Chief’s will schedule and
   conduct semi-annual Missile Alert Facility and Launch facility familiarization training. Use of
   installation Missile Alert Facility (MAF) or Launch Facility (LF) trainers is required for one of these
   scheduled sessions. Additionally, Fire Chief’s will conduct one annual LF trainer exercise involving
   a practical technical rescue scenario.
3.5. FES Operations. The goal of this program is to intervene early at emergency events with
appropriate resources according to response standards indicated in paragraph 2.6 Available resources
dictate the level of service that is provided.
   3.5.1. The core missions of the operations section include on-scene incident management, aircraft
   rescue and fire fighting (ARFF), structural firefighting, hazmat mitigation, technical rescue, and
   EMS support.
   3.5.2. Incident Management. The Fire Chief manages emergency incidents according to the Air
   Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) defined in AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
   Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. The Incident Command System (ICS) is a
   component of the AFIMS. ICS is a standardized on-scene emergency management structure used for
   managing all emergencies, large or small.
       3.5.2.1. AFIMS shall serve as the installation standard for incident management for large events
       involving multiple organization responses. NFPA Std. 1561, Standard on Emergency Services
       Incident Management System, shall serve as the FES flight framework for single FES event
       responses.
       3.5.2.2. The Incident Commander (IC) is the individual responsible for all incident activities,
       including firefighter safety, development of an Incident Action Plan, and utilization of all
       emergency resources. The IC has overall authority and responsibility for conducting incident
       operations and is responsible for the management of all incident operations at the incident site.
       An IC is required for each incident regardless of size or complexity.
20                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


     3.5.2.3. All FES personnel that respond to FES emergencies will receive progressive IC training
     as indicated in the FESAP training section.
     3.5.2.4. Incident Safety Officer (ISO). ISO responsibilities shall be accomplished at all incidents
     and during training evolutions involving fire. When responding off base, the Fire Chief will
     appoint an ISO to observe AF operations. If unsafe conditions are observed or encountered by
     AF firefighters, the ISO will mitigate the condition and inform the IC.
     3.5.2.5. The Fire Chief, with the approval of the Installation Commander, will determine those
     agencies that are authorized transceiver access to the fire and crash radio networks. A minimum
     of two radio frequencies are required for use by the fire department to provide sufficient
     command and control. One frequency will be limited to fire department access only for tactical
     fire ground operations. A third frequency may be required to support mutual assistance
     operations. Ground-to-aircraft communication requirements are determined by the local
     commander.
 3.5.3. Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF). ARFF capabilities are based on the quantity of
 fire fighting agent, agent discharge rates, the number of fire fighting vehicles, availability of
 firefighters, and response times to perform initial fire ground operations for an installation’s largest
 assigned aircraft.
     3.5.3.1. It is a core mission to rescue aircrew members from aircraft involved in accident/fire
     incidents. At locations with a flying mission, rescue personnel designated by the Fire Chief must
     be trained in aircrew rescue and extraction techniques on mission assigned aircraft as identified
     in TO 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information (Emergency
     Services).
 3.5.4. Structural Fire Fighting. Structural fire responses are based on life safety as well as the
 priority of the facility as it relates to mission criticality. Response times shall be IAW Attachment 3.
 3.5.5. HazMat and CBRNE. The Fire Chief will maintain a defensive capability to respond to
 HazMat and CBRNE incidents. The flight’s core capability during these incidents include command,
 control, communications; accountability; fire suppression; rescue and extrication; emergency
 decontamination and preserving evidence performed by HazMat Operations certified responders.
     3.5.5.1. Limited atmospheric monitoring, detection; mass decontamination and operations in the
     Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) locations will only be performed when
     qualified personnel and adequate resources to effectively mitigate the incident are available.
     3.5.5.2. Neutralization, recovery, cleanup, and disposition of hazardous waste are accomplished
     by trained experts in related fields and are not a function of FES personnel. Follow requirements
     established by 29 CFR Part 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response;
     DoDI 2000.18, Department of Defense Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
     and High-Yield Explosive Emergency Response Guidelines; and NFPA Std. 472, Professional
     Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials Incidents.
     3.5.5.3. When day-to-day FES flight staffing is insufficient to accomplish offensive HazMat
     operations, the Fire Chief will work with the installation leadership to develop a non-traditional
     plan which may include options such as relying on regional HazMat teams, supplementing FES
     manpower with other on-base personnel who have been adequately trained and equipped (e.g.,
     CE Waste Water Treatment Plant personnel, Bioenvironmental, Readiness/EM personnel, etc.).
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                       21


     3.5.5.4. Installation Commander shall identify properly trained personnel outside FES to provide
     medical support, chemical detection, personnel decontamination, and other tasks not specifically
     required to be accomplished by FES.
  3.5.6. Technical Rescue. The Fire Chief will maintain a capability to perform rescues related to the
  FES core missions. This capability may be integrated with other functions through cross staffing or
  provided as a stand-alone capability. The Fire Chief determines the number and selects firefighters
  who require advanced rescue technician training and certification based on the mission needs of the
  installation.
     3.5.6.1. Based upon installation-specific requirements, some FES personnel may require training
     in special operations such as confined space, high/low angle rope rescue, urban search and
     rescue, vehicle extrication and water rescue. Where possible, utilize mutual aid partners technical
     rescue capabilities to prevent unnecessary duplication of resources.
  3.5.7. Emergency Medical Services. The EMS program and responsibility to deliver EMS services
  is owned by the medical group commander. The medical group commander recommends and the
  installation commander approves the level of care to be provided. In addition, the medical group
  commander establishes response time standards, standards of care, protocols, and provides training,
  resources and program oversight. At locations without a medical group commander, EMS guidance
  is provided by the MAJCOM/FOA/DRU Medical Authority.
     3.5.7.1. FES flights may assist the installation’s primary medical provider (Medical Group or
     contract) within the limits of training and resources and guidelines specified in Memorandum of
     Understanding/Agreement (MOU/A). This support role entails responding to EMS emergencies
     for early intervention with life-saving care. If first to arrive, firefighters transfer treatment to the
     EMS provider upon their arrival and are available to respond to other FES emergencies. Patient
     care can only be transferred when the primary EMS provider has an equal or higher level of
     training and certification.
         3.5.7.1.1. Tenant Ambulance Crews (contractor and/or Medical Group). Due to the time
         response requirement for fire station locations, the FES flight serves as an ideal host for an
         ambulance crew staging area. FES flights hosting a non-fire managed ambulance service
         shall develop an MOA/U with the Medical Group and outline specific operational and safety
         requirements for tenant compliance. As a minimum, bio-hazard waste disposition, infectious
         disease control measures, and exposure protection practices shall be addressed. Whenever
         guidance is lacking regarding non-fire EMS crew policies, applicable NFPA standards shall
         be used.
     3.5.7.2. Any role in EMS above the support role outlined above must be clearly articulated in a
     Memorandum of Understanding/Agreement (MOU/A), coordinated by the MAJCOM A7C and
     Surgeon General, and approved by AF/A7C and AF/SGO before assignment to the FES flight.
     The MOU/A must address medical dispatch, resource requirements, training/certification
     requirements, medical logistics, funding, medical authority, protocols, program oversight,
     command and control, insurance and billing procedures, and personal and organizational
     liability. Any contract or agreements with the local community is the responsibility of the
     medical group commander and is not tied to fire departments’ mutual aid agreement. The FES
     flight will have no role in providing contract oversight, administration, QAE, etc. These
     functions are solely the responsibility of the medical group commander and will not be delegated
     to the FES flight.
 22                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


       3.5.7.3. (Added-AFSPC) Installation commanders must receive AFSPC/A4/7X and
       AFSPC/SG coordination prior to transfer of ambulance transport duties to the Fire Emergency
       Service Flight.
   3.5.8. Hazardous Standbys. FES will support aircraft hazardous standbys outlined in TO 00-25-
   172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding and other applicable aircraft
   technical orders as deemed necessary by the Fire Chief. Due to the necessity to cross staff
   emergency response vehicles and maintain the ready posture of the FES flight the focus should be to
   correct hazardous operations before they begin and limit support only to critical mission
   requirements.
3.6. (Added-460SW) Fire Prevention Responsibility. The Fire Prevention office will perform fire
inspections on all inspectable base facilities. All base facilities are subject to no-notice fire inspections.
F&ES personnel conducting fire inspections will note fire prevention deficiencies or hazards identified
during an inspection on an AF Form 1487.
   3.6.1. (Added-460SW) All base personnel will implement fire prevention responsibilities.
   3.6.2. (Added-460SW) Fire hazards not corrected within 30 days will be entered into the hazard
   abatement plan (see AFI 91-301 for procedures).
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                       23


                                                Chapter 4

                                              RESOURCES

4.1. Emergency Response Resources. Primary FES resources are fire vehicles, manpower and
equipment. Fire vehicles are authorized to deliver command and control, emergency communications,
fire fighting agent and equipment to FES events as needed. Manpower is authorized to accomplish tasks
necessary to manage emergency operations, such as operating hose lines, operating vehicles and pumps;
ventilating facilities; search and rescue; life-saving emergency care; and command and control. Fire
Chiefs allocate available resources to manage FES events based on circumstances and local risk factors.
Senior fire officers on scene ensure tasks are assigned to firefighters that can be performed safely with
available resources.
   4.1.1. Manpower authorizations determined by using Air Force Manpower Standard (AFMS) 44EF,
   Fire Emergency Services Manpower Standard are based on fire ground capabilities. The number of
   authorizations is predicated on managing one major FES event at a time. Assigning firefighters to
   duties outside the core missions negatively affects emergency response posture and are not
   recommended. Fire Chief’s will approve duties outside the FES flight.
       4.1.1.1. Ancillary Training and Additional Duties/Details. Firefighters shall not have additional
       duties, details, training, medical/dental appointments or other official duties assigned outside the
       normal 72-hour scheduled work week (except for disciplinary purposes). Off-duty time for
       firefighters will be treated in the same manner that weekends are treated for other AF members.
       Increasing the normal work hours is only acceptable to provide CLS capability.
   4.1.2. Fire Vehicles are authorized in Allowance Standard (AS) 019, Vehicle Fleet (Registered) All
   MAJCOM. The type and size of vehicle is calculated based on the need to deliver fire fighting agents
   for aircraft and structure fires, specialized equipment, and command and control.
       4.1.2.1. The AF has designated six Fire Fighting Vehicle Core Sets based on the overall length
       and external fuselage width of the installation’s largest assigned aircraft. The larger the aircraft,
       the more fire fighting agent, discharge rates, fire fighting vehicles and firefighters required for an
       initial aircraft response.
           4.1.2.1.1. Set 1 ARFF capabilities are adequate for small-frame aircraft such as F-15.
           4.1.2.1.2. Set 2 ARFF capabilities are adequate for small-frame aircraft such as C-20.
           4.1.2.1.3. Set 3 ARFF capabilities are adequate for medium-frame aircraft such as C-130.
           4.1.2.1.4. Set 4 ARFF capabilities are adequate for large-frame aircraft such as C-17 and
           KC-135.
           4.1.2.1.5. Set 5 ARFF capabilities are adequate for large-frame aircraft such as KC-10, VC-
           25.
           4.1.2.1.6. Set 6 ARFF capabilities are adequate for large-frame aircraft such as C-5.
       4.1.2.2. Force Activity Designator (FAD) codes for fire fighting vehicles, equipment, and
       supplies will be equal to the flying mission or highest mission being supported as prescribed in
       AFI 23-110, USAF Supply Manual.
 24                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


       4.1.2.3. Service testing and annual inspections of all fire vehicle pump systems shall be
       accomplished IAW NFPA Std. 1911, Inspection, Maintenance, Testing, and Retirement of In-
       Service Automotive Fire Apparatus and Records. All worksheets and forms used in the testing
       process shall be maintained IAW Air Force Restoration Information Management System
       (AFRIMS) guidelines. Record inspection results electronically and/or into ACES-FD when
       available. All worksheets and forms used in the inspection process shall be maintained IAW
       AFRIMS guidelines.
       4.1.2.4. Fire Chiefs will maintain sufficient stock levels of fire fighting support equipment. AS
       490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment, provides the
       primary basis of issue. Fire Chiefs determine the reserve levels of specialized equipment.
       4.1.2.5. All ancillary fire ground and training equipment (ladder, self contained breathing
       apparatus, hose, rope, powered equipment, etc.) will be maintained IAW the applicable NFPA
       standards or technical data. Inspection, maintenance and testing records will be maintained in
       ACES-FD. All worksheets and forms used in the inspection process shall be maintained IAW
       AFRIMS guidelines.
           4.1.2.5.1. (Added-AFSPC) All powered equipment will be started at least weekly.
   4.1.3. Fire Chiefs will determine the quantity of reserve firefighting agents based on mission
   requirements and establish procedures to expediently transport agent to emergency incidents.
4.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and Uniforms. All military firefighters are issued PPE as
outlined in Attachment 8. PPE is permanently issued to military firefighters at the first duty location as
professional gear. It is hand-carried between duty stations and reflected in Permanent Change of Station
(PCS) orders. Upon PCS the Fire Chief will provide an AF Form 538, Personal Clothing and
Equipment Record, annotating PPE issued; copies of Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA)
mask fit test records, documentation of servicing, testing, and maintaining of the SCBA mask. All PPE
is hand carried to the next duty station.
   4.2.1. Personnel being discharged from active duty service and selected for transition to ANG or
   AFRC will transfer with PPE, excluding SCBA masks. For civilian firefighters, the losing Fire Chief
   determines the disposition of PPE. If the employee is allowed to take the PPE, the gaining fire chief
   will be notified. Military firefighters not assigned to FES flights (instructor, staff, etc.) will be issued
   PPE at their next duty assignment. The Fire Chief will ensure all PPE is inspected IAW NFPA Std.
   1851, Standard on Selection, Care, and Maintenance of Protective Ensembles for Structural Fire
   Fighting and Proximity Fire Fighting and is safe to use.
   4.2.2. Station Work Uniforms. FES personnel who are issued PPE and all civilians receiving a
   uniform allowance must wear station work uniforms while assigned to an apparatus, conforming to
   the requirements in NFPA Std. 1975, Station Work Uniforms. For military firefighters, these
   uniforms are provided by the unit. For civilian employees who receive a uniform allowance, the
   work station uniform is purchased by the individual from sources approved by the Fire Chief.
   4.2.3. Fire Protection Badge. AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel,
   and AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, prescribe the wearing of the fire protection
   badge. There are four fire emergency services duty-badges: (1) Firefighter (one trumpet/scramble);
   (2) Assistant Chiefs (operations, prevention, and training) (gold shield with three trumpets); (3)
   Deputy Chief (gold shield with four trumpets); and (4) Fire Chief (gold shield with five trumpets).
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                25


  FES personnel shall wear the duty badge appropriate to their position within the FES flight if
  properly certified.
     4.2.3.1. Fire Marshals may wear the Fire Chief duty badge after completing the Fire Marshal
     Course, X30ZR32E4 0F1A, and may continue to wear it in all subsequent duty positions that
     include FES management and oversight responsibilities.
     4.2.3.2. The Commander, Louis F. Garland DoD Fire Academy shall wear the Fire Chief duty
     badge. Course supervisors shall wear the Assistant Chief duty badge. Fire instructors at all FES
     training sites shall wear the firefighter duty badge.
     4.2.3.3. AFCESA/CEXF, Command FES, and 3E7XX Inspector General staff members MSgt
     and below and all MSgts shall wear the Assistant Chief duty badge if properly certified. All
     SMSgts shall wear the Deputy Chief, duty badge if properly certified.
     4.2.3.4. The Air Force Fire Chief, Command Fire Chief’s and all CMSgts, AFSC 3E700, shall
     wear the Fire Chief duty badge.
 26                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                              Chapter 5

                            EXTERNAL AGENCY COORDINATION

5.1. External Agency Coordination. The Installation Commander may establish a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) with civilian communities or other government agencies to offset internal shortfalls
in FES staffing, vehicles, or equipment if the MOA does not violate the prohibitions of 10 USC 2465,
Prohibition on Contracts for the Performance of Fire Fighting or Security-Guard Functions.
   5.1.1. Mutual Aid Agreements. The Fire Chief manages mutual aid agreements in accordance with
   Attachment 5 (US) and Attachment 6 (Foreign) of this instruction. The format and substantive
   provisions for these agreements may be modified or supplemented, subject to a legal review by the
   Installation Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), and approval by the installation commander. If the AF
   provides fire fighting services at joint-use civilian airports, include a release and indemnification
   clause in accordance with Attachment 7. AF fire departments may be part of automatic response
   agreements with local communities when approved by the Installation Commander. Emergency
   responses to local communities must be approved by the Installation Commander and shall be in
   accordance with AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities. Coordinate requests for
   reimbursement of emergency services support provided during responses with the installation
   financial management staff in accordance with DoD Directive 3025.1, Military Support to Civil
   Authorities, and AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
       5.1.1.1. (Added-AFSPC) Mutual Aid Agreements will be reviewed every 3 years and updated
       as necessary.
       5.1.1.2. (Added-AFSPC) Where community fire departments provide initial emergency
       response to remote Air Force facilities, the host-Wing Fire Chief ensures telephone contact
       numbers and capabilities are updated at least semi-annually and maintained in the Emergency
       Communications Center.
   5.1.2. Promulgation of mutual aid agreements with surrounding communities is encouraged to
   improve capability to manage large FES events. Requests for assistance under such agreements
   should be honored except when an actual FES event is in progress on the installation or when
   supporting the request would reduce AF capability below the CLS.
   5.1.3. The CLS is an acceptable level of service when required to honor requests for assistance from
   mutual aid partners.
   5.1.4. Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA). Procedures for response to requests for
   assistance from civil authorities are prescribed in DoD Directive 3025.1 and AFI 10-802. DSCA
   responses include mutual aid responses and are reported to the Command Post. Costs associated with
   DSCA responses, other than support to mutual aid partners, may be reimbursable. Record expenses
   incurred for all DSCA responses in ACES-FD. Consult the local comptroller to develop procedures
   to seek reimbursement for FES support.
   5.1.5. National Response Framework and National Incident Management System. Homeland
   Security Presidential Directive 5 (HSPD-5) implements the National Incident Management System
   (NIMS). HSPD-5 is implemented in the AF with AFIMS. The Fire Chief must coordinate with local
   emergency response agencies to familiarize each other with the IMS used and develop procedures to
   integrate the IMS systems.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                      27


  5.1.6. Off-Base Familiarization. FES personnel will become familiar, at least annually, with areas
  surrounding the base where they may provide mutual aid or assistance. Fire chiefs will maintain
  copies of civilian community fire department emergency response plans for high hazard areas when
  those communities maintain such plans and where permitted by host nation/local laws.
  5.1.7. Fire Incident Investigations. Fire investigations are performed in accordance with AFI 91-
  204, Safety Investigations and Reports. For Class C incidents, the installation Fire Chief determines
  the most probable cause. For Class A & B incidents, the Safety Investigation Board President will
  request support from the MAJCOM FES staff to conduct the fire investigation. Any time FES tactics
  or competency is an issue, the convening authority will request investigative support from the
  MAJCOM FES staff.
  5.1.8. FES Response Reporting. The Fire Chief reports FES responses as prescribed at Attachment
  2.
  5.1.9. Pre-Incident Plans. The Fire Chief will develop pre-incident plans for facilities with large fire
  or life loss potential, hazardous operations, all assigned aircraft and any transient aircraft as the Fire
  Chief deems necessary. Facility pre-incident plans are recorded on AF Form 1028, Facility Pre-Fire
  Plan, or computer generated equivalent form and entered in ACES-FD. Aircraft pre-incident plans
  are recorded on AFTO Form 88, Aircraft Pre-Fire Plan, or computer generated equivalent form
  and entered in ACES-FD. AFCESA/CEXF is responsible for the development, maintenance, and
  web management of TO 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response
  Information (Emergency Services). This TO is managed by the AFCESA/CEXF Technical Content
  Manager (TCM). The TO provides aircraft emergency rescue, fire fighting, and hazardous materials
  information and procedures.
     5.1.9.1. (Added-AFSPC) The Fire Chief will ensure pre-incident plans are reviewed and
     validated at least every 2 years.
  5.1.10. Prior Notification of Exercises. The Fire Chief or senior fire official (SFO) on duty must
  receive at least a 30-minute prior notification when exercises involve fire fighting vehicles,
  equipment, or personnel.
 28                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                                Chapter 6

                            RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT

6.1. Risk Assessment and Management. Fire Chiefs are responsible for managing available resources
to minimize risk to people, property, and the environment. Risk decisions based on fact-based analysis
provide a high degree of confidence that FES events will be managed appropriately with available
resources. Risk assessments based on actual emergency response data, tempered with sound professional
judgment, provides the best opportunity for effectively managing FES events.
   6.1.1. Failure to provide adequate fire prevention services poses the greatest potential for long-term
   negative impact on fire safety. MAJCOM Directors, Installation Commanders and Fire Chiefs must
   ensure prevention programs including engineering controls, education, and enforcement receives the
   highest priority to effectively mitigate hazards.
   6.1.2. The FES operations function is critical to the safety of people and property during
   emergencies. When emergencies occur, early intervention is the critical factor in reducing the
   potential for damage, injury and death. For this reason, response time standards are crucial to initial
   success.
   6.1.3. The level of service provided must be balanced based on risk, probability of incidents and
   available resources. Although the RLS may provide resources needed to accomplish successful
   operations, it must be measured against historic response data to ensure resources are sufficient for
   the risk. When the CLS is reached, leaders must recognize the severe limitations of FES capability.
   There are, however, periods where the Installation Commander and Fire Chief must consider a
   reduction of service. These include but are not limited to:
       6.1.3.1. Vehicles out of service, sick leaves, deployments, or support to mutual aid partners.
       6.1.3.2. Periods of reduced activity or ―down days‖ when normal base operations (example,
       flying, aircraft maintenance or wing support functions) are suspended.
6.2. Allocating Resources. Resources are authorized to provide the OLS; however it is reasonable to
assume not all authorized resources will be continuously available. Consequently, the RLS is expected
to occur frequently and for extended periods at most installations. During RLS the Fire Chief must
ensure resources are allocated based on local risk factors, varying resources according to the risk periods
while ensuring a CLS within the response time standards to each FDZ (see Attachment 4). Use local
emergency response data and the following facts to allocate resources:
   6.2.1. Many FES events can be managed with one fire vehicle responding within the response time
   standard for early intervention. Firefighting is a labor-intensive task that requires adequate staffing to
   perform in as safe a manner as possible. Consequently, fire chiefs must actively manage FES events
   to reduce risk to firefighters and ensure rapid intervention teams are available.
   6.2.2. Most FES events occur during normal duty hours or periods of normal activities.
   6.2.3. Most FES events occur when/where people are present and rarely occur in unoccupied
   buildings or parked aircraft that are not being maintained.
6.3. Mitigating Risk. Fire chiefs have wide latitude to manage risk by allocating resources according
to local risk factors, to provide capability within the limits of available resources.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   29


   6.3.1. Except to provide CLS capability, dramatic actions such as, increased work hours and/or
   contractor support should not be necessary. By allocating available resources (vehicles in service and
   firefighters for a maximum of 72 hours per week), an acceptable level of service can normally be
   provided. Options to maximize available manpower resources include:
       6.3.1.1. Adjusting work schedules so more resources are available during higher risk periods and
       fewer during lower risk periods
       6.3.1.2. Assigning management and administrative personnel to the Operations Section as
       training and certifications allow.
   6.3.2. Cross staffing and utilizing administrative personnel provides additional FES capability and
   can mitigate manpower shortages.
   6.3.3. To ensure firefighters are postured for emergency response, an AF CE goal was established to
   reduce hazardous standbys using CY06 data as the baseline. Unless prescribed in AF policy,
   standbys will be limited to temporary abnormal situations such as equipment failures, as determined
   by the Fire Chief and Installation Commander IAW TO 00-25-172.
6.4. Risk Management.
   6.4.1. The Fire Chief will establish management plans addressing reduced operational capability
   during periods of time when the department will operate below OLS as determined using the guide
   described in Attachment 4. The plan must include control measures implemented by the Fire Chief
   that describe both the probability and consequence of the potential risk. These components include
   predicting the consequence of the identified risk and the probability of the event occurring. Control
   measures can include varying the available resources by time of day and day of the week based on
   the predicted probability while considering the consequence during both periods of risk. These plans
   are developed in advance when possible and consider the following factors:
       6.4.1.1. An assumption that only one major FES event will occur at a time. All available FES
       resources may be employed to manage a single large FES event.
       6.4.1.2. Historic emergency response data proves early intervention by occupants, operators or
       firefighters occurs at almost every FES event, preventing major events that require extensive
       resources.
   6.4.2. Fire Chiefs are empowered to implement management actions necessary to continuously
   maintain the CLS for each FDZ. The Fire Chief develops ORM plans in advance for review by the
   Fire Marshal and approval by the installation commander. When shortages are not known in
   advance, previously developed management plans and response procedure will be executed by the
   Fire Chief as required.
6.5. Level of Service Capability Reporting.
   6.5.1. CLS capability must be maintained at all times. Whenever CLS capability cannot be
   continuously provided resources shall be allocated to provide increased capability. Deviating below
   CLS requires the Fire Chief prepare an ORM IAW paragraph 2.10
   6.5.2. To ensure commanders are aware of reduced capability, fire chiefs will make the following
   notifications:
       6.5.2.1. When the AMO or available agent is or will be reduced below 75 percent, the Fire Chief
       notifies the Fire Marshal.
 30                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


       6.5.2.2. When the AMO or available agent is reduced below 50 percent, the Fire Marshal or Fire
       Chief make appropriate notifications to inform the Installation Commander and MAJCOM FES
       Staff.
       6.5.2.3. When the CLS is not or will not be available for any period of time within a FDZ, the
       Fire Marshal or Fire Chief makes appropriate notifications to inform the Installation Commander
       and MAJCOM FES Staff. Seven firefighters and the required agent for the assigned vehicle set is
       the CLS. See Attachment 4.
6.6. Minimum Manning Standards. Except to provide the CLS for each FDZ, a minimum number of
firefighters required to be available is not specified by this instruction. Minimum manning standards that
prescribe a number of firefighters that prevent varying the LOS based on risk factors are prohibited. Fire
Chiefs have wide latitude to allocate resources according to local risk factors. Such standards restrict the
fire chief’s ability to allocate resources according to risk factors; a fundamental tenet of FES risk
management.
6.7. (Added-460SW) Fire Reporting Numbers.
   6.7.1. (Added-460SW) Base Facilities. Buckley AFB base telephones: Dial 911.
       6.7.1.1. (Added-460SW) Buckley AFB Cell Phones: Dial 720-847-9117.
       6.7.1.2. (Added-460SW) Report all fires occurring at locations’ under control of Buckley AFB
       to include small fires and extinguished fires. Report fires to the Buckley F&ES at 911 or 720-
       847-9117.
       6.7.1.3. (Added-460SW) Facility managers are responsible for displaying the correct fire
       reporting number on each telephone. Facility managers may obtain stickers from the Fire
       Prevention office at bldg 806, Buckley AFB.
6.8. (Added-460SW) Fire Reporting Procedures.
   6.8.1. (Added-460SW) Activate a manual fire alarm pull station (located near most exits), by
   following the directions on the pull station. Follow up the alarm activation by calling the fire
   department at 911 or by cell phone 720-847-9117 from a safe location.
   6.8.2. (Added-460SW) Notify the emergency dispatcher of the type of fire, building number, size
   of fire, and location of the fire, if known. Give your name, grade (military or civilian personnel),
   organization, and phone number. Go to a location where you can meet and direct F&ES personnel
   to the fire scene. Notify F&ES personnel if anyone is still in the facility. Example fire reporting
   instructions, Attachment 9.
   6.8.3. (Added-460SW) Ensure everyone has evacuated safely to a distance of at least 75 feet from
   the building or facility.
6.9. (Added-460SW) Fire Prevention Standards For Contractors.
   6.9.1. (Added-460SW) Contractors. Working or conducting business on or in facilities under the
   jurisdiction of Buckley AFB will comply with this instruction.
       6.9.1.1. (Added-460SW) When USAF, NFPA Standards, or other codes conflict, the most
       stringent requirement shall apply.
       6.9.1.2. (Added-460SW) The Fire Chief (or designated representative) will review, while in the
       planning stages, all new construction and alterations to existing facilities. The Fire Chief will
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   31


     determine the adequacy and conformity of established fire protection standards. AF IMT 332,
     Base Civil Engineer Work Request, will be prepared and submitted to 460 CES as required by
     AFI 32-1001, Operations Management. The F&ES flight shall be consulted prior to any
     construction, renovation, or self-help project execution.
  6.9.2. (Added-460SW) Contract Management. The AC of Fire Prevention or a designated
  representative will attend preconstruction or pre-performance meetings with the Base Civil Engineer
  (BCE) contract manager to coordinate fire prevention requirements with contractors. Monitor all
  construction projects, new construction, or maintenance and repair to ensure they comply with base
  fire protection instructions and appropriate codes. When identifying fire hazards, unsafe practices,
  or conditions, notify the contract officer. The contract officer will advise the responsible contractor
  to take appropriate corrective action.
  6.9.3. (Added-460SW) Construction. These standards apply to new construction, reconstruction,
  demolition, rehabilitation, alteration, repair, and maintenance of facilities. They apply to facilities
  which will be constructed in accordance with (IAW) military construction programs, operation, and
  maintenance or non-appropriated funds.
     6.9.3.1. (Added-460SW) Depending on the size of the project, either the contractor or person
     designated by the contractor is in charge of fire prevention. Responsibilities include ensuring
     fire protection equipment is readily available and operational, supervising safe usage of portable
     heating equipment and that welding, cutting, and brazing operations are conducted as identified
     in paragraph 6.20.3 through paragraph 6.20.3.7
     6.9.3.2. (Added-460SW) Contractors will implement the following fire prevention and
     protection measures:
         6.9.3.2.1. (Added-460SW) Brief employees on fire reporting procedures.
         6.9.3.2.2. (Added-460SW) Prohibit smoking except in designated smoking areas.
         6.9.3.2.3. (Added-460SW) Do not allow rubbish to be stored or accumulated within the
         building or in the immediate vicinity. Do not burn rubbish on the site.
         6.9.3.2.4. (Added-460SW) Do not store contractor materials and equipment in a location or
         manner that will create a fire exposure to facilities adjacent to the project site.
         6.9.3.2.5. (Added-460SW) Provide access for use of fire fighting vehicles to the immediate
         job site at all times. Establish vehicle parking control measures.
         6.9.3.2.6. (Added-460SW) Do not place materials, construction trailers, or parked vehicles
         within 15 feet of hydrants, sprinkler connection, between hydrant or the centerline of the
         street.
         6.9.3.2.7. (Added-460SW) Ensure scaffolding, materials, or equipment will not block fire
         escape routes during performance of projects in occupied buildings.
         6.9.3.2.8. (Added-460SW) Store flammable liquids and other hazardous materials (paints,
         flammable thinners, gasoline, asphalt, and tar) in small-detached structures or out in the open
         and not inside main buildings. Use approved safety cans only to handle low flash point
         liquids that will be used inside buildings. Do not mix flammable paints and oils in the
         buildings. Limit the amount of such materials taken inside to the minimum requirements
         only.
 32                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


          6.9.3.2.9. (Added-460SW) Do not place construction office sheds, vans, or trailers within
          30 feet of a building.
          6.9.3.2.10. (Added-460SW) Do not use makeshift salamanders to heat tar. Use only oil or
          gas fired tar kettles that are Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed. Do not leave tar kettles
          unattended when in use.
          6.9.3.2.11. (Added-460SW) Locate asphalt and tar in a safe place outside buildings or on a
          noncombustible roof. Continuously observe kettles while they are in operation and provide
          metal covers for all kettles to smother flames in case of fire. Provide suitable fire
          extinguishers.
          6.9.3.2.12. (Added-460SW) Welding, cutting, and brazing operations will be conducted per
          AFOSH Standard 91-501. Prior to starting welding and cutting activities outside approved
          shops, the activity supervisor will obtain a written permit AF Form 592, USAF Welding,
          Cutting and Brazing Permit, from the F&ES flight. The contractor must comply with
          instructions on the reverse side of the permit.
6.10. (Added-460SW) Concessionaires and Vendors.
   6.10.1. (Added-460SW) Concessionaires and vendors occupying government facilities are
   responsible for the fire safety of their assigned areas, total compliance with this instruction, and
   other US Air Force criteria concerning fire protection. Concessionaires and vendors not occupying
   government facilities and/or government owned equipment are also responsible for the fire safety of
   their assigned areas as specified in this instruction and compliance with the following:
      6.10.1.1. (Added-460SW) Furnish enough appropriate type fire extinguishers as determined by
      the Fire Prevention office. Place these extinguishers so they are readily available and ensure
      they are serviceable.
      6.10.1.2. (Added-460SW) Ensure all personnel are familiar with fire reporting procedures as
      identified in paragraph 6.8. through paragraph 6.8.3.
      6.10.1.3. (Added-460SW) Temporary buildings erected for the sale and display of merchandise
      shall require special written approval and compliance with fire department recommendations
      before opening day.
      6.10.1.4. (Added-460SW) Always keep aisles, floors, corridors, stairways, and passageways
      unobstructed and do not use these areas for storage.
   6.10.2. (Added-460SW) Medical Assistance.
      6.10.2.1. (Added-460SW) Emergency medical assistance can be obtained by dialing 911 on
      base telephones or 720-847-9117/9929 from cell phones.
      6.10.2.2. (Added-460SW) Provide the following information when requesting medical
      assistance:
          6.10.2.2.1. (Added-460SW) Your name.
          6.10.2.2.2. (460SW) Location.
          6.10.2.2.3. (460SW) Telephone number or extension number.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   33


          6.10.2.2.4. (460SW) The nature of the emergency (i.e., number of people injured, types of
          injuries).
6.11. (Added-460SW) Base Facilities.
   6.11.1. (Added-460SW) Closing Inspections. To ensure the fire safety of each facility, facility
   managers conduct a fire prevention closing inspection before securing the facility using locally
   generated AF IMT 2519.
      6.11.1.1. (Added-460SW) Facility       managers     will   ensure   accomplishment     of    closing
      inspections.
      6.11.1.2. (Added-460SW) The facility manager or duty manager will conduct the closing
      inspection in all places of public assembly.
      6.11.1.3. (Added-460SW) The manager on duty at the time of closing will inspect Army and
      Air Force Exchange retail outlets and snack bars, ensuring this fire prevention instruction is
      adhered to.
      6.11.1.4. (Added-460SW) The senior manager on duty at the time of closing will inspect
      recreational facilities. Return all flammable liquids used in hobby or raft projects to approved
      storage location before closing.
      6.11.1.5. (Added-460SW) The responsible person will inspect facilities under contracted
      janitorial services within 1 hour of scheduled closing time.
      6.11.1.6. (Added-460SW) All places of public assembly will be subject to a random closing
      inspection by an F&ES representative.
   6.11.2. (Added-460SW) Public Assembly. The potential for loss of life and property in public
   assembly, recreational facilities, and child development centers requires special precautions be taken
   to prevent fires. Managers of these facilities will:
      6.11.2.1. (Added-460SW) Establish and maintain a certification system to ensure employees
      have been trained and understand their fire prevention responsibilities. Each employee’s
      certification file, at a minimum will contain the following:
          6.11.2.1.1. (Added-460SW) Date employee was hired or assigned.
          6.11.2.1.2. (Added-460SW) Date and name of instructor who conducted the initial fire
          prevention orientation.
          6.11.2.1.3. (Added-460SW) Date of the last participation in a fire drill.
          6.11.2.1.4. (Added-460SW) Ensure all newly assigned employees receive a fire prevention
          orientation before beginning work.
   6.11.3. (Added-460SW) Special Event. F&ES will conduct a special fire prevention inspection
   before any special event that includes temporary decorations or unusual arrangements (only fire
   retardant decorations will be permitted). These inspections do not relieve facility managers of
   his/her closing inspection responsibilities (see paragraph 6.11.1).
   6.11.4. (Added-460SW) Hood and Duct. Ensure a thorough cleaning and maintenance of installed
   grease extraction hood and duct as required in paragraph 6.12.5.3 Managers will maintain an
   informational file on each hood. The file will contain at a minimum, the following information:
 34                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


      6.11.4.1. (Added-460SW) Date of last hood and duct cleaning.
      6.11.4.2. (Added-460SW) Date of last filter cleaning.
      6.11.4.3. (Added-460SW) Documentation of who performed the last cleaning.
   6.11.5. (Added-460SW) Avoid overcrowding. The number of persons permitted in places of public
   assembly is only that number that can be safely evacuated if there is a fire. The Fire Prevention
   office will determine the occupancy load; signs shall be posted in all meeting rooms, and any room
   where people may gather. It is the facility manager’s responsibility to acquire and post the signs as
   well as enforce the occupancy load requirements.
   6.11.6. (Added-460SW) Child Development Center Safety. Have sufficient cribs in the infant crib
   room equipped with 4 inch casters for quick evacuation of infants. Crib room exterior doors will
   allow easy passage of the cribs. Never lock or block these doors while occupants are in the facility.
   Always keep exterior ramps from the crib room free of ice, snow, and other materials.
6.12. (Added-460SW) Flammable Liquids, Hazardous Materials (Hazmat) (see AFOSH STD 91-
501), Storing and/or Handling Explosives, Munitions, Hazmat, and Compressed Gases (see AFI
91-202, Explosives Safety Standards).
   6.12.1. (Added-460SW) Flammable Liquids.        F&ES must approve all flammable storage
   containers through a memorandum. For specific requirements regarding flammable and combustible
   liquids (see AFOSH STD 91-501 Chapter 22 and the National Fire Codes). Approval request
   memorandum shall include nomenclature and maximum quantities of items stored. Memorandums
   as a minimum must be renewed annually, or when there is a change in the contents or location of the
   container.
   6.12.2. (Added-460SW) Hazardous Materials. Notify the F&ES of the movement and location of
   large quantities of hazardous materials to and from storage areas on and off base. Refer to AFJMAN
   23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials Handling, applicable AFOSH
   standards, TO 42B-5-1-2, Gas Cylinders (Storage) Use, Handling, and Maintenance, and applicable
   guidance contained in the National Fire Codes.
   6.12.3. (Added-460SW) Compressed Gases. Storage of all compressed gases will be according to
   the relevant National Fire Code applying to the specific gas and applicable technical orders. Do not
   store flammable gases and oxygen in occupied buildings that do not require them.
      6.12.3.1. (Added-460SW) Separate oxygen cylinders in storage from fuel gas cylinders or
      combustible materials, including oil or grease by a minimum distance of 20 feet. Alternatively,
      separate by a noncombustible barrier of at least 5 feet high with a fire rating of one-half hour.
   6.12.4. (Added-460SW) Fireworks, Barbecuing, Commercial Cooking, and Dining Hall Facilities.
      6.12.4.1. (Added-460SW) Fireworks. The term ―fireworks‖ for the purpose of this instruction
      includes any combustible or explosive composition, substance, or articles prepared for the
      purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
      detonation.
      6.12.4.2. (Added-460SW) Roman Candles, Firecrackers, and Similar Items. Items not required
      for a military mission will not be handled, stored, or used on this installation. This includes base
      housing areas. The public display of fireworks under the supervision of licensed pyrotechnic
      operators is an exception to this rule.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   35


      6.12.4.3. (Added-460SW) Barbecuing. A responsible adult must constantly and cautiously
      supervise lighting and operation of a charcoal burner, grill, or similar appliance. Do not operate
      such appliances under carports, on balconies, stairs, or in enclosed areas. Keep barbecuing
      appliances at least 10 feet away from any facility. (CAUTION: Use only approved starting fluid
      to start barbecue fires. Never use gasoline. Do not store charcoal, charcoal lighter fluid or
      propane canisters in dormitories, on balconies, or under stairwells).
         6.12.4.3.1. (Added-460SW) Vendors, concessionaires, social groups, booster clubs, etc.,
         contemplating use of barbecue grill(s) during special events must contact the Fire Prevention
         office at 847-9926/9270 in advance.
         6.12.4.3.2. (Added-460SW) After the cooking is over, drench the coals with water and
         dispose of the ashes in a metal container.
   6.12.5. (Added-460SW) Commercial Cooking and Dining Hall Facilities.               Managers of
   commercial cooking facilities and dining facilities will comply with AFOSH STD 91-501.
      6.12.5.1. (Added-460SW) All installed cooking vapor removal equipment must comply with
      NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
      Operations.
      6.12.5.2. (Added-460SW) Cooking is not permitted under vapor removal systems without the
      proper filters installed and vapor removal fans turned on.
      6.12.5.3. (Added-460SW) To prevent grease accumulation operators must thoroughly clean all
      installed grease filters, grease catch pans, and grease exposed surfaces of kitchen hoods daily or
      more often if necessary. Grease filters will be cleaned daily by running them through clippers or
      other hot water cleaning methods. Spare filter sets are required in kitchens that are operated
      continuously.
      6.12.5.4. (Added-460SW) Deep-fat fryers must be equipped with a primary thermostat of 400
      degrees and a secondary thermostat. The secondary thermostat must ensure the temperature of
      the liquid does not exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit (exceptions are electronic controlled
      thermostats only require primary thermostat inspection of 400 degrees). This maximum
      temperature includes the additional rise that occurs for several minutes after the secondary
      thermostat de-energizes the unit. If a unit fails to function within maximum temperature of 475
      degrees Fahrenheit, immediately remove it from service. Note: A qualified person must test
      thermostats annually. A fire prevention inspector must witness the test. Documentation will be
      placed on a metal tag and installed on each unit.
         6.12.5.4.1. (Added-460SW) All kitchen employees will receive initial and recurring
         training (at least every 6 months) on actions to take, if there is a fire in a deep fat fryer.
         Minimum training will include the following:
             6.12.5.4.1.1. (Added-460SW) Use of fire extinguisher.
             6.12.5.4.1.2. (Added-460SW) Turning off equipment.
             6.12.5.4.1.3. (Added-460SW) Recognition of equipment malfunctions.
             6.12.5.4.1.4. (Added-460SW) Use of manual pull station to activate hood and duct fire
             suppression system.
6.13. (Added-460SW) General Housekeeping.
36                               AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


 6.13.1. (Added-460SW) Do not place hazardous chemicals or liquids in dumpsters intended for the
 collection of trash.
 6.13.2. (Added-460SW) Open burning on base is prohibited.
 6.13.3. (Added-460SW) Do not use janitorial closets as trash collection points. Janitors and
 contract cleaning must keep their closets clean and use them only to store janitorial supplies.
 6.13.4. (Added-460SW) Do not allow trash to be stored or accumulated in buildings. Before
 securing an office, responsible supervisors will make sure all trash and waste containers are emptied
 into outside metal trash receptacles. This does not apply to personnel in facilities with janitorial
 services, unless the trash or waste containers are overflowing. Paper or cardboard trash containers
 are not allowed.
 6.13.5. (Added-460SW) Do not permit oil rags, clothing, paint rags, or other materials subject to
 spontaneous combustion to accumulate in buildings. Do not place such materials in containers with
 other combustibles. Containers for saturated rags or clothing must be with metal self-closing lids
 and labeled ―dirty rags.‖
 6.13.6. (Added-460SW) Remove sawdust and chips from all woodworking shops at the close of
 each workday.
 6.13.7. (Added-460SW) Do not allow lint to accumulate around clothes drying units at any time.
 All gas and electrical clothes drying units must be vented to the outside. Water lint traps will be
 changed out daily. Clean lint filters on clothes dryers after each load.
 6.13.8. (Added-460SW) Storage is not permitted under floors, above ceiling, or in mechanical
 rooms. Storage is not permitted under any stairs or stages. Storage is not allowed within 18 inches
 of ceiling or bottom of any fire sprinkler head.
 6.13.9. (Added-460SW) Do not obstruct aisles used for access to exits or fire safety equipment.
 6.13.10. (Added-460SW) Keep soiled linen, rags, sheets, and tablecloths in closed metal containers
 or approved hampers.
 6.13.11. (Added-460SW) Keep storage of bulk steel wool to a minimum. Store loose portions of
 steel wool in a properly marked metal container with a self-closing lid.
 6.13.12. (Added-460SW) Keep accumulated packing materials (i.e., Styrofoam packing, excelsior,
 or shredded paper) in a metal container with a self-closing lid. Large containers will remain covered
 and equipped with fusible links that automatically close in case of fire. Do not store packing
 materials in such volume the covers will not close properly.
 6.13.13. (Added-460SW) Waste and Packing Materials.
     6.13.13.1. (Added-460SW) Only keep the amounts of waste and packing materials necessary
     for the work being accomplished. Keep excess in metal bins equipped with self closing lids.
     6.13.13.2. (Added-460SW) Remove all trash, paper, plastic, and scrap wood from the buildings
     at the close of daily activities.
     6.13.13.3. (Added-460SW) Remove all combustible waste materials generated in the building
     at the close of daily activities.
 6.13.14. (Added-460SW) Decorative Materials.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                     37


      6.13.14.1. (Added-460SW) Requirements. Before buying decorative materials to be used as
      wall coverings or around exits, personnel should first call the Fire Prevention office for
      information on the fire safety of the materials. Contact the Fire Prevention office for assistance
      regarding acceptability of decorative materials as it regards to fire codes.
      6.13.14.2. (Added-460SW) Candles. The use of candles and open flames are only authorized
      for religious services in the base chapel. Candles may be used in places of public assembly if
      they are the safety type with globes and holders after receiving written approval from the Fire
      Prevention office.
      6.13.14.3. (Added-460SW) Material. Do not use combustible decorations such as cardboard
      boxes, wood products, straw, hay, or similar materials for festive decorating. Place all
      decorations where they will not obstruct or block access to exits. All artificial decorations must
      be listed/labeled by a nationally recognized testing agency such as Underwriters Laboratory (UL)
      or Factory Mutual (FM).
      6.13.14.4. (Added-460SW) Christmas Tree. Use of flocked Christmas trees is prohibited.
      Most flocking is not fire resistive, and creates a more severe fire hazard. To keep live trees safer
      make a diagonal cut at the base of the tree, and place it in a container of water or wet sand. Keep
      the water container filled at all times. Never spray natural trees with decorative paints. Do not
      install electrical decorations on artificial metal Christmas trees. Live Christmas trees are only
      authorized in base housing. Christmas trees are cut at approximately the same time, so waiting
      to purchase your tree later is no guarantee of freshness. Only by placing in water and keeping
      tree from heat vents, direct sunlight, or fireplaces can freshness be extended.
      6.13.14.5. (Added-460SW) Electrical.        Use all electrical appliances according to the
      manufacturer’s instructions. Refer to paragraph 6.15.5.1 for proper usage of surge protectors and
      electrical extension cords.
      6.13.14.6. (Added-460SW) Inspections. Fire Prevention office should inspect all public
      assembly facilities before major social events. Facility managers will notify F&ES of major
      events at which temporary decorations or unusual arrangements are involved. The best way to
      do this is by memorandum on a monthly basis.
6.14. (Added-460SW) Exit Doors, Stairways, and Hallways.
   6.14.1. (Added-460SW) Do not lock, bolt, fasten, or obstruct an exit door in anyway so that it
   cannot be easily opened from the inside. An exit door shall be easily opened by the use of the
   ordinary door latch, doorknob, or panic hardware release device. Ensure panic hardware and fire
   exit hardware work properly. Only one locking device is authorized per door according to NFPA
   101, Life Safety Code.
   6.14.2. (Added-460SW) Keep all designated exit doors unlocked when facility is occupied. In each
   room where furniture is used supervisors must ensure personnel always have ready access to each
   exit. Keep exterior paths from facility exits clear. The exit door should be able to open fully without
   impediment. All aisles leading directly to exits require at least 44-inch clearances and are never
   obstructed by any object.
   6.14.3. (Added-460SW) Do not use stairways, hallways, corridors, vestibules, balconies, or bridges
   leading to a stairway or exit (interior or exterior) in any way that will obstruct their use as exits or
 38                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


   cause a hazardous condition. Do not store any materials under any stairs or stages that lead to an
   exit.
   6.14.4. (Added-460SW) Any door approved by letter from the fire department to be blocked must
   have the words ―DOOR BLOCKED‖ in letters not less than 3 inches high and 1 inch wide in
   contrasting colors on both sides of the door.
   6.14.5. (Added-460SW) No one will tamper with doors or shutters equipped with fusible links or
   other safety devices. No one will obstruct such a door or shutter in any manner that could prevent it
   from closing.
   6.14.6. (Added-460SW) Keep fire doors, smoke doors, or shutters in good condition and ensure
   they swing freely when used. Do not remove them or penetrate them without approval from the fire
   chief.
   6.14.7. (Added-460SW) Doors designed to be kept normally closed as a means of egress, such as a
   door to a stair enclosure or horizontal exit shall be a self-closing door and shall not at any time be
   secured in the open position. The exception is when provided with automatic door closures that
   comply with NFPA 101.
   6.14.8. (Added-460SW) Adequate fire aisles will be maintained in all storage rooms/areas
   according to NFPA 13E, Recommended Practice for Fire Department Operations in Properties
   Protected by Sprinkler and Standpipe Systems.
   6.14.9. (Added-460SW) Ensure illuminated exit signs stay illuminated.
   6.14.10. (Added-460SW) Post evacuation plans in a conspicuous place in facilities where
   personnel must travel a considerable distance through interior enclosures.
6.15. (Added-460SW) Electrical Systems and Appliances.
   6.15.1. (Added-460SW) Electric Projects. Only qualified licensed electrical contractor or civil
   engineer electric shop personnel will perform new installation or remodeling of electrical systems.
   Self-help electrical projects are prohibited unless specifically approved by the BCE. Moving fire
   alarm system components is prohibited unless approved by the fire department. A qualified
   electrician will remove, tag, and/or cap all abandoned electrical wires. Contractors will comply with
   current edition of the National Electric Code (NEC). Do not use electric, oil fired, or open flame
   type heaters in areas where concentration of vapor fumes from flammable liquids or gases are
   present. Do not tamper with heating equipment. Only qualified personnel will perform installations,
   changes, and repairs to heaters.
   6.15.2. (Added-460SW) Do not install, operate heating, or other type of service equipment that
   will obstruct any means of an exit, facilitate spread of fire, or smoke throughout a building/otherwise
   create a hazard to occupants.
   6.15.3. (Added-460SW) Hot plates are prohibited in all facilities.
   6.15.4. (Added-460SW) Approved type electric space heaters must meet the following
   requirements:
      6.15.4.1. (Added-460SW) Must be approved by the CE Operations Flight (460 CES/CEO).
      6.15.4.2. (Added-460SW) Will be thermostatically controlled with an automatic tip-over
      device, and overheat protection device.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                               39


     6.15.4.3. (Added-460SW) Must be UL approved.
     6.15.4.4. (Added-460SW) Contain no splice wiring.
     6.15.4.5. (Added-460SW) Will not be operated from an extension cord or power strips.
     6.15.4.6. (Added-460SW) Will be kept at a minimum of 18 inches from any combustible
     materials and face away from drapes, furniture, and walls.
     6.15.4.7. (Added-460SW) Use only in accordance with manufacturers specifications.
     6.15.4.8. (Added-460SW) Unplug space heaters when not in use, and at the end of the duty
     day.
     6.15.4.9. (Added-460SW) Space heaters will not be allowed to be used if they cause the circuit
     breaker to trip to off position because of increased electrical load.
  6.15.5. (Added-460SW) Electrical Extension Cords. The use of electrical extension cords is
  restricted as follows:
     6.15.5.1. (Added-460SW) When using surge protectors and electrical extension cords it must
     not run under rugs, hang over walls, run through doorways, windows, or placed in any manner
     that may subject the wire to physical damage. The maximum amperage rating of extension cord
     must not be less than appliance cord rating and cord must be UL approved.
     6.15.5.2. (Added-460SW) The use of extension cords or surge protectors for use with coffee
     pots, microwaves, refrigerators, ice machines, freezers, toaster ovens, and window air
     conditioning units is prohibited. Comply with manufacturer’s instructions when using surge
     protectors.
     6.15.5.3. (Added-460SW) Do not use extension cords in place of fixed wiring. Use of
     extension cords must be on a temporary basis, and unplugged after each use or at the end of the
     shift. Submit AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, to 460 CES if additional outlets
     are required.
     6.15.5.4. (Added-460SW) Keep the use of extension cords to a minimum. Use only one
     continuous cord without splices. Do not piggyback extension cords or surge protectors.
     6.15.5.5. (Added-460SW) Frayed or bare wiring will be replaced immediately or put out of
     service.
     6.15.5.6. (Added-460SW) The use of multi-outlet plugs and similar items used in government
     facilities must be fused or supplied with a breaker, not to exceed 15 amps.
  6.15.6. (Added-460SW) Exit Lights. Facility manager’s inspection.
     6.15.6.1. (Added-460SW) Facility managers will ensure exit lights are inspected monthly.
     Replace the bulbs immediately if not working. Check battery backup on exit lights monthly. If
     inoperative, submit a job order to the 460 CES.
     6.15.6.2. (Added-460SW) Facility managers will inspect emergency lights monthly, and
     replace fluorescent tubes as required. Submit a job order to the 460 CES Customer Service, if
     battery backup is inoperative.
  6.15.7. (Added-460SW) Circuit Breakers and Fuses. A clear space of 36 inches must be
  maintained to the front and sides of electrical panels/circuit breakers boxes.
 40                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


   6.15.8. (Added-460SW) Electrical Installations. All electrical installations will conform to current
   National Electric Codes.
      6.15.8.1. (Added-460SW) Stop operation of all electrical equipment, appliances, and machines
      immediately when an unsafe condition or hazardous condition exists.
      6.15.8.2. (Added-460SW) Do not tamper with electrical wiring or fixtures.              Report any
      defective wiring, switches, cords, fuses, etc., to the 460 CES Service Call Desk.
      6.15.8.3. (Added-460SW) Do not tape or splice cords. Do not tack, staple, or fasten cords to
      woodwork or wall. Do not drape them over pipes or other supports. Use only approved cords
      for the purpose, designed, and labeled by the UL. Replace worn cords.
      6.15.8.4. (Added-460SW) Use only explosive proof electrical equipment near flammable gases
      or as required by NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC).
      6.15.8.5. (Added-460SW) Do not leave electric irons, and other heat producing devices
      unattended. Unplug devices when not in use.
      6.15.8.6. (Added-460SW) Electric coffee makers must be thermostatically controlled, approved
      by a recognized testing laboratory, set on a noncombustible surface, and kept in good repair. It
      must not be timer controlled. Unplug them when not in use.
6.16. (Added-460SW) Fire Extinguishers.
   6.16.1. (Added-460SW) Placement. Fire extinguishers are placed in buildings in compliance with
   the DOD, Air Force, and NFPA 10 criteria. The Buckley AFB F&ES oversees the installation
   extinguisher program, and is the authority for all matters involving fire extinguishers. Do not
   remove or relocate fire extinguishers (except for servicing) without prior approval from the fire chief
   or the Fire Prevention office.
   6.16.2. (Added-460SW) Unit Commanders. Will conduct investigations of repeatedly damaged, or
   misused portable fire extinguishers.
   6.16.3. (Added-460SW) Organizations. Through their facility managers will budget for the
   maintenance, repair, and replacement of facility fire extinguishers. When fire extinguishers are
   removed for servicing they will be replaced until the permanent extinguishers are returned.
   6.16.4. (Added-460SW) Facility Managers.         Takes any extinguisher that has been used,
   discharged, or shows signs of damage to an authorized servicing location for repair.
   6.16.5. (Added-460SW) Service. After initially being placed in service, fire extinguishers must be
   serviced at 6-year intervals as a minimum, and hydrostatically tested at 12-year intervals by a
   qualified fire extinguisher servicing company. The company will post the service date on the
   extinguisher with either a label or service tag.
   6.16.6. (Added-460SW) Annual Inspection. The facility manager must ensure the absence of rust
   and dents, confirm all labels and instructions are legible. He/she will check to ensure the
   extinguisher is fully charged, seals and pins are in place, nozzle is free of debris, and sufficient
   extinguishing agent is contained in the cylinder (determine by lifting).
   6.16.7. (Added-460SW) Monthly Inspection. Facility managers will ensure a visual inspection is
   performed and documented for all fire extinguishers under their control.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                     41


   6.16.8. (Added-460SW) Record. A Fire Extinguisher Hydrostatic Test Record must be affixed on
   all extinguishers.
   6.16.9. (Added-460SW) On file. Fire extinguisher information to be kept on file by the facility
   manager includes:
      6.16.9.1. (Added-460SW) Serial numbers.
      6.16.9.2. (Added-460SW) Location.
      6.16.9.3. (Added-460SW) Last date service was performed.
      6.16.9.4. (Added-460SW) Date servicing is required.
      6.16.9.5. (Added-460SW) Date hydrostatic testing is required.
      6.16.9.6. (Added-460SW) Date maintenance is required.
      6.16.9.7. (Added-460SW) Refer questions regarding fire extinguishers including the need for
      size, type, and maintenance to the Buckley AFB F&ES at 847-9270/9926.
6.17. (Added-460SW) Installed Fire Protection/Detection Systems.
   6.17.1. (Added-460SW) Effective Protection.              For    the   system     to   have    effective
   protection/detection, guidance is as follows:
      6.17.1.1. (Added-460SW) Do not block manual fire alarm, pull boxes, or alarm control
      stations. A 3 feet clear access is required at all times.
      6.17.1.2. (Added-460SW) Keep all materials at least 18 inches away from smoke detection
      devices and sprinkler heads. Provide a clearance of 36 inches when stack height exceeds 15 feet.
      6.17.1.3. (Added-460SW) Do not tamper with installed fire protection or detection systems.
      Violators will be subject to disciplinary action under Federal law.
6.18. (Added-460SW) Vegetation Control.
   6.18.1. (Added-460SW) Maintenance. Controlling vegetation guidance is as follows:
      6.18.1.1. (Added-460SW) Keep vegetation trimmed around buildings, fuel tanks, gas pipes,
      control valves, parking areas, fences, and similar areas.
      6.18.1.2. (Added-460SW) Keep areas under buildings free of all dry grass and cuttings.
      6.18.1.3. (Added-460SW) Do not allow vegetation to impede fire department access.
6.19. (Added-460SW) Powered Mechanical Equipment, Warehouse and Storage Facilities.
   6.19.1. (Added-460SW) Powered Mechanical Equipment. Proper use of and storage of equipment
   are as follows:
      6.19.1.1. (Added-460SW) Do not store motor vehicles or lawn mowing equipment in
      buildings/facilities not specifically designed for such storage.
      6.19.1.2. (Added-460SW) Do not refuel gasoline-powered mechanical equipment inside any
      building. Do not begin a refueling operation until the engine has been shut down and the ignition
      switch placed in the OFF position. Allow enough time for the engine to cool (about 30 minutes).
      If you spill fuel during servicing, do not try to start the engine until all traces of fuel have been
      removed. Fuel should only be transported in approved safety cans. Do not store or transport fuel
 42                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


      in open containers. Siphoning of fuel is prohibited. Do not fill gasoline containers on plastic
      bed liners of vehicles. Turn off cellular phones when filling gasoline containers.
      6.19.1.3. (Added-460SW) Storing lawn mowers, outboard marine motors, powered garden
      tools, and other gasoline-powered engine equipment of 5 horsepower or less are as follows:
          6.19.1.3.1. (Added-460SW) Store in a well-ventilated area free of ignition sources and
          combustible materials.
          6.19.1.3.2. (Added-460SW) After every use ensure it is clean and free of leaks.
          6.19.1.3.3. (Added-460SW) Do not park vehicles and material-handling equipment inside
          buildings not specifically designed for that purpose. Submit all requests for parking vehicles
          inside facilities to the F&ES for approval.
          6.19.1.3.4. (Added-460SW) Installed woodworking machinery must be equipped with a
          dust removal duct system. Use of such machinery without such an exhaust system is
          prohibited.
   6.19.2. (Added-460SW) Warehouse and Storage Facilities. See AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service
   Manual for Storage and Materials Handling, and applicable guidance contained in the National Fire
   Codes.
      6.19.2.1. (Added-460SW) Do not refuel equipment inside a warehouse or within 15 feet of
      outdoor flammable storage sheds.
      6.19.2.2. (Added-460SW) Do not block fire lanes, sprinkler valves, extinguishers, standpipe
      hoses, fire escapes, fire exits, and fire doors with storage. A 3 feet clearance is required.
      6.19.2.3. (Added-460SW) Maintain 18 inches of clearance between stored materials and
      ceilings, joists, rafters, and ceiling lights. Keep a 36‖ clearance when stack height exceeds 15
      feet.
6.20. (Added-460SW) Welding and Cutting Operations.
   6.20.1. (Added-460SW) Personnel performing cutting, brazing, or welding operations outside
   authorized welding shops must maintain an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing,
   permit from the Fire Prevention office before beginning operations. This requirement applies to all
   installation welding shops and contractors. All welding, cutting, and brazing operations must
   comply with AFOSH STD 91-5, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, and specific requirements annotated
   by the fire inspector on the AF Form 592.
   6.20.2. (Added-460SW) Permit. A permit will not be issued until a member of the Fire Prevention
   office inspects the area.
   6.20.3. (Added-460SW) Precautions. The fire inspector issuing the permit will stipulate
   precautions that must be taken to carry out the operation. The contractor, supervisor, or sub-
   contractor must ensure total compliance with the instructions on the permit.
      6.20.3.1. (Added-460SW) Keep welding and cutting apparatus in good mechanical condition.
      6.20.3.2. (Added-460SW) Remove electrodes from holder when not in use.
      6.20.3.3. (Added-460SW) Properly ground machine framework.
      6.20.3.4. (Added-460SW) Shut off power and disconnect units during work stoppage.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                  43


      6.20.3.5. (Added-460SW) Keep cylinders free of oil.
      6.20.3.6. (Added-460SW) Hoses may not be used if they have frays, cracks, or splices.
      6.20.3.7. (Added-460SW) Use sheet metal guards, noncombustible blankets, or similar
      protection to prevent sparks from falling onto combustibles.
6.21. (Added-460SW) Self Help Construction Projects.
   6.21.1. (Added-460SW) Coordinate all self help construction projects with approval from the BCE
   on an AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
   6.21.2. (Added-460SW) Use only approved materials with appropriate ratings for interior part ions
   or ceilings.
   6.21.3. (Added-460SW) Only a Buckley AFB certified electrician is authorized to do electrical
   work.
   6.21.4. (Added-460SW) Follow all fire prevention criteria in completing self help work.
   6.21.5. (Added-460SW) If self help construction work is done in violation of existing fire
   protection standards or is not approved by the Civil Engineer, the organization doing the work will
   be required to remove it.
   6.21.6. (Added-460SW) Contact the Fire Prevention office at 847-9926/9270 before starting any
   self help projects as well as when work has been completed.
6.22. (Added-460SW) Dormitories.
   6.22.1. (Added-460SW) Do not use hot plates or electrical skillets in individual dormitory rooms.
   6.22.2. (Added-460SW) Do not use open flame devices such as candles, liquid or solid fuel
   burners, incense, etc., in dormitories.
   6.22.3. (Added-460SW) Do not install combustible decorations in dormitories.
   6.22.4. (Added-460SW) Do not use dormitory hallways for storage.
   6.22.5. (Added-460SW) Unplug all heat producing electrical appliances when not in use.
   6.22.6. (Added-460SW) Do not store combustibles on top of ranges or microwave ovens.
   6.22.7. (Added-460SW) In rooms or facilities having kitchenettes the occupant will not leave
   cooking unattended.
   6.22.8. (Added-460SW) The exhaust fan must be used at all times while cooking. Clean filters at
   least once a month.
   6.22.9. (Added-460SW) Do not tamper with installed fire protection or detection systems.
   Violators will be subject to disciplinary action under Federal law.
6.23. (Added-460SW) Privatized Housing Owned by Hunt Development Company.
   6.23.1. (Added-460SW) Family sponsors are designated as the facility manager and are
   responsible for their assigned quarters.
   6.23.2. (Added-460SW) The military sponsor will make sure family members are familiar with this
   instruction, and know how to evacuate their quarters.
 44                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


   6.23.3. (Added-460SW) The military sponsor will strictly enforce good housekeeping and will:
      6.23.3.1. (Added-460SW) Not allow oily rags, paint, waste, trash, or rubbish to accumulate in
      or around assigned quarters.
      6.23.3.2. (Added-460SW) Use candles only in suitable holders or globes on appropriate
      surfaces (i.e., a dining table).
      6.23.3.3. (Added-460SW) Not operate a refrigerator, deep freeze unit, or similar appliance
      inside any closet or auxiliary storage area without prior approval from the F&ES.
      6.23.3.4. (Added-460SW) Notify F&ES of occupants who are handicapped, mobility impaired,
      or any other type of handicap at 847-9929.
      6.23.3.5. (Added-460SW) Do not store or use gunpowder for reloading shells in base housing.
      6.23.3.6. (Added-460SW) The Military Family Housing office will assist the Fire Prevention
      office by notifying new occupants of their responsibility to make an appointment for a fire
      prevention briefing.
      6.23.3.7. (Added-460SW) The sponsor of each military family housing unit is responsible for
      testing and inspecting smoke detectors monthly. Report deficient operation and/or faulty
      equipment to the housing contractor for corrective action.
      6.23.3.8. (Added-460SW) Mechanic rooms will not be used for storage.
6.24. (Added-460SW) Fire Hydrants/Water Supply.
   6.24.1. (Added-460SW) Procedures. Do not shut off, or perform maintenance on any water main
   or fire hydrant that will interfere with the base water supply without first notifying and coordinating
   with the F&ES at 847-9929.
      6.24.1.1. (Added-460SW) Before making any connections to a fire hydrant you must gain
      approval from the on duty AC of Operations.
   6.24.1.2. (Added-460SW) Do not park within 15 feet of fire hydrants or fire department
   connections.
      6.24.1.3. (Added-460SW) Report damage to fire hydrants immediately to F&ES at 847-9929.
6.25. (Added-460SW) Smoking and Smoking Materials.
   6.25.1. (Added-460SW) Smoking is prohibited in all areas of facilities except as authorized by AFI
   40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force.
   6.25.2. (Added-460SW) Facility managers will make sure outside smoking areas are policed and
   inspected periodically, each duty day and at the end of each shift. The using organization will
   provide suitable noncombustible ashtrays and butt cans for disposal of smoking materials. Other
   prohibitions concerning smoking and smoking materials:
   6.25.3. (Added-460SW) Smoking is prohibited within 50 feet of:
      6.25.3.1. (Added-460SW) Paint shops.
      6.25.3.2. (Added-460SW) Petroleum, oil, propane, (POL) and lubrication storage dispensing
      areas.
      6.25.3.3. (Added-460SW) Building entrances unless approved by unit commanders.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                    45


      6.25.3.4. (Added-460SW) Fuel dispensing vehicles (refueling and defueling operations).
      6.25.3.5. (Added-460SW) Any other area that is obviously hazardous but is not listed.
6.26. (Added-460SW) Special Requirements and Authority.
   6.26.1. (Added-460SW) Authority to Commandeer. The Fire Chief (or senior on-scene fire
   official acting for the base fire marshal) may commandeer available military vehicles, equipment,
   materials, and personnel necessary to promptly control, extinguish fires, and rescue personnel.
   6.26.2. (Added-460SW) Pecuniary Liability. Air Force members may be held financially liable for
   damage or loss of government property caused by them or their dependents, due to negligence or
   willful misconduct. The Fire Chief will immediately investigate fires incurring in his/her area of
   responsibility.
   6.26.3. (Added-460SW) Administrative/Disciplinary Action. A member's unit commander or
   another appropriate person may take administrative or disciplinary action where there is willful
   misconduct or negligence involving fire prevention policies.
   6.26.4. (Added-460SW) The BCE or Deputy BCE. Will assign a civil engineer emergency crew to
   report to the scene of an emergency situation when requested by the senior on-scene fire official.
   The crew will take necessary equipment to immediately disconnect electrical services, shut off the
   gas supply, and/or other support actions as directed by the on-scene senior fire officer (SFO).
   6.26.5. (Added-460SW) Traffic Control.
   6.26.5.1. (460SW) (Added) Vehicle Operator. All personnel and vehicle drivers will yield the
   right-of-way to fire fighting equipment responding to an emergency. If you are the driver of a motor
   vehicle or motorcycle and you hear the siren or see flashing lights, move your vehicle to the far right
   side of the road, come to a complete stop, and stay in that position until all emergency vehicles have
   passed.
   6.26.5.2. (460SW) (Added) Security Forces. Upon notification of a fire or other emergency
   situations, the security forces desk sergeant will dispatch sufficient patrols to the scene to provide
   traffic and personnel control. The patrol will keep personnel not involved with the emergency back
   at least 300 feet (or as directed by the senior on-scene official) from the fire fighting operation.
   6.26.5.2.1. (460SW) (Added) Vehicle operators will not drive over fire hoses unless authorized to
   do so.
   6.26.5.3. (460SW) . (Added) Orientation Program. All newly assigned military personnel will
   receive a fire prevention briefing during in processing.
 46                              AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                          Chapter 7

                           PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS

7.1. Forms Prescribed.
AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record
AF Form 538, Personal Clothing and Equipment Record
AF Form 1027, Water Flow Test Record
AF Form 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan
AF Form 1071, Inspection Maintenance Record
AF Form 1078, Fire Truck and Equipment Test and Inspection Record
AF Form 1085, Fire Protection Training Report
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report.
7.2. (Added-460SW) Adopted Forms:
AF IMT 3, Hazard Abatement Plan
AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request

AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit

AF IMT 2519, All Purpose Checklist




                                        KEVIN J. SULLIVAN, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support

                                        (AFSPC)

                                        CARLOS R. CRUZ-GONZALEZ, Colonel, USAF
                                        Deputy Director for Installations & Mission Support

                                        (460SW)

                                        BEGIN SIGNATURE
                                        CLINTON E. CROSIER, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 460th Space Wing
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   47


                                             Attachment 1
              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Publications
DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program, 21 Dec 2006
DoD 6055.06-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program, 23 Feb 2006
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 26 Sep 2006
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, testing, and
Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, 01 Jan 2001
Air Force Publications
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 01 Jan 2001
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, 01 Mar 2008
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities, 19 Apr 2002
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations,
24 Jan 2007
AFH 10-2502, USAF Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Threat Planning and Response Handbook,
30 Oct 2001
AFI 11-301V1, Aircrew Life Support (ALS) Program, 19 Jul 2002
AFI 21-112, Aircraft Egress and Escape Systems, 07 Sep 2001
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 05 Aug 2003
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sep 2004
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, 29 Apr 1994
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel, 02 Aug 2006
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures,03 Mar 2005
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 22 Nov 2004
AFI 91-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 15 May 2008
AFOSH STD 91-25, Confined Spaces, 01 Feb 1998
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 18 Oct 2001
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 14 Feb 2006
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program, 01 Jun 1996
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard, 07 Jul 2004
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, 15 May 2008
 48                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


TO 00-105E-9, Aerospace Emergency Rescue and Mishap Response Information (Emergency Services,
Current Edition
NFPA TIG 403, Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting Services at Airports, Current Edition
NFPA TIG 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health, Current Edition
NFPA TIG 1582, Standard on Comprehensive Occupational Medical Program for Fire Departments,
Current Edition
NFPA TIG 1710, Standard for the Organization and Deployment of Fire Suppression Operations,
Emergency Medical Operations, and Special Operations to the Public by Career Fire Departments,
Current Edition
FES CONOPS, Concepts of Operations for Fire Prevention and Consequence Management, 15 Jun
2007
NFPA 472, Standard for Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials/Weapons of Mass
Destruction Incidents, Current Edition
NFPA 1001, Standard for Firefighter Professional Qualifications, Current Edition
NFPA 1002, Standard on Fire Apparatus Driver/Operator Professional Qualifications, Current Edition
NFPA 1006, Standard for Rescue Technician Professional Qualifications, Current Edition
NFPA 1061, Standard for Professional Qualifications for Public Safety Telecommunicator, Current
Edition
NFPA 1201, Standard for Providing Emergency Services to the Public, Current Edition
NFPA 1403, Standard on Live Fire Training Evolutions, Current Edition
NFPA 1404, Standard for Fire Service Respiratory Protection Training, Current Edition
NFPA 1410, Standard on Training for Initial Emergency Scene Operations, Current Edition
NFPA 1521, Standard for Fire Department Safety Officer, Current Edition
NFPA 1561, Standard on Emergency Services Incident Management System, Current Edition
NFPA 1581, Standard on Fire Department Infection Control Program, Current Edition
NFPA 1911, Standard for the Inspection, Maintenance, Testing, and Retirement of In-Service
Automotive Fire Apparatus, Current Edition
NFPA 1971, Standard on Protective Ensembles for Structural Fire Fighting and Proximity Fire
Fighting, Current Edition
NFPA 1975, Standard on Station/Work Uniforms for Fire and Emergency Services, Current Edition

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES-FD—-Automated Civil Engineer System-Fire Department
AEF—-Air Expeditionary Forces
AF—-Air Force
AFCESA—-Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                     49


AFCESA/CEXF—-Office of the Chief, Air Force FES
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFIMS—-Air Force Incident Management System
AFMS—-Air Force Manpower Standard
AFOSH—-Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—-Air Force Restoration Information System
AFPD—-Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—-Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—-Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSC—-Air Force Specialty Code
AFTO—-Air Force Technical Order
AHJ—-Authority Having Jurisdiction
ALS—-Aircrew Life Support
AMO—-Adjusted Manpower for Operations
ANG—-Air National Guard
AOSWG—-Air Operations and Services Working Group
ARFF—-Aircraft Rescue and Fire fighting
ART—-Aggregate Response Time
AS—-Allowance Standard
BAS—-Basic Allowance for Subsistence
BCE—-Base Civil Engineer (Fire Marshal)
BEEF—-Basic Engineer Emergency Force
CBRNE—-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosives
CE—-Civil Engineer
CECP—-Civil Engineer Career Program
CEFP—-Civil Engineer Fire Panel
CEPC—-Civil Engineer Policy Council
CEO—-Civil Engineer Operations
CEP—-Civil Engineer Programs
CES—-Civil Engineer Squadron
CFM—-Career Field Manager
CFR—-Code of Federal Regulations
 50                              AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


CFRP—-Crash Fire Rescue Panel (NATO)
CLS—-Critical Level of Service
COP—-Community of Practice
CPR—-Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
DOD—-Department of Defense
DoDI—-Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—-Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA—-Defense Support to Civil Authorities
ECC—-Emergency Communications Center
EM—-Emergency Management
EMS—-Emergency Medical Services
EMT-B—-Emergency Medical Technician - Basic
ETL—-Engineering Technical Letters
ETRC—-Engineer and Training Review Council
FAD—-Force Activity Designator
FDZ—-Fire Demand Zone
FES—-Fire Emergency Services
FESAP—-Fire Emergency Services Assessment Program
FESCP—-Fire Emergency Services Certification Program
F&ESWG—-Fire and Emergency Services Working Group
FFVMP—-Fire fighting Vehicle Modernization Plan
FOA—-Field Operating Agency
FRD—-Fire Response District
FSD—-Fire Safety Deficiencies
GS—0081--Fire Protection and Prevention Series
HazMat—-Hazardous Materials
HSPD-5—-Homeland Security Presidential Directive 5
IAW—-In Accordance With
IC—-Incident Commander
ICS—-Incident Command System
IDLH—-Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health
IFSAC—-International Fire Service Accreditation Congress
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                      51


IG—-Inspector General
IMS—-Incident Management System
ISO—-Incident Safety Officer
LOS—-Levels of Service
MAJCOM—-Major Command (includes representative of the ANG)
MAJCOM/A7C—-Major Command Civil Engineer
MAJCOM CC—-Major Command Commander
MOA—-Memorandum of Agreement
NATO—-North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NFIRS—-National Fire Incident Reporting System
NFPA—-National Fire Protection Association
NIMS—-National Incident Management System
NWCG—-National Wildfire Coordinating Group
OLS—-Optimum Level of Service
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—-Operational Risk Management
OSHA—-Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PCS—-Permanent Change of Station
PMF—-Position Manpower Factor
PPE—-Personal Protective Equipment
ProBoard—-National Professional Qualifications Standards Board
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
RIT—-Rapid Intervention Team
RLS—-Reduced Level of Service
SCBA—-Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus
SECAF—-Secretary of the Air Force
SFO—-Senior Fire Official
SORC—-Standard of Response Coverage
SJA—-Staff Judge Advocate
STANAGs—-Standardization Agreements
Std—-Standard
TIG—-Technical Implementation Guide
 52                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


TM—-Technical Manager
TO—-Technical Order
USAF—-United States Air Force
USAF/A7C—-The Civil Engineer
USAF/A7CX—-Readiness Plans Division
VTAC—-Vehicle Transportation Acquisition Council
WFPM—-Wildland Fire Management Program
WMD—-Weapons of Mass Destruction
WR-ALC—-Warner Robins Air Logistics Center

Terms
Adjusted Manpower for Operations (AMO)—is the total number of operations personnel needed to
accomplish all fire ground tasks without multi-tasking. AMO is determined by dividing the total
authorizations for operations by the manpower availability factor 2.64. The result is the number of
personnel expected for duty when all authorized personnel are available. The AMO is based on typical
structural and aircraft firefighting tasks.
Aggregate Response Times (ART)—-Total of dispatch time, turnout time, and travel time. The time
elapsed from the receipt of the emergency alarm to when the units arrive on scene.
Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Vehicle—Vehicles designed to deliver and dispense fire
fighting agents on fires involving aircraft or liquid fuels
Air Force Fire Emergency Services Community of Practice (AF FES CoP)—The official web site
for AF FES.
Automated Civil Engineer System – Fire Department (ACES-FD)—A comprehensive and
automated dispatch system, and data collection and retrieval system mandatory for use in all AF FES
flights excluding expeditionary flights.
Critical Level of Service (CLS)—The level of capability when resources available provide at least one
appropriate vehicle and crew to each FDZ within the response time standard. Although acceptable, CLS
is the absolute minimum level of service and should only be allowed for short durations. At this level
firefighting forces can provide rescue and quick fire attack operations for a short duration. Firefighting
crews may provide limited search and rescue, and property conservation during this period; however,
these operational capabilities cannot be sustained without additional resources.
DoD Component—USAF, USA, USN, USMC, and the Defense Logistics Agency
DoD Fire Emergency Services Certification System (FESCS)—A nationally accredited system that
validates training received by DoD emergency responders and issues certifications.
Fire Demand Zone (FDZ)—A specific area within a fire district that demands similar resources, tactics
and strategy to manage FES events.
Fire District—The geographical area that a fire station serves.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                    53


Fire Vehicles—Emergency response vehicles designed to pump or carry fire extinguishing agents to the
scene of a fire, transport specialized equipment required for FES operations, or provide command and
control capability. Fire vehicles include command, pumper, rescue, HazMat, aerial, or ARFF vehicles.
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)—-A national organization, recognized as the authority
for all matters involving fire emergencies that publishes national consensus standards and the National
Fire Codes.
National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS)—A national database of emergency response data,
owned by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
and managed by the United States Fire Administration. NFIRS is the mandatory central depository used
by all DoD FES response organizations. ACES-FD sends response data to the Naval Safety Center for
population of the NFIRS database.
Optimum Level of Service (OLS)—The level of service available when 90 to 100 percent of AMO
required resources (vehicles set to provide required agent, required discharge capacity; and required
manpower for fireground capability) are available. At the OLS, a maximum level of service can be
continuously provided, when determined appropriate by the Fire Chief. During OLS, firefighting forces
are capable of providing all services continuously throughout an event with reasonable expectation of
successful offensive fire attack operations, search and rescue, and property conservation.
Reduced Level of Service (RLS)—The level of FES capability that exceeds the critical but is less than
the optimum level of service. During this level adequate firefighting capability can be provided by
utilizing cross staffing, selective response and sound fireground tactics. At the RLS, firefighting forces
should be successful in offensive fire attack operations, search and rescue, and property conservation;
however, operations may not be sustainable throughout an event without additional resources.
Senior Fire Official (SFO)—The senior official at the scene of an emergency.
 54                               AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                     Attachment 1 (460SW)
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(460SW) DOD 4145.19-R-2, Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gasses and
Their Full and Empty Cylinders, 16 June 2000
(460SW) AFI 32-1001, Operations Management, 1 September 2005
(460SW) AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
(460SW) AFI 32-6007, Privatized Family Housing, 1 June 2005
(460SW) AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
(460SW) AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
(460SW) AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 1 June 1996
(460SW) AFOSH STD 91-5, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, 1 May 1997
(460SW) AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
(460SW) AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials Handling, 1
September 2005
(460SW) AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standard, 17 November 2008
(460SW) NFPA 13E, Recommended Practice for Fire Department Operations in Properties Protected
by Sprinkler and Standpipe Systems
(460SW) NFPA 70, National Electrical Code
(460SW) NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
Operations
(460SW) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(460SW) FM—-Factory Mutual
(460SW) NEC—-National Electrical Code
(460SW) POL—-Petroleum, oil, propane
(460SW) RAC—-Risk Assessment Code
(460SW) UL—-Underwriters Laboratory
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                       55


                                              Attachment 2
                                    FES RESPONSE REPORTING

A2.1. Initial Notification:
   A2.1.1. Within 6 hours of the beginning of a significant FES emergency event, provide notification
   to AFCESA/CEXF and Command FES office by phone (after duty hours) or email (during duty
   hours). Significant FES emergency events result in:
       A2.1.1.1. A loss of $50,000 or more to military family housing (combined Air Force and non-
       Air Force loss). NOTE: Report responses to privatized or leased housing incidents as mutual
       assistance responses when US Air Force organizations provide initial response services.
       A2.1.1.2. A loss of $100,000 or more (combined Air Force and non-Air Force loss).
       A2.1.1.3. Loss of life or lost time injury due to a fire related event.
       A2.1.1.4. Injury to FES personnel occurred during the emergency operation.
       A2.1.1.5. Adverse public reaction.
       A2.1.1.6. Mutual aid responses that require extensive use of personnel or equipment to suppress
       major fires, assist in mass injury or casualty recovery, or have significant public impact potential.
       A2.1.1.7. Any event that that generates OPREP 3.
A2.1.1.8. The commander or a designated representative, normally the Fire Chief, ensures telephone
reporting of emergency responses to HQ AFSPC/A4/7XF within 4 hours after emergency response
efforts are initiated. In addition to requirements found in AFI 32-2001, report all fire losses in excess of
$10,000; lost-time injuries to fire protection personnel incurred during emergency operations and
vehicular accidents occurring during emergency response.
   A2.1.2. Initial notification methods:
       A2.1.2.1. During normal duty hours (0700-1600 Central Standard Time), the MAJCOM, FOA,
       or base FES office will up-channel information by email (designate as high importance) to
       afcesa.cexf@tyndall.af.mil. Attach the report generated by the Fire Emergency Response
       Notification System (FERNS) (available at the AF FES CoP). When email is not immediately
       available, summarize the FERNS report by phone to a AFCESA/CEXF staff member at DSN
       523-6151/ 6112/6159/6214/6221 or commercial (850) 283-6151/6112/6159/6214/6221, using
       priority precedence.
       A2.1.2.2. After normal duty hours (1600-0700 Central Standard Time), the MAJCOM, FOA, or
       base FES office sends an email as indicated in A3.1.2.1, then summarizes the FERNS report to a
       AFCESA/CEXF staff member using the division cell phone at (850) 691-7637.
           A2.1.2.2.1. If unable to make contact via cell phone, contact the 325th Fighter Wing
           Command Post, Tyndall AFB FL, DSN 523-2155/2023 or commercial (850) 283-2155/2023,
           and request contact with the AFCESA FES representative.
   A2.1.3. AFCESA/CEXF notifies USAF/A7CX, DSN 664-3942 or 664-3849 of significant FES
   events when appropriate.
   56                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


 A2.2. Interim Updates. The Fire Chief, ensures that a AFCESA/CEXF staff member is notified of
 significant events in progress for more than six hours, or when such events have not concluded within 12
 hours.
 A2.3. Final Notification by Email. Within 12 hours following a significant FES event, the Fire Chief
 through the Fire Marshal, will coordinate an email and forward to the Command FES office and
 AFCESA.CEXF@tyndall.af.mil. Attach the complete FERNS report to this email.
 A2.4. Final Report. The Fire Chief, will complete a report within five business days for all responses
 through ACES-FD to the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS).
 A2.5. Saves Report. The Fire Chief will evaluate each emergency operation to determine if a save
 resulted. A save is when the direct action of firefighters saved a life, prevented further injury or made a
 rescue, saved property from fire or prevented/avoided a direct loss to the AF. More specific instructions
 and the Saves Report are available at the AF FES CoP. Complete the Saves Report and forward to the
 Command FES office who in-turn will forward to AFCESA.CEXF@tyndall.af.mil no later that 72
 hours after the event.

 Table A2.1. QUICK REFERENCE CHART.
WHAT/WITHIN                 REPORT TO                MEANS               CONTACT INFO
Initial notification within AFCESA/CEXF              Phone               (850) 691-7637
6 Hours                     Command FES Staff
Interim update every 6 AFCESA/CEXF                   Phone               (850) 691-7637
Hours during emergency Command FES Staff
operations
Final notification within AFCESA/CEXF                Email with FERNS Fire Marshal, Command FES
12 Hours after the FES Command FES Staff             report attached  Office,
operations conclude                                                   AFCESA.CEXF@tyndall.af.mil
Final Report within 5       National Fire Incident   ACES-FD          N/A
Business days               Reporting System
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                                 57


                                                       Attachment 3
             RESPONSE TIME AND LEVELS OF SERVICES FOR FES OPERATIONS

A3.1. Title.

Figure A3.1. Title.
PROGRAM ELEMENT                                O =OLS2 R      ART          RATE (%)6 COMPANIES7         STAFF
                                               =RLS3 C        (minutes)5
                                               =CLS4
Structural Fire
   First Arriving Company                        C            7            90         1                 4
   Initial Full Alarm Assignment                 O            12           90         3                 13
Other Fire Response/Investigative Response
   First Arriving Company                        C            7            90         1                 4
HazMat/CBRNE
   First Arriving Company             (Defensive C            7            90         1                 4
Operations)
   Full Alarm Assignment             (Offensive O             22           90         3                 15
Operations)
Emergency Medical
   8
     First Arriving Company (basic life support O             7            90         1                 2
(BLS) with automatic external defibrillator
(AED)) (no EMT)
  Transport Unit (BLS with AED)                  N/A          10           90         1                 2
   Advanced Life Support (ALS) Capability        N/A          12           90         1                 2
ARFF
   Unannounced First Arriving Company            C            5            90         1                 3
   9
     Announced First Arriving Company            C            1            90         1                 3
   Additional Units should arrive at 30-                      -            -          -                 -
second intervals
Technical Rescue
   First Arriving Company                        C            7            90         1                 4
   Full Alarm Assignment                         O            22           90         3                 13
Wildfire
   As required to meet Installation Wildland                  -            -          -                 -
Fire Management Plan
Other Response
   10
      As required to meet NFPA standard, other                -            -          -                 -
consensus standard or installation standard of
cover
1
  This table may deviate from NFPA standards based on historical risk profile of DoD installations.
2
  OLS is the Optimum Level of Service (see paragraph 2.7.)
3
  RLS is the Reduced Level of Service (see paragraph 2.7.)
4
  CLS is the Critical Level of Service (see paragraph 2.7.)
5
  Aggregate response time (ART) consists of dispatch time, turnout time and travel time.
6
  Percent of responses completed within the ART.
7
  Indicates the minimum number of companies and personnel required to safely and effectively perform initial
operations for the respective program element. These resources may not provide sustainment capability and or
sufficient resources for major incidents. A company consists of firefighters and vehicles that arrive together and
are under the same leadership.
8
  EMS support is provided if resources are available
    58                               AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011

9
 Assumes pre-positioned units for an announced emergency; ARFF apparatus will be capable of responding to
any incident on the runways within 1 minute.
10
   Non-core missions that reduce capability below the CLS must be supported by an ORM plan approved by the
installation commander
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                   59


                                            Attachment 4
                                 DETERMINING RISK PERIODS

A4.1. Method to determine the higher risk response periods:
   A4.1.1. Step 1: Using response data from NFIRS, determine highest number of responses in an
   hour: 5171 in the example below.
   A4.1.2. Step 2: Determine 50 percent of Step 1: 2586 in the example below.
   A4.1.3. Hours with 2586 responses or more are in the higher risk period.
   A4.1.4. Hours with less than 2586 responses are in the lower risk period.
A4.2. Black line indicates break point in this example.
   A4.2.1. In this example, the period from 0700 – 1800 is the higher risk period and accounts for over
   67 percent of the total emergency responses. Note that this chart represents the average responses for
   a year, which includes holiday periods. Considered separately, holiday periods are very low risk.

Figure A4.1. Risk Response Period.




A4.3. FES Capability Charts. The following chart illustrates the variation in capability according to
the number of firefighters available to respond to an incident within a Fire Demand Zone (FDZ). The
Incident Commander (IC) determines the required vehicles and manpower based on the type and
magnitude of the incident. Further, the IC determines the type of resources needed, when and where they
 60                                 AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


are deployed, and personnel required to accomplish fire ground tasks. The following list of positions and
capabilities shall be considered at each FES event:
   A4.3.1. Incident Commander
   A4.3.2. Rapid Intervention Team (RIT)
   A4.3.3. Scene Safety Officer
   A4.3.4. Accountability Officer
   A4.3.5. Vehicle Operators
   A4.3.6. Attack Lines
   A4.3.7. Back Up Handlines
   A4.3.8. Truck Company (Rescue/Ventilation/etc).

Figure A4.2. FES Capabilities.
                     PERSONNEL LEVELS OF SERVICE
STRUCTURAL           AMO    OLS RLS                  CLS
Fire Fighters in FDZ 14     13     12 11 10 9   8    7
ARFF SET 1-3         AMO    OLS RLS                                   CLS
Fire Fighters in FDZ 15     14     13 12 11 10 9     8                7
ARFF SET 4           AM0    OLS        RLS                                             CLS
Fire Fighters in FDZ 18     17     16 15 14 13 12 11                  10     9    8    7
ARFF SET 5           AM0    OLS        RLS                                                   CLS
Fire Fighters in FDZ 19     18     17 16 15 14 13 12                  11     10   9    8     7
ARFF SET 6           AM0    OLS        RLS                                                         CLS
Fire Fighters in FDZ 20     19     18 17 16 15 14 13                  12     11   10   9     8     7
VEHICLE LEVELS OF SERVICE
ARFF Agent                    OLS           RLS                                   CLS
ARFF Agent Available          Q3 to 90%     89% to 50% Q3                         49% to 0% Q3
Structural GPM                OLS           RLS                                   CLS
Agent Available               Q3 to 90%     89% to 50% Q3                         49% to 0% Q3
       1. The adjusted manpower for operations (AMO) is based on personnel assigned to operations
          on a 72 hour work week. The position manpower factor (PMF) 2.634 is multiplied against
          the number of firefighters required to perform fire ground operations based on structural
          firefighting, aircraft category and the vehicle set. It further factors the .634 as unavailable
          personnel          due         to          Kelly-days         and         other        absences.
          Example: AMO 20 x 2.634 = 53 FF
       2.               Management/Administration                                    =       11         FF
          Total Authorization               = 64 FF
       3. At the optimum level of service (OLS) 90% to 100% of the AMO and agent required for
          Q1+Q2+Q3 (NFPA 403) is available. At this level, sufficient capability exists to accomplish
          all tasks required to manage typical FES incidents.
       4. At the reduced level of service (RLS), essential tasks can be accomplished but multi-tasking
          will be required and sustaining operation will become increasingly difficult as manpower
          decreases and/or the incident escalates
       5. The critical level of service (CLS) is the minimum capability that must be maintained at all
          times. At this level of capability, firefighters can accomplish quick attack (two hose lines) but
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                 61


       cannot sustain operations beyond the initial agent capacity of fire vehicles. This level of ser-
       vice is reserved for only short-durations necessitated by unanticipated personnel absences
       and equipment failure and/or very low risk periods such as holidays. CLS is further defined
       as the first arriving company at remote and outlying areas where additional resources may
       not arrive within 12 minutes.
 62                                  AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                              Attachment 5
 SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTION AND
            HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT RESPONSE (US)

This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 20XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD Component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856a and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention and hazardous materials incident
response, in the protection of life and property from fire, hazardous materials incident and in fire
fighting. It is agreed that:
    a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a
    representative of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the
    (insert name of installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which
    the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides fire protection or hazardous materials
    incident response as designated by the representatives of the (insert name of fire organization).

   b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
   (insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment or hazardous materials incident
   response and personnel of the (insert name of fire organization) will be dispatched to any point
   within the fire fighting or hazardous materials incident response jurisdiction of the (insert name of
   installation) fire department as designated by the representative of the (insert name of installation)
   fire department.
   c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following
   conditions:
         (1) Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equipment
        and personnel requested and shall specify the location to which the equipment and personnel are
        to be dispatched, but the amount and type of equipment and the number of personnel to be fur-
        nished shall be determined by a representative of the responding organization.
         (2) The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting
        organization at the location to which the equipment is dispatched, and shall be subject to the
        orders of that official.
         (3) A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the services
        of the responding organization are no longer required or when the responding organization is
        needed within the area for which it normally provides fire protection.
        (4) In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military
        aircraft of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization)
        normally provides fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or
        his or her representative may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.
        (5) here local agencies do not assign an incident safety officer, an Air Force representative will
        be assigned to act as the incident safety officer for (insert name of installation) to observe Air
        Force operations.
   d. (Insert name of fire service) may claim reimbursement for the direct expenses and losses that are
   additional fire fighting or hazardous materials incident costs above the normal operating costs
   incurred while fighting a fire or hazardous materials incident response under this agreement as pro-
   vided in 44 CFR Part 151, Reimbursement for Costs of Fire Fighting on Federal Property.
   e. Both parties agree to implement the National Incident Management System during all emergency
   responses on and off installations in accordance with NFPA 1561.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                      63


    f. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
    sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement. This
    provision does not waive any right of reimbursement pursuant to paragraph d above.
    g. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will, at the
    time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of fire
    organization) under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or volunteer
    member of (insert name of fire organization).
For (insert name of fire organization);                                              For the Secretary of
the (insert name of DoD Component)

_______________________________
      ______________________________________________
            (TITLE)                                                         (COMMANDER)
 64                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                               Attachment 6
                          SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR
                        MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTION (FOREIGN)

NOTE: In some overseas locations, the requirements listed in this mutual aid agreement may need to be
incorporated in a Memorandum of Understanding in lieu of using this format.

This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 20XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856a and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is for securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention, in the protection of life and
property from fire, and in fire fighting. It is agreed that:
    a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a
    representative of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the
    (insert name of installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which
    the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides fire protection as designated by the
    representative of the (insert name of fire organization).
    b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
    (insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert
    name of fire organization) will be dispatched to any point within the fire fighting jurisdiction of the
    (insert name of installation) fire department as designated by the representative of the (insert name
    of installation) fire department.
    c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following
    conditions:
         (1)      Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equip-
         ment and personnel requested, and shall specify the location to which the equipment and person-
         nel are to be dispatched, but the amount and type of equipment and number of personnel to be
         furnished shall be determined by a representative of the responding organization.
         (2)      The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting organi-
         zation at the location to which the equipment is dispatched and shall be subject to the orders of
         that official.
         (3)      A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the ser-
         vices of the responding organization are no longer required, or when the responding organization
         is needed within the area for which it normally provides fire protection.
         (4)      In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military
         aircraft of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization) nor-
         mally provides fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or his
         or her representative may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.
    d. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
    sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement.
           e. No party shall be reimbursed by any other party for any costs incurred pursuant to this
           agreement.
           f. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will,
           at the time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of
           fire organization) under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or
           volunteer member of (insert name of fire organization).
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                          65


For (insert name of fire organization);                    For the
Secretary of the (insert name of DoD Component)

______________________________
      ______________________________________________
            (TITLE)                                    (COMMANDER)
 66                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                           Attachment 7
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE
           FOR CIVIL AIRPORT JOINT-USE AGREEMENTS

(Insert Name of Airport Operator) agrees to release, acquit, and forever discharge the United
States, its officers, agents, and employees, for all liability arising out of or connected with the use
of United States equipment or personnel for fire control, crash, and rescue activities at or in the
vicinity of (insert name of airport), and (insert name of airport operator) further agrees to
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the United States, its officers, agents, and employees
against any and all claims, of whatever description, arising out of or connected with such use of
United States equipment or personnel. The agreements contained in the preceding sentence do
not extend to claims arising out of or connected with services rendered solely for the protection
of United States property or personnel, or to claims for damages caused solely by the negligence
or willful misconduct of its officers, agents, or employees of the United States, without con-
tributory fault on the part of any person, firm, or corporation; provided, however, that insofar as
this paragraph may be inconsistent with the waiver or claims provisions contained in any
reciprocal agreement for mutual aid in furnishing fire protection heretofore or hereafter entered
into by the lesser with any agency of the United States pursuant to Public Law 84-46 (42 U.S.C.
1856, et seq.), the rights and obligations of the parties shall be governed by said waiver of claims
provision and not by this paragraph.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                           67


                                   Attachment 8
                     FIREFIGHTER PROFESSIONAL GEAR

    Item                                                   Quantity
    Military Firefighters, NFPA 1975 Compliant BDUs/ABUs   4
    Gloves, Firefighter, Aluminized                        1
    SCBA Mask                                              1
    SCBA Mask Bag                                          1
    Boots, Firefighter Structural                          1
    Boots, Firefighter ARFF                                1
    Helmet, Firefighter Modified Structural (ARFF)         1
    Suspenders, Trousers                                   1
    PPE Coat and Liner, Firefighter                        1
    PPE Trouser and Liner, Firefighter                     1
    Gloves, Structural                                     1
    Gloves, Nomex                                          1
    Hood, Heat Protective Flash Nomex                      1
    Bag Kit Flyers A-3                                     1
 68                                AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                               Attachment 9 (Added-AFSPC)
       ICBM FACILITIES AND TRANSPORT VEHICLE FIRE PROTECTION

A9.1. (AFSPC) Pre-Incident Planning For ICBM Facilities: (Launch Facilities (LF),
Launch Control Centers (LCC), Launch Control Equipment Buildings (LCEB), Missile Alert
Facilities (MAF), and Missile Transport Incidents)
   A9.1.1. (AFSPC) At least semi-annually, the Base Fire Chief will ensure each community
   fire department supporting ICBM facilities is contacted to verify emergency reporting phone
   numbers and emergency response capabilities, e.g. fire, hazardous materials, emergency
   medical services, confined space rescue, high-angle rescue, etc. The contact and capability
   listing will be maintained in the Emergency Communications Center (ECC).
   A9.1.2. (AFSPC) Each community fire department supporting ICBM facilities will be
   provided the following information. Comply with DODD 5210.83, Department of Defense
   Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information for routine release of Unclassified Controlled
   Nuclear Information to emergency responders.
      A9.1.2.1. (AFSPC) On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation)
      fire department by a representative of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting
      equipment and personnel of the (insert name of installation) fire department will be
      dispatched to any point within the are for which the (insert name of fire organization)
      normally provides fire protection or hazardous materials incident response as designated
      by the representatives of the (insert name of fire organization).
      A9.1.2.2. (AFSPC) Floor plans and fire protection features of MAF, LCC, LCEB and
      LF.
      A9.1.2.3. (AFSPC) Entry access procedures (coordinated with Security Forces).
      A9.1.2.4. (AFSPC) Isolation/Evacuation distances and hazards for MAF, LCC, LF and
      transportation incidents.
      A9.1.2.5. (AFSPC) ICBM Transport-vehicles description and hazards.
      A9.1.2.6. (AFSPC) Helicopter firefighting and rescue guidance (include other
      applicable aircraft guidance emergency information as required)
      A9.1.2.7. (AFSPC) Copies of Material Safety Data Sheets.
      A9.1.2.8. (AFSPC) Procedures to request reimbursement for services rendered IAW
      44CFR, Part 151, Reimbursement for costs of firefighting on Federal property.
      A9.1.2.9. (AFSPC) Other site-specific information as appropriate.
   A9.1.3. (AFSPC) On-site LCC, LCEB, MAF, LF and Transport Vehicle familiarization
   training will be offered to local community emergency responders at least annually.
   A9.1.4. (AFSPC) Wing emergency response plans will include:
      A9.1.4.1. (AFSPC) Expeditious transport of the Initial Response Element (IRE) to
      ICBM incidents.
      A9.1.4.2. (AFSPC) Rescue of injured personnel from below-ground facilities.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                 69


      A9.1.4.3. (AFSPC) Missile transport vehicle hazards and firefighting procedures.
A9.2. (AFSPC) Missile Alert Facility (MAF) Manger Training:
   A9.2.1. (AFSPC) MAF Managers will receive initial (upon appointment) and annual
   refresher training from Base Fire Prevention personnel on the inspection and use of facility
   fire extinguishers and standpipe systems, fire alarm systems, suppressions systems and
   fire/emergency reporting procedures. Firefighting efforts by occupants may be attempted
   only when the fire can be safely fought with handheld fire extinguishers or small hose lines
   (incipient stage firefighting). Firefighting efforts requiring the use of sell-contained
   breathing apparatus and firefighter protective clothing will not be attempted by facility
   occupants unless trained to the fire brigade level. (29 CFR 1910.156, Fire Brigades, NFPA
   600, Standard on Industrial Fire Brigades)
   A9.2.2. (AFSPC) Facility occupants will be instructed to immediately contact the Base Fire
   Department when reporting fire-related emergencies. The ECC will in turn contact the
   appropriate community response agency. The ECC will maintain a list of ICM facilities with
   pre-identified emergency response organizations and capabilities.        Flight Security
   Controllers, crew members and facility managers will be briefed on the importance of
   immediate emergency reporting and expected response times.
   A9.2.3. (AFSPC) The Base Fire Chief will ensure facilities Fire Reporting and Facility Fire
   Inspection checklists are current, fire evacuation drills are conducted annually and fire
   reporting numbers are clearly posted.
A9.3. (AFSPC) Inspection, Testing and Repair of installed Fire Protection Systems:
   A9.3.1. (AFSPC) The Civil Engineer Operations Chief will ensure qualified personnel
   perform an operations check of installed fire detection systems IAW UFC 3-600-02,
   Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire Protection
   Systems.
   A9.3.2. (AFSPC) Fire detection/suppression system maintenance records will be reviewed
   annually by the Base Fire Prevention office to ensure systems are being maintained IAW
   applicable directives.
   A9.3.3. (AFSPC) Facility managers will perform a monthly visual inspection of the fire
   alarm panel, standpipe system and ensure correct placement and serviceability of fire
   extinguishers. Maintain documentation of inspections and corrective actions for 1 year.
 70                                   AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                                      Attachment 9 (460SW)
                       SAMPLE FIRE REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS



                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                  460TH SPACE WING (AFSPC)


                                                                                        Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 460 XXX/XXX

FROM: Issuing Office
      Address

SUBJECT: Fire Reporting Instructions

1. The following information establishes procedures for reporting a FIRE occurring within Bldg.
#______.

2. Responsibilities: All personnel are required to report all fires to the base Fire and Emergency
Service (F&ES). This will be accomplished whether the fire has already been extinguished or
not. All assigned personnel are responsible for compliance with these instructions.

3. Procedures when there is a fire:

   a. Notify other occupants in the building and/or area.

   b. Call the F&ES:

       1. The fire reporting number is 911 from base telephones or 720-847-9117/9929 on all
cell phones.

      2. Give the building number.

      3. Describe the nature of the emergency.

      4. Give your complete name and phone number.

      5. Do not hang up unless asked to do so by dispatcher.

   c. Make sure everyone has evacuated safely:

4. Have someone meet the F&ES when they arrive to direct him/her to the fire.
AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011                                                            71


5. If the fire is small, use appropriate fire extinguisher to control or extinguish the fire. Report
the fire as identified in AFI 32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP, paragraph 8.2. through
paragraph 8.2.3. This action should only be accomplished if there is no risk of personal injury.
If you are not comfortable trying to extinguish the fire yourself, leave the area and follow the
procedures listed above.
 72                               AFI32-2001_AFSPCSUP_460SWSUP_I 1 MARCH 2011


                             Attachment 10 (Added-AFSPC)
                    WILDLAND FIREFIGHTING REQUIREMENTS

A10.1. (AFSPC) Program requirements are contained in the following standards:
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sep 2004
NFPA 1051, Standard for Wildland Fire Fighter Professional Qualifications, Current Edition
NFPA 1143, Standard for Wildland Fire Management, Current Edition
NFPA 1144, Standard for Reducing Structure Ignition Hazards from Wildland Fire, Current
Edition
NFPA 1906, Standard for Wildland Fire Apparatus, Current Edition
NFPA 1977, Standard on Protective Clothing and Equipment for Wildland Fire Fighting,
Current Edition
