                                     DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                  WASHINGTON, D.C.




OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
                                                                                 AFI36-2301_AFGM2014-01
                                                                                     31 JULY 2014


      MEMORANDUM FOR DISTRIBUTION C
      MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs

      FROM: Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)

      SUBJECT: Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education

              This is a Guidance Memorandum immediately implementing changes to AFI 36-2301,
       Developmental Education. It adds RegAF attendance policy for Squadron Officer School
       (SOS), distance learning enrollments policy, and reserve and guard developmental education
       processes. Guard and Reserve policies were previously contained in AFI 36-2254, Reserve
       Personnel Training and ANGI 36-2301, Air National Guard Bureau Professional Military
       Education, and includes changes to enlisted professional military education (EPME) policy.
       Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its directions are inconsistent
       with other publications; the information herein prevails in accordance with AFI 33-360,
       Publications and Forms Management.

            See attachments 1, 2, 3, and 4 for changes. If you have questions, please contact Lt Col
       Brett Gooden, AF/A1DLE, DSN 612-4116.

           This memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
       memorandum, or upon publication of an Interim Change or rewrite of the affected publication,
       whichever is earlier.




                                                                DANIEL R. SITTERLY
                                                                Principal Deputy Assistance Secretary
                                                                (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)

      4 Attachments:
       1. Developmental Education Policy Changes
       2. Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME) Policy
       3. Developmental Education (DE) Attendance of Air Force Selected Reserve Members
       4. Air National Guard Developmental Education Program
                                        Attachment 1

    REGULAR AIR FORCE OFFICER DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION POLICY
                             CHANGES

A1.1. RegAF Resident Attendance Policy.
    A1.1.1. Squadron Officer School (SOS) Resident Program. All regular AF (RegAF) officers
    in the grade of O-3 will attend resident Basic Developmental Education (BDE) at SOS.
    Exception: Medical Corps (MC) and Dental Corps (DC) are not required to attend.
        A1.1.1.1. Line of the Air Force (LAF) captains must have at least 4 but no more than 7
        years Total Active Federal Commissioned Service (TAFCS) at class start.
        A1.1.1.2. Line of the Air Force Judge Advocate (LAF-J) captains and non-line captains
        from the Chaplain Corps (HC), Medical Service Corps (MSC), Biomedical Science
        Corps (BSC), and Nurse Corps (NC) are excluded from the 4 year minimum TAFCS
        requirement outlined in AFI 36-2301, Table 1.
        A1.1.1.3. This policy does not preclude Senior Raters from sending MC and DC
        captains to the resident program. MC and DC are excluded from the 4 year minimum
        TAFCS requirement outlined in AFI 36-2301, Table 1.
        A1.1.1.4. This policy does not preclude Senior Raters from withholding an SOS in-
        resident opportunity from any sub-performing officers.
        A1.1.1.5. The waiver authority for officers attending SOS in residence beyond 7 years
        TAFCS is IAW AFI 36-2301, paragraph. 8.8.
        A1.1.1.6. The officer’s time in grade (TIG) should be the primary factor to consider
        when determining which captains should attend SOS in residence first.
A1.2. RegAF Distance Learning (DL) Enrollments.
        A1.2.1. Squadron Officer School Distance Learning (SOS DL).
            A1.2.1.1. LAF captains are prohibited from enrolling in the SOS DL course until 7
            years TAFCS.
            A1.2.1.2. LAF-J, HC, and NC officers are prohibited from enrolling in SOS DL
            until 3 years time-in-grade as a captain. MSC and BSC officers must have 2 years
            time-in-grade as a captain to enroll in SOS DL. The waiver authority for captains
            with less than 3 years time-in-grade is IAW AFI 36-2301, paragraph. 8.8.
            A1.2.1.3. MC and DC officers may enroll in SOS DL on or after their date of rank
            to captain.
            A1.2.1.4. The Air University registrar will suspend the enrollment of all currently
            enrolled SOS DL officers who do not meet the enrollment criteria above and have
            not finished Course 22C. An officer in Course 22D who does not meet the SOS DL
            enrollment criteria may elect to suspend their enrollment or finish the course. An
            officer enrolled in the SOS resident program must disenroll from SOS DL. Should
            officers with suspended enrollments meet the SOS DL enrollment criteria at a later
            date, they may be reenrolled and resume work where they left off.
    A1.2.1.5. Officers who complete the resident SOS program are prohibited from
    enrolling or reenrolling in the SOS DL course.
A1.2.2. Air Command and Staff College (ACSC) Distance Learning Enrollments.
    A1.2.2.1. Officers, who are not designated as intermediate developmental education
    (IDE) Selects, may enroll in the ACSC DL course once selected for promotion to
    Major. If these officers are selected to attend an in-residence IDE program, they
    may complete the ACSC DL course if they choose.
    A1.2.2.2. Officers who are designated as IDE Selects are prohibited from enrolling
    in ACSC DL course unless:
    A1.2.2.2.1. The officer is selected to attend a non-JPME Phase I IDE Program.
    These officers will be directed to complete the DL at that time.
    A1.2.2.2.2. The officer is permanently ops-deferred (ops deferred in their last year
    of eligibility) and thus will not go in residence. These officers must complete the
    DL course.
    A1.2.2.2.3. The officer loses their Select Status through Removal for Cause,
    Elimination, or Declination.
A1.2.3. Air War College Distance (AWC) Learning Enrollments.
    A1.2.3.1. Officers, who are not designated as senior developmental education
    (SDE) Selects, may enroll in the AWC DL course once selected for promotion to
    Lieutenant Colonel. If these officers are selected to attend an in-residence SDE
    program, they may complete the AWC DL course if they choose.
    A1.2.3.2. Officers, who are designated as SDE Selects, are prohibited from
    enrolling in AWC DL course unless:
        A1.2.3.2.1. The officers are permanently ops-deferred (ops deferred in their
        last year of eligibility) and thus will not go in residence. These officers must
        complete the DL course.
        A1.2.3.2.2. The officer loses their Select Status through Removal for Cause,
        Elimination, or Declination.
                                        Attachment 2

      ENLISTED PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION (EPME) POLICY

A2. 1. EPME Course Content.
   A2.1.1. EPME learning requirements and course content are determined by the following
   directives:
         CJCSI 1805.01A, Enlisted Professional Military Education Policy
         AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development (Institutional Competencies)
         AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development
         AFI 36-2618, The Enlisted Force Structure
         Air Force Core Values
         Requirements approved by Air Force Learning Committee
   A2.1.2. Basic EPME Requirements. Primary EPME requirements encompass only
   declarative and procedural knowledge required to establish a foundation for continued
   development. These are the minimum learning requirements for Airmen development per
   the Enlisted Force Structure Tiers (Amn, NCO, and SNCO). With the exception of Phase
   1/ALS, these requirements are delivered via Distance Learning (DL) in the EPME model.
   A2.1.3. Comprehensive EPME Requirements. Comprehensive EPME requirements build
   upon the Basic EPME Requirements and encompass required competencies at the
   designated proficiency levels as identified from the sources listed in Para 1.1. In the EPME
   model, the resident ALS, the resident Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA)
   Intermediate Leadership Experience (ILE) and the resident Senior Noncommissioned
   Officer (SNCO) Advanced Leadership Experience (ALE) courses provide educational
   opportunities to achieve higher proficiency levels. AF/A1DL establishes Total Force
   production targets to ensure a deliberate and methodical process to provide a supply of
   ILE/ALE candidates to meet present and future mission demands.
A2.2. EPME Basic Learning Requirements.
   A2.2.1. Air Force EPME is a time-in-service (TIS)-based model that ensures targeted
   delivery of institutional competencies (ICs) throughout the Continuum of Learning across an
   enlisted Airman’s career. Basic EPME Requirements will be developed in three phases
   across an Airman’s career (Table A2.1).
       A2.2.1.1. Phase 1. Phase 1 is the resident Airman Leadership School (ALS), which
       meets all EPME requirements (basic and comprehensive) at the 3-6 year TIS window.
       RegAF Airmen must complete and pass Phase 1 to be eligible to enroll in Phase 2
       EPME. Air Reserve Component (ARC) Airmen may accomplish ALS via DL and/or
       via the resident or satellite program.
       A2.2.1.2. Phase 2. Phase 2 meets the basic requirements for NCOs beginning at the 7-
       12 year TIS window. All RegAF and ARC Airmen must enroll within the TIS window.
       Failure to enroll, complete, and pass Phase 2 within one year of enrollment renders
       Airmen ineligible to reenlist and compete for promotion until this requirement is met.
       The ARC will determine the consequences for failure to complete required Phase 2
       within established timeframes. Once enrolled, Airmen with extenuating circumstances
          (i.e., deployments, medical, or humanitarian issues, etc. See paragraphs A2.3.4.1-
          A2.2.3.4.4.) may apply for an extension through the Barnes Center for Enlisted
          Education via the Air University Student Information System (AUSIS). The Barnes
          Center will provide specific extension policies and extension request procedures for each course
          as part of the course introduction within AUSIS.
          A2.2.1.3. Phase 3. Phase 3 meets the basic requirements for SNCOs beginning at the
          12-18 year TIS window. RegAF Airmen must complete and pass Phase 2 to be eligible
          to enroll in Phase 3 Guidance is the same as Phase 2. See promotion policy for guidance
          related to course completion and senior rater endorsement.
Table A2.1. Basic EPME Eligibility.
Course       Delivery                    TIS Eligibility
Phase 1      Resident Airman Leadership  At least 3 years but no more than 6 years TIS
             School
Phase 2      Distance Learning           At least 7 years, but no more than 12 years TIS
Phase 3      Distance Learning           At least 12 years , but no more than 18 years TIS
NOTE 1: Airmen must complete and pass Phase 2 & 3 via DL within one year of enrollment.
NOTE 2: ANG members must complete Phase 1 DL within 3 to 6 years TIS. Members with 4
to 6 years have priority

    A2.2.2. Airman’s Time Policy for EPME DL.
          A2.2.2.1. Unit/squadron commanders (or equivalent) must provide a work environment
          that supports force development. Commanders will establish written policy that
          describes their unit Force Development Program, to include EPME DL. Taking mission
          requirements into consideration, commanders will attempt to schedule or authorize
          Airmen time to participate in force development during the duty day.
          A2.2.2.2. ARC members will receive points for completion of DL as determined by
          their respective component. ARC unit/squadron commanders must be sensitive to
          Airmen’s time and may allow time during Unit Training Assembly weekend to work on
          required EPME course material.
A2.3. Comprehensive EPME Eligibility.
 A2.3.1. Phase 1 EPME. The ALS resident program delivers both basic and comprehensive
learning requirements. The ALS DL course is available for ARC Airmen and meets all basic
requirements.
    A2. 3.2. Phase 2 EPME NCOA ILE is a resident opportunity that delivers comprehensive
    learning requirements. This opportunity is available to Airmen, who meet minimum
    requirements, TIS eligibility, and are selected for targeted development as outlined in Table
    A2.2.
Table A2.2. EPME ILE Comprehensive Learning Eligibility, Phase 2
Total Force   Minimum Requirements                    TIS Eligibility   Selection Process
Component
RegAF         Complete & pass resident ALS            Minimum 8         1. TSgts
              Complete & pass EPME Phase 2 DL         years TIS; no     2. TSgt-selects
                                                      more than 12      3. Non-selects to TSgt
                                                      years TIS         across AFSCs, from
                                                                        highest WAPS score
                                                                        descending until class
                                                                        seats have been filled
ANG           Complete & pass ALS (resident or        Minimum of 8      TSgts are eligible.
              DL)                                     years and not
              Complete & pass EPME Phase 2 DL         more than 14
                                                      years TIS
AFR            Complete & pass ALS (resident or       Minimum of 8 TSgts are eligible;
               DL)                                    years and not    AFRC internal
               Complete & pass EPME Phase 2 DL more than 14            selection process
                                                      years TIS
NOTE: For RegAF, AFPC/DPSIT controls the eligibility list and selects attendees based on this
AFI and any additional guidance provided by AF/A1DLE. AFPC/DPSIT will coordinate with
PACAF/A1K and USAFE/A1K to establish eligibility list and determine scheduling processes
that ensure compliance and meet unique overseas requirements.

   A2.3.3. Phase 3 EPME SNCOA ALE is the advanced resident opportunity that delivers
   comprehensive learning requirements. This opportunity is available to Airmen; who meet
   minimum requirements, TIS eligibility, and are selected for targeted development. These are
   defined in Table A2.3.
Table A2.3. EPME ALE Comprehensive Learning Eligibility, Phase 3
Total Force Minimum                   TIS Eligibility        Selection Process
Component Requirements
RegAF       Complete & pass           Minimum 13 years     1. All SMSgts
            Phase 2 and 3 EPME        TIS; no more than    2. SMSgt-selects
            DL                        18 years TIS         3. Non-selects to SMSgt across
                                                           AFSCs, from highest WAPS
                                                           score descending until class seats
                                                           are filled
ANG           Complete & pass        Minimum of 12         1. SMSgt or MSgts in a SMSgt
              Phase 3 EPME DL        years TIS; no more    position
                                     than 18               2. MSgt until class seats are filled
                                                           3. Selected from NGB internal
                                                           process
AFR           Complete & pass        Minimum of 12         SMSgt or MSgts in a SMSgt
              Phase 3 EPME DL        years TIS; no more    position; AFRC internal selection
                                     than 18               process
NOTE: For RegAF, AFPC/DPSIT controls the eligibility list and selects attendees based on this
AFI and any additional guidance provided by AF/A1DLE. AFPC/DPSIT will coordinate with
PACAF/A1K and USAFE/A1K to establish scheduling processes that ensure compliance and
meet unique overseas requirements.

   A2.3.4. Once notified of selection, Airmen are required to attend; they may not defer
   attendance except for valid mission, medical or humanitarian reasons. Deferment requests
   require solid justification, wing command chief coordination/concurrence, and wing
   commander (or equivalent) approval.
       A2.3.4.1. Mission deferment: The individual scheduled to attend is indispensable to the
       mission; in short, the mission will be severely degraded without his/her presence. No
       other individual could stand in or temporarily replace the selected individual.
       A2. 3.4.2. Medical deferment: The individual scheduled to attend has a medical
       condition (including that renders him/her ineligible for course attendance or requires
       on-going treatment, including Mental Health counseling and ADAPT program) that
       would be detrimental if interrupted. EPME commandants will determine the member’s
       eligibility based on the school’s ability to accommodate the member’s medical
       condition and an overall assessment of the member’s ability to meet the course
       objectives.
             A2.3.4.2.1. Permanent Physical Profile: Members who are on a permanent
             physical restrictive profile that have been returned to duty following a medical
             evaluation board (MEB) are cleared to attend in-residence EPME. First Sergeants
             and Commanders will ensure Airmen coordinate with their local medical
             providers and/or health promotion staff to engage in the fullest physical training
             possible within their 422/469 restrictions during the time allotted for Human
             Performance objectives.
             A2.3.4.2.2. If an Airman on a permanent profile cannot execute any of the
             physical requirements of the Human Performance Lesson Plan (including those
             identified for the Modified Fitness Group); they are to be exempted from those
             physical requirements. This waiver will ensure equal opportunity for all Airmen
             to participate in professional development programs commensurate with
             scheduling procedures outlined in this instruction.
       A2.3.4.3. Humanitarian deferment: The individual scheduled to attend has an unusually
       stressful family or personal situation or an emergency situation with an immediate
       family member as similarly defined under humanitarian reassignment guidance.
       A2.3.4.4. Other deferments/non-recommendations: Unit commanders may request
       deferment/non-recommend individuals for EPME attendance based on extenuating
       circumstances not covered above. Examples may include member‘s poor duty
       performance (not covered under control roster actions but detrimental to the academic
       environment), poor fitness standards or military image, pending disciplinary action,
       under investigation, etc.
   A2.3.5. If selected, personnel serving overseas tours of 15 months or less will be deferred
   from Phase 3 ILE/ALE attendance until tour completion. Members serving overseas tours of
   16 months or longer may attend ILE/ALE from the overseas assignment if they have at least
   one year remaining in the overseas area upon graduation. AFPC/DPS may waive this
   requirement to 120 days remaining in the overseas area upon graduation, if the unit
   commander and MAJCOM A1K (Force Development) approve.
A2.4. Deferment Procedures.
   A2.4.1. Phase 1/ALS: Coordinate unit commander approved deferment requests through the
   respective chain of command to the ALS commandant for coordination, wing command
   chief for coordination and wing commander for approval. Send wing commander approved
   deferments to the ALS NLT 30 days prior to class start date (CSD) for action. The ALS will
   file approved deferments and notify the member‘s unit of the approved deferment.
   (Deferments will be kept on file for two years.) There is no deferment process for ANG. AF
   Reserve (AFR) members may defer once for medical or humanitarian reasons as stated in
   3.4.2 and 3.4.3; all others deferments will no longer be eligible for resident ALS and must
   complete via DL.
   A2.4.2. Phase 2 and 3 ILE/ALE: Coordinate unit commander approved deferment requests
   through the respective chain of command to the member’s wing command chief for
   coordination and wing commander (or equivalent) for approval. Send wing commander
   approved deferments for CONUS resident courses through AFPC/DPSIT (with a copy to
   member‘s MAJCOM/A1 or NGB/HRT for ANG personnel) as soon as possible, but not
   later than 45 days prior to the CSD for action. For PACAF and USAFE schools, process
   wing commander approved deferments through the wing formal training office/appropriate
   MAJCOM A1K (Force Development). There is no deferment for AFR and ANG members
   in Phase 2. ARC members are only allowed one deferment for Phase 3 ALE. ANG
   deferments for Phase 3 will be submitted through the local chain of command to NGB/HRT
   for approval. AFR deferments for Phase 3 will be submitted through local chain of
   command to AFRC/A1KO for approval.
   A2.4.3. Deferments must be kept to an absolute minimum. Members with an approved
   deferment may attend school outside their prescribed window. However, no additional
   deferments may be requested once the member is outside his/her window as described in
   Tables A2.2 and A2.3.
A2. 5. EPME Scheduling Policy.
   A2.5.1. Scheduling EPME for RegAF personnel is the responsibility of AFPC/DPSIT unless
   otherwise noted. ARC will schedule their respective components in coordination with
   AFPC/DPSIT.
   A2.5.2. Phase 1/ALS resident attendance will be scheduled by the local ALS. Commandants
   will ensure the scheduling process meets the following instructions. SSgt promotion release
   will drive scheduling for the year. The following prioritization must be considered when
   scheduling students for ALS. (Exception: Commandants may train lower priority Airmen
   before higher priority Airmen on a case-by-case basis if it does not result in promotion
   withhold for higher priority Airmen.) NGB/HRT will provide opportunities for ALS to the
   State Command Chiefs for distribution within their state.
       A2.5.2.1. Priority 1: All RegAF SSgts and SrA selected for promotion to SSgt. If seats
       are limited, use rank, time in grade and line numbers to drive scheduling priorities. Give
       special consideration to members selected for deployments and short-tour/remote
       assignments. The losing base must schedule for short-tour/remote assignments.
       A2.5.2.2. Priority 2: All RegAF SrA between 3-6 years TIS. Place members with a
       pending assignment or deployment ahead of others.
       A2.5.2.3. Priority 3: ARC Airmen. Schedule these Airmen in coordination with and
       approval of their respective component.
       A2.5.2.4. Priority 4: Eligible Air Force and DoD civilians, sister Service E-4s, and
       approved international students. DoD civilians may take enlisted EPME as consistent
       with AF civilian development policy. Local civilians working closely with the base (e.g.
       law enforcement) may attend ALS with an approved waiver from AF/A1DL.
   A2.5.3. ALS commandants will build an annual schedule shortly after promotion release to
   SSgt. To the extent possible, attempt to distribute Priority 3 and 4 students throughout the
   year to maximize diversity in the classroom. The TIS window for Phase 1 EPME is a
   guideline vice a hard requirement. However, Phases 2 and 3 established windows are
   mandatory.
   A2.5.4. EPME DL Course Enrollment. AFPC/DPSIT will notify all eligible RegAF Airmen
   within 30 days of entering a window where DL is required. This message will provide
   enrollment instructions, required timelines and suspense dates. After prospective students
   receive these instructions, they are accountable for meeting the prescribed requirements in
   the timeline assigned. AFPC/DPSIT will send a roster of all eligible Airmen notified to the
   Barnes Center for Enlisted Education Distance Learning Manager at
   BarnesCenter.AADL@us.af.mil. AFR and ANG members will enroll in DL based on
   applicable timelines in this instruction. ANG members, who fail to enroll within the
   prescribed timeline, will be ineligible to enroll without an approved exception to policy from
   NGB/HRT.
        A2.5.4.1. If a RegAF Airman has not already completed DL, within 30 days of reaching
        seven years TIS, AFPC/DPSIT will send the member a message with a current set of
        instructions for course enrollment in Phase 2 Basic Learning Requirement. If the course
        is not complete or there is not an approved waiver on file, the member will be
        automatically designated as ineligible for reenlistment and promotion when the one-
        year enrollment expires. The AFRC will determine their own procedures and penalties
        for DL scheduling and non-completion, respectively.
    A2.5.5. Scheduling Phase 2 and 3 ALE. AFPC/DPSIT will schedule Airmen for ALE per
    this instruction. Additionally, AFPC/DPSIT will coordinate with PACAF/A1K and
    USAFE/A1K to establish scheduling processes to ensure compliance and meet unique
    overseas requirements. NGB/HR will schedule ANG members for Phase 3 ALE based on
    the EPME selection panel. AFRC/A1KO will schedule AFR members for Phase 3 ALE
    based on the AFRC selection panel.
A2.6. EPME for Chief Master Sergeants.
    A2.6.1. While most of the AF EPME model is TIS-based, the Air Force recognizes the
    unique and challenging role of CMSgts. Therefore, CMSgts are required to complete the
    CMSgt Leadership Course (CLC) via facilitated distance learning (FDL). The CLC is
    considered basic EPME and is required for all CMSgts across the Total Force. In addition,
    CMSgts may be selected to attend Senior Leader Development opportunities, which are
    managed by AF/DPE.
    A2.6.2. CLC. AF/DPE and AFPC/DPSIT select and schedule CMSgts for the CLC based on
    the CMSgt promotion release. Confirmed CLC training line numbers will be forwarded to
    the appropriate MAJCOM/A1 (or equivalent) with a courtesy copy to the applicable
    MAJCOM command chief. ANG and AFRC receive a set of quotas and will determine their
    own selection processes. ANG SMSgts in occupying a CMSgt position may enroll.
    A2.6.3. Selected CMSgts will acknowledge receipt (in writing) of their training date within
    five duty days of notification and coordinate any changes or adjustment of class dates
    through the appropriate MAJCOM command chief not later than 20 days prior to CSD.
    AF/DPE forwards confirmed class rosters to the Barnes Center not later than 30 days prior
    to CSD.
    A2.6.4. Failure to successfully complete the CLC may be used by the Senior Rater and/or
    AF/DPE as a factor when making retention and assignment decisions. Additionally, CMSgts
    who do not complete this course will be ineligible for reenlistment and will not be offered
    Senior Leader Development opportunities. Note that AFRC will determine their own
    procedures and penalties for CLC scheduling and non-completion. ANG members must
    meet the specified timeline for completion of CLC unless granted an exception to policy
    from NGB/HRT. ANG members will be selected through an internal process at NGB.
NOTE: All AFRC SMSgts who have completed Phase 3 will be eligible to enroll in the CLC via
FDL. Upon placement into a CMSgt position, they will be required to attend the AFRC Chief
Orientation Course prior to promotion.
A2.7. Senior Enlisted Joint PME.
    A2.7.1. Senior Enlisted Joint PME includes CJCS-sponsored assignment-oriented
    educational courses beginning at the Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL) level.
        A2.7.1.1. Senior Enlisted Joint PME course: A stand-alone web-based course that
        educates SELs serving in or slated to serve in joint organizations. The course is
        designed to expose enlisted personnel to joint education and improve their ability to
        operate effectively as part of a future joint force and supervise multiple service
        members. The course is open to all Total Force components’ enlisted Technical
        Sergeant to Chief Master Sergeant. Although not a requirement, members should
        complete their grade required Service EPME prior to completing this course located at:
        http://www.jfsc.ndu.edu/SCHOOLS PROGRAMS/se jpme/default.asp
A2.8. Enlisted Program for Advanced Academic Degrees (EPAAD).
    A2.8.1. AF/A1DL tracks all enlisted advanced academic degree programs and ensures
    selection processes are established and published. Functionally-owned programs may retain
    overall management, but must provide AF/A1DL updates at least annually. This includes, at
    a minimum, the selection process, academic requirements and a progressive history of
    attendees.
    A2.8.2. Enlisted-to-AFIT: In conjunction with other training and education programs,
    resident AFIT sponsored science, engineering, and management graduate degree
    opportunities further develop NCOs/SNCOs technical education and skills. This program
    provides the Air Force with a source of highly proficient Airmen, technically proficient in
    their career field and highly educated through AFIT graduate degree programs. For
    information regarding this program, including the eligibility criteria and nomination
    procedures, visit the following web link: http://www.afit.edu/en/admissions/usaf
    usmilitaryapply.cfm
A2.9. Enlisted Sister Service PME.
    A2.9.1. Enlisted Sister Service PME provides career broadening opportunities for AF Senior
    Enlisted Noncommissioned Officers. Sister Service PME opportunities include senior
    SNCO equivalent courses across the Services: Army, Navy, Marines and Coast Guard. Each
    of these approved courses counts as resident credit for senior SNCO PME. Eligibility is
    based on the individual school’s requirements and does not follow the Air Force Senior
    NCO Academy (SNCOA) eligibility rule set as defined in AFI 36-2301.
    A2.9.2. Qualification Criteria. Nominees must meet the individual school’s requirements as
    listed below. Additionally, nominees must have a current PT test on record. The last test
    must be at least 80 percent and the last three tests must all have passing scores. The ability to
    demonstrate a connection between attending a specific school and their current or projected
    duty assignment will positively impact their standing on the AF level selection board.
        A2.9.2.1. US Army Sergeants Major Academy (L5AZA8F090 000). Located at Fort
        Bliss, Texas. School length is 192 days and entails a PCS assignment. Nominees must
        meet PCS eligibility requirements. Additionally, nominees must be a Senior Master
        Sergeant (SMSgt) or SMSgt-select, who will pin-on prior to the class’s start date and
        has twelve months remaining on active duty after the class graduation date. Additional
        information may be found at the following web site:
        https://usasma.bliss.army.mil/site/default.asp (.mil access only).
        A2.9.2.2. US Navy Senior Enlisted Academy (USNSEA 100). Located at Newport,
        Rhode Island. School length is 64 days. Nominees must be a SMSgt or SMSgt-select
        and have twelve months remaining on active duty after the class graduation date.
        Members must meet Navy PT requirements as articulated on the following web site:
        http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-npc/support/physical/Pages/default2.aspx.
        Additional information may be found at the school’s web site:
        http://www.usnwc.edu/Departments---Colleges/Senior-Enlisted-Academy.aspx.
        A2.9.2.3. US Marine Corps Staff NCO Academy Advance Course. Multiple locations:
        Quantico, Virginia; Camp Pendleton, California; Camp Lejeune, North Carolina; and
        Camp Butler, Japan. School length is 37 days. Nominees must be a Master Sergeant
        (MSgt) or Senior Master Sergeant (SMSgt)-select, who does NOT pin-on prior to the
        class graduation date. Member must also have twelve months remaining on active duty
        after the class graduation data. Students must also meet USMC physical fitness
        standards. Additional information may be found at the following web site:
        http://www.mcu.usmc.mil/enlistedPME/Pages/SEPME.aspx (.mil access only).
        A2.9.2.4. US Coast Guard Chief Petty Officers Academy (USNSEA CG 100). Located
        at Petaluma, California. School length is 44 days. Nominees must be a MSgt and have
        twelve months remaining on active duty after the class graduation date. Additional
        information may be found on the following web site:
        http://www.uscg.mil/hq/tcpet/cpoa/index.htm.
    A2.9.3. Nomination Procedures. Each year unit commanders may nominate qualified
    members via their respective MAJCOMs (volunteer status should be considered but is not
    required). While specific routing may be locally determined, ensure Wing CCMs are part of
    the coordination process. Submit packages to the appropriate MAJCOM A1K office for
    consideration. MAJCOMs are responsible for validating their nominees’ eligibility
    requirements. The nomination package must contain the items outlined in the call for
    nominations memorandum released by AF/A1DLE. Nominations must be made for a
    specific Sister Service School.
    A2.9.4. Selection Board. The Chief of AF Enlisted Developmental Education (AF/A1DLE)
    will coordinate and facilitate the selection board. The voting members of the board include a
    MAJCOM or NAF Command Chief, the Chief of Enlisted Force Development, COCOM
    SEL (if available) a Career Field Manager, and the Commandant of the SNCOA. Results
    will be forwarded to the CMSAF for final approval. The board will select members to fill all
    available enlisted Sister Service PME opportunities as well as list of alternates. Results will
    be announced via official memorandum. AFPC/DPSIT will schedule all members selected
    and publish the master schedule within 30 days of selection by AF/A1.
A2.10. EPME Graduate Ribbon. Graduates from each DL Phase of EPME earn the Air Force
EPME Graduate Ribbon. This extends to all equivalent resident EPME courses, to include
approved Joint, Sister Service and international programs. An oak leaf cluster is added to the
basic ribbon for completion of each additional DL Phase of EPME.
A2.11. EPME Achievement Awards.
   A2.11.1. EPME ILE/ALE Resident Courses are authorized the following four mandatory
   awards. Additionally, AFSNCOA ALE is authorized the Etchberger Team Award. NOTE:
   EPME DL Courses do not have these awards.
       A2.11.1.1. John L. Levitow Award is the highest honor and is presented to the top
       graduate of each class. Only one John L. Levitow Award is presented per class.
       Recipients of this award are excluded from both the Academic Achievement and
       Commandant/Leadership Award.
       A2.11.1.2. Distinguished Graduate (DG) Award is presented to the top 10 percent of
       each class. The John L. Levitow Award recipient as the class “top” Distinguished
       Graduate is included in this group. Ties are permitted for the DG Award (excluding the
       John L. Levitow Award).
       A2.11.1.3. Academic Achievement Award is presented for scholastic excellence. Ties
       are permitted for the Academic Achievement Award.
       A2.11.1.4. Commandant/Leadership Award is presented to the student who, in the
       commandant’s judgment, made the most significant contribution to the overall success
       of their class.
       A2.11.1.5. The CMSgt Richard L. Etchberger Team Award is selected by the
       AFSNCOA Commandant and presented to the flight during each class that
       demonstrates superior leadership and performance in academics, physical fitness, and
       community service as a team.
   A2.11.2. AF/A1DL is the approval authority for the establishment of additional EPME
   awards or changing the name/criteria for existing EPME awards. Staff requests for
   additional EPME awards or changes to existing awards through the chain of command to
   AF/A1DL for approval.
   A2.11.3. The Air University, through the Barnes Center, publishes specific award criteria in
   the USAF EPME Procedural Guidance.
A2.12. EPME Triennial Review.
   A2.12.1. Objective: Ensure AF EPME is aligned with Air Force priorities and force
   development strategies and EPME courses have relevant curricula, appropriate educational
   technologies, and required resources to inculcate institutional competencies in warfighting
   Airmen to meet future mission challenges in joint and coalition environments.
   A2.12.2. Steering Committee. Consists of AF/CCC, AF/A1D, AU/CC, and AF/A1DL.
   Subject matter experts (SME) are invited as required. Convenes not less than once every
   three years to review the EPME strategic plan (mission, vision, strategic themes and
   objectives, and key initiatives), EPME policies, curricula, resources, and processes. Meets at
   the discretion of any primary member and, if agreed to by AF/CCC and AF/A1D, prior to
   the Review. Upon completion of the Review, determines which items will be presented to
   the AF/A1 and Enlisted Force Development Panel (EFDP) for action.
   A2.12.3. Committee. Consists of AF/CCC, AF/A1D, AF/A1DL, AF/A1DI, AETC/CCC,
   AU/CCC, AU/CF representative MAJCOM CCCs, ARC/CCCs, Barnes Center/CC and key
leaders, and MAJCOM A1 PME representatives, and other SMEs as appropriate. Reviews
agenda items, determines the nature of the issues and identifies challenges for further
investigation and study. Based on their findings, the committee will identify the appropriate
OPR for further research/action and out-brief the steering committee with findings and
recommendations. The course of action determined by the steering committee will be
reviewed via the AFLC for submission to appropriate senior office for approval/disapproval.
A2.12.4. Specific Responsibilities:
    A2.12.4.1. AF/CCC: Co-chairs the Review with AF/A1D, approves the agenda and
    signs the report.
    A2.12.4.2. AF/A1D: Co-chairs the Review with the AF/CCC, approves proposed
    agenda and signs the report. Upon AF/A1 approval of the Review Report, staffs
    applicable issues through the AF/A1DL and AF/CCC. Closes HAF action items.
    A2.12.4.3. AF/A1DL:
         A2.12.4.3.1. Provides agenda for the Review, prepares the Review Report, and
         coordinates the report through attendees. The report should address EPME
         initiatives/proposals, Sister Service best practices and near-term and long-term
         improvement plans. Forwards the final report to AF/A1D and AF/CCC for
         approval.
         A2.12.4.3.2. Staffs approved items from the Review Report through appropriate
         agencies; distributes approved report to the review participants; provides semi-
         annual update to each member of the Committee on action item status, and closes
         HAF action items.
         A2.12.4.3.3. Addresses any potential manpower/resource increase/decrease due to
         future DE courses/production levels or notifies appropriate MAJCOM/A1s to POM
         for required resources for planned DE courses/production levels.
                                      ATTACHMENT 3
 DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION (DE) ATTENDANCE OF SELECTED AIR FORCE
                      RESERVE MEMBERS

A3.1. Resident DE. Selected Reserve members eligible for resident DE include Traditional
Reservists (TR), Air Reserve Technicians (ART), Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) and
Active Guard Reserve (AGR) members.
A3.2. General Policy for DE. DE is a requirement for promotion for enlisted personnel. AFI 36-
2502, Airman Promotion Program, Table 4.1, contains DE requirements for enlisted personnel
and AFI 36-2301, Table 5, contains DE eligibility criteria. Officers should complete the
appropriate level of DE commensurate with their grade. Completion may be by the resident,
seminar method, or distance learning.
    A3.2.1. Because of the unique constraints confronting Reserve officers, few will attend DE
    in residence. Therefore, each Reserve officer may complete DE through non-resident
    methods.
    A3.2.2. Reserve members who attend DE in residence must be in a military duty status to
    receive point credit for attendance. However, Reserve members attending in civilian status
    will receive credit as having completed resident DE, once their military grade has met
    military grade criteria for enrollment/attendance for the respective level of DE. Civilian
    completion of DE prior to obtaining prerequisite military grade will prompt completion to be
    masked in the promotion system.
    A3.2.3. Non-completion or elimination from a DE School. When eliminating or disenrolling
    an Air Force reservist from a DE school for any reason, the procedures are outlined in
    Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA) website at
    https://etca.randolph.af.mil. The school sends a copy of the faculty Board proceedings to
    IR/RIO for IMAs, to HQ AFRC/A1 for unit assigned members and ARPC/DPAA for AGRs
    with a copy to HQ USAF/RE.
    A3.2.4. DE Attendance Agreement. Prior to attending resident DE, all Reserve attendees
    must sign a Student Attendance Agreement. Figure A3.1 contains an example of the
    required attendance agreement. Failure to sign this agreement will negate the member’s
    opportunity to attend the respective DE residence course. This agreement will be completed
    upon notification of selection.
Figure A3.1. Student Attendance Agreement
                                       STUDENT ATTENDANCE AGREEMENT 

   I,                                                           _, voluntarily agree, as a condition of training, 
   that I will abide by the military rules and regulations of the school, to include wearing the military 
   uniform. I realize failure to do so may result in my disenrollment from the school, that this disenrollment 
   would be considered my fault and that I may be liable for reimbursement of funds expended under such 
   circumstances. I understand that while attending this course, payment for overtime or the crediting of 
   compensatory time off is not authorized in accordance with 5 CFR Part 410, Subpart D (410.402), Paying 
   Premium Pay. I also understand that I am only authorized to participate and train with the Air Force 
   Reserve and my unit of assignment on a strict noninterference basis with academic responsibilities and 
   assignments. Also, if applicable, according to AFI 11‐401, Flight Management, paragraph 2‐8, I 
   understand I will not be permitted to actively fly while attending this course. 

SIGNED:                                             DATE:                        _

    A3.2.5. HQ AF/REP obtains annual DE quotas from HQ USAF/A1D. Quotas will be
    reviewed and forwarded to ARPC/DPA and AFRC/A1.
    A3.2.6. DE Credit for Schools Attended/Completed in Other Services. Air Force Reserve
    members are authorized to attend or complete other service DE after first completing the
    comparable level of Air Force DE (exception for those members selected by the Reserve
    Developmental Education Designation Board (RDEDB) to attend other service schools).
    Members accessed into the Air Force Reserve from other services will receive creditable
    recognition for having completed DE in their former service. However, this only includes
    Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE) and Senior Developmental Education (SDE)
    for officers, and Senior Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) Academy for enlisted members
    transferred from Army, Navy, and Coast Guard. DE for company grade officers must be
    satisfied through Air Force Squadron Officers School (SOS). For enlisted members NCO
    Academy and Airmen Leadership School (ALS) must also be satisfied through Air Force
    instruction. Members are not authorized to negotiate quotas directly with other service
    schools offering DE, and any DE completed by using such means will not be creditable for
    promotion consideration.
A3.3. Officer DE.
    A3.3.1. General Information and Policy. Reserve officers should complete Primary
    Developmental Education (PDE), Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE), and Senior
    Developmental Education (SDE) during their careers. Table 1 shows phases for completing
    the DE resident courses. IDE/SDE graduates should receive consideration for follow-on
    assignments commensurate with the advanced education received.
    A3.3.2. Eligibility. An officer is eligible to attend resident DE under the criteria stated in
    Figure A3.2. Additional eligibility requirements for select IDE and SDE courses can be
    found in Table 1 (AFI 36-2301).
           A3.3.2.1. In-Residence IDE/SDE Eligibility Criteria
           A3.3.2.2. Be a member of the Selected Reserve (SELRES) in pay category A or B.
           NOTE: Applicants on tours of Limited Extended Active Duty (LEAD) or Limited
    Period Recall (LPRP) (see AFI 36-2008) may not apply to compete in the AFR RDEDB
    process unless they are projected to return to a SELRES position before class start date.
    A3.3.2.3. Meet the Total Federal Commissioned Service (TFCS) and Grade
    Requirements in Table 2 (AFI 36-2301). NOTE: Reservists nominated for an upcoming
    promotion boards may submit an RDEDB nomination package for the DE appropriate
    to that potential promotion. Selection attendance is contingent upon the outcome of the
    promotion board.
    A3.3.2.4. Not be a deferred officer as defined by Title 10 U. S.C., Section 14501.
    A3.3.2.5. Must meet all military fitness standards in AFI 36-2905.
    A3.3.2.6. Must not have been removed from a recommended list for permanent
    promotion to the grade that makes them DE eligible.
    A3.3.2.7. Must have satisfactorily participated for the last 5 years.
    A3.3.2.8. AGRs must have 2 years’ time on station (as of class start date).
    A3.3.2.9. Must have a security clearance. Qualified officers lacking the required
    security clearance may apply for DE schools. If selected, they must obtain the proper
    security clearance before the class entry date.
    A3.3.2.10. Selects must agree to a 3 year Reserve Service Commitment after
    completion of DE – Title 10 U.S.C., Section 2005.
    A3.3.2.11. Waivers may be requested for eligibility requirements.
A3.3.3. Reserve Personnel Appropriations (RPA) are centrally funded for Reserve officers
attending in military status. ARTs who attend in civilian status and AGRs will be funded by
unit Operations and Maintenance (O&M) funds.
Figure A3.2. Core Application Requirements Checklist
    AFR members apply on‐line via the Virtual Personnel Center‐Guard and Reserve (vPC‐GR), Application for 
     Developmental Education (In‐Residence). 
          o   School Preferences and Types of Positions ‐ Part I (completed by the member) ‐ prioritize all schools 
              for which the member is eligible by order of preference (1 being most preferred to 5 being least 
              preferred). 
                       Senior Developmental Education (SDE) Schools. 
                       Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE) Schools. 
                       Use concise bullet format. Justify your school preferences. Describe specific or types of 
                        positions (including career broadening) desired after graduation from DE. Recommend not 
                        repeating qualifications evident in nomination package but instead new information that is 
                        additive. 
          o   Proper Endorsements – Parts II and III require appropriate chain of command endorsements. 
                   Part II is endorsed by the member’s rater. 
                       Part III is endorsed by the member’s senior rater. If the senior rater is the member’s rater, 
                        Part III (behind item 1) includes ―I am also the member’s rater. 
                       At a minimum, the RDEDB would like to see general comments regarding follow‐on 
                        assignments such as: 
                                Recommend Lt Col John Doe be assigned to an AGR position at HQ AFRC after 
                                 completion of school. 
                                Lt Col John Doe should be returned to home station in a Senior IMA capacity. 
          o   Senior raters with multiple nominations should prioritize their nominees (i.e., ―1 of 3, 2 of 3, 3 of 3, 
              etc.). 
          o   It is paramount that the comments reflect how the Air Force can benefit from the member’s 
              attendance at IDE or SDE. Applications not meeting this requirement will be returned through 
              appropriate channels. 
    Current Fitness Report ‐ copy of fitness report current at the time of application submission. 
    OPRs – ARPC will pull the last 5 OPRs from the applicant’s Officer Selection Record (OSR). The applicant is 
     responsible for ensuring their OSR is current. 
    Invitation to apply to the RDEDB is sent to all Participating Reserve Officers. 
    Eligibility Requirements Waivers. 
          o   Applicant must meet all eligibility requirements. 
          o   Eligibility Waivers – Submit individual waiver request for each eligibility requirement that is not met 
              and therefore must be granted a waiver. 
    Contact Information Sheet (Fig. 13.3) – Provide a completed contact information sheet. 
    Additional School Specific Documentation (if applicable). 
    Post‐RDEDB Requirements – Primary RDEDB selects must fulfill all the Post‐Board requirements before 
     attending school. 
    Records Review – Prior to submission, applicants should review their records review rip to ensure their 
     records are accurate. Applicants should also verify with HQ ARPC/DP receipt of completed package at a date 
     specified in the RDEDB Invitation Announcement. 
NOTES: 
   1.     Items A7.1 – A7.8 are required elements of the nomination package. 
   2.     Item A7.9 elements are required elements of Selects before attending school. 
   3.     Item A7.10 is highly recommended. 
   4.     Subject to change per ARPC RDEDB Web Site. 
 

       A3.3.4. How to Apply. Personnel (to include unit AGRs) submit their requests to their MPF.
       The MPF will submit unit request through the current automated system (unit AGRs must
       submit a SF 182. For centrally managed programs, the PM will obtain concurrence with the
       member’s functional manager prior to forwarding the application to RMG/DP. IMAs apply
       in writing through their approving official to the PM. The RMG PM will forward to HQ
       ARPC/DP by established suspense date. HQ AGR officers who wish to attend should submit
       a request in writing to HQ USAF/REAMO, 90 days before class start date. Due to the
       purpose individuals are brought on to Limited Period Recall Program (LPRP)/Limited
       Extended Active Duty (LEAD) (see AFI 36-2008, Voluntary Extended Active Duty (EAD)
       for Air Reserve Commissioned Officers, it would not be feasible for reservists serving under
       these conditions to apply for resident DE. Individuals on LPRP/LEAD should complete DE
       through seminar or correspondence.
       A3.3.5. Selection of Students. The RSSB is held two times a year at ARPC. An invitation to
       apply is forwarded to all Reserve Officers identifying application requirements and methods.
       A3.3.6. To withdraw from a RSSB course, selects must provide an Official Memorandum
       coordinated through their Wing Commander or equivalent to HQ AFRC/A1KO.
    A3.4. IDE/SDE.
       A3.4.1. ARPC will release an Invitation to Apply to the RDEDB, with convening dates and
       applicable suspense dates. Applicants may apply for in residence IDE and SDE via vPC-GR
       by the suspense date identified in the invitation to apply. Late applications will not be
       accepted. The Invitation to apply will identify appropriate routing of the application..
       A3.4.2. Waiver Requests. Applicants requesting a waiver of eligibility criteria must submit a
       letter of justification within vPC-GR. The RDEDB President will evaluate all waivers and
       approve or disapprove.
       A3.4.3. Senior Rater. Senior raters (as defined in AFI 36-2406), will rank order all their
       nominees (similar to the promotion recommendations process) in the IDE or SDE
       nomination category (i.e., 2/5 means that the officer is ranked number 2 out of 5 applying).
       It is also paramount that Senior Rater comments reflect how the Air Force can benefit from
       the member’s attendance at IDE or SDE. Applications not meeting these requirements will
       be returned through appropriate channels.
    A3.5. RDEDB.
       A3.5.1. The Board President is the Deputy to the Chief of Air Force Reserve or designee
       (must be a general officer). The member ship of the Board is comprised of five colonels or
       above; representing all statuses and as many career fields as possible. HQ AFRC/A1L
       solicits and recommends board members through HQ AFRC/A1K to AF/REP for approval.
       HQ AF/REP notifies HQ AFRC/A1K and ARPC/DPA upon approval. Each Board member
       must have completed SDE. ARPC also invites the AF/REPP, HQ AFRC/A1KO, and the
       Headquarters Air University Reserve Advisor as nonvoting technical advisors.
       A3.5.2. ARPC/DPA reviews all nomination packages for eligibility and completeness and
       serves as the RDEDB secretariat.
A3.5.3. The RDEDB screens and scores all officer records identified as eligible and
determines those most qualified to attend IDE/SDE in residence based upon the whole-
person concept. Board members must consider the future needs of the Air Force and follow-
on assignments. The RDEDB identifies Selects and Alternates and aligns with school
quotas.
    A3.5.3.1. Post Board responsibilities. HQ ARPC will:
        A3.5.3.1.1. Prepare and staff the RDEDB Results package through AF/REP to
        AF/RE for approval, with a courtesy copy to AFRC/A1K. Package must include an
        AF/RE message for public release and attachments that identify the RDEDB
        recommendations, names of Selects aligned with recommended schools, the
        Alternates list, and the Non-Selects list.
        A3.5.3.1.2. Produce statistical summary of the RDEDB proceedings, to include:
        quotas, application trends, Reserve Category details, gender and race.
        A3.5.3.1.3. Send a CLOSE HOLD—For Official Use Only message to all Reserve
        Military Personnel Sections (MPS) and MPS-like functions for above wing level
        organizations (copy to HQ AF/REP and HQ AFRC/A1K) prior to the public release
        of the message. This message is also sent to RI-RIO instructing them to alert
        commanders and IMA Program Managers to prompt the appropriate MPS to
        contact nominee’s senior raters and/or commanders. This message is only
        available to the MPS organizations and directs those organizations to notify each
        senior rate and commander of their nominees’ status (select, alternate, or non-
        select). Commanders should notify their nominees of their status the day prior to
        the public release date. No organization or individual will publicly display or
        release any select, alternate or non-select list at any time.
        A3.5.3.1.4. Public Release. Publish the AF/RE Public Message, Selects (with their
        schools) and Alternates (in accordance with the Privacy Act) on the ARPC myPers
        on the public release date. Non-select lists will not be made public at any time.
        A3.5.3.1.5. Publish an electronic message notifying School Commandants of the
        RDEDB Selections before sending notifications letters to Selects and Alternates.
        A3.5.3.1.6. Send individual notification letters signed by AF/RE to selects and
        alternates.
        A3.5.3.1.7. Send individual notification letters signed by HQ ARPC/CC to non-
        selectees.
        A3.5.3.1.8. Commanders may send the optional letter of acknowledgement to
        selected member’s employer (Fig A3.5).
A3.5.4. Change in medical profile – IDE/SDE Selects are required to immediately notify
their Senior Raters and ARPC/DPA if there is any change in their medical profile
(regardless of whether this changes the member’s eligibility to attend school).
A3.5.5. Removal from a DE Selection List.
   A3.5.6. In accordance with this publication, the Management Level may remove an officer
   from DE Selection list for cause; if so; member is no longer eligible for DE in-residence
   during their window of eligibility.
   A3.5.7. Commanders may request an operational deferral for an officer on the DE Selection
   list. Deferral will be to the next Academic Year to the school in which member was selected
   to attend. AF/RE Deputy is the approval authority for Operational deferral requests.
   A3.5.8. Officers selected for DE may decline, but do so with prejudice, unless they can cite
   humanitarian, operational, or other non-prejudicial reasons. Deferral requests for other than
   humanitarian and operational reasons will be considered on a case-by-case basis.      Officers
   withdrawn with prejudice will be precluded from competing for future current level of DE
   in-residence; decision is at the discretion of the AF/RE Deputy.
   A3.5.9. Requests for withdrawals are submitted from the individual officer through his/her
   Senior Rater directly to ARPC/DPAF (certified e-mail is permitted). Timeliness impacts
   approval/disapproval status and ability to use an Alternate. ARPC/DPA will recommend
   appropriate Alternate(s) to replace the member withdrawing and forward the request to
   AF/REP, who evaluates the request and recommends approval (with or without
   prejudice)/disapproval to HQ USAF/RE Deputy (RDEDB President). AF/REP will make
   written notification of RE Deputy’s decision to ARPC/DPA. ARPC/DPA will 1) Update
   Master DE Select list, 2) Inform AF/REPP and HQ AFRC/A1KO, 3) Inform new Select’s
   senior rater and/or commander, 4) Inform IR-RIO and ARPC/DPAA (as appropriate) to
   notify new Select by phone; and 3) Send written notification to new Select.
   A3.5.10. Professional Military Development (PMD) Short Courses. Air Force Reserve does
   not consider PMD short courses as a viable substitute for PDE, IDE and SDE.
Figure A3.5. Sample Employer Acknowledgement Letter
  (On Letterhead) 
  (Graded and Name of Wing/CC or Senior MA) 
  Title 
  Address 

  Dear Sir or Ma’am 
  Recently, Major/Lieutenant Colonel (reservist’s name), an Air Force Reserve Officer and employee of 
  your company, was chosen to begin an active duty tour to attend (insert Service School for which 
  selected). This course of instruction will last until June of next year. I want to take this opportunity to 
  thank you for your support of Major/Lieutenant Colonel (last name), as he/she takes this very 
  important step in his/her military career. He/she was selected to attend based upon a record of solid 
  achievement and demonstrated potential. Upon graduation, I expect him/her to continue to progress 
  through assignments of increased authority and responsibility. 
  Additionally, I know that the specialized education and professional development which he/she 
  receives will enhance his/her performance as an employee of your company. I definitely feel that this 
  is a ―win‐win   for the Air Force and your corporation. Again, thank you for your great support of 
  Major/Lieutenant Colonel last name, and the Air Force Reserve 
  Sincerely 
  (Name, Grade, Title) 
A3.6. SOS. Eligible Reserve officers will apply for SOS in residence via the Reserve School
Selection Board (RSSB) process.
    A3.6.1. How to Apply. Personnel (to include unit AGRs) submit their requests to their MPF.
    The MPF will submit unit request through the current automated system (unit AGRs must
    submit a SF 182. For centrally managed programs, the PM will obtain concurrence with the
    member’s functional manager prior to forwarding the application to RMG/DP. IMAs apply
    in writing through their approving official to the PM. The RMG PM will forward to HQ
    ARPC/DP by established suspense date. HQ AGR officers who wish to attend should submit
    a request in writing to HQ USAF/REAMO, 90 days before class start date. Due to the
    purpose individuals are brought on to Limited Period Recall Program (LPRP)/Limited
    Extended Active Duty (LEAD) (see AFI 36-2008, Voluntary Extended Active Duty (EAD)
    for Air Reserve Commissioned Officers, it would not be feasible for reservists serving under
    these conditions to apply for resident DE. Individuals on LPRP/LEAD should complete DE
    through seminar or correspondence.
    A3.6.2. Selection of Students. The RSSB is held two times a year at ARPC. An invitation to
    apply is forwarded to all Reserve Officers identifying application requirements and methods.
    A3.6.3. To withdraw from a RSSB course, selects must provide an Official Memorandum
    coordinated through their Wing Commander or equivalent to HQ AFRC/A1KO.
A3.7. Enlisted DE.
    A3.7.1. Member must have 2 years retainability from graduation date to attend NCOA and
    SNCOA. AGRs, TRs, ARTs and IMAs may attend ALS, NCOA and SNCOA in residence.
    ARTs may attend in either military or civilian status (unit funded), but they must apply
    through military channels and the status must be annotated on the application prior to
    submission. Members will not have the option to change their status after selections have
    been made. AGR’s will use unit O&M funds. Command Chiefs can set local selection
    process. Due to the purpose individuals are brought on to LPRP/LEAD (see AFI 36-2008, it
    would not be feasible for reservists serving under these conditions to apply for resident DE.
    Individuals on LPRP/LEAD should complete DE through seminar or correspondence.
    IMA’s will apply thru ARPC channels up to HQ AFRC/A1KO.
    A3.7.2. Enlisted PDE:
        A3.7.2.1. ALS: Basic EPME. Phase 1 – 3-6 year TIS. Unit members will complete
        PME package thru UTM with Commanders recommendation. Package will be
        forwarded to Base Training Manager for review and approved by Command Chief or
        designated rep. The package will be forwarded to HQ AFRC/A1KO for processing.
        Quotas are based on availability, which can be reviewed on the A1KO SharePoint.
        Member must have a passing fit test and it must be current throughout school tour. DL
        will also meet requirements.
        A3.7.2.2. Cancellations must be kept to a minimum; members will get one cancellation
        for an emergency after that, they will have to complete by correspondence. All
        cancellations need to be completed 45 days prior to class start date; anything prior to
        that will be a no-show.
        A3.7.2.3. Quotas are requested through local wing training.
    A3.7.2.4. Eligibility Requirements (see Table A2.1).
    A3.7.2.5. How to Apply. Personnel (to include unit AGRs) submit their requests to their
    MPF.
    A3.7.2.6. Waiver of Eligibility Criteria. All waivers for PME will be forwarded to HQ
    AFRC/A1KO. 
    A3.7.2.6. Selection. Commander makes selection. The MPF notifies members of their
    selection.
    A3.7.2.8. All members, whether attending in civilian or military status, must out-
    process through the FSS to ensure completion of Air Force Fitness Assessment. This
    statement must be in the remarks section of the member’s orders.A3.7.3. Enlisted IDE.
A3.7.3. NCOA. Comprehensive Learning: Phase 2 – 8 -14 TIS. Unit members will complete
PME package thru UTM with Commanders recommendation. Package will be forwarded to
Base Training Manager for review and approved by Command Chief or designated rep. The
package will be forwarded to HQ AFRC/A1KO for processing. Quotas are based on
availability, which can be reviewed on the A1KO SharePoint. Member must have a passing
fit test and it must current throughout school tour. DL will also meet requirements.
    A3.7.3.1. How to apply:
    https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-
    ED-RC-17-15&Filter=OO-ED-RC-17.
    A3.7.3.2. Eligibility Requirements NCOA (See Table A2.2):
    A3.7.3.3. How to Apply. Unit Personnel (to include unit AGRs) submit their requests to
    their MPF. The MPF will submit unit request through training management system (unit
    AGRs must submit a SF 182,. IMAs submit their request to their RMG PM who will
    forward to HQ ARPC/DP by established suspense date, before the selection Board
    meets.
    A3.7.3.4. Waiver of Eligibility Criteria. All waivers for PME will be forwarded to HQ
    AFRC/A1KO.
    A3.7.3.5. Selection of Students. For units the Wing Training Office may determine
    local selection procedures. HQ ARPC/DP convenes a selection Board to select IMA
    candidates. School Board results are then forwarded to RMG/CC or designated
    representative for approval.
    A3.7.3.6. Announcement of Selections/Nonselections. The MPF notifies the unit
    members. RMG/CC or designated representative will notify RMG PM for notification
    to IMA applicants.
    A3.7.3.7. Cancellations. Must be kept to a minimum, members will get one cancellation
    for an emergency; after that they will have to complete by correspondence. All
    cancellations need to be completed 45 days prior to class start date; anything prior to
    that will be a no-show.
    A3.7.3.8. All members, whether attending in civilian or military status, must out-
    process through the FSS to ensure completion of Air Force Fitness Assessment. This
    statement must be in the remarks section of the member’s orders.
A3.7.4. Enlisted SDE.
    A3.7.4.1. SNCOA. Comprehensive Learning, Phase 3 – 12-18 TIS. Unit members will
    complete PME package thru UTM with Commanders recommendation. Package will
    be forwarded to Base Training Manager for review and approved by Command Chief or
    designated rep. The package will be forwarded to HQ AFRC/A1KO for processing.
    Quotas are based on availability, which can be reviewed on the A1KO SharePoint.
    Member must have a passing fit test and it must be current throughout school tour. DL
    will also meet requirements.
    A3.7.4.2. Quotas are centrally managed by HQ AFRC/A1 and HQ ARPC/DP.
    A3.7.4.3. Eligibility (See Table A2-3):
    A3.7.4.4. Waiver of Eligibility Criteria. All waivers for PME will be forwarded to HQ
    AFRC/A1KO..
    A3.7.4.5. How to Apply.
    https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-
    ED-RC-17-15&Filter=OO-ED-RC-17.
    A3.7.4.6. Selection of Students. RMG/DP convenes selection boards to make selections
    for IMAs.
    A3.7.4.7. Announcement of Selections/Non-Selections. The MPF notifies the unit
    member. RMG/CC or designated representative will notify RMG PM to initiate
    notification to IMA applicants.
    A3.7.4.8. Cancellations: Must be kept to a minimum, members will get one
    cancellation for an emergency; after that they will have to complete by correspondence.
    All cancellations need to be completed 45 days prior to class start date; anything prior
    to that will be a no-show.
    A3.7.4.9. All members, whether attending in civilian or military status, must out-
    process through the FSS to ensure completion of Air Force Fitness Assessment. This
    statement must be in the remarks section of the member’s orders.
    A3.7.4.10. ARTs electing to attend in civilian status are strongly encouraged to out-
    process through the MPF.
                                         Attachment 4
        AIR NATIONAL GUARD DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
A4.1. Responsibilities. All leaders and organizations will encourage personnel to take advantage
of the developmental education opportunities provided by resident and nonresident PME.
Specific responsibilities follow:
    A4.1.1. Human Resources Directorate (NGB/HR), 3500 Fetechet Ave, Joint Base Andrews,
    MD 20762.
        A4.1.1.1. Manages officer and enlisted PME programs for the ANG.
        A4.1.1.2. Determines annual ANG PME requirements; establishes attendance quotas at
        ANG PME resident programs; provides statistics regarding participation in ANG PME
        resident programs, and coordinates ANG participation in AF PME programs
        Headquarters Air Force, Force Development Directorate (AF/A1D).
        A4.1.1.3. Serves as the ANG point of contact for joint PME issues.
        A4.1.1.4. Establishes ANG eligibility and selection criteria for all PME programs.
        A4.1.1.5. Determines requirements for and feasibility of alternative delivery formats
        and methodologies.
        A4.1.1.6. Convenes central selection panels to make recommendations to the Director,
        Air National Guard (NGB/CF) for approval of officers and enlisted regarding
        attendance at resident PME programs.
        A4.1.1.7. Issues and monitors training line numbers (TLN) school days and proficiency
        training days for students; and coordinates all courses, ensuring compliance with
        applicable directives.
        A4.1.1.8. Point of contact (POC) for communications between AF PME program
        managers, other services program managers and ANG Force Support Squadron, Force
        Development (FSS/FSD). All additional PME resident school quotas will be
        coordinated between NGB/HRT and the appropriate MAJCOM or schoolhouse as
        appropriate. Units are not authorized to solicit additional quotas directly with a
        schoolhouse.
        A4.1.1.9. Approval authority for exceptions to policy (ETP) of PME eligibility criteria,
        individual declinations, requests for operational or humanitarian deferments, and
        removal from selection for PME programs.
        A4.1.1.10. CMSgt position in NGB/HRTS serves as the EPME and 8T000 functional
        manager.
        A4.1.1.11. Administers ANG EPME Awards Program.
    A4.1.2. ANG Training and Education Center (ANG TEC), 400 I. G. Brown Drive, McGhee
    Tyson Air National Guard Base (ANGB), TN 37777-6216.
        A4.1.2.1. Forecasts and submits annual resource requirements to NGB/HR not later
        than (NLT) 31 Jan of each year.
    A4.1.2.2. Submits End-of-Class (EOC) and End-of-Year (EOY) reports for PME
    programs to NGB/HRT NLT 30 days after completion of each class and each fiscal
    year.
        A4.1.2.2.1. Sent in electronic format by e-mail or ground mail using electronic
        storage media.
        A4.1.2.2.2. EOC/EOY reports include, as a minimum, all student demographics by
        individual, class leadership, activities and events, award winners, and remarks.
    A4.1.2.3. Reports immediately to NGB/HRT all student releases (academic,
    disciplinary, or medical), program management review (PMR), test compromises, and
    inquiries by outside agencies including but not limited to CCAF, The Barnes Center,
    and AF/ANG Inspector General (IG).
A4.1.3. The Adjutant General (TAG).
    A4.1.3.1. The TAG or equivalent will endorse, and if necessary, stratify IDE/ASG/SDE
    applicants.
    A4.1.3.2. Endorse an applicant’s deferral or declination request.
    A4.1.3.3. Endorse ANG members nominated to serve on the Officer Developmental
    Education Panel.
A4.1.4. The State Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM).
    A4.1.4.1. Encourages participation in resident and DL developmental opportunities for
    enlisted personnel.
    A4.1.4.2. Reviews and endorses all packages for Senior Noncommissioned Officer
    Academy (SNCOA) ALE resident course. Stratifies nominees for SNCOA ALE when
    more than one from the state is submitted.
    A4.1.4.3. Determine policy within the state for attendance at EPME courses that have
    limited allocations.
    A4.1.4.4. Manages Phase 1 resident quotas within state to include distribution to wings.
A4.1.5. Wing Commander (WG/CC)/Senior Rater (SR).
    A4.1.5.1. Ensures all personnel are counseled throughout their careers on the
    relationship between PME and mission readiness.
    A4.1.5.2. Encourages participation in officer and enlisted PME programs.
        A4.1.5.2.1. Establishes a selection process and recommends officers for attendance
        at Squadron Officer School (SOS), Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE),
        Joint Professional Military Education (JPME), and Senior Developmental
        Education (SDE), and other schools as required.
        A4.1.5.2.2. Establishes a selection process to coincide with current EPME policies
        and recommends enlisted members to attend ALS, Phase 1, 2, and 3 ILE/ALE
        resident courses.
    A4.1.5.3. Ensures applicants meet all applicable eligibility criteria prior to attendance at
    resident EPME.
        A4.1.5.4. Oversees approved EPME programs at the local level.
             A4.1.5.4.1. Authorizes, prescribes, and provides personnel, equipment, and funding
             as needed.
             A4.1.5.4.2. Appoints, by letter, flight chiefs, course supervisors, and lead site
             facilitators and approves selection of instructors/facilitators to support and Satellite
             EPME programs.
             A4.1.5.4.3. Ensures adequate facilities are designated and maintained.
    A4.1.6. Force Development Superintendent (FSS/FSD).
        A4.1.6.1. Serves as the base-level point of contact and advisor for EPME programs.
        A4.1.6.2. Notifies unit personnel of resident PME application procedures and assists
        with the enrollment of enlisted members in EPME DL courses.
             A4.1.6.2.1. Reviews all application packages to ensure accuracy, completeness, and
             timeliness in accordance with NGB and local policy.
             A4.1.6.2.2. Forwards application packages to State Headquarters for endorsement
             in accordance with NGB or local policy.
             A4.1.6.2.3. Immediately communicates with NGB/HRT when a selectee cannot
             attend. When required, coordinates with the State Headquarters or Wing CC for the
             appropriate endorsement. Forwards the official endorsement of the non-attendance
             to NGB/HRT.
             A4.1.6.2.4. Enters appropriate transactions in the applicable human resource
             system.
             A4.1.6.2.5. Verifies and publishes travel orders in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-
             328 Administrative Orders and local policies for members attending resident PME.
             A4.1.6.2.6. Conducts out-processing briefings for members departing to attend
             resident PME regarding financial expenditures, academics, and reporting
             instructions.
        A4.1.6.3. Manages PME proficiency training (PT) days for the wing. Returns PT days
        that are not utilized for the appropriate PME to NGB/HRT.
A4.2. Officer Developmental Education (DE).
    A4.2.1. Attendance and Eligibility.
        A4.2.1.1. Limited resources restrict attendance at resident OPME. Nonresident
        programs are available to all eligible ANG officers and Title 5 civilians. Primary
        Developmental Education (PDE) should be completed during an ANG officer’s career.
        Table 1 (AFI 36-2301) describes phases for completing the DE resident courses.
        Officers, who complete SDE should be considered for follow-on assignments
        commensurate with the advanced education received.
        A4.2.1.2. Completing nonresident PME programs will not affect eligibility for resident
        OPME programs at the same level.
    A4.2.1.3. Technicians and Drill Status Guardsmen (DSGs) will attend in residence
    OPME programs in Title 10 active duty status. Active Guard Reserve (AGR) members
    will attend in AGR status.
    A4.2.1.4. ANG officers and Title 5 civilians may participate in other resident Service,
    Joint, DoD, and non-DoD (international and civilian) PME equivalent programs such as
    AF Fellowships. All requirements described in this instruction must be met.

    A4.2.1.5. Officers who have transferred to the ANG from other services may be able to
    receive credit for resident Squadron Officer School (SOS) as described in AFI 36-2301.

    A4.2.1.6. All officers and Title 5 civilians must meet eligibility and prerequisites
    described in Tables 2 and 5 (AFI 36-2301) and any additional eligibility requirements
    described in the ANG course announcement Officers must not be a deferred officer as
    defined in Title 10 U.S.C., Section 14501. Must meet all military fitness standards.
    Selects must agree to a three year service commitment. Any changes in a member’s
    medical profile must be reported immediately to the FSS and NGB/HRT (regardless of
    whether this changes the member’s eligibility to attend school).

    A4.2.1.7. Officers released from a DE program for non-prejudicial reasons must wait
    six months to re-apply. Those removed with prejudice will no longer be eligible to
    attend the equivalent level of resident OPME.

    A4.2.1.8. Lieutenant Colonels must wait three years from graduation of intermediate
    developmental education (IDE) to attend resident senior developmental education
    (SDE). This date is calculated from the SDE class start date.
A4.2.2. Application Procedures.
    A4.2.2.1. Squadron Officer School (SOS). Personnel submit requests for SOS to the
    FSS/FSD. The FSS will request a seat through the applicable human resource system.
    A4.2.2.2. Intermediate/Senior Developmental Education (IDE/SDE).
        A4.2.2.2.1. Selection to attend resident IDE/SDE is reserved for those officers who
        will hold future leadership positions at the highest levels of the ANG including
        NGB and Joint Staff assignments. Applicants must meet all military standards prior
        to submitting package.
        A4.2.2.2.2. Application procedures and contents of application packages are
        announced annually by NGB.
        A4.2.2.2.3. The State Headquarters and Force Support Squadron should review
        packages prior to submission to ensure they meet the requirements specified in the
        announcement. Packages that do not meet the criteria in the announcement must be
        corrected to meet the criteria prior to the panel meeting.
A4.2.3. Selection Process.
    A4.2.3.1. NGB/HR will convene a diverse Officer Developmental Education Panel to
    recommend officers whose performance indicates a high level of potential and success.
    A4.2.3.2. The Panel president will be a general officer and will consist of a recorder
    (non-voting) and a minimum of five voting members in the rank of Colonel and above.
    Lieutenant Colonels who have completed the equivalent level of OPME are also eligible
    for Board membership. NGB/CF will determine the panel members. NGB/HR will serve
    as nonvoting technical advisors.
    A4.2.3.3. Applications will be evaluated on the criteria published in the application
    announcement. Board recommendations to NGB/CF will include school assignments.
    NGB/CF is the final approval for all IDE/SDE schools.
A4.2.4. School Assignments. IDE/SDE applicants are selected based performance and
mission needs. The panel will consider the applicants school preferences; however, the panel
will determine school distribution based on the best interest of the ANG.
A4.2.5. Notification. Primary and alternate IDE/SDE selectees are notified through an
announcement sent to the TAG. The notice will include school assignments. Several schools
provide information packages and conduct orientation sessions prior to the CSD. Selectees
are required to attend an ANG Orientation prior to attending school. Exceptions will be
worked on an individual basis.
A4.2.6. Acceptance. Acceptance of attendance to a resident OPME requires no action by
selectees. Selectees will be contacted by NGB/HRT and provided information on the ANG
Orientation.
A4.2.7. Non-acceptance.
    A4.2.7.1. An officer may request withdrawal or defer attending resident OPME within
    30 days of notification.
        A4.2.7.1.1. Withdrawal. Selectees may submit a letter requesting withdrawal from
        attendance at resident OPME to NGB/HRT. All withdrawal requests must be
        endorsed through the chain-of-command to the TAG. Members must reapply for
        future consideration to attend resident OPME programs.
        A4.2.7.1.2. Deferral. Submit a letter requesting a deferral to NGB/HRT. The letter
        must include the commander’s and be coordinated through the chain of command
        to the TAG. Those with an approved deferral as described in the selection
        announcement will automatically receive reservations for the following academic
        year (AY) at the school assigned in the selection notice. Deferral requests for
        subsequent AYs will not be accepted.

        A4.2.7.1.3. Transfer of Service. Members who transfer to other branches of Service
        must submit a withdrawal letter. School allocations cannot be transferred with the
        member.
A4.2.8. Waivers.
    A4.2.8.1. SOS. Selectees must be in the grade of Captain. Grade exceptions will not be
    considered. Exceptions for total years of commissioned service (TYCS) will be
    considered on an individual basis. All ETPs must be submitted to NGB/HRT for
    approval.
        A4.2.8.2. IDE/SDE. Grade waivers, withdrawals, and deferments must be processed
        through NGB/HRT for processing. ETPs to exceed the TYCS limitations and
        deferments will be considered on an individual basis.
    A4.2.9. Security Clearances. Members attending IDE/SDE schools must have valid security
    clearance. Qualified officers, who do not have the required security clearance may apply for
    DE schools. If selected, they must obtain the proper security clearance prior to class start
    date.
    A4.2.10. Orders.
        A4.2.10.1. SOS orders are published as routine school orders, allowing one day of
        travel prior to the (CSD) and one day after class graduation date (CGD).
        A4.2.10.2. Attendance at IDE/SDE schools require permanent-change-of-station (PCS)
        orders authorized by NGB/HR letters of authority (LOA). Orders will be published, by
        the member’s unit, IAW applicable directives governing PCS moves. Members may not
        attend resident IDE/SDE schools in temporary duty (TDY) status or technician status.
        A4.2.10.3. Some IDE/SDE programs conduct formal orientation sessions. NGB/HRT
        will notify selectees concerning orientation dates and funding arrangements.
        A4.2.10.4. LOAs will contain the following information as a minimum:
             A4.2.10.4.1. Authorized travel days from home of record (HOR) to new PCS duty
             location.
             A4.2.10.4.2. Report no earlier than date.
             A4.2.10.4.3. Report no later than date.
             A4.2.10.4.4. Depart no later than date (after graduation).
             A4.2.10.4.5. Security clearance.
             A4.2.10.4.6. Remarks, including specific school information such as orientation
             sessions.
             A4.2.10.4.7. Family members’ names, when appropriate.
        A4.2.10.5. NGB/HRT provides active duty school days for all Drill Status Guardsmen
        (DSG) and Air Technicians. These days are issued to a member and are not transferable.
        They are to be used for resident OPME only and must be returned to NGB/A1DU when
        members cancel attendance or are released from resident OPME programs.
    A4.2.11. Disenrollment.
        A4.2.11.1. Resident OPME programs will immediately notify NGB/HRT of all officers
        disenrolled for any reason.
        A4.2.11.2. Officers removed for cause from resident OPME programs are permanently
        excluded from reentering the equivalent level of resident OPME and are restricted from
        enrolling in nonresident OPME for one year.
A4.3. Officer Distance Learning (DL) Programs.
    A4.3.1. Eligibility.
       A4.3.1.1. Air Force policy stresses the right PME at the right time and at the right
       grade. The nonresident sequence is SOS, ACSC, and AWC.
            A4.3.1.1.1. Captains or Captain selects may enroll in the nonresident SOS.
            A4.3.1.1.2. Majors or Major selects may enroll in the nonresident ACSC.
            A4.3.1.1.3. Lieutenant Colonels selects through Colonels may enroll in the
            nonresident AWC.
       A4.3.1.2. With the exception of those officers selected by the Officer Developmental
       Education Panel to attend resident OPME or equivalent ANG officers must complete
       the appropriate AF OPME course before enrolling in another Service’s DL program.
       A4.3.1.3. Officers who do not successfully complete DL OPME programs for any
       reason must wait six months from course termination to reenroll.
   A4.3.2. Application. Application for DL OPME programs is initiated through the FSS. In all
   cases, officers must meet the eligibility criteria for each level of OPME.
A4.4. Enlisted PME (EPME) Resident Programs.
   A4.4.1. Attendance.
       A4.4.1.1. Timing the attendance in a member’s career is an integral part of deliberate
       development and force management decisions. ILE/ALE EPME courses are limited;
       therefore, it is beneficial to develop a selection process to ensure the right airmen are
       attending resident EPME.
       A4.4.1.2. Enlisted members in the grade of E-4 accessed in the ANG from other
       services are required to successfully complete ALS Phase 1 DO prior to promotion to
       the grade of Staff Sergeant. Completion of a sister service EPME or NCO Prep Course
       is not equivalent and the member must complete Phase 1 DL or ILE/ALE as soon as
       possible after enlisting in the Air National Guard. Members who do not meet the
       timelines established in this memorandum must submit an ETP to NGB/HRT for
       approval.
       A4.4.1.3. E6 and below Sister Service resident and EPME courses are not comparable
       to AF EPME courses and thus do not meet AF EPME requirements. Therefore, prior
       sister Service NCOs who enter the ANG after 1 Oct 08 will complete the grade
       appropriate AF EPME through distance learning. These members may be afforded the
       opportunity to attend the appropriate EPME resident program if all eligibility
       requirements are met. Members, who do not meet the timelines set forth in this
       instruction, must submit an ETP to NGB/HRT for approval.
   A4.4.2. Eligibility and Prerequisites.
       A4.4.2.1. Members must meet eligibility criteria established in this memorandum or
       other publications announced by appropriate authority.
       A4.4.2.2. Air Technicians are eligible to apply for the appropriate resident EPME
       program based on military rank and requirements only.
    A4.4.2.3. Members who do not successfully complete resident EPME programs for
    non-prejudicial reasons must wait three months from course termination to reapply.
    Those removed with prejudice must wait one year from course termination.
A4.4.3. Application Procedures.
    A4.4.3.1. Phase 1Airman Leadership School. Annually programmed ALS quotas are
    distributed by NGB/HRT to each state. Members approved for attendance by their
    commanders or state command chief should submit requests through the FSS. The FSS
    will enter names and confirm quotas in the appropriate human resource system.
    Unprogrammed quotas will be announced by NGB/HRT to each FSS/FSD through e-
    mail.
    A4.4.3.2. Phase 2 ILE Noncommissioned Officer Academy. Members approved for
    attendance by their commanders submit requests through the FSS. The FSS/FSD will
    use the appropriate human resource system to enter names and confirm quotas.
    Unprogrammed quotas will be announced by NGB/HRT to each FSS through e-mail.
    A4.4.3.3. Selection to attend the resident AFSNCOA is reserved for those SNCOs who
    will hold future leadership positions at the unit, State and National levels.
         A4.4.3.3.1. Application procedures and contents of application packages are
         announced by NGB/CF or delegated representative each year and can be located at
         http://ang.af.mil/careers/forcedevelopment.
A4.4.4. Selection Process.
    A4.4.4.1. ALS Phase 1 and NCOA Phase 2 ILE applicants are selected at the state or
    unit level. The FSS will confirm members’ attendance through the appropriate human
    resource system. Unprogrammed quotas will be announced by NGB/HRT through e-
    mail to all FSSs and will be issued on a first-come, first-served basis.
A4.4.5. Notification.
    A4.4.5.1. The FSS will be notified of ALS Phase 1 and NCOA Phase 2 ILE attendees
    through the state or unit selection process.
    A4.4.5.2. Primary and alternate selectees for AFSNCOA Phase 3 ALE and Sister
    Service Senior NCO Academies (SSNCOA), will be notified by NGB/CF or designated
    representative. The selection announcement will include class assignment.
A4.4.6. Acceptance. No action is required if member intends to accept the school
assignment.
A4.4.7. Non-acceptance.
    A4.4.7.1. Withdrawal or declination. Selectees for Phase 1 or Phase 2 ILE must submit
    a written request to NGB/HRT for withdrawal or declination. All requests must be
    endorsed by the Wing Commander and State CCM as a minimum. Members, who
    withdraw from Phase 1 or Phase 2 ILE will not receive priority for a subsequent class
    date. Members requesting deferment from AFSNCOA ALE must submit the request to
    NGB/HRT. The request must have the State CCM endorsement. Members, who receive
    an approved deferment for ALE will be afforded the opportunity to attend the next FY.
        Those members who decline or do not have an approved deferment must apply for
        future consideration.
        A4.4.7.2. Transfer of Service. Members selected to attend resident EPME who transfer
        to other branches of Service must follow the withdrawal procedures above.
    A4.4.8. NGB/HRT provides proficiency training days for all Drill Status Guardsmen (DSG)
    and Air Technicians attending the satellite program. These days are to be used for satellite
    PME only and must be returned to NGB/HRT if a member cancels attendance or is released
    from the program within 30 days from class graduation date.
A4.5. Nonresident Programs. Members who self-enroll in EPME DL programs must meet the
eligibility criteria for each level of EPME outlined in this memorandum.
A4.6. Air Force Fit to Fight Program and Physical Profiles.
    A4.6.1. All ALS and ILE/ALE students are expected to participate in the AF Fit to Fight
    (FTF) program
    A4.6.2. Temporary Physical Profiles.
        A4.6.2.1. Members must meet the fitness standards outlined in AFI 10-248. Medical
        conditions that prevent the applicant from fully participating in the school’s FTF
        program must be brought to the attention of NGB/HRT immediately. Members with
        documented temporary medical restriction(s) that prevent full participation in any part
        of the PME curriculum are ineligible to attend until the medical condition is cleared.
        Restrictions must be documented on an AF IMT 422, Physical Profile Serial Report.
        A4.6.2.2. Members are not to report to resident EPME until NGB/HRT makes a
        determination based on a recommendation made by a competent medical authority.
A4.6.3. Permanent Physical Profiles.
    A4.6.3.1. Members with permanent profiles may be eligible to attend EPME Schools.
    A4.6.3.2. A copy of the AF IMT 422 must be sent to the NGB/HRT prior to member
    departing home station. NGB/HRT will coordinate with the applicable school commandant
    for approval. NGB/HRT will notify the FSS of the commandant’s decision.
A4.7. Exceptions to Policy. NGB/HRT is the sole approving authority for exceptions to the
policy specified in this attachment unless otherwise specified.
BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2301
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                16 JULY 2010
                                                  Incorporating Through Change 2, 9 JULY 2013

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                            DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1DL                                                              Certified by: AF/A1DL
                                                                        (Colonel James E. Miner)
Supersedes:    AFI 36-2301, 27 June 2002;                                               Pages: 83
               AFI 36-2025, 9 May 2003


This Instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. This Instruction rescinds AFI 36-
2025, Air Force Intern Program, and incorporates program guidance into this Instruction.
Source and governing documents also include the DODI 1300.19, DOD Joint Officer
Management Program; DODI 1322.06, Fellowships, Scholarships, Training With Industry, and
Grants for DOD Personnel; the CJCSI 1800.01, Officer Professional Military Education Policy
– OPMEP; and the CJCSI 1805.01, Enlisted Professional Military Education Policy - EPMEP.
Developmental Education (DE) includes: Professional Military Education (PME), Joint PME
(JPME), International PME, resident and distance learning programs, as well as AF-sponsored
Advanced Academic Degree (AAD) programs, Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Naval
Post-graduate School (NPS), National Defense Intelligence College (NDIC), Advanced Study of
Air Mobility (ASAM), the AF Intern Program (AFIP) and the AF Fellows (AFF) Program for
AF military and civilian employees. This AFI governs Developmental Education (DE)
attendance, eligibility, selection, and removal criteria. It also provides procedures for inclusion
of international officers in PME programs. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of a Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Field activities publishing implementation guidance must route those to higher headquarters
functional OPR for review and coordination before publishing. This publication applies to Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) as well as Air Force civilian
 2                                                                                                     AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


employees, and compliance with this publication is mandatory.                                               SAF/MR coordination is
required before this document is revised, rescinded, or reissued.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change (IC) implements DoDI 5545.04, Policy on the Congressional Reporting
Process for Military Educational Institutions Seeking to Establish, Modify, or Redesignate
Degrees, 7 Apr 11 and implements AF PME policy to include the function of the AF Learning
Committee. It outlines the core learning areas of the AF PME program and describes the
purpose, roles, responsibilities, and processes of the Air Force Learning Committee (AFLC). It
also provides the revised developmental education construct for officer and enlisted PME
programs. This change includes the reporting process for degree granting educational
institutions to establish, modify, or redesignate degrees. This IC also implements requirements
for at least one Below-the-Promotion-Zone selection for AF Medical Service colonels for SDE
attendance in residence; removal of Lt Cols from the select list if they are deferred for
promotion; and prescribes AF Form 3849, PME/AFIT/ RTFB Officer Worksheet.

Section A—Purpose and Responsibilities                                                                                                         5
       1.      Purpose of DE. .......................................................................................................          5
       2.      Scope. .....................................................................................................................    5
       3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         6

Section B—Officer DE                                                                                                                          15
       4.      Architecture. ..........................................................................................................       16
       5.      Attendance. ............................................................................................................       16
       6.      Eligibility and Prerequisites. ..................................................................................              16
Table 1.       Active Duty Officer1 Resident DE Eligibility Criteria. .........................................                               19
Table 2.       Air Force Reserve/Air National Guard Resident Officer1 DE Eligibility Criteria.                                                20
       7.      Selection. ................................................................................................................    20
       8.      Declinations, Deferments, and Removal. ...............................................................                         21
       9.      Non-resident/DL Programs. ...................................................................................                  23
Table 3.       Active Duty Officer Non-Resident/DL PME Eligibility Criteria. .........................                                        24
       10.     DE Resident Equivalency Credit. ..........................................................................                     25
Table 4.       Officer Programs Eligible for IDE or SDE Equivalency Credit1. .........................                                        27
       11.     International Applicants. ........................................................................................             28
       12.     Advanced Studies Group (ASG). ...........................................................................                      29
       13.     Air Force Intern (AFIP) and Air Force Fellows Program (AFF). ..........................                                        29

Section C—Civilian DE                                                                                                                         31
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                                                                    3


      14.    Architecture. ..........................................................................................................      31
      15.    Attendance. ............................................................................................................      32
      16.    Eligibility and Prerequisites. ..................................................................................             32
Table 5.     DoD Civilian Resident DE Eligibility Criteria. .....................................................                          33
      17.    Selection. ................................................................................................................   34
      18.    Declinations, Deferments & Removal ...................................................................                        35
      19.    Non-resident/DL Programs. ...................................................................................                 35
Table 6.     DoD Civilian Non-Resident/DL PME Eligibility Criteria. ....................................                                   36
      20.    DE Resident Equivalency Credit. ..........................................................................                    37
Table 7.     Civilian Programs Eligible for IDE or SDE Equivalency Credit. ..........................                                      37
      21.    International Applicants. ........................................................................................            37
      22.    AF Fellow Program. ..............................................................................................             37

Section D—Enlisted DE                                                                                                                      38
      23.    Architecture. ..........................................................................................................      38
      24.    EPME Resident Eligibility and Prerequisites. .......................................................                          39
Table 8.     EPME Resident School Eligibility Criteria. ..........................................................                         41
      25.    Selection. ................................................................................................................   42
      26.    Declinations, Deferments, and Waivers. ................................................................                       45
      27.    Non-resident/DL Programs. ...................................................................................                 48
Table 9.     EPME Non-resident/DL Eligibility Criteria. .........................................................                          49
      28.    EPME Graduate Ribbon. .......................................................................................                 49
      29.    EPME Achievement Awards. ................................................................................                     49
      30.    EPME Triennial Review. .......................................................................................                50
      31.    Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................          51

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             52

Attachment 2—OFFICER DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS AND
             PROGRAMS                                                                                                                      56

Attachment 3—AIR FORCE INTERN PROGRAM (AFIP) & AIR FORCE FELLOW
             (AFF) PROGRAM OFFICER/CIVILIAN DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                   58

Attachment 4—AIR FORCE OFFICER/CIVILIAN SDE FELLOWSHIP (AFF)
             PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                                          62

Attachment 5—OFFICER/CIVILIAN PRIMARY DE (PDE) CREDIT                                                                                      71

Attachment 6—DEGREES AWARDED BY AIR UNIVERSITY                                                                                             72
4                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


Attachment 7—DE EQUIVALENCY FOR NON-AF PME SCHOOLS                     73

Attachment 8—EQUIVALENCY/COMPARABILITY RECERTIFICATION GUIDANCE
             FOR INTERNATIONAL PME PROGRAMS                            74

Attachment 9—MINIMUM INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDUCTING A
             PME EQUIVALENCY REVIEW                                    75

Attachment 10—APPLYING FOR MISSION ESSENTIAL OR HUMANITARIAN
             WITHDRAWAL FROM CDE                                       76

Attachment 11—USAF PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION POLICY              77

Attachment 12—AF LEARNING COMMITTEE                                    80

Attachment 13—PME/AFIT/RTFB/OFFICER WORKSHEET                          83
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                           5




Section A— Purpose and Responsibilities

1. Purpose of DE. Air Force DE programs expand knowledge and increase understanding of
the role of air, space and cyberspace power in times of peace and war. Air Force education
programs prepare Air Force personnel to anticipate and successfully meet challenges across the
range of military operations and build a professional corps. Further, they positively impact both
recruitment and retention efforts. Education is one of three core concepts that make up the
Continuum of Learning (CoL) which encompasses the deliberate developmental path over the
course of an Air Force career. The other two core concepts of the CoL are training and
experience. The CoL ensures the Air Force synchronizes force development efforts so personnel
receive the right education at the right time throughout their careers. This Instruction establishes
education guidance and procedures for all officer and enlisted, active duty, guard and reserve
components, and civilians.
2. Scope. As a common taxonomy used to implement the CoL, the Institutional Competency
List (ICL) which is found in AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, identifies the competencies
expected of all Airmen throughout their careers to operate successfully in constantly changing
operational environments. The term “developmental education” refers to an array of educational
opportunities. DE is comprised of professional and specialized education programs, research and
doctrinal studies, fellowships, and graduate-level studies. DE spans a member’s entire career
and provides the knowledge and abilities needed to develop, employ, and command air, space
and cyberspace forces. Career field-specific officer and civilian Development Teams (DT) and
enlisted Career Field Managers (CFM) oversee personnel development to meet functional and
institutional, tactical, operational, and strategic leadership requirements. As such, they will
evaluate developmental opportunities and provide input into the DE selection process.
   2.1. A critical subset under the DE umbrella is Professional Military Education (PME). The
   objectives of PME programs are to 1) provide the nation with skilled personnel in the
   employment of airpower in the conduct of war and small scale contingencies; 2) provide Air
   Force personnel with the skills and knowledge to make strategic decisions in progressively
   more demanding leadership positions within the national security environment; 3) develop
   strategic thinkers, planners and warfighters; and 4) strengthen the ability and skill of AF
   personnel to lead, manage and supervise. These objectives shall be reflected in the AF
   Institutional Competency List and the Air University continuum of education. PME includes
   the following resident and non-resident programs: Squadron Officer School (SOS), Air
   Command and Staff College (ACSC), Service and Foreign Command and Staff Colleges, Air
   War College (AWC), Service and Foreign War Colleges, National Defense University
   (NDU), Joint Forces Staff College, Airman Leadership School (ALS), Noncommissioned
   Officer Academy (NCOA), and Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy
   (AFSNCOA). NOTE: Non-resident and Distance Learning (DL) will be used
   interchangeably within this Instruction. DL is considered any form of DE in which the
   learner or learning group is separate from the instructor(s)/course provider(s) and
   communication between the two is via correspondence and/or telecommunications/computer-
   networking systems.
 6                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


3. Responsibilities. All commanders and leaders will encourage personnel to take advantage of
resident and non-resident educational opportunities. Specific responsibilities include the
following:
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
     budgets addressing developmental education.
     3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1)
        3.2.1. Provides operational oversight and advocacy for Air Force DE programs.
        3.2.2. Presents DE programs and concepts to the Force Management and Development
        Council (FMDC) for consideration.
        3.2.3. Chairs the annual DE Designation Board (DEDB) at the Air Force Personnel
        Center (AFPC).
        3.2.4. Ensures appropriate diversity considerations are integrated in AF-level DE
        policies, guidance and programs. Diversity in the Air Force is broadly defined as a
        composite of individual characteristics, experiences, and abilities consistent with the Air
        Force Core Values and the Air Force Mission. Air Force diversity includes, but is not
        limited to, personal life experiences, geographic background, socioeconomic background,
        cultural knowledge, educational background, work background, language abilities,
        physical abilities, philosophical/spiritual perspectives, age, race, ethnicity and gender.
        The specific characteristics, experiences, and abilities that will be applied need to be
        tailored as specific circumstances and the law require.
        3.2.5. Removal authority for officers and civilians identified on IDE/SDE designation
        lists.
     3.3. The Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D)
        3.3.1. Provides implementation guidance, programs funds, and oversees DE programs.
        3.3.2. Determines annual Air Force DE requirements, establishes Air Force attendance
        quotas at Air Force and non-Air Force schools, determines annual quotas and program
        guidance for the Air Force Fellow Program (AFFP), and determines non-Air Force
        participation in Air Force PME programs.
        3.3.3. Determines AF guidance on DE eligibility criteria, selection, and removal for
        resident and non-resident programs for lieutenant colonels and below, civilian employees,
        and enlisted personnel.
        3.3.4. Allocates Air Force active duty and civilian resident DE quotas to AFPC and
        AF/DPO; allocates Air Force Reserve quotas to US Air Force Reserve (AF/RE); and
        allocates Air National Guard quotas to Air National Guard Readiness Center
        (NGB/A1DL).
        3.3.5. Allocates Air Force officer and enlisted PME quotas to the other Services, the
        Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs (SAF/IA), and
        appropriate governmental agencies.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                     7


     3.3.6. Approves any increase or decrease to PME resident schools annual production
     capability. (Exception: MAJCOMs may authorize increase/decrease in production to
     ALS to accommodate MAJCOM EPME production requirements.)
     3.3.7. Serves as the Air Force point of contact/liaison to the JCS/J-7for Joint PME
     (JPME) issues.
     3.3.8. Serves as the Strategic Policy Intern Support Office by coordinating Intern
     rotations with HAF, Joint Staff and OSD organizations.
     3.3.9. Ensures a biennial review is conducted of all AF Fellowships and submits a final
     list to the AF/A1 for consideration.
     3.3.10. Ensures CSAF DE opportunity rate guidance is followed for active duty LAF
     officers.
     3.3.11. Acts as the waiver-approval authority for eligibility for non-resident PME
     programs.
  3.4. Air Force Colonels Management (AF/DPO)
     3.4.1. Implements Air Force guidance on DE eligibility, selection, and removal for active
     duty line and non-line colonels and colonel-selects.
     3.4.2. Ensures line colonels (and selects) that have potential to be in key leadership
     positions are selected to attend resident Senior DE (SDE) programs.
     3.4.3. Responsible for the line and non-line colonel (and selects) portion of the annual
     SDE selection/designation board to include working with AFPC to staff the results
     through AF/A1 for approval and release to the field.
     3.4.4. Approves/disapproves colonels (and selects) for the following actions: individual
     declinations, requests for operational or humanitarian deferment, and removal from the
     select list.
        3.4.4.1. Manages outplacement of all colonels (and selects) currently attending SDE.
        Coordinates with AFPC to manage out placement for all resident programs.
  3.5. Air Force Chiefs Group (AF/DPE)
     3.5.1. DELETE.
     3.5.2. DELETE.
     3.5.3. DELETE.
     3.5.4. DELETE.
     3.5.5. DELETE.
     3.5.6. Selects/schedules CMSgts for Keystone Course with AF/CCC approval.
  3.6. Air Force Personnel Center Commander (AFPC/CC)
     3.6.1. Implements Air Force guidance on DE eligibility, selection (excluding SOS, ALS
     and OCONUS NCOAs), and removal for civilians and active duty officers below the rank
     of Colonel/Senior Executive Service (SES).
8                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


    3.6.2. Announces programs, eligibility criteria and nomination procedures in annual
    Intermediate DE (IDE)/Senior Developmental Education (SDE) program message
    distributed AF-wide.
    3.6.3. Ensures all officer “selects” are designated to attend resident IDE and SDE
    programs before the end of their eligibility window. Lieutenant colonels (and selects)
    and majors (and selects) will be nominated by their senior raters to their DTs to compete
    for DE consideration. See Tables 1, 6 and 7 for rank requirements for respective resident
    DE programs (PME schools, fellowships, etc). AF/DPO manages the DE selection
    process for all colonels (and selects). Civilians will be endorsed by their Wing/CC or the
    first SES/GO in the chain to their DTs and considered by the CDE Selection Board to
    compete for appropriate DE consideration.
    3.6.4. Convenes the annual DEDB for active duty officers and civilians competing for
    resident IDE and SDE. Chaired by the AF/A1, the DEDB determines school assignments
    for selected active duty officers below the grade of colonel or colonel-select as well as for
    selected civilians in NSPS pay band 3 and below as well as for GS-15 and below. AF/JA
    will convene an annual selection board for judge advocate (LAF-J) officers competing for
    resident IDE and SDE. AF/JA will submit the officers identified for attendance to AF/A1
    for approval during the DEDB.
       3.6.4.1. Convenes Civilian DE (CDE) Selection Board prior to DEDB. The CDE
       Selection Board membership is made up of SES and GOs.
    3.6.5. Publishes approved IDE and SDE selection and designation lists.
    3.6.6. Approves individual declinations and requests for mission-essential and
    humanitarian removal from school lists for lieutenant colonels and below and civilians.
    If an officer is in his or her last year of eligibility and cannot attend IDE/SDE because of
    mission or humanitarian reasons, AFPC will prepare a letter stating the officer was
    selected for IDE/SDE but was unable to attend in his or her final year of eligibility.
    Reference paragraphs 8 and 18, concerning declinations, deferments, and removal, for
    additional information.
       3.6.6.1. Permanently files deferment and declination letters in the officer’s HQ
       USAF selection folder with a copy sent to the member and Senior Rater. Requests
       for civilian IDE/SDE declinations, withdrawals or deferments must be submitted
       through the individual’s endorser to AFPC/DPI. The request will be staffed,
       determination provided and letters will be permanently filed in the civilian’s official
       student folder with a copy sent to the member and the endorser.
    3.6.7. Distributes SOS Line of the Air Force (LAF) officer quotas to MAJCOMs and
    other agencies. Unfilled quotas will be filled by the responsible MAJCOM.
       3.6.7.1. Determines if officers attending SOS in conjunction with a PCS move will
       attend TDY enroute or TDY-and-return following PCS sign-in, based on cost analysis
       and concurrence of the gaining commander.
       3.6.7.2. Centrally manages and distributes civilian SOS quotas through Air Force
       wide competition.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                      9


         3.6.7.3. Non-line officer quotas will be distributed to the appropriate non-line
         functional community.
     3.6.8. DELETE.
         3.6.8.1. DELETE.
         3.6.8.2. DELETE.
     3.6.9. Ensure each civilian DE attendee meets eligibility criteria outlined in Air Force
     Education and Training Course Announcement (ETCA): https://etca.randolph.af.mil
     and Table 5.
         3.6.9.1. Ensures DE course completion data is updated in the Civilian personnel data
         system.
     3.6.10. Designates and schedules candidates to attend the CONUS NCOAs, AFSNCOA,
     and other equivalent non-Air Force schools.
         3.6.10.1. Determines allocations and distributes training line numbers for AFSNCOA
         and all CONUS NCOAs.
         3.6.10.2. Ensures SMSgts selects are scheduled to attend the AFSNCOA (or sister
         Service/international equivalent courses) before SMSgt promotion (or when available
         if deferred).
         3.6.10.3. Monitors AFPC selection lists of AFSNCOA students and maintains list of
         AFSNCOA (and equivalent sister Service/international courses) eligibles to fill short-
         notice vacancies.
         3.6.10.4. Programs and schedules annual EPME school production for CONUS
         NCOAs.
         3.6.10.5. Notifies MAJCOM A1s quarterly of approved EPME promotion waivers.
         3.6.10.6. Updates and corrects invalid, missing, or erroneous EPME information.
  3.7. Office of the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE)
     3.7.1. Establishes eligibility and selection criteria for Air Force Reserve personnel to
     attend in residence DE programs.
     3.7.2. Convenes Reserve DEDB to designate Reserve officers for resident DE based
     upon the whole-person concept.
     3.7.3. Publishes the resident school selection lists for Air Force Reserve personnel.
     3.7.4. Ensures unused quotas for IDE/SDE opportunities are returned to AF/A1DL as
     suspensed annually.
  3.8. Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF).
     3.8.1. Establishes eligibility and selection criteria for ANG personnel to attend resident
     DE programs.
     3.8.2. Publishes the resident school selection lists for ANG personnel.
10                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     3.8.3. Ensures unused quotas for IDE/SDE opportunities are returned to AF/A1DL as
     suspensed annually.
  3.9. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (AETC) executes this Instruction
  regarding DE; programs for and establishes academic and procedural guidance for executing
  academic programs to implement DE.
     3.9.1. Air University (AU)
         3.9.1.1. Develops, conducts, and evaluates DE resident and distance learning
         programs in accordance with the Air Force Instructional System Development (ISD)
         process [ISD guidance is provided in AFH36-2235v10, Information for Designers of
         Instruction Systems; AFMAN 26-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors; and
         AFMAN 36-2234, Instructional System Development]; conducts professional
         development courses for selected joint, international, civilian and Air National
         Guard/Air Force Reserve personnel.
         3.9.1.2. Maintains faculties, staff and facilities at the Spaatz Center for resident and
         non-resident officer DE programs and the Barnes Center, EPME, Academic Affairs
         (formerly the College for Enlisted Professional Military Education) for resident and
         non-resident enlisted PME programs; programs funds for DE programs.
         3.9.1.3. Advises the Office on Educational Credit of the American Council on
         Education of all modifications to PME programs, except programs which result in
         Masters Degrees, to assist them in recommending academic credit for PME programs.
         For EPME, AU consults with the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) when
         making changes to resident and non-resident course curricula.
         3.9.1.4. Ensures applicable AU programs meet Joint Professional Military Education
         (JPME) requirements as outlined in CJCSI 1800.01, Officer Professional Military
         Education Policy (OPMEP) and CJCSI 1805.01, Enlisted Professional Military
         Education Policy (EPMEP).
            3.9.1.4.1. Advises the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) of
            all substantive changes to AU educational programs for the purpose of assessing
            the need to reaffirm the institution’s accreditation status.
         3.9.1.5. Advertises eligibility, enrollment, academic, and graduation criteria for
         resident and non-resident programs for each level of DE in AU catalogs, and ETCAs
         located at https://etca.randolph.af.mil. Ensures students meet resident and non-
         resident eligibility requirements.
         3.9.1.6. Completes training reports for officers and transcripts for civilians upon
         graduation from SOS, ACSC, AWC, and AF Fellowships as required. Provides
         administrative control of all fellows to include responsibility for leave and TDY
         management (may be delegated to local program workplace supervisors); ensures
         rotational LOEs are completed; hosts the AF Fellows Orientation at programs’ start;
         and acts as liaison with host organizations to ensure understanding of
         roles/responsibilities.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                    11


        3.9.1.7. Recommends to AF/A1D the level (PDE, IDE, or SDE) of officer DE credit
        awarded for equivalent or comparable resident course work completed at other
        institutions to include sister services and foreign PME schools.
        3.9.1.8. Acts as the waiver-approval authority for all AF DL PME completion
        restrictions and limitations.
        3.9.1.9. Periodically conducts re-certification reviews of international PME programs
        in accordance with this Instruction on recertification of international PME programs
        (Attachment 8).
        3.9.1.10. Assists AF/A1D with biennial review of AF Fellowships by providing
        objectives and evaluations of current fellowships, participant feedback,
        recommendations for continuance or non-continuance of fellowships and other
        supporting documentation as needed.
        3.9.1.11. AU Registrar maintains course completion data for AU PME programs;
        updates DE completion data for Air Force officers; maintains AU student records and
        transcript data; issues AU diplomas and transcripts; publishes/maintains AU
        Academic Year catalog; corrects invalid, missing, or erroneously updated DE
        information; updates foreign, joint, fellows, and other Service school officer DE. For
        AWC only, Guard and Reserve officers must submit verification to their servicing
        points credit branch in order to receive point credit.
        3.9.1.12. Delete.
        3.9.1.13. AU tracks DE and PME production for AF/A1D, to include non-AU
        schools (JFSC, Foreign, etc).
        3.9.1.14. Administers and employs the Barnes Center, EPME, Academic Affairs to:
           3.9.1.14.1. Develop EPME curricula and program procedures, evaluation and
           survey requirements; conduct analysis, faculty development and training; and
           manage curricula requirements in accordance with the ISD process.
           3.9.1.14.2. Develop and maintains the AF EPME Procedural Guidance (PG), a
           document internal to AU that applies to all schools implementing USAF EPME
           curricula. It is published under the authority of this Instruction and prescribes
           guidance and procedures for the administration and management of AF EPME
           programs.
           3.9.1.14.3. Enforce adherence to AF EPME PG to ensure program effectiveness
           and standardization throughout the Air Force.
        3.9.1.15. Ensure non-resident programs are equivalent to the corresponding resident
        school program in terms of content and required learning levels as identified in the
        ICL.
        3.9.1.16. Provide administrative support to non-resident enrollees to include
        counseling on AU and individual school requirements.
  3.10. Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Unit (DRU), and Field Operating
  Agency (FOA) Commanders.
12                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     3.10.1. Allocate quotas to the bases for SOS active duty line officers.
        3.10.1.1. Allocate quotas to overseas NCOAs.
     3.10.2. Program, manage, and schedule annual EPME school production for their
     respective ALSs and OCONUS NCOAs. ALS’s must report production to AU. Base
     school production goals on providing sufficient resident EPME opportunities at specific
     career points as defined in paragraph 24. Annual class schedule supports seven classes
     minimum (ALS and NCOA); by exception, commands may allow schools to schedule
     fewer classes provided they do so without a negative impact to production requirements.
     Overall class size may vary depending on production requirements, promotions and seat
     availability; however, in order to balance quality instruction with cost effective programs,
     the classroom size standard is 12 students. Schools may flex to a maximum of 16
     students per flight with MAJCOM/A1 approval.
     3.10.3. Ensure bases operating ALSs or OCONUS NCOAs have the required personnel,
     facilities, equipment, and resources necessary to operate and meet annual production
     requirements. Ensure the support for NCOAs is documented in support agreements.
     3.10.4. Ensure schools follow operating procedures set forth in the USAF EPME
     Procedural Guidance and CCAF, Campus Relations: Policies, Procedures and Guidance
     where applicable.
  3.11. Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services, Headquarters Air Mobility
  Command (AMC/A1).
     3.11.1. Serves as the Joint Mobility Fellowship Administrative Support Office at Scott
     AFB; coordinates Joint Mobility Fellow rotations through various staff agencies at Scott
     AFB (e.g. USTRANSCOM, AMC, 18AF) and informs rotation supervisors of their
     responsibilities regarding the Fellows. Maintains AU-AMC coordinated JMFP CONOP
     for local program guidance.
  3.12. Wing Commander (WG/CC)/Senior Rater (SR)
     3.12.1. The WG/CC, SR or first SES member or general/flag officer (GO) in the chain-
     of-command will nominate officer and endorse civilian DE candidates/selects applying
     for IDE/SDE programs to AFPC in accordance with annual nomination guidance.
     Organizations that do not meet the above criteria will designate an SES member or GO in
     the chain of command. Judge advocate officer candidates will be nominated in
     accordance with the annual guidance provided by AF/JA.
        3.12.1.1. Civilians applying for SOS require two supervision levels of approval.
     3.12.2. Request removal of officers and civilians identified on IDE/SDE designation lists
     through AFPC/DPA and AFPC/DPI respectively.
        3.12.2.1. When the officer’s or civilian’s duty performance declines to an
        unacceptable level, or an officer receives disciplinary action.
        3.12.2.2. When the officer establishes a voluntary date of separation or the civilian
        tenders his or her resignation.
        3.12.2.3. When the officer or civilian’s temporary medical condition precludes
        officer’s or civilian’s ability to successfully complete the course.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                    13


        3.12.2.4. Officers/civilians who decline attendance after selection to Squadron
        Officer School for other than humanitarian or mission essential reasons do so with
        prejudice and the officer/civilian should be counseled by his/her commander.
     3.12.3. Officers who are identified by their promotion board as DE “selects” are assured
     of attending some form of DE program in-residence, as long as their performance
     continues to meet standards, whether or not they have completed PME through DL. That
     said, all officers, including “selects,” are eligible to enroll in PME by DL programs.
     3.12.4. Removes enlisted Airmen selected to attend all PME levels for the reasons listed
     below (forward removal to AF/DPE for CMSgts and selects; AFPC/DPS for SMSgts and
     below):
        3.12.4.1. When the individual’s duty performance declines to an unacceptable level,
        or the individual receives disciplinary action.
        3.12.4.2. When the individual has an approved date of separation.
     3.12.5. Acts as approval authority for deferment or removal requests for resident EPME
     courses.
     3.12.6. Ensures promotion waivers for Airmen who cannot attend PME are processed in
     a timely manner to ensure on time promotions.
     3.12.7. Ensures enlisted Airmen promoted via promotion waivers attend applicable
     EPME within established timeframes (Refer to AFI 36-2502, Airman
     Promotion/Demotion Programs).
     3.12.8. Ensures the assignment of additional duties and details for EPME faculty will not
     impede the program requirement for uninterrupted academic instruction,
     student/instructor preparation activities, faculty evaluation of student performance, and
     class preparation and closeout procedures. Faculty and students will be considered
     unavailable for additional duties and/or exercise participation (as if TDY away from
     home station) throughout the course from start date to graduation. When class is not in
     session, the assignment of additional duties and details for EPME faculty will be
     tempered with AU program requirements to evaluate the effectiveness of instruction and
     curriculum, conduct in-service training, complete and implement professional
     development. EPME faculty will support unit and wing activities and perform additional
     duties when not conflicted with the aforementioned restrictions. NOTE: For CONUS
     ALS faculty, these responsibilities typically fall under the Force Support Squadron (FSS)
     Commander (FSS/CC); however, for OCONUS PME Centers this responsibility typically
     falls under the local WG/CV or Director of Staff. EPME faculty will be assigned to an
     Air Expeditionary Force (AEF) cycle in Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) 8T000 and
     may be deployed with an AFSC 8T000 unit type code (UTC) tasking with prior approval
     of their MAJCOM/A1.
     3.12.9. Ensure all nominations for officer and civilian DE opportunities reflect
     individual, lawful, fair, and equal consideration.
  3.13. Force Support Squadron Commander (FSS/CC)
14                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     3.13.1. Ensures EPME students are selected to attend resident schools based on seniority
     (rank, TIG, then TIS), priority and other considerations (deployments, retraining,
     mission, humanitarian, medical, etc) IAW this Instruction and the ETCA website.
     3.13.2. Ensures individual names are entered and confirmed against established Training
     Line Numbers (TLNs) in Oracle Training Administration System (OTAS) MILPDS for
     resident PME schools no later than 45 days before the CSD unless managed by
     AFPC/DPS. Provides school websites, orders, and reporting instructions to selectees.
     (NOTE: For civilians, AFPC/DPI will enter and confirm the names in MILPDS.)
     3.13.3. Notifies individuals of selection and date of school attendance and immediately
     notifies AFPC for officers, civilians and enlisted members who are ineligible or unable to
     attend.
     3.13.4. Ensures DE students have their commander‘s recommendation for SOS and meet
     eligibility criteria outlined in the Air Force ETCA: https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
     3.13.5. Provides the ALS Commandant a monthly or bi-monthly listing of eligible ALS
     members by unit of assignment.
     3.13.6. Provides enrollment information and testing support for non-resident DE
     programs.
     3.13.7. Disseminates annual DE nomination announcement published by AFPC.
     3.13.8. Ensures MILPDS is updated for members who decline PME attendance to
     identify them as ineligible for reenlistment, PCS (except mandatory moves), extension of
     enlistment, promotion, and special duty assignment.
     3.13.9. Processes waiver and deferment requests.
  3.14. Unit Commander
     3.14.1. Ensures each officer/civilian/enlisted DE attendee meets eligibility criteria
     outlined in Air Force ETCA: https://etca.randolph.af.mil.
     3.14.2. Advises officer, civilian, and enlisted members of fitness requirements to attend
     resident PME. They will appoint a unit representative (if other than the unit first
     sergeant) to verify fitness test scores. Officer and enlisted members must have a passing
     current AF Fitness Test prior to attending any resident PME. For officer and enlisted
     members attending any resident PME course that is less than 6 months in duration, a
     passing AF Fitness Assessment must be current through course completion. (Exceptions:
     members medically exempt, deployed and unable to complete a Fitness Assessment prior
     to attendance as approved by the Commandant of the school the officer falls under).
     3.14.3. Counsels all individuals who are considering declination of resident DE
     attendance. Commanders will emphasize the positive benefit completing DE and
     implications of declining.
     3.14.4. Processes deferment requests in accordance with AF and ETCA procedures.
  3.15. Superintendents/supervisors: Actively and deliberately plan subordinates’ activities
  (i.e., deployments, TDYs, training, leave, etc.) to ensure the earliest PME attendance for
  eligible military airmen.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        15


   3.16. Selected Individuals
      3.16.1. Immediately identify mission-related, medical, or personal                 hardship
      circumstances, which may require deferment or student change action.
      3.16.2. Initiate paperwork to obtain (or renew) a Secret, Top Secret, or SCI security
      clearance, as appropriate, upon notification of selection to attend a resident DE course.
      See ETCA for the applicable security clearance required (applies to US military and US
      civilians only).
      3.16.3. Comply with DE school prerequisites and guidelines for school attendance.
      3.16.4. Coordinate appropriate medical profile documentation to their respective wing
      training manager and obtain approval to attend EPME school NLT 35 days prior to CSD.
      Provide the appropriate fitness or medical profile documentation to respective EPME
      school upon arrival.
   3.17. Air Force Degree Granting Educational Institutions
      3.17.1. Establish, modify, or redesignate degrees. Air Force accredited, degree granting
      educational institutions shall only establish, modify, or redesignate degrees after the
      Secretary of Education has recommended approval of the degree program, the institution
      is accredited by the appropriate civilian academic accrediting agency or organization to
      award the degree, and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and
      Readiness PDUSD (P&R) formally informs the AF educational institution that the
      appropriate documentation has been submitted to Congress.
      3.17.2. New Degrees. New degrees must be approved by the US Department of
      Education (DoEd) as well as the appropriate accrediting agency. Within 60 days of
      receipt of the DoEd determination regarding the establishment of the new degree-
      granting authority, the institution will submit a memorandum to the PDUSD (P&R)
      requesting notification of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees along with
      the self-assessment questionnaire and subsequent recommendations and comments of the
      DoEd and the appropriate academic accrediting agency.
      3.17.3. Modification or Redesignation of Degrees. When seeking to modify or
      redesignate an existing degree-granting authority, the institution will submit a copy of the
      substantive change request, or equivalent documentation as required by the applicable
      accrediting agency to the PDUSD (P&R) and DoEd, for modified or redesignated degrees
      within 60 days of its submission to the applicable accrediting agency.
      3.17.4. Refusal of Accreditation. If an academic accrediting agency or organization
      decides not to accredit an AF educational institution to award a new degree or accredit
      the modification or redesignation of an existing degree, the institution will submit a
      memorandum to the PDUSD (P&R) within 90 days containing a summary of the issue
      and corrective actions.
      3.17.5. A copy of the memorandums sent to the PDUSD (P&R) will be sent to SAF/MR
      and AF/A1D.

Section B— Officer DE
 16                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


4. Architecture. The Air Force officer DE Program is central to the CoL that spans an officer‘s
professional career beyond pre-commissioning education. There are three subsequent levels of
officer DE: primary, intermediate and senior (Attachment 2). The Air University Catalog and
ETCA online catalog (https://etca.randolph.af.mil) provides additional details on DE
programs. Changes to AU catalog and AU courses listed in the ETCA must be processed
through the AU Office of the Registrar.
5. Attendance. Under the Force Development construct, some officers will be deeply,
functionally developed so as to be the experts in their field. Others will be developed more
broadly for specific leadership and command responsibilities. Limited resources may restrict DE
attendance. Resident PDE/IDE/SDE attendance is further limited to the "best qualified". Non-
resident PME programs for SOS, ACSC and AWC are available to all eligible officers, including
those officers who will not attend resident IDE/SDE at a military service school (i.e., NPS,
AFIT, NDIC, ASAM, Fellowships, etc.).
   5.1. DELETE.
   5.2. PDE programs are SOS and SOS-equivalent Inter-American Air Forces Academy
   (IAAFA) course.
   5.3. IDE programs are specified as Intermediate-Level Colleges (in the joint community and
   identified foreign schools) and/or Command & Staff Colleges, internships and fellowships,
   as well as certain graduate degree programs through AFIT, NPS, ASAM and NDIC.
   Command & Staff Colleges include: ACSC, sister service and JPME I equivalent IDE-level
   foreign schools. AFIP descriptions are listed at Attachment 3.
       5.3.1. Resident IDE at all Service schools and the ACSC-DL programs are JPME Phase I
       awarding. Officers selected for IDE at non-JPME I awarding programs (AF Intern
       Program, AF Fellow Program, AFIT, NPS, etc.) are required to complete ACSC-DL to
       receive both JPME-I and IDE in-residence credit. Officers can elect to enroll in ACSC
       by DL/seminar. Officers who are selected to attend a non-Masters degree granting
       program, and/or do not hold a Masters degree may enroll in the AU Online Masters
       Program.
   5.4. SDE programs are categorized as Senior-Level Colleges (in the joint community and
   identified foreign schools) and/or each Service’s War College, National Defense University
   (NDU) programs (National War College and Industrial College of the Armed Forces), and
   certain fellowships (complete listing of AF Fellowships is at Attachment 4). Resident
   programs at the Service’s War Colleges and NDU programs award JPME Phase II credit.
   (NOTE: Most NDU programs award both JPME Phase I and Phase II.)
6. Eligibility and Prerequisites. (NOTE: Active duty officer eligibility criteria is listed in
Table 1).
   6.1. Colonels (and selects). To attend resident SDE, Line of the Air Force (LAF) colonel-
   selects must be designated by the promotion selection board as SDE “selects”. If a LAF
   officer is selected for promotion to O-6/colonel below-the-zone and has not attended resident
   SDE, the officer will automatically become a SDE “select”. A LAF officer promoted to
   colonel in-the-zone, who was promoted below-the-zone to lieutenant colonel and has not
   attended resident SDE, is also designated as an SDE “select”. Once designated as a SDE
   “select”, an officer will attend SDE as long as their performance continues to meet standards.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                       17


  Officers will not attend if they have an approved retirement, are operationally deferred or no
  longer meet the eligibility criteria for attendance.
     6.1.1. Health Professions officers are no longer designated as SDE selects by the
     promotion selection board. However, in order for health professions officers to be
     designated as SDE selects they must meet all eligibility criteria listed in Table 1.
     AF/DPO conducts the health professions SDE selection process in conjunction with the
     Line of the Air Force officer SDE selection process, which is approved by the AF/A1.
     6.1.2. Judge advocate officers (LAF-J) are not designated as IDE or SDE selects by the
     promotion selection board. AF/JA conducts the LAF-J IDE and SDE selection process
     and presents the LAF-J officers identified for attendance to AF/A1 for approval during
     the DEDB.
  6.2. Lieutenant colonels (and selects). To attend resident SDE, a pre-determined percentage
  of LAF lieutenant colonels (and selects) will be identified as SDE selects from their
  promotion selection board. If not identified as a “select” from the promotion board, officers
  are considered a SDE “candidate” and can be nominated by their senior rater to their
  Development Team (DT) to attend resident SDE. The DT will competitively consider
  “candidates” for SDE selection, then vector those selected to the appropriate SDE
  opportunity. Final approval of SDE designation will occur at the annual DEDB. DT-
  nominated “candidates” must re-compete annually for SDE consideration. SDE “selects,” to
  include lieutenant colonels, colonel (selects), and colonels must graduate school no later than
  their 23rd year of commissioned service.
     6.2.1. Board-identified SDE “selects” will attend SDE in residence during their
     eligibility window as long as their performance continues to meet the high standards that
     originally merited their selection. In the rare instance when the performance of an officer
     in their last look consistently and drastically decline to the point they should not attend
     SDE in residence, the DT can submit a request to the DEDB to have the officer removed
     from the DE designation list. Justification should include, at a minimum, documented
     evidence of decreased level of performance. The DEDB chair (AF/A1) will make the
     final decision on whether an officer is removed from the DE designation list.
     6.2.2. Approximately eighty percent (80%) of the total number of designees chosen to
     attend SDE in residence will be “selects” from their promotion selection board.
     Approximately 20 percent (20%) will be “candidates” that have been competitively
     considered and nominated by their DT.
  6.3. Majors (and selects). To attend resident IDE, a pre-determined percentage of LAF
  majors (and selects) will be identified as IDE “selects” from their promotion selection board.
  If not identified as a “select” from the promotion board, officers are considered an IDE
  “candidate” and can be nominated by their senior rater to their DT to attend resident IDE.
  The DT will competitively consider candidates for IDE selection, then vector those selected
  to the appropriate IDE opportunity. DT-nominated “candidates” must re-compete annually
  for IDE consideration. Final approval of IDE designations will occur at the annual DEDB.
     6.3.1. Board-identified IDE “selects” will attend resident IDE during their eligibility
     window as long as their performance continues to meet the high standards that merited
     their selection originally. In the rare instance when the performance of an officer in their
18                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     last look has consistently and drastically declined to the point that they should not attend
     resident IDE, the DT can submit a request to the DEDB to have the officer removed from
     the DE designation list. Request justification should include, at a minimum, documented
     evidence of decreased level of performance. The DEDB chair (AF/A1) will make the
     final decision on an officer’s removal from the DE designation list. IDE “selects” must
     complete ACSC-DL if their designated IDE program is not JPME I awarding.
     6.3.2. Approximately seventy percent (70%) of the total number of designees chosen to
     attend IDE in residence will be “selects” from their promotion selection board.
     Approximately 30 percent (30%) will be “candidates” that have been competitively
     considered and nominated by their DT.
  6.4. Preference Statement. Lieutenant colonel (and select) and major (and select) DE selects
  may indicate their preference for resident DE programs on the web-based Airmen
  Development Plan (ADP). The ADP is used to communicate officer and senior rater DE
  recommendations to the respective DT in accordance with annual nomination guidance
  published by AFPC. AF/DPO provides guidance to the field and to the eligible Colonels (and
  selects) on the SDE selection process each year.
  6.5. Effective from the date of their promotion (pin on), Captains are eligible to attend SOS
  with a TAFCSD of greater than 4 years but no more than 7 years TAFCS at class start date.
  6.6. DELETE.
  6.7. Retainability. Officers attending IDE/SDE must have enough retainability to serve at
  least 3 years following school attendance in order to satisfy the resulting active duty service
  commitment.
  6.8. Decorations. Officers attending PDE, IDE or SDE in-residence are not authorized to be
  nominated for, nor receive, any individual tour completion or meritorious service decorations
  or badges. This is consistent with Air Force guidance for officers in student status.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         19




Table 1. Active Duty Officer1 Resident DE Eligibility Criteria.
 School       Rank           TAFCS                ADSC      Time On Station (TOS) 2
 SOS          Captain4       More than 4 to no    None      N/A
              (must be       more than 7 years
              pinned-on      TAFCS at class
              Captain to     start9
              attend)
 IDE          Major5 or      N/A6                 3 Yrs     2 years as of projected departure
              Major                                         date (except in last year of
                                                            eligibility or in a “must move”
              Select
                                                            status)
 SDE          Lt Col7        No more than 23      3 Yrs     2 years as of projected departure
              Select thru    years at                       date (except in last year of
              Col8           graduation                     eligibility or in a “must-move”
                                                            status)
 NOTES:
 1. Officers must have a current passing AF Fitness Test prior to attending any resident
 PME. For officers attending any resident PME course that is less than 6 months in
 duration, a passing AF Fitness Assessment must be current through course completion.
 (Exceptions: members medically exempt, deployed and unable to complete a Fitness Test
 prior to attendance as approved by the commandant of the school the officer will attend).
 2. TOS is N/A for colonels/colonel selects
 3. Delete.
 4. Ineligible to attend if captain has approved date of separation.
 5. Until considered In-the-Promotion-Zone for lieutenant colonel.
 6. Must be a pinned on major to attend IDE.
 7. Until considered In-the-Promotion-Zone for colonel.
 8. For LAF and AF Medical Service colonels, resident attendance requires at least one
 Below-the-Promotion-Zone selection.
 9. Exclude LAF-J and non – line officers from 4 year TAFCS requirement to attend SOS.

   6.9. Air Force Reserve/Air National Guard. An ANG officer is eligible for resident PME if
   the officer has the proper grade and falls within the eligibility criteria as shown in Table 2.
   Air Force Reserve (USAFR) officers in pay category A or B are eligible to apply for resident
   PME provided they meet eligibility criteria outlined in Table 2 and are not deferred as
   defined in Title 10 U.S.C. 8368(a). Air Force Reserve Technicians (ARTs), regardless of
   method of training, either resident/non-resident, must meet military grade requirements to
   apply for PME. Accordingly, ARTs will attend schools and training courses in civilian
 20                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   status, except as otherwise noted. Waiver authority for resident IDE and SDE eligibility
   criteria rests with AF/REP and NGB/A1, respectively.

Table 2. Air Force Reserve/Air National Guard Resident Officer1 DE Eligibility Criteria.

      School        Grade                       TYCS: USAFR 2,3 /ANG            Service
                                                                                Commitment
      SOS           Captain                     Less than 11 Years              1 Year
      IDE           Major or Major Select 4     Less than 18/16 Years           3 Years
      SDE           Lt Col or Colonel 4         Less than 26/25 Years           3 Years
      NOTES:
      1. Officers must have a current passing AF Fitness Test prior to attending any resident
      PME. For officers attending any resident PME course that is less than 6 months in
      duration, a passing AF Fitness Assessment must be current through course completion.
      (Exceptions: members medically exempt, deployed and unable to complete a Fitness Test
      prior to attendance as approved by the commandant of the school the officer will attend).
      2. Chaplain, legal and health profession officers who apply for IDE or SDE are allowed
      to exceed the maximum TYCS by the number of years of constructive service credited.
      Minimum retainability is still required.
      3. Air Reserve Technician (ART) eligibility will be stated in remarks section of AF
      Form 1941 or on vPC-GR application.
      4. Major selects (IDE) and Lt Col selects (SDE) may apply if promotion pin-on occurs
      by the first day of school.

   6.10. All non-Air Force attendees must meet the eligibility criteria of their Air Force military
   counterparts unless exempted elsewhere in this Instruction.
7. Selection.
   7.1. PDE. LAF SOS designation is determined at base-level. Non-line SOS designation is
   determined by the functional community.
   7.2. IDE. For majors (and selects) the annual DE Designation Board (DEDB) is convened to
   designate active duty line and non-line officers for resident IDE programs. The DEDB will
   use the officer selection record, the Airmen Development Plan (ADP) and DT
   recommendation to designate officers to a specific IDE program. Selection for IDE overrides
   other pending assignments.
         7.2.1. AF/JA will convene an annual selection board for judge advocate (LAF-J) officers
         competing for resident IDE. AF/JA will submit the officers identified for IDE attendance
         and their designated program to AF/A1 for approval during the DEDB.
   7.3. SDE. For colonels (and selects), AF/DPO conducts an annual selection process,
   approved by the AF/A1, to designate a particular DE program for the eligible SDE selects.
   The board will review the officer’s personnel record, personnel brief, and MAJCOM
   recommendation. For lieutenant colonels (and selects) the annual DEDB is convened at
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         21


   AFPC to designate active duty line and non-line officers for resident SDE. Selection for
   SDE overrides other pending assignments.
      7.3.1. AF/JA will convene an annual selection board for judge advocate (LAF-J) officers
      competing for resident SDE. AF/JA will submit the officers selected for SDE attendance
      and their designated school to AF/A1 for approval during the DEDB.
   7.4. Due to the deliberate nature of the DE selection process, IDE and SDE attendance takes
   precedence over deployment when the individual has been selected for school prior to
   selection for deployment. Furthermore, DE attendance will take priority over deployments
   for all officers in their last year of eligibility. All other individuals will be evaluated on a
   case by case basis with requests from the SR, routed through the DT, and sent to AFPC/CC
   for approval.
   7.5. For Air Force Reserve, refer to AFMAN 36-8001 and for ANG, refer to ANGI 36-2301.
8. Declinations, Deferments, and Removal.
   8.1. IDE/SDE. Officers designated as IDE or SDE “selects” from the promotion board may
   decline select status at any time prior to being designated for attendance. The declination
   results in the loss of select status and replacement of AA or AB codes with the DM code
   (PME declination with prejudice), with an indefinite expiration date, on the officers SURF,
   Duty Qualification History Brief (DQHB), and OSB. The declination will be visible to
   future promotion boards. It will also result in ineligibility for any future IDE/SDE
   opportunity. The officer shall be counseled by his/her commander and shall submit the
   declination in writing, with the commander’s counseling statement attached, endorsed by the
   senior rater, to either HQ AFPC/DPA or AF/DPO, as appropriate. For lieutenant colonels
   and below, the AFPC/CC will send a letter to the member and Senior Rater informing them
   that the declination letter and counseling statement will be retained permanently in the
   officers OSR (cc sent to MAJCOM A1) along with the letter from the AFPC/CC to the
   member and Senior Rater. For Colonels (and selects), AF/DPO will send a letter to the
   member, the Senior Rater, and the Management Level to inform them of the permanent
   declination. The notification letter and the counseling statement will be retained permanently
   in the officer’s OSR.
   8.2. Assignment implications. Officers designated to attend DE will receive an Assignment
   Selection Date (ASD) effective the date of release of the DEDB results message. Officers
   who decline DE post DEDB message release are subject to the provisions contained in AFI
   36-2110, Assignments, Table 2.9, Seven-Day Option Separation and Retirement Dates.
   Officers with an indefinite DOS selected for education and training, an ADSC-incurring
   event, who do not want to participate in the event and/or do not want the associated ADSC
   must sign AF Form 63 to decline the ADSC and submit a request for separation in
   accordance with AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, or request for retirement
   in accordance with AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements. AF/JA may waive this paragraph for
   LAF-J officers.
   8.3. Alternates. IDE and SDE alternates who are designated to attend DE will receive an
   ASD effective upon notification of attendance. If notification is made more than 120 days
   prior to the Report Not Later than Date the provisions contained in AFI 36-2110,
22                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


  Assignments apply. Officers notified of attendance with l20 or less days of notice may
  decline attendance without prejudice.
  8.4. Removal for non-prejudicial reasons. AFPC/CC approves individual declinations and
  requests for mission-essential and humanitarian removal from the DE designation list for
  lieutenant colonels and below. If an officer is in his or her last year of eligibility and cannot
  attend IDE/SDE because of mission reasons or an approved Humanitarian or Exceptional
  Family Member Program (EFMP) deferment                   IAW AFI 36-2110, attachment 25,
  AFPC/DPAPF will prepare a letter stating the officer was selected for IDE/SDE but was not
  made available to attend in his or her final year of eligibility. This letter is to be permanently
  filed in the officer’s selection record and the officer will have (QQ QR) code placed in
  MilPDS. A copy of the letter will be sent to the member and Senior Rater.
     8.4.1. IDE and SDE (lieutenant colonels and below), “selects” who are delayed or
     removed from DE designation lists for mission essential, humanitarian, or other non-
     prejudicial reasons will be scheduled for attendance in the second or subsequent year
     following the deferment, once the DT and DEDB re-validate the select’s designation as
     long as they continue to perform. IDE/SDE “selects” will only re-compete for a specific
     IDE/SDE program, as they are guaranteed a seat. IDE and SDE “candidates” deferred
     from school attendance with IDE/SDE eligibility remaining will be required to re-
     compete for designation during the following year’s DEDB. “Candidates” will have to
     re-compete for both designation and for a specific program, as they are no longer
     guaranteed either from one year to the next. The Senior Rater will need to re-recommend
     a deferred candidate to school during the annual call for IDE/SDE nominations, and the
     nomination will be evaluated by the DT. Lieutenant colonels that were designated a SDE
     “select” but have not yet attended, and are then designated as a colonel or colonel-select,
     might not attend the SDE they were designated for as a lieutenant colonel. AF/DPO will
     designate officers in this situation as best meets Air Force strategic requirements and
     developmental requirements for the officer as a colonel.
     8.4.2. Removal for Promotion Deferment. Lt Cols deferred for promotion to Col are
     ineligible for in-residence SDE. AD officers selected to go to resident SDE will be
     removed from the select list if they are deferred for promotion. Senior Rater,
     management level, or DT will submit a request for approval to AFPC/DPAPF to remove
     the officer from the DE designation list. AFPC will staff the request for approval by
     AF/A1.
  8.5. Removal for cause. When a request from the Senior Rater, management level, or DT to
  remove an officer from a DE designation list is approved by AF/A1, the officer will be
  permanently removed from the nomination list. This results in the loss of select status which
  will appear on the officers SURF, DQHB, and OSB. A letter will be permanently filed in the
  Officer Selection Record (OSR) and officers will be permanently ineligible for any future
  resident DE. It is the commander’s and Senior Rater’s responsibility to monitor the
  performance and standards of DE selects and alternates. Should the propriety of any
  designee's attendance become questionable, the Senior Rater should notify appropriate
  management level A1 (e.g., MAJCOM, DRU, FOA) and HQ AFPC/DPAPF immediately.
  8.6. DELETE.
     8.6.1. DELETE.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        23


       8.6.2. DELETE.
           8.6.2.1. DELETE.
           8.6.2.2. DELETE.
           8.6.2.3. DELETE.
   8.7. DELETE.
       8.7.1. DELETE.
           8.7.1.1. DELETE.
       8.7.2. DELETE.
       8.7.3. DELETE.
   8.8. Eligibility SOS Waiver Procedures. Waiver authority for SOS is the MAJCOM A1,
   who may delegate to the wing commander or equivalent.
   8.9. To be eligible to attend SOS in residence, a LAF officer (Active, Guard or Reserve)
   must be a pinned-on captain with more than 4 years commissioned service but not more than
   7 years TAFCS (i.e., 6 years, 11 months, and 30 days of TAFCS) at start of SOS class.
   8.10. Intervening service between IDE/SDE residence attendance. To be eligible to attend
   SDE, officers should have at least 3 years of service since their last PCS resident education
   assignment (e.g., ACSC, AFIT, etc.) as of the CSD. DTs may elect to send an officer earlier,
   but only in the best interest of the AF so as to preclude back-to-back school programs.
   8.11. Air National Guard/Air Force Reserve. For the Air Force Reserve, refer to AFMAN
   36-8001 and for the Air National Guard, ANGI 36-2301.
9. Non-resident/DL Programs. The purpose of non-resident DE programs (SOS, ACSC and
AWC) is to provide DE opportunities to those individuals who cannot complete the resident
program appropriate to their rank/grade or to supplement the available DE opportunities. All
officers, including DE "selects" are eligible to enroll in PME by DL programs, thereby
enhancing their leadership and knowledge of air, space, and cyberspace power. While some
officers may attend an Air Force resident PME program, a number of officers selected for in-
residence IDE or SDE will still need to complete PME by DL in order to receive JPME I credit.
Completion of AF PME is required before an individual can receive credit for completing other
non-resident DE (for example, sister-Service non-resident DE). AF/A1DL is the waiver
authority for all non-resident PME eligibility. HQ AU is the waiver authority for all non-resident
AF PME completion restrictions and limitations.
   9.1. Air Force policy emphasizes taking the right DE at the right time and at the right grade.
   The non-resident sequence is SOS, ACSC, then AWC. Officers may enroll in non-resident
   programs as detailed in Table 3.
   9.2. Officers enrolled in IDE programs that are not JPME Phase I awarding (NDIC, AFIT,
   NPS, ASAM, Fellowships/Internships, etc.) must complete ACSC-DL in order to be awarded
   JPME Phase I credit and be granted IDE in-residence completion.
24                                                                  AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


  9.3. Officers crossflowing into the AF from another Service will receive credit for the
  appropriate PME completed while serving in the sister-Service, subject to the following
  limitations.
      9.3.1. All crossflow officers will receive credit for PME completed before their
      promotion to their current rank/grade. For instance, an Army Major transferring into the
      Air Force would receive credit for having completed CGO PME in the Army.
      9.3.2. For PME in the currently held grade, the following applies: If the officer has more
      than three years TIG at the time of transfer, the officer will receive credit for the grade-
      specific PME completed in the sister-Service. If officers crossflow into the AF with less
      than three years TIG (as captains, majors or lieutenant colonels), they will not receive
      credit for their sister-Service PME specific to their current grade, however, they will have
      the opportunity to complete AF PME commensurate with their current rank/grade.
      AF/A1D is the waiver authority for this requirement.


      Table 3. Active Duty Officer Non-Resident/DL PME Eligibility Criteria.


     Program                          Military               TAFCS

     SOS                              Captain or Captain-    When selected to Captain
                                      select
     AU Online Master’s               Captains only1         Must have 6 years TAFCS to enroll
     AU Online Master’s               Major or Major         When selected to Major
     (w/Joint Warfare                 Select
     Concentration - ACSC)2


     ACSC                             Major3 or Major        When selected to Major
                                      Select
     AWC                              Lt Col Select thru     When selected to Lt Col
                                      Col
     NOTES:
     1. Must have SOS-DL complete to be eligible.
     2. AU Online Master’s (w/Joint Warfare Concentration) is only available to Majors/Major
     Selects. JPME I credit will be awarded upon completion.
     3. Until selected for Lt Col.


  9.4. AU Online Master’s.         The AU Online master’s program was a CSAF initiative
  designed to offer qualified officers an additional opportunity to earn a master’s degree from a
  regionally accredited institution of higher learning. Originally targeted to Majors, the Joint
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                       25


   Warfighting concentration ensures its graduates also earn JPME Phase I and AF IDE credit.
   In 2010, the program was expanded to open a concentration in Leadership for qualified
   Captains. Other concentrations are projected in the future. Although graduates from these
   concentrations do not earn AF IDE or JPME Phase I credit, they receive an accredited
   educational experience specifically tailored to the needs of the Air Force.
   9.5. Optional DE opportunities via DL. In addition to the opportunities listed above, officers
   may also elect to complete courses from the Leadership Development Programs (LDP).
   These self-paced optional courses are offered through Squadron Officer College’s distance
   learning program (SOC-DL). These courses are applicable across the force and include such
   topics as foundational, expeditionary and organizational leadership. Students do not receive
   any PME or DE credits for completion. Also, these credits cannot be transferred into AU
   degree programs.
      9.5.1. Officers may enroll in LDP courses via a self-enrollment DL process. Enrollees
      will have 6 months in which to complete a course or they will be disenrolled.
      Completion will not appear anywhere in a member’s record but will appear on the
      member’s AU transcript.
      9.5.2. AF Reserves, Air National Guard and AF Civilians may enroll in LDP courses via
      the self-enrollment process.
10. DE Resident Equivalency Credit.
   10.1. Officers who have attended, are currently attending, or who have been selected to
   attend programs where they were competitively selected by the AF (Table 4), may be
   considered for IDE/SDE Equivalency credit. DE requests for equivalency credit will be
   made via the ADP during the annual nomination call from AFPC. Senior Raters must
   nominate the officer for equivalency credit. DTs will evaluate the quality of the requesting
   member to determine if members’ records are of commensurate quality with those being
   forwarded for DE attendance to the DEDB. If requesting members meet the DT quality
   review, they then must be approved by the DEDB. To receive resident DE credit, officers
   must also complete the appropriate level of AF PME by DL or seminar. JPME I credit can
   be earned by completing ACSC via DL, seminar or through the online master’s degree
   program. JPME I credit is required for officers in order to continue towards obtaining Joint
   Qualification Officer status. Once members are approved for resident IDE or SDE credit,
   they are not eligible to compete for another DE program at the same level. Furthermore, if a
   member receives IDE equivalency credit, that same program cannot be applied to SDE
   credit.
      10.1.1. If an officer is outside the annual DE nomination timeline but still in their
      eligibility window, they may request credit by forwarding their request through their
      senior rater, to AFPC/DPA, who will forward to the respective DT, then to AF/A1D for
      approval. Out of cycle requests are for extenuating circumstances only and/or will only
      be considered for those officers that were unable to compete during the normal DE
      Nomination cycle. Out of cycle credit requests are not designed for an additional “look”.
      10.1.2. Because officers must also complete ACSC via DL, seminar or the online
      master’s degree program in order to earn JPME I credit, the completion date for resident
      credit will reflect in the system to show the later completion date of the two programs. If
26                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     credit is awarded for a program completed in 2005, however JPME I is not completed
     until 2010, then in residence completion will reflect a 2010 date in the system.
     10.1.3. In order to obtain SDE equivalency credit, officers must complete AWC by DL
     or seminar. If credit is awarded for a program completed in 2008, however AWC by DL
     or seminar is not completed until 2012, then resident completion will reflect a 2012 date
     in the system. Please note, JPME II credit can only be earned by resident attendance at
     JFSC, other National Defense University schools, and accredited senior-level Service
     colleges.
         10.1.3.1. School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS) graduates who are
         AFIT-sponsored faculty-development PhD candidates (all but dissertation) may
         request SDE credit for SAASS PhD completion. These officers are not required to
         complete AWC by DL to receive SDE equivalency credit but must follow the same
         request process outlined in paragraphs 10.1. and 10.1.1.
         10.1.3.2. AF/JA may convene an annual selection board to identify judge advocate
         (LAF-J) officers who have completed, or will complete, the AFIT Masters of Laws
         (LL.M.) program and who are of the requisite quality to be awarded IDE equivalency
         credit. AF/JA will submit the LAF-J officers identified for award of equivalency
         credit to AF/A1 for approval during the DEDB process.
  10.2. DTs may recommend credit for IDE/SDE to the DEDB for nominees requesting
  equivalency credit as listed in Table 4. Furthermore, DTs have the latitude to recommend
  equivalency credit to nominees in the primary ceiling, even if the member did not request
  equivalency credit. The DT has the knowledge and functional expertise to determine the
  needed development of each officer. This includes determining that the member does not
  need to attend an IDE/SDE resident program, when they have previously completed a
  developmental experience the DT determines is sufficient. DTs/CFMs are encouraged to
  discuss this action with the nominating senior rater prior to recommending the credit to
  ensure there are no extenuating circumstances or any unintended consequences.
  10.3. Air Force officers may also participate in other Service, Joint, DoD, and non-DoD
  (international and civilian) PME-equivalent programs. For details on what constitutes joint
  programs, see CJCSI 1800.01. Other Services, US Government agencies, and foreign
  countries participate in Air Force PME programs.
  10.4. DE Equivalency programs listed in Table 4 have been identified because of the
  operational and/or strategic development that each program provides. Tactical and
  functionally focused programs do not demonstrate operational and strategic elements of
  development required by AF institutional education.
  10.5. White House Fellows, Washington DC. This program is not managed by the AF;
  however, details on the program follow. The White house Fellows program is one of the
  nation’s most prestigious opportunities in the areas of leadership and public service.
  Founded in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, the Fellowship offers exceptional young
  men and women first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the Federal
  government. Selection as a White House Fellow is highly competitive and the program has
  fostered national leaders in many fields including senior military officers, Cabinet
  Secretaries, legislators and CEOs. White House Fellows typically spend one year, running
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                           27


    from 1 Sept to 31 Aug, working as full-time, paid special assistants to senior White House
    Staff, the Vice President, Cabinet Secretaries and other top-ranking government officials.
    Fellows also participate in an education program consisting of roundtable discussions with
    leaders from the private and public sectors and trips to study U.S. policy in action both
    domestically and abroad. Beginning with Academic Year (AY)2005 starts, White House
    Fellows were granted resident IDE/SDE credit provided they complete a pre-approved
    program.

Table 4. Officer Programs Eligible for IDE or SDE Equivalency Credit1.

IDE                                               SDE (Applies to lieutenant colonels only)
AFIT PhD Program2                                 AFIT PhD Program2
AFIT Master’s Degree Program                      AFIT - Civilian Institution (CI) (PhD only) 2
AFIT – Civilian Institution (CI)                  AF Medical Service (AFMS) Executive Development
                                                  Programs
AF Medical Service (AFMS) Advanced                Director National Security Agency (DIRNSA)
Development Program                               Fellowship
Fletcher School Global Master of Arts Program     Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP)
(GMAP)
Information Assurance Scholarship Program         NPS PhD program 2
(IASP)
Mansfield Fellow                                  White House Fellow
Naval Postgraduate School (NPS)                   Faculty Development SAASS PhD Candidate3
Olmsted Scholar
Test Pilot School (USAF TPS, US Naval TPS,
Empire TPS in Great Britain, EPNER in France)
White House Fellow
National Defense Intelligence College (formerly
JMIC)
NOTES:
1. All programs within the table require completion of ACSC/DL or AWC/DL accordingly.
2. With the exception of SAASS PhD candidates, for all PhD programs, officers must complete
PhD. All but dissertation and PhD candidates cannot receive equivalency credit.
3. Faculty Development SAASS PhD Candidates are not required to complete AWC by DL to
receive SDE equivalency credit.
    10.6. All graduates of AFIP, when it was a Captain level program, will be awarded In-
    residence IDE credit upon completion of ACSC-DL. Captain AFIP graduates will not attend
    another IDE in-resident experience. ACSC DL must be complete in order to obtain JPME I
    credit.
 28                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


11. International Applicants.
   11.1. Before attending a resident PME school, all International Officers (IO) must attend the
   International Officer School (IOS) preparatory course at Spaatz Center for Officer Education,
   Maxwell AFB, AL. IOS is designed to increase the officer’s ability to communicate and
   participate in the PME schools and to familiarize the IO with US culture and the US Air
   Force. See ETCA https://etca.randolph.af.mil and AU Catalog for details. The applicant's
   military or civilian grade must be equivalent to the US Air Force grades eligibility criteria
   found in Table 1& 6.
   11.2. International applicants for non-resident PME programs must be military members or
   civilian employees of the military department of a country or international organization
   eligible for Foreign Military Sales (FMS) training program sponsorship and hold the
   equivalent rank or grade required. (see ETCA).
      11.2.1. A US military officer or US civilian employee in the country, or with the
      organization concerned, must accept responsibility to monitor student progress and to
      serve as a contact between HQ AU and the student. Applicants must be proficient in the
      English language (English Competency Level of 80) to complete the program
      successfully.
      11.2.2. International applicants should send application for enrollment to the in-country
      US representative who will sponsor the applicant and verify, in writing, they have met the
      criteria in paragraphs 11.1 and 11.2. A letter from the applicant's government must
      accompany the application, agreeing to the enrollment and identifying an existing FMS
      publications case against which charges may be applied or International Military
      Education & Training (IMET) to fund the course. If no publications case exists, the letter
      will cite the date of request to Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), AFSAC/CV, 1822
      Van Patton Drive, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5337, to establish a case.
      11.2.3. The US sponsor endorsing the application must send it to Air Force Security
      Assistance Training Squadron, Training Support (AFSAT), 315 J Street West, Randolph
      AFB TX 78150-4354. AFSAT will program the training, after coordinating approval
      from Security Cooperation Officer (SCO), and program against an FMS or IMET case.
      SCO must verify that the sponsor will monitor student progress and testing facilities are
      available. AFSAT Country Manager will advise the sponsor if application is disapproved
      or funding is not available. AFSAT Country Manager will forward student application to
      the ACSC or AWC staff via e-mail ensuring application is attached. AFSAT will advise
      SCO if an application is approved. AFSAT will program the Distance Learning course in
      TRACS and apply appropriate charges against the applicable training case or charge to
      IMET and notify HQ AU to enroll the applicant in the proper program. If a training case
      does not exist that the course can be programmed against, AFSAT will require a Letter of
      Request (LOR) from the country requesting a Letter of Offer and Acceptance (LOA) for
      a new case to program the training against. This process can take up to six months.
      Students may not be enrolled or training programmed against the new case until country
      has deposited funds on the case and it is implemented.
   11.3. International officers/civilians applying for a non-resident program must send their
   application to the FSS Force Development (FD) Flight Chief at the member’s location. The
   FD Flight Chief will verify, in writing, the criteria in paragraphs 11.1.1, 11.1.2, or 11.1.3. are
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                           29


   met. The applicant’s government must provide a letter agreeing to enrollment and identify
   an existing FMS training case against which charges may be applied. If no blanket order
   training case exists, the letter will cite the date of a request to the AFSAT to establish a case.
   The FD Flight Chief will endorse the application and send it to AFSAT, who will advise if an
   application is approved or disapproved. If approved, AFSAT will apply charges against the
   applicable FMS training case and notify HQ AU to enroll the applicant in the proper program
   after case implementation.
12. Advanced Studies Group (ASG). The ASG programs are advanced level education
programs that are not considered as IDE/SDE credit-awarding programs but fill an important role
in educating the AF’s senior officers. ASG programs include: SAASS, Maritime Advanced
Warfighting School (MAWS), School of Advanced Warfighting Studies (SAWS), and School of
Advanced Military Studies (SAMS). Each school competitively selects a small number of
officers each year to participate in its respective program. While the DEDB does not select
officers for these programs; eligible officers, senior raters and DTs must be actively engaged in
the nomination and selection process. AFPC may solicit volunteer from former interns who are
in the window of eligibility as determined by their DTs. Sister Service programs vary, interested
officers may contact AFPC/DPAFP for additional information. ASG assignments should be
synchronized with other leadership and educational opportunities to provide the best
development path for each officer.
13. Air Force Intern (AFIP) and Air Force Fellows Program (AFF). IDE programs
comprised of multiple internships and fellowships designed to develop leadership and broaden
perspectives through observation and interaction with senior DoD, legislative, political, and
academic leaders making strategy and policy decisions. AFIP employs a combination of hands-
on experience working in OSD or Joint Staff, Secretariat or Air Staff, MAJCOM or
USTRANSCOM staff through participation in fellowships or advanced degree programs. The
overall program intent is to further develop the following institutional competencies in future Air
Force senior leaders: Employing Military Capabilities, Enterprise Perspective, Strategic
Thinking, and Fostering Collaborative Relationships through education, experience and
participation. AF/A1DL manages the list of programs included in AFIP.
   13.1. Both LAF and non-LAF officers are eligible to compete for AFIP. AF/A1DL manages
   the seat allocation for all programs.
   13.2. Small Schools Board. AFIP designees will be selected during the second phase of the
   DEDB which selects officers to attend small schools/programs. In addition to AFIP, these
   programs include foreign schools, specialty schools (e.g., JAWS), other AF Fellowships and
   some sister Service schools. Officers must be vectored by their DTs to compete during this
   phase of the DEDB. This ensures the most competitive officers, regardless of functional
   community, are designated to these schools. Officers vectored to more than one small school
   program will, in most cases, be reviewed for each program.
   13.3. All AFIP designees must initiate a Top Secret clearance immediately upon designation
   notification and attend an orientation at the Pentagon prior to program start.
   13.4. AF Strategic Policy Fellowship participants will receive an AF Form 475,
   Education/Training Report, annually and upon program completion. AF Strategic Policy and
   Joint Mobility Fellows will also receive letters of evaluation (LOEs) after each rotation,
   signed by the rotation Senior Rater of the Fellow, normally a HAF two-letter. The final
30                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


  Education/Training Report will be signed by the respective director/commander of the
  primary offices designated to provide program management: AU for the Fellows Programs,
  Strategic Policy Fellows, Joint Mobility Fellows, and Advanced Academic Degree Program
  participants; SAF/LL for all Legislative Fellows.
     13.4.1. Training reports will reflect intern/fellow duty titles with IDE Student, Program
     Name. Reference Attachment 3 for program name information.
     13.4.2. PME Information on the SURF will reflect IDE, Air Force Intern or IDE, Air
     Force Fellow based on program name. Reference Attachment 3 for program name
     information.
  13.5. AFIP participants will not be nominated for, nor receive, any individual tour
  completion or meritorious service decorations or badges for this program. This is consistent
  with Air Force guidance for officers in a training status. Interns/Fellows are not authorized
  permanent wear of OSD, Joint Staff, or Air Staff badges; however, they may wear the
  applicable badge during rotations. No exceptions will be granted.
  13.6. AFIP course work varies depending on the program. The following is a summary of
  required course work according to program.
     13.6.1. AF Strategic Policy and Joint Mobility Fellow Rotations. Fellows without a
     master’s degree will complete the AU Online Master‘s Degree. LAF Officers who have
     not completed ACSC but have a master’s degree will be required to complete ACSC by
     correspondence or seminar. AF Strategic Policy and Joint Mobility Fellowships are year-
     long programs, emphasizing professional growth and active participation. Throughout
     the program, these fellows attend (at a minimum) monthly meetings and professional
     development seminars/tours and should not be required to perform in typical action
     officer capacity. The AF Strategic Policy Fellowship Program consists of two six-month
     rotations with the OSD or Joint Staff and HAF. The Joint Mobility Fellowship Program
     consists of three, four-month rotations on USTRANSCOM, AMC, and 18AF staffs.
     While broadening through rotational duty sections, fellows complete various officer
     professional development activities. These programs include AU academic requirements.
     13.6.2. NLTFP, DARPA, POLAD, McConn Public Policy, SOLA, CSAF Masters and
     Strategic Communication Fellows will not participate in the AU Online Master’s Degree
     Program, but will be required to complete ACSC by correspondence or seminar.
     13.6.3. CSAF Scholar Interns who have not completed ACSC will be required to
     complete ACSC by distance learning or seminar.
     13.6.4. Legislative Fellows program length is 17-months (w/out AU Online Master’s
     Degree) or 20 months (with AU Online Master’s Degree). The program includes the
     following: SAF/LL immersion, OSD training, Georgetown University seminar, and 1-
     year assigned duties on Capitol Hill. Military fellows who do not have a Master’s Degree
     will complete the AU Online Master’s Degree. Military fellows who have not completed
     ACSC but have a master’s degree, will be required to complete ACSC by correspondence
     or seminar.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        31


           13.6.4.1. Civilian Legislative Fellow program length varies but is typically a 2-year
           program where the first year is spent with the assigned Congressional Representative
           or Senator and the second year is in the legislative office.
   13.7. AFPC/DPA is the assignment authority for all active duty officer AFIP & AFF
   participants and will work post-program assignments. Normal tour length for AFIP & AFF
   will not exceed 4 total years (this is inclusive of course work, internship, completion of AU
   Online Master’s Degree and post program assignment). Release due to command selection
   will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Any exceptions to post-program assignments will
   be coordinated through AFPC/DPA, with AF/A1D as the final approval authority for all
   exceptions.
       13.7.1. Strategic Policy/Legislative Fellows and Joint Mobility Fellows will be assigned
       to permanent staff positions within the National Capital Region (NCR) and
       USTRANSCOM/AMC/18AF staff positions respectively upon completion of their
       program course work.
       13.7.2. NLTFP Fellows are eligible to PCS upon completion of the academic program.
       Fellows at Sandia, Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore Labs must be assigned to a
       nuclear-related position upon program completion. Fellows at Idaho Lab must be
       assigned to a cyber-related position upon program completion.
       13.7.3. DARPA requires a mandatory follow-on to any technical/systems agency, such
       as ESC or Systems Communication Center (consider TOS if from Washington DC,
       return-to-fly boards, command candidacy, etc.).
       13.7.4. POLAD requires a mandatory follow-on to a Political Advisor position at the
       MAJCOM or NAF-level.
       13.7.5. Strategic Communication Fellows will be assigned to staff positions in SAF/PA
       upon completion of their degree program.
       13.7.6. SOLA Fellows will be assigned to USSOCOM SOLA Office in DC upon
       completion of their degree program.
       13.7.7. McConn Public Policy Fellows will be assigned to a OSD, JCS, or HAF office in
       a legislative related position.
       13.7.8. DOE Fellows require a mandatory follow-on to a nuclear related position in NCR
       upon completion of fellowship.

Section C— Civilian DE

14. Architecture. The Air Force Civilian DE Program is central to the CoL that spans a
civilian’s professional career. There are three levels of civilian DE: Primary, Intermediate, and
Senior. For PDE, Career Field Teams (CFT) provide oversight of personnel development. For
IDE/SDE, the CFTs and DTs provide oversight of personnel development to meet both
functional and institutional strategic leadership requirements. As such the DTs recommend the
right person, at the right time for the right training to the CDE Selection Board. Specific course
descriptions are posted on the AFPC homepage.
   14.1. PDE: Squadron Officer School (SOS).
 32                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   14.2. IDE: Air Command and Staff College (ACSC), Air Force National Laboratories
   Technical Fellows program (NLTFP), Academic programs, Executive Leadership
   Development Program (ELDP), and Legislative Fellows.
   14.3. SDE: Defense Senior Leader Development Program (DSLDP), Industrial College of
   the Armed Forces (ICAF), Air War College, Academic programs, Excellence in Government
   (EIG and E-GOV), RAND, and NLTFP.
   14.4. Civilian DE (CDE) Selection Board: The purpose of the CDE Selection Board is to
   select employees who clearly possess the greatest leadership potential and who are most
   likely to be assigned follow-on positions of increasingly greater responsibility.
15. Attendance. Under the Force Development construct, some civilians will be deeply,
functionally developed so as to be the expert in their field. Others will be developed more
broadly for specific leadership responsibilities. Limited resources restrict resident DE attendance
to the "best qualified." Non-resident or distance learning PME programs for SOS, ACSC and
AWC are available to all eligible civilians, including those civilians who will not attend resident
PDE/IDE/SDE at a military Service school (i.e., Air University).
   15.1. PDE. All AF civilians who meet eligibility requirements can apply for SOS. See
   Table 5.
16. Eligibility and Prerequisites. (NOTE: Civilian eligibility criteria is listed in Table 5).
   16.1. Civilians attending resident DE or enrolling in non-resident DE must have an
   accredidated bachelor’s degree as the minimum prerequisite for DE programs.
   16.2. AF-wide, nomination and selection criteria: Performance (overall performance ratings
   for current and prior years as documented in the employee record), follow-on assignment,
   and appropriateness of education program at this stage of a civilian’s career as depicted on
   the framework for the Civilian Institutional Leadership Continuum are all factors.
       16.2.1. Civilians must have a minimum performance appraisal rating of fully successful
       or NSPS-3 rating to compete for and participate in DE programs.
       16.2.2. Follow-on Assignment: Expect a reassignment to a position as described in the
       framework for the Civilian Institutional Leadership Continuum or Career Field Team
       career paths and master development plans which provides progressive breadth, depth, or
       broadening experience appropriate to the development activity.
   16.3. Endorsing Official: Wing Commander or first SES member or GO in the chain-of-
   command is required for IDE/SDE. Two levels of supervision are required for nomination to
   attend SOS.
   16.4. Developmental Team (DT): Responsible for functional review and ranking of
   nomination packages, vectoring programs and follow-on assignments.
   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                   33


   Table 5. DoD Civilian Resident DE Eligibility Criteria.

Program2, 7         GS/GM        NSPS   DCIPS        Time in         Vector      Mobility
                                 Pay                 Service6        Required3
                                 Band
                                 (PB)
Developmental Education

PDE (SOS)           GS 9-12      PB 2   PB 2         2 yrs AF        N/A         N/A
                                                     Civil Service
IDE                 GS 12 & 13   PB 2   PB 3         2 yrs AF        DT must     Must have
                                                     Civil Service   validate    signed
(ACSC, Legis
                                                                                 mobility
Fellow5,
                                                                                 agreement
NLTFP5)
SDE                 GS/GM 14     PB 3   PB 4 & 5     2 yrs AF        DT must     Must have
                    & 15                             Civil Service   validate    signed
(AWC, ICAF,
                                                                                 mobility
ICAF-SAC,
                                                                                 agreement
RAND Fellow5,
DSLDP,
NLTFP5)
Academic4

Intermediate        GS-12 & 13   PB 2   PB 3         2 yrs AF        DT must     Must have
                                                     Civil Service   validate    signed
                                                                                 mobility
                                                                                 agreement
Senior              GS/GM 14     PB 3   PB 4 & 5     2 yrs AF        DT must     Must have
                    & 15                             Civil Service   validate    signed
                                                                                 mobility
                                                                                 agreement
Experiential

ELDP                GS-12 & 13   PB 2   PB 3         2 yrs AF        DT must     N/A
                                                     Civil Service   validate
EIG &               GS/GM 14     PB 3   PB 4 & 5     2 yrs AF        DT must     N/A
                5   & 15                             Civil Service   validate
E-Gov Fellows
Strategic Education

Level 1             GS 14&15     PB 3   PB 4 & 5     2 yrs AF        DT will     N/A
                                                     Civil Service   select
     34                                                                     AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


Level II & III    GS 15           PB 3        PB 4 & 5      2 yrs AF        DT must       N/A
                                                            Civil Service   validate
NOTES:
1. As a minimum, all civilians must have an accredidated bachelor's degree to attend in residence DE.
2. Once designated for attendance, completion of a declination statement will result in no further
opportunity for attendance at that same level.
3. The DT can make specific school recommendations to the CDE selection board for IDE & SDE in
residence.
4. GRE scores are required for intermediate programs and must be w/in the last 5 years while GRE
and/or GMAT scores are required for senior programs and must be w/in the last 5 years.
5. A Master’s Degree is required for RAND, Legislative Fellow, NLTFP, EIG & E-Gov Fellows.
6. Time in service must be as of nomination due date.
7. Civilians must have 12 months minimum time in current position to apply for IDE/SDE as of 1 May
(to include Academic and Experiential programs) and Strategic Education, Level III. Exceptions will be
considered for situations such as expeditionary workforce positions and personnel in career broadener
status.
       16.5. PME Completion. IDE/SDE PME completion is a requirement to be eligible for SDE
       in-residence. IDE/SDE PME completion is also a requirement to be eligible for all Strategic
       Education Course Levels.
       16.6. Preference Statement. Civilians list their program preference in their Development
       Plan located in Secure AFPC webpage or on an AF Form 4059, Air Force Civilian
       Competitive Development Nomination Form, as prescribed in AFI 36-401, Employee
       Training and Development.
       16.7. Eligibility waiver authority. Waiver authority for civilians applying for residence CDE
       programs rests with AFPC/CC. AF/A1DL is the waiver authority for all non-resident PME
       eligibility. HQ AU is the waiver authority for non-resident PME completion restrictions and
       limitations.
           16.7.1. All non-Air Force attendees must meet the eligibility criteria of their Air Force
           civilian counterparts unless exempted elsewhere in this Instruction.
       16.8. Retainability. Civilians will serve at least 3 times the length of courses attended
       following completion. For example, a 6 week SOS course will result in at least 18 weeks of
       follow on service.
           16.8.1. AFPC/DPI will ensure paperwork is completed to move employees into and out
           of authorized Central Salary Account (CSA) positions. Fellows will be assigned to CSA
           positions concurrent with their permanent change of station (PCS) move. Participants
           will be removed from CSA positions when follow-on assignments terminate, and
           graduates transition into permanent positions.
   17. Selection. The annual CDE Selection Board convenes to review personnel records and
   designate nominees to attend a particular DE program. They consider endorser statements and
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        35


DT recommendations. The CDE Selection Board designations are forwarded to the DEDB for
final approval.
18. Declinations, Deferments & Removal
   18.1. CDE Declination. All declinations must be reported to AFPC/DPI immediately. If a
   member declines once designated for DE attendance by the DEDB, there is no further
   opportunity to compete for resident CDE at the same level. Exceptions for hardship and
   deferment requests will be approved/disapproved by the AFPC/CC.
   18.2. Declination Justification. Management and/or individual declinations for mission
   essential or humanitarian removal from a program must be supported with reasonable
   justification. Declining selection for any program covered under CDE must be approved by
   the nominating organization (Wing Commander or first SES/GO in the chain of command).
       18.2.1. Mission Essential. AFPC/CC will serve as approval authority for mission
       essential considerations. The approval authority will normally approve a mission
       essential removal if the employee's program participation would have an adverse mission
       impact. Removal, if granted, will be without prejudice.
       18.2.2. Humanitarian. AFPC/CC will serve as approval authority for humanitarian
       considerations. The approval authority will normally approve a humanitarian withdrawal
       under the conditions below. Withdrawal, if granted, will be without prejudice.
          18.2.2.1. The recent death (within 6 months of course start date) of a spouse or child
          or stepchild under the age of 18 who is living in the home at the time of death.
          18.2.2.2. The terminal illness of a family member when death is imminent within the
          window after employee's selection and preceding school start date. A doctor must
          support his or her prognosis of a terminal illness by clinical data.
          18.2.2.3. A serious financial problem that is not the result of over extension of
          employee’s personal income or bankruptcy (e.g. loss of home or possessions through
          fire, theft, or natural disaster) and employee will suffer a substantial financial loss
          unless present. (This applies to employees who must go TDY or PCS to participate in
          a selected program.) Employee must show he/she could not solve the problem by
          leave, correspondence, power of attorney, or by any other person or means.
   18.3. Deferral Justification. AFPC/CC will serve as the approval authority for deferral
   considerations.     Management and/or individual deferrals for mission essential or
   humanitarian reasons must be supported with reasonable justification. Deferrals for any
   program must be approved by the nominating organization (Wing Commander or first
   SES/GO in the chain of command). The deferral must be for the same program for which
   selected for the following year only. Employees who do not attend the year following an
   approved deferral will be subject to the appropriate withdrawal or declination policies.
   18.4. Removal for cause. When a request from the Senior Rater, management level, DT, or
   institution to remove a civilian from the selected program for just cause, that request must be
   approved by AFPC/CC. A letter will be permanently filed in the individual’s official
   personnel file and the employee will be permanently ineligible for any future resident DE.
19. Non-resident/DL Programs. The purpose of DE non-resident programs (SOS, ACSC and
AWC) is to provide individuals who have not completed resident DE an opportunity to complete
 36                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


it via correspondence, seminar, or other approved method. To the extent reasonably possible,
DE non-resident programs mirror the resident school curriculum. See Table 6 for non-residence
eligibility criteria. AF/A1DL is the waiver authority for all non-resident PME eligibility. HQ
AU is the waiver authority for completion restrictions and limitations.
   19.1. Sequence. Air Force policy emphasizes taking the right DE at the right time and at the
   right grade. The non-resident sequence is SOS, ACSC, then AWC. Civilians who enter the
   Air Force at a more senior rank may complete a lower DL PME, if desired, prior to enrolling
   in the rank appropriate DL PME. Civilians may enroll in non-resident programs as detailed
   in Table 6.
   19.2. Civilians must be boarded and selected to complete an AU Online Master’s Degree
   with Joint Warfare concentration (ACSC) through formal AFPC/DPI channels.
   19.3. Optional DE opportunities via DL. In addition to the opportunities listed above,
   civilians may also elect to complete courses from the Leadership Development Programs
   (LDP). These self-paced optional courses are offered through SOC-DL. These courses are
   applicable across the force and include such topics as foundational, expeditionary and
   organizational leadership.
       19.3.1. Civilians may enroll in LDP courses via a self-enrollment DL process.
       Enrollees will have 6 months in which to complete their courses or they will be
       disenrolled. Completion will not appear anywhere in a member’s record but will appear
       on the member’s AU transcript. Civilian’s must have an accredidated bachelor’s degree
       to self-enroll in LDP.
Table 6. DoD Civilian Non-Resident/DL PME Eligibility Criteria.


 Program                      GS/GM           NSPS       DCIPS           NAF

 SOS                          GS-9 to GS-     PB 1       PB 2            3/4
                              12              PB 2
 ACSC                         GS-12 & 13      PB 2       PB 3            4/5
 AU Online Master’s           GS-12 & 13      PB 2       PB 3            N/A2
 (w/Joint Warfare
 Concentration - ACSC)
 AWC                          GS/GM 14 &      PB 3       PB 4 & 5        5/6
                              15
 NOTES:
 1. All civilians, to include NAF employees, must have an accredidated bachelor's degree to
 enroll in non-resident programs.
 2. Based on limited capacity, NAF employees may not enroll in the AU Online Master's
 Degree.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                       37


20. DE Resident Equivalency Credit. Civilians who have attended, are currently attending, or
who have been selected to attend one of the programs listed at Table 7 may request resident DE
credit. DE requests for equivalency credit will be made via the CDP during the annual
nomination call from AFPC. Senior Raters must nominate the civilian for equivalency credit.
DTs will evaluate the quality of the requesting member to determine if members’ records are of
commensurate quality with those being forwarded for DE attendance to the DEDB. If requesting
members meet the DT quality review, they then must be approved by the DEDB. To receive
resident DE credit, civilians must also complete the appropriate level of AF PME DL/seminar.
Out of cycle requests for DE credit follow the same procedure described in paragraph 10.1.1 of
this Insturction.
   20.1. Civilians who have completed AF Advanced Academic Degrees, are attending, or who
   have been selected to attend an AAD program may request resident DE credit while eligible
   to attend IDE or SDE, respectively.
   20.2. Civilians may also participate in other Service, Joint, DoD, and non-DoD (international
   and civilian) PME-equivalent programs. For details on what constitutes joint programs, see
   CJCSI 1800.01.

Table 7. Civilian Programs Eligible for IDE or SDE Equivalency Credit.

IDE                                             SDE
AFIT PhD Program                                AFIT PhD Program
AFIT Master’s Degree Program                    AFIT - Civilian Institution (CI) (PhD only)
AFIT – Civilian Institution (CI)                Excellence in Government Fellows Program (EIG)
Executive Leadership Development Program        E-Government Fellows (E-GOV)
(ELDP)
White House Fellow                              White House Fellow
Fletcher School Global Master of Arts Program
(GMAP)
NOTE:
1. Civilians have 24 months from completion of the equivalency programs listed in Table 7 to
complete the appropriate DL course (ACSC DL or AWC DL) in order to be granted equivalency
credit.
21. International Applicants. Reference paragraph 11 for civilian rules of engagement.
22. AF Fellow Program. Unlike other CDE programs, civilians completing the Legislative
Fellowship program must complete ACSC by correspondence if not already complete and are
not eligible for the AU Online Master’s Degree just because of acceptance to this program.
Reference paragraph 13 for additional rules of engagement. Civilian Legislative Fellow program
length varies but is typically a 2-year program where the first year is spent with the assigned
Congressional Representative or Senator and the second year is in the legislative office.
   22.1. Civilian functional points of contact will work with participants, to identify follow-on
   assignments in the Secretariat or Air Staff. It is the responsibility of respective functional
 38                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   community points of contact for civilians to identify permanent positions for fellowship
   participants to fill 6 months before follow-on assignments terminate.

Section D— Enlisted DE

23. Architecture. The Air Force enlisted DE program is central to the CoL that spans an
enlisted Airman’s career. The Continuum of Education (CoE) is a subset of the CoL and is the
foundation for the development of all enlisted education programs. Education complements
training and experience to prepare professional warfighting Airmen to perform in progressively
more demanding supervisor, leader, and manager positions in dynamic operational
environments. More specifically, enlisted DE develops Air Force Institutional Competencies
and subcompetencies vital to the knowledge and skills required for sound decision making and
strategic thinking to provide the Air Force with Agile Combat Support. Additionally, enlisted
DE also develops critical and analytical thinking skills which enable innovative and creative
leadership solutions and skilled employment of air, space, and cyberspace power in the conduct
of war and contingency operations. There are four levels of enlisted DE.
   23.1. Enlisted DE levels:
       23.1.1. Basic DE (BDE): For grades E1-E3. Basic Military Training (BMT).
       23.1.2. Primary DE (PDE): For grades E-4 to E-6: Airman Leadership School (ALS),
       Noncommissioned Officer Academy (NCOA), equivalent sister service, comparable
       international courses, Senior Enlisted Joint PME (SEJPME), and Enlisted Program for
       Advanced Academic Degrees (EPAAD); including Enlisted to Air Force Institute of
       Technology (Enlisted-to-AFIT).
       23.1.3. Intermediate DE (IDE): For grade E-7 (E-6 for US Marine Corps). Air Force
       Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy (AFSNCOA), equivalent sister Service
       courses which include the US Army Sergeant Major Academy (USASMA), the US Navy
       Senior Enlisted Academy (USNSEA), US Marine Corps Staff NCO Academy
       (USMCSNCOA), the Coast Guard Chief Petty Officer Academy (CGCPOA) and
       comparable international courses, SEJPME and EPAAD.
       23.1.4. Senior DE (SDE): For grades E-8 to E-9, SEJPME, and EPAAD. The CMSgt
       Leadership Course was cancelled in 2011; the associated competencies will be delivered
       in another format not yet determined at the time of publication. SDE also includes the
       CMSgt Development Courses that are managed by the Chief’s Group (AF/DPE).
       23.1.5. All enlisted Professional Enhancement (PE) Courses fall under DE, at their
       respective levels as outlined previously. See AFI 36-2624, The Career Assistance
       Advisor, First Term Airmen Center and Enlisted Professional Enhancement Programs,
       for additional information concerning these courses.
   23.2. USAF Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME): Consists of resident and
   non-resident/distance learning (DL) courses for ALS, NCOA and AFSNCOA to prepare
   Airmen for increased responsibilities associated with promotion. Air Force enlisted
   personnel will complete the appropriate level of resident or DL EPME as prescribed in tables
   8 and 9 prior to promotion. The Air University Catalog and Education and Training Course
   Announcement (ETCA) online catalog (https://etca.randolph.af.mil) provides course
   descriptions and additional details on DL programs.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         39


   23.3. 3 DELETED.
      23.3.1. DELETED.
      23.3.2. DELETED.
      23.3.3. Senior EJPME: Includes CJCS-sponsored assignment oriented educational
      courses beginning at the Senior Enlisted Leader (SEL) level.
          23.3.3.1. Senior Enlisted Joint PME (SEJPME) course: A stand alone web-based
          course that educates SELs serving in or slated to serve in joint organizations. The
          course is designed to expose enlisted personnel to joint education and prepare them to
          succeed by improving their ability to operate effectively as part of a future joint force
          and supervise multiple service members. The course is open to all Total Force
          components’ enlisted E-6 to E-9. Although not a requirement, members should
          complete their grade required Service EPME prior to completing this course located
          at: http://www.jfsc.ndu.edu/SCHOOLS_PROGRAMS/se_jpme/default.asp.
   23.4. Enlisted Program for Advanced Academic Degrees (EPAAD): AF/A1DLE tracks all
   enlisted advanced academic degree programs and ensures selection processes are established
   and published. Functionally-owned programs may retain overall management, but must
   provide AF/A1DLE updates at least annually. This includes, at a minimum, the selection
   process, academic requirements and a running history of attendees.
      23.4.1. Enlisted-to-AFIT: In conjunction with other training and education programs,
      resident AFIT sponsored science, engineering, and management graduate degree
      opportunities further develop NCOs’ technical education and skills. This program
      enhances combat capability through career field core competency augmentation and
      provides the Air Force with a source of highly proficient NCOs, technically experienced
      in their career field and highly educated through AFIT graduate degree programs. For
      information regarding this program, including eligibility criteria and nomination
      procedures,               visit             the             following              link:
      http://www.afit.edu/en/admissions/usaf_usmilitaryapply.cfm.
24. EPME Resident Eligibility and Prerequisites.
   24.1. See ETCA, AU Catalog, and AF Course Development Academy (formerly AU A4/6)
   Catalog for eligibility requirements. In addition, all members must meet the following
   requirements in order to attend EPME resident programs.
      24.1.1. ALS: Completion of resident ALS is required for SrA selected for SSgt before
      their promotion increment month, all eligible SrA before PCS to short-tour locations
      without an ALS or departing to extended deployments (90 days or more), all non-prior
      service and prior sister Service members accessed as a SSgt (on or after 1 Oct 08), and all
      SrA within the first three years from their initial date of eligibility (48 months TIS). All
      SrA/SSgts must complete ALS before they are assigned as a reporting official
      (supervisor). Support ARC SrA, AF civilians, Sister Service, DoD, and international
      personnel with resident ALS attendance opportunities as space allows. Local police
      department, fire department, and other non-DoD or US Departments are authorized to
      attend with AF/A1DL’s approval.
40                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     24.1.2. NCOA: Completion of resident NCOA (or equivalent sister Service/comparable
     international courses) is required for promotion to MSgt, all non-prior service and prior
     sister Service members accessed as a TSgt, and all TSgts within two years after TSgt
     promotion. Support ARC SSgts/TSgts, AF civilians, Sister Service, and international
     students with resident NCOA attendance opportunities as space allows based on the PRD.
     NOTE: All non-prior service TSgts (such as USAF Band members) who enter the Air
     Force on or after 1 Oct 08 as a TSgt will complete the NCOA according to Table 8 or
     Table 9 (which ever is applicable) at the earliest opportunity. These Airmen will have
     priority for resident EPME attendance ahead of their peers. Exceptions to the resident
     requirement will only be considered when attendance is not possible for an extended
     period of time, such as a recurring or permanent medical condition. This determination
     will be made by AF/A1DL in coordination with AFPC/DPSIT. Those exempt from the
     resident requirement must still complete NCOA via distance learning.
        24.1.2.1. The one exception to this requirement is the McGhee-Tyson Satellite
        NCOA. Within the context of TDY-to-School funding and PME credit to meet
        promotion requirements, this program is to be treated as the resident NCOAs.
     24.1.3. AFSNCOA:        Completion of resident AFSNCOA (or equivalent sister
     Service/comparable international courses) is required for promotion to SMSgt. MSgts
     are designated to attend AFSNCOA each year as prioritized according to paragraph
     25.3.1. Support ARC MSgts/SMSgts with resident AFSNCOA attendance opportunity as
     space allows based on the PRD. Also, AF civilians, sister Service and international
     SNCOs may attend the AFSNCOA. AF SNCOs may apply to attend the resident US
     Army Sergeant Major Academy (USASMA), the US Navy Senior Enlisted Academy
     (USNSEA), US Marine Corps Staff NCO Academy (USMCSNCOA) or the Coast Guard
     Chief Petty Officer Academy (CGCPOA) and comparable international PME courses in
     lieu of the AFSNCOA. NOTE: SNCOs who complete a resident sister Service or
     comparable international PME course will receive PME credit for completing resident
     AFSNCOA.
     24.1.4. DELETED.
     24.1.5. Members possessing an AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report identifying
     temporary physical restrictions to EPME program requirements are ineligible to attend
     without EPME Commandant approval or with an approved waiver from AF/A1DL.
     Enlisted Airmen must have a current passing AF Fitness Test (valid through the
     scheduled graduation date) in order to attend resident EPME. Exceptions are granted
     IAW AFI 36-2905 Chapter 4 and allowed to attend if approved by school commandant.
     24.1.6. For personnel with the required retainability as of class graduation date (CGD),
     once selected, attendance is mandatory (exception: see declination guidance for NCOA
     and AFSNCOA). For personnel who reenlist/extend and obtain the required retainability,
     attendance becomes mandatory. USAFR determines separate retainability requirements
     for their members. All active duty personnel are eligible to reenlist/extend for the purpose
     of attending EPME. NCOs and SNCOs eligible to attend resident NCOA or AFSNCOA
     with an approved retirement or separation date within one year will not be scheduled to
     attend (except when required for promotion). SrA with an approved PALACE CHASE
     or PALACE FRONT may attend ALS with four months retainability as of CGD.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                            41


         Members of the Wounded Warrior program may be considered for a waiver based on
         their individual circumstance; route requests through A1DL for consideration.
         24.1.7. ARC members: Follow the applicable ANG and USAFR directives in sending
         ANG and USAFR applications through the individual’s unit training office (through the
         FSS) for resident EPME. Base Individual Mobilization Augmentation Advisors send
         Individual Mobilization Augmentee, AFRC enlisted candidate, and statutory tour
         applications to HQ ARPC/DRMP, 6760 East Irvington Place, 3200, Denver CO 80280-
         3200, through the member’s gaining MAJCOM Reserve Affairs Office. USAFR NCOs
         may attend resident PME schools as an Air Reserve Technician in civilian status based on
         military rank. ARTs attending in civilian status will be unit funded. Military and civilian
         records may both be updated to reflect attendance upon course graduation. While
         resident EPME completion is similarly required for promotion, ARC members may
         complete PME promotion requirements via resident or DL courses, or any other approved
         method. AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion Program, Table 4.1, contains EPME
         requirements for Air Force Reserve enlisted personnel. Completion of DL EPME does
         not preclude eligibility to attend a comparable or lower level resident EPME course.
            24.1.7.1. Air Force Reserve: Members who enter AFR as a SSgt or below must
            complete ALS. Members who enter AFR as a TSgt must complete NCOA prior to
            promotion to MSgt. Members who enter AFR as a MSgt or SMSgt must complete
            the Air Force SNCOA prior to promotion to CMSgt (unless they attended one of the
            comparable sister service Senior NCO courses). In all cases completion of additional
            courses are encouraged.

Table 8. EPME Resident School Eligibility Criteria.
School                    Grade                      Time In     Time in           Retainability
                                                     Grade       Service
ALS                      SSgt (and selects), SrA     N/A         48 months1        6 months
                     2
NCOA (ARC only)          SSgt                        N/A         96 months/ARC 1 year
NCOA                     MSgt (and selects), TSgt    N/A         N/A               1 year
AFSNCOA3                 SMSgt (and selects), MSgt N/A           N/A               1 year
NOTES:
1. Exception: TIS may be earlier for SrA who receive a promotion line number to SSgt. Other
exceptions must be submitted to AF/A1DL for approval.
2. ANG members must wait two years after graduation from a resident EPME program to attend
the next level of resident EPME. AFR members must wait one year after graduation from
resident or DL to attend then next level of PME. TSgts have priority to attend resident NCOA.
All ANG drill status guardsmen and technicians must attend resident EPME programs in Title 10
active duty status. Active Guard Reserve (AGR) members must attend in AGR status.
3. Members must complete the SNCO PME Distance Learning (DL) course to be eligible to
attend an equivalent sister Service or comparable international EPME course.
 42                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   24.2. DELETED.
       24.2.1. DELETED.
       24.2.2. DELETED.
   24.3. Prior Service
       24.3.1. US Air Force. ARC members entering USAF active duty enlisted service who
       have previously completed USAF resident or DL EPME courses receive full credit for
       their active duty grade requirement. Although not required, these members are highly
       encouraged to complete grade appropriate resident EPME courses to benefit themselves
       and the other students.
       24.3.2. Non-US Air Force.
           24.3.2.1. Sister Service resident SNCO courses are comparable to the resident
           AFSNCOA and thus meet the SNCOA resident requirement. However, the E6 and
           below sister Service resident EPME courses are not comparable to AF EPME resident
           courses and thus do not meet AF resident EPME requirements. Therefore, prior sister
           Service NCOs who enter the Air Force on or after 1 Oct 08, as either SSgt or TSgt
           will complete the appropriate AF EPME according to Table 8 or Table 9 (which ever
           is applicable) at the earliest opportunity. These Airmen will have priority for resident
           EPME attendance ahead of their peers.
           24.3.2.2. Sister Service DL EPME courses are not comparable to AF DL (or resident)
           EPME courses and thus do not meet the Air Force EPME requirements. Therefore,
           prior sister Service NCOs who enter the AF on or after 1 Oct 08 will complete the
           grade appropriate AF EPME according to Table 8 or Table 9 (which ever is
           applicable) at the earliest opportunity.
           24.3.2.3. Prior sister Service NCOs entering the ANG as an E-6 or below after 1 Oct
           2007 are required to complete the grade appropriate AF EPME according to Table 8
           or 9 at the earliest opportunity after enlistment in the ANG. This can be done via
           residence or distance learning. Prior sister service NCOs enlisting in the ANG in the
           grades of E-7 or E-8 that have completed a sister service SNCOA will not be required
           to complete the AF SNCOA.
25. Selection. Selection for active duty members for resident EPME attendance is based on
grade (seniority based on TIG, TIS), promotion line number, priority, eligibility, and availability.
Commanders, supervisors, and individuals must closely track EPME requirements and
coordinate scheduling to avoid promotion delays. NOTE: Individuals selected for resident
EPME will formally accept, decline, or request deferment within five duty days of notification.
   25.1. ALS: Selection and scheduling for ALS attendance is accomplished by the local ALS
   and is driven by the SSgt promotion release. Selection and scheduling is done in accordance
   with this Instruction and ALS ETCA based on grade, promotion line number, priority, and
   availability. Below is the order of priority for SrA attending resident ALS. NOTE: ALS
   commandants may train lower priority Airmen before higher priority Airmen on a case-by-
   case basis in extenuating circumstances if it does not result in promotion withhold for higher
   priority Airmen (priorities 1 through 5 are considered “must train” Airmen). Additionally,
   the intent is to meet priority requirements over each fiscal year; i.e., schools may schedule
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        43


  lower priority students throughout the year as long as the integrity of the policy is met and no
  Airmen are denied timely promotion.
     25.1.1. Priority 1: SSgts without ALS complete (this includes non-prior service and
     prior sister Service SSgts) and SrA in promotion withhold status.
     25.1.2. Priority 2: SrA selected for promotion to SSgt and selected for a 365-day TDY
     tasking or PCS assignment to a location without an ALS.
     25.1.3. Priority 3: SrA selected for promotion to SSgt and selected for a TDY tasking of
     90 days or more.
     25.1.4. Priority 4: SrA selected for promotion to SSgt (seniority based according to
     promotion line number).
     25.1.5. Priority 5: SrA with 48 months TIS or more (at time of assignment notification)
     and selected for PCS assignment or 365-day deployment to a location without an ALS.
     25.1.6. Priority 6: SrA with 48 months TIS or more and selected for a TDY tasking of
     90 days or more.
     25.1.7. Priority 7: SrA with 48 months TIS.
     25.1.8. Priority 8: ARC SrA on a space-available basis. Scheduling ARC Airmen in
     each class is highly encouraged, within established guidelines, to facilitate a Total Force
     perspective.
     25.1.9. Priority 9: Eligible Air Force and DoD civilians, sister Service, and international
     students on a space available basis.
     25.1.10. ANG. ALS quotas are programmed annually through NGB/HRT. Allocations
     will be made available through the appropriate Human Resource System (HRS). In
     accordance with local FSS guidance, the Force Development Flight will utilize
     appropriate scheduling methods to request seats. Requests are approved on a first come,
     first serve basis.
     25.1.11. AFR ALS quotas are centrally managed thru HQ AFRC/A1KO and will be
     advertised based on current automated system. All quotas for ALS will be on a first
     come first served basis. Every effort will be made to ensure members attend
     geographically located school closest to home of record or unit of assignment.
  25.2. NCOA: Selection and scheduling is done by AFPC/DPS for stateside NCOAs and by
  MAJCOM/A1s for overseas NCOAs in accordance with this Instruction and the NCOA
  ETCA based on member’s grade, promotion line number, priority, and availability. Below is
  the order of priority for Airmen attending resident NCOA. NOTE:           AFPC/DPS or
  MAJCOM/A1 may schedule a lower priority Airman before higher priority Airmen on a
  case-by-case basis in extenuating circumstances if doing so does not result in promotion
  withhold for higher priority Airmen.
     25.2.1. Priority 1: MSgts or MSgt selects in promotion withhold status.
     25.2.2. Priority 2: TSgt selected for promotion to MSgt (seniority based on promotion
     line number).
44                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


     25.2.3. Priority 3: Non-prior service or prior sister Service TSgt without ALS/NCOA
     complete.
     25.2.4. Priority 4: TSgts by seniority (based on date of rank, total active federal military
     service, pay date, date of birth).
     25.2.5. Priority 5: ARC TSgts on a space-available basis. Scheduling ARC Airmen in
     each class is highly encouraged, within established guidelines, to facilitate a Total Force
     perspective.
     25.2.6. Priority 6: Eligible Air Force and DoD civilians, sister Service, and international
     students on a space available basis.
     25.2.7. ANG. NCOA quotas are programmed annually through NGB/HRT. Allocations
     will be made available through the appropriate Human Resource System (HRS). In
     accordance with local FSS guidance, the Force Development Flight will utilize
     appropriate scheduling methods to request seats. Requests are approved on a first come,
     first serve basis.
     25.2.8. AFR. NCOA quotas are centrally managed thru HQ AFRC/A1KO and will be
     advertised based on the current automated system. All quotas for NCOA will be on a
     first come first served basis. Every effort will be made to ensure members attend
     geographically located school closest to home of record or unit of assignment.
  25.3. AFSNCOA: Selection and scheduling for AFSNCOA is done by AFPC/DPSIT and is
  driven by the SMSgt promotion release. Selection and scheduling is done in accordance with
  this instruction and the AFSNCOA ETCA based on grade, promotion line number, priority,
  and availability. In addition to SMSgts, and SMSgt (selects) who will attend prior to SMSgt
  promotion, MSgts (non-selects) are selected to attend the SNCOA each fiscal year based on
  their combined USAF Supervisory Examination score and promotion board score within
  their AFSC. AFPC/DPSIT selects members based on scheduling priority below, reviews
  each member’s MilPDS record to ensure prerequisites are met and inputs each member into
  each class seat using MilPDS.
     25.3.1. Below is the order of priority for Air Force SNCOs attending resident SNCOA.
     NOTE: AFPC/DPS may schedule lower priority Airmen before higher priority Airmen
     on a case-by-case basis in extenuating circumstances if doing so does not result in
     promotion withhold for higher priority Airmen.
         25.3.1.1. Priority 1: SMSgts without SNCOA complete (based on DOR-lowest to
         highest) or SMSgt selects in promotion withhold status.
         25.3.1.2. Priority 2: MSgt selected for promotion to SMSgt (seniority based on
         promotion line number—lowest to highest).
         25.3.1.3. Priority 3: MSgt (non-select) alternates in order of their alternate sequence
         number based on combined USAF Supervisory Examination score and promotion
         board score (lowest to highest).
         25.3.1.4. Priority 4: ARC SMSgts on a space-available basis. Scheduling ARC
         Airmen in each class is highly encouraged, within established guidelines, to facilitate
         a Total Force perspective.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                     45


          25.3.1.5. Priority 5: Eligible Air Force and DoD civilians, sister Service, and
          international students on a space available basis.
      25.3.2. Members with approved quotas for Joint, Sister-Service and International EPME
      may be removed from the list for SNCOA resident attendance as long as the projected
      class date is within one year (exceptions may be approved by AF/A1DL and/or
      AFPC/DPSIT). Additionally, selection criteria (rank requirements, etc.) may vary from
      school to school. Do not use AF SNCOA criteria as a limiting factor. Each school sets
      their specific requirements which may be adjusted by AF/A1DL in coordination with
      AFPC/DPS to facilitate scheduling and maintain a level of consistency.
      25.3.3. ANG. NGB/HRT will convene a selection panel annually to recommend AF
      SNCOA and Sister Service SNCOA attendees to NGB/CF for approval. SNCOA
      application procedures and the contents of the packages are announced each year.
      Allocations for selected members will be made available in the appropriate HRS
      following approval by NGB/CF.
      25.3.4. AFR. SNCOA quotas are centrally managed thru HQ AFRC/A1KO and will be
      advertised based on current automated system. All quotas for SNCOA will be on a first
      come first served basis. However, every effort will be made to ensure an equal amount of
      quotas will be given across the Command.
   25.4. CLC. Selection and scheduling for the CLC is done by AF/DPE and is driven by the
   CMSgt promotion release. Selection and scheduling is done in accordance with this
   Instruction and the CLC ETCA based on grade and availability.
      25.4.1. AF/DPE forwards confirmed CLC TLNs to the appropriate MAJCOM/A1 (or
      equivalent) with a courtesy copy to the appropriate MAJCOM/CCC.
      25.4.2. The member will acknowledge (in writing) receipt of training date within five
      duty days of notification.
      25.4.3. The member coordinates changes or adjustment of class dates through the
      appropriate MAJCOM/CCC not later than 20 days prior to CSD. A change or an
      adjustment of a class date within 20 days of CSD is considered a “request” and will be
      submitted directly to AF/DPE.
      25.4.4. AF/DPE forwards confirmed class rosters to AFSNCOA not later than 60 days
      prior to CSD.
      25.4.5. Eligible civilian, sister Service and international CMSgt equivalent students may
      attend the CLC on a space available basis.
26. Declinations, Deferments, and Waivers.
   26.1. Declinations. Completing resident EPME courses is an important and necessary step
   in enlisted professional development. As such, the choice to decline resident EPME is
   restricted to personnel selected for NCOA and AFSNCOA with more than 19 years active
   service as of CSD. NOTE: Members selected for ALS may not decline attendance.
   Declinations are done with prejudice and signed declination statements must be submitted
   within 5 duty days of notification. Eligible NCOs declining resident EPME must retire upon
   reaching 20 years of active service or the first day of the seventh month following the
   declination, whichever is later. NOTE: Personnel with Active Duty Service Commitments
46                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


  (ADSC) that extend beyond 20 years TIS are ineligible to decline EPME. Eligible personnel
  declining resident EPME are ineligible for promotion, reenlistment, and participation in the
  High Year Tenure Extension Program.
     26.1.1. Eligible personnel who intend to decline PME attendance may request an
     extension of the 5 duty day time period if needed. Provide justification and the calendar
     date of the additional time required. Forward extension requests to: AFPC/DPSIT via
     email, fax, or memorandum. Unnecessary delay or failure in submitting this request
     and/or the statement below will result in loss of declination opportunity.
     26.1.2. Eligible personnel who decline EPME will sign the following statement: “I
     decline to attend the (NCOA or AFSNCOA) class starting on (class start date), for which
     I have been selected/scheduled. I have, or will have, 19 or more years of active service
     as of class start date. I understand that this declination renders me ineligible for
     promotion and reenlistment, and that I must retire upon reaching 20 years in service or
     the first day of the seventh month following the date of this declination, whichever is
     later. I further acknowledge that this declination renders me ineligible to participate in
     the High Year Tenure Extension Program.” After updating AAC 9 in MilPDS, forward
     the signed statement along with the signed AF Form 964, PCS, TDY or Training
     Declination Statement to AFPC IAW established procedures for including miscellaneous
     documents in member’s Personnel Records Display Action (PRDA).
  26.2. Deferments. Airmen selected for resident EPME may be deferred for compelling non-
  routine mission, humanitarian, medical, or other reasons (as described below) without
  prejudice upon approval of the member‘s wing commander (or equivalent). Deferment
  requests will be kept to the absolute minimum. EPME deferment requests require solid
  justification, wing command chief coordination/concurrence, and wing commander (or
  equivalent) approval. Resident attendance remains mandatory for enlisted personnel as
  outlined in this Instruction, with the exception noted in 26.2.1.5.
     26.2.1. Commanders, first sergeants, and supervisors should make their people available
     as scheduled for EPME and hold deferment requests strictly to the following criteria.
         26.2.1.1. Mission: The individual scheduled to attend is indispensible to the mission
         and the mission will be severely degraded without their presence. No other individual
         could stand in or temporarily replace the selected individual. Justification must
         include the following verbiage: “…absence will cause severe degradation to the
         mission.”
         26.2.1.2. Humanitarian: The individual scheduled to attend has an unusually
         stressful family or personal situation or an emergency situation with an immediate
         family member as similarly defined under humanitarian reassignment guidance.
         26.2.1.3. Medical: The individual scheduled to attend has a medical condition
         (including some pregnancies) that renders him/her ineligible for course attendance or
         requires on-going treatment (including Mental Health counseling and ADAPT
         program) that would be detrimental if interrupted. EPME commandants will
         determine the member’s eligibility based on the school’s ability to accommodate the
         member’s medical condition and an overall assessment of the member’s ability to
         meet course objectives.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        47


        26.2.1.4. Other:      Unit commanders may request deferment/non-recommend
        individuals for EPME attendance based on extenuating circumstances not covered
        above. Examples may include member’s poor duty performance (not covered under
        control roster actions but detrimental to the academic environment), pending
        disciplinary action, under investigation, etc.
     26.2.2. Personnel serving overseas tours of 15 months or less will be deferred from the
     AFSNCOA attendance until tour completion. Members serving overseas tours of 16
     months or longer may attend the AFSNCOA from the overseas assignment if they have at
     least one year remaining in the overseas area upon graduation and meet all other
     eligibility criteria. AFPC/DPS may waive this requirement to 120 days remaining in the
     overseas area upon graduation, if the unit commander and MAJCOM approve.
     (Exception: EPME attendance is mandatory due to promotion selection.)
        26.2.2.1. ANG members must request cancellation or deferral from attending
        resident EPME as soon as possible after notification. Paragraphs 26.2 through 26.2.2
        apply to ANG members.
        26.2.2.2. AFR members must request cancellation or deferral from attending resident
        EPME as soon as possible after notification; cancellations or deferments received
        within 30 days of class start date will be identified as a no show. Paragraphs 26.2
        through 26.2.2 apply to AFR members.
     26.2.3. Deferment Procedures
        26.2.3.1. ALS: Process unit/CC approved deferment requests through the respective
        chain of command to the ALS commandant for coordination, wing command chief
        (WG/CCC) for coordination/concurrence and WG/CC approval. Send WG/CC
        approved deferments to the ALS NLT 30 days prior to CSD for action. The ALS will
        file approved deferments and notify the member’s unit of the approved deferment.
        26.2.3.2. NCOA/AFSNCOA: Process unit/CC approved deferment requests through
        the respective chain of command to the member’s WG/CCC for
        coordination/concurrence and WG/CC (senior rater (or equivalent) for approval.
        Send WG/CC approved deferments for CONUS NCOAs and AFSNCOA (and sister
        Service equivalents) through AFPC/DPSIT (with a copy to member’s MAJCOM A1)
        as close to receipt of training allocation as possible, but not less than 45 days prior to
        class start date for action. For overseas NCOAs, process WG/CC approved
        deferment through the wing formal training office/appropriate MAJCOM.
        26.2.3.3. DELETED
        26.2.3.4. ANG NCOA cancellations should be processed through the unit
        commander to the Wing CCM and the Wing/CC prior to sending to NGB/HRT.
        ANG SNCOA deferment requests should be processed through the unit commander
        through the Wing CCM, to the WG/CC, and to the state CCM for final approval prior
        to sending to NGB/HRT.
        26.2.3.5. AFR NCOA and SNCOA cancellations should be processed through the
        unit commander to the Wing CCM and the Wing/CC prior to sending to HQ
        AFRC/A1KO.
 48                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   26.3. Waivers: Resident EPME completion may be waived (by exception) in accordance
   with AFI 36-2502, Airmen Promotion Program for Airmen who cannot complete required
   EPME before promotion due to circumstances beyond their control (i.e., remote tours,
   deployments, medical issues, personal hardship, EFMP, etc.). NGB/HRT is the waiver
   authority for ANG members. AFRC/A1K is the waiver authority for AFR members.
       26.3.1. Commanders and supervisors will make every effort to ensure Airmen selected
       for promotion complete required EPME prior to departure for remote tours, deployments,
       extended TDYs (45 days or more), lengthy formal training/retraining, etc. However, if
       EPME completion is not possible prior to departure, commanders are required to seek a
       promotion waiver.
       26.3.2. Airmen with approved waivers must attend EPME (in the next higher grade) as
       soon as possible without negatively impacting the mission or member. Airmen with
       approved waivers serving on remote tours or extended deployments, or attending lengthy
       formal training/retraining, will attend EPME within 120 days of completing the remote
       tour, deployment, or training and NLT 60 days prior to subsequent re-deployment,
       training, or PCS (also see AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotions).
       26.3.3. ANG deferral and declination processes will be included in the ANG annual
       announcement messages.
       26.3.4. ANG disenrollments. Members disenrolled for disciplinary reasons from
       resident EPME programs are excluded from reentering a resident EPME program and
       from enrolling/reenrolling in an equivalent DL program for one year. If a member
       released from a resident EPME program for disciplinary reasons wishes to attend the
       same level of resident EPME after one year, the released student’s commander must
       submit a letter of recommendation through the Wing CCM, Wing/CC, State CCM, and
       TAG prior to sending to NGB/HRT.
       26.3.5. AFR waivers must be routed to unit CC, Wing/CCM, and Wing/CC prior to
       submitting to AFRC/A1K.         Airmen with approved promotion waivers must attend
       EPME within 90 days after promotion. If members are unable to attend within that time
       frame, promotion will be withdrawn. Airmen with approved waivers serving on remote
       tours or extended deployments, or attending lengthy formal training/retraining will attend
       EPME within 90 days of completing the remote tour, deployment, or training and NLT
       60 days prior to subsequent re-deployment, training, or PCS.
       26.3.6. ARC disenrollments. Members disenrolled for disciplinary reasons from resident
       EPME programs are excluded from reentering a resident EPME program and from
       enrolling/reenrolling in an equivalent DL program for one year. If a member released
       from a resident EPME program for disciplinary reasons wishes to complete the same
       level of resident EPME after one year, the member must complete by DL.
27. Non-resident/DL Programs. The purpose of EPME DL programs is to enhance an
individual’s professional development with challenging course study through distance learning
courses appropriate to their grade and experience. The Barnes Center’s, EPME, Academic
Affairs is the OPR for all EPME DL courses. The AU A4/6 Catalog contains definitive guidance
for DL courses and is located at: http://www.maxwell.af.mil/au/afiadl/.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                           49


Table 9. EPME Non-resident/DL Eligibility Criteria.
   Course                       Grade                        Time in Service      Retainability
   ALS (ARC only)               SrA                          48 months/42         N/A
                                                             months1
   NCOA (ARC only)              SSgt/TSgt                    72 months2, N/A      N/A
   AFSNCOA                      TSgt or higher3              N/A                  N/A
   SEJPME4                      TSgt or higher               N/A                  N/A
NOTE:
1. SrA with 42 months TIS are required to have a 5-skill level in their Primary Air Force
Specialty Code (PAFSC).
2. SSgts with 72 months TIS must have a 7-skill level to enroll in NCOA.
3. TSgts must have completed NCOA and have 2 years Time in Grade to enroll.
4. Completion of SEJPME DL course is highly recommended prior to assignment to joint duty
billets. If not possible due to a short notice assignment, completion within 60 days of arrival is
highly recommended.
5. ARC members must wait one year after graduation from a DL EPME program to attend the
next level of DL EPME.

28. EPME Graduate Ribbon. Graduates from each level of resident EPME earn the Air Force
EPME Graduate Ribbon. This extends to all equivalent EPME courses, to include approved
Joint, Sister Service and international programs. An oak leaf cluster is added to the basic ribbon
for completion of each additional resident level of EPME (i.e., NCOA, SNCOA). This is
retroactive for completion of all resident EPME including the NCO Preparatory Course, NCO
Leadership School, and the CMSgt Leadership Course.
29. EPME Achievement Awards.
   29.1. EPME courses are authorized the following four mandatory awards. These awards
   apply to ALS, NCOA and SNCOA. Additionally, the SNCOA is authorized the Etchberger
   Team Award. NOTE: DL courses do not have these awards.
        29.1.1. John L. Levitow Award is the highest honor and is presented to the top graduate
        of each class. Only one John L. Levitow Award is presented per class. Recipients of this
        award are excluded from both the Academic Achievement and Commandant/Leadership
        Award.
        29.1.2. Distinguished Graduate (DG) Award is presented to the top 10 percent of each
        class. The John L. Levitow Award recipient as the class “top” Distinguished Graduate is
        included in this group. Ties are permitted for DG awards (except the John L. Levitow
        Award).
        29.1.3. Academic Achievement Award is presented for scholastic excellence. Ties are
        permitted for the Academic Achievement Award.
 50                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


      29.1.4. Commandant/Leadership Award is presented to the student who, in the
      commandant’s judgment made the most significant contribution to the overall success of
      their class.
      29.1.5. The CMSgt Richard L. Etchberger Team Award is selected by the
      AFSNCOA/CO and presented to the flight during each AFSNCOA class that
      demonstrates superior leadership and performance in academics, physical fitness, and
      community service as a team.
   29.2. AF/A1DL is approval authority for the establishment of additional EPME awards or
   changing the name/criteria for existing EPME awards. Staff requests for additional EPME
   awards or changes to existing EPME awards through the chain of command to AF/A1DL for
   approval.
   29.3. The Air University, through the Barnes Center, publishes specific award criteria in the
   USAF EPME Procedural Guidance.
30. EPME Triennial Review.
   30.1. Objective: Ensure AF EPME is aligned with Air Force priorities and force
   development strategies and EPME courses have relevant curricula, appropriate educational
   technologies, and required resources to inculcate institutional competencies in warfighting
   Airmen to meet future mission challenges in joint and coalition environments.
   30.2. Steering Committee. Consists of AF/CCC, AF/A1D, AU/CC, and AF/A1DL. Subject
   matter experts (SME) invited, as required. Convene not less than once every three years to
   review the EPME strategic plan (mission, vision, strategic themes and objectives, and key
   initiatives), EPME policies, curricula, resources, and processes. Meets at the discretion of
   any primary member and, if agreed to by AF/CCC and AF/A1D, prior to the Review.
   Reviews proposed issues and determines dates for the Review. Upon completion of the
   Review, determines which items will be presented to the AF/A1 and Enlisted Force
   Development Panel (EFDP) for action.
   30.3. Committee. Consists of AF/CCC, AF/A1D, AF/A1DL, AF/A1DI, AETC/CCC,
   AU/CCC, AU/CF representative MAJCOM/CCCs, ARC/CCCs, Barnes Center/CC and key
   leaders, and MAJCOM A1/PME representatives, and other SMEs as appropriate. Reviews
   the agenda items, determines the nature of the problems, and identifies issues for further
   investigation/study. Based on their findings, they will identify the appropriate OPR for
   further research/action and out-brief the steering committee with their findings and
   recommendations. The way ahead determined by the steering committee will be vetted via
   the AFLC for submission to the FMDC for approval/disapproval.
   30.4. Specific Responsibilities:
      30.4.1. AF/CCC: Co-chairs the Review with AF/A1D, approves proposed the agenda,
      and signs the Report.
      30.4.2. AF/A1D: Co-chairs the Review with the AF/CCC, approves proposed agenda,
      and signs the Report. Upon AF/A1 approval of the Review Report, staffs applicable
      issues through the AF/A1DL and AF/CCC. Closes HAF action items.
      30.4.3. AF/A1DL:
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                  51


          30.4.3.1. Provides agenda for the Review, prepares the Review Report, and
          coordinates the report through attendees. The report should address EPME
          initiatives/proposals, sister Service best practices and near-term and long-term
          improvement plans. Forwards the final report to AF/A1D and AF/CCC for approval.
          30.4.3.2. Staffs approved items from the Review Report through appropriate
          agencies; distributes approved report to review participants; provides semi-annual
          update to each member of the Committee on action item status, and closes HAF
          action items.
          30.4.3.3. Deconflicts any potential manpower decreases/increases due to future DE
          courses/production levels or notifies appropriate MAJCOM/A1s to POM for
          additional resources as required to conduct future DE courses/production levels.
31. Adopted Forms. AF Form 63, Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC) Acknowledgement
Statement
AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report
AF Form 475, Education/Training Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 964, PCS, TDY or Training Declination Statement
AF Form 1941, Application for DE (In-Residence)
AF Form 3849, PME/AFIT/ RTFB Officer Worksheet
AF Form 4059, Air Force Civilian Competitive Development Nomination Form




                                          RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower and Personnel
 52                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Section 9315, Community College of the Air Force: Associate
Degrees, December 12, 1980
Title 10, United States Code, Sections 406d and 663, Education, December 5, 1991
Title 10, United States Code, Section 2007, Payment of Tuition for Off-duty Training or
Education, January 2, 2006
Title 10, United States Code, Section 9317, Air University: Conferral of Degrees, October 5,
1999
DoDI 1322.6, Fellowships, Scholarships, Training With Industry (TWI) and Grants for DoD
Personnel, November 15, 2007
DoDD 1400.25, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System, November 25, 1996
DoDD 1400.5, DoD Policy for Civilian Personnel, January 12, 2005
DoDD 1322.08E, Voluntary Education Programs for Military Personnel, January 3, 2005
DoDI 1322.10, Policy on Graduate Education for Military Officers, August 26, 2004
DoDI 1322.19, Voluntary Education Programs in Overseas Locations, May 9, 1988
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, August 27, 2008
AFPD 36-23, Military Education, September 27, 1993
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, March 22, 2004
AFPD 36-13, Civilian Supervisory, Management and Leadership Development, May 1, 1997
AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education and Development, February 12, 2004
AFI 36-2502, Airman Promotion/Demotion Programs, December 31, 2009
AFI 36-3604, Community College of the Air Force, September 1, 1999
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional
Continuing Education), July 11, 2001
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, April 20, 2005
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, June 28, 2002
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC—Air Command and Staff College
ADP—Airman Developmental Plan
AFIP—Air Force Intern Program
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                 53


AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFSNCOA—Air Force Senior Noncommissioned Officer Academy
ALS—Airman Leadership School
ANG—Air National Guard
ANGRC—Air National Guard Readiness Center
ARC—Air Reserve Component (Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve)
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
ASBC—Air and Space Basic Course
AU—Air University
AWC—Air War College
BDE—Basic Developmental Education
CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CDE—Civilian Developmental Education
The Barnes Center—formerly “The College for Enlisted Professional Military Education”
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CLC— CMSgt Leadership Course
CoL—Continuum of Learning
CoE—Continuum of Education
CONUS—Continental US
CSB—Central Selection Board
CSEL—Command Senior Enlisted Leader
DE—Developmental Education (Basic, Primary, Intermediate, Senior)
DL—Distance Learning (i.e., non-resident)
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSLDP—Defense Senior Leadership Development Program
DT—Development Team
ECI—Extension Course Institute
EPME—Enlisted Professional Military Education
EPMEP—Enlisted Professional Military Education Policy, CJCSI 1805.01
 54                                                            AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


ERB—Executive Resources Board
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
FD—Force Development
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GS—General Schedule
GM—General Manager
IAAFA—Inter-American Air Forces Academy
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IO—International Officer
IOS—International Officer School
JPME—Joint Professional Military Education
LDP— Leadership Development Program
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCOA—Noncommissioned Officer Academy
NLT—No Later Than
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OPMEP—Officer Professional Military Education Policy, CJCSI 1800.01
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PB—Pay Band
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDE—Primary Developmental Education
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
PGL—Program Guidance Letter
RAND—Rand Corporation
SAASS—School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
SEJPME—Senior Enlisted Joint Professional Military Education
SEL—Senior Enlisted Leader
SOC—DL—Squadron Officer College – Distance Learning
SOS—Squadron Officer School
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                           55


SURF—Single Unit Retrievable Format
TAFCS—Total Active Federal Commissioned Service
TDY—Temporary Duty
TYCS—Total Years Commissioned Service
USAFR—US Air Force Reserve
WG—Wage Grade
 56                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                        Attachment 2
   OFFICER DEVELOPMENTAL EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAMS

PDE - Squadron Officer School, Maxwell, AFB, AL
Inter-American Air Forces Academy (IAAFA), Lackland AFB, TX (Spanish Language required;
Officers Only)
IDE - Most institutions/programs have a summer to spring academic year (i.e., Aug-Jun) except
as indicated. Quotas are allocated yearly, except for Foreign PME opportunities which vary
yearly and can be found in the Officer Developmental Education IDE/SDE Program Guide
updated annually by AFPC.
Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell AFB, AL
SOS instructor (2-yrs) w/ACSC Follow on, Maxwell AFB, AL
Army Command and General Staff College, Ft Leavenworth, KS
Naval Command and Staff College, Newport, RI
Marine Corps Command and Staff College, Quantico, VA
Air Force Intern Program (AFIP) / Air Force Fellow Program (AFFP) – Reference Attachment 3
Lean Aerospace Initiative, MIT Cambridge, MA
USAF Academy AOC, Colorado Springs, CO
National Intelligence University (formerly National Defense Intelligence College), Bolling AFB
Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Wright Patterson AFB, OH
AFIT Civilian Institutions (CI)
Naval Postgraduate School (NPS), Monterey, CA
Advanced Study of Air Mobility (ASAM), McGuire AFB, NJ
Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, Fort Benning, GA (Spanish required)
Executive Leadership Development Program (Civilians only)
SDE-Most institutions/programs have a summer to spring academic year (i.e., Aug-Jun) except
as indicated. Quotas are allocated yearly, except for Foreign PME opportunities which vary
yearly and can be found in the Officer DE IDE/SDE Program Guide updated annually by AFPC.
Air War College, Maxwell AFB, AL
National War College, Ft McNair, Wash DC
Dwight D. Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy, Ft McNair, Wash
DC (formerly ICAF)
Army War College, Carlisle, PA
Naval War College, Newport, RI
Marine War College, Quantico, VA
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         57


Joint Advanced Warfighting School, Joint Forces Staff College, Norfolk, VA
USAF Academy Group AOC in Colorado Springs, CO for 2 yrs w/AWC follow on to Maxwell
AFB, AL
ACSC Instructor for 2 yrs w/AWC follow on, Maxwell AFB, AL
Air Force Fellowships, various locations (see Attachment 4 for listing and brief description)
Inter-American Defense College, Ft McNair, Wash DC (Spanish required)
Army Advanced Operational Studies Fellowship, Ft. Leavenworth, KS
                 Defense Senior Leader Development Program (Civilians only)
 58                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                         Attachment 3
AIR FORCE INTERN PROGRAM (AFIP) & AIR FORCE FELLOW (AFF) PROGRAM
                  OFFICER/CIVILIAN DESCRIPTIONS

Strategic Policy Internship: To develop officers’ understanding of air, space, and cyberspace
power and to broaden their perspectives through personal observation of senior DoD, Air Force,
legislative, political, and academic leaders making strategy and policy decisions. All AFSCs are
eligible to compete. Required follow-on assignment to OSD, JCS, SAF or Air Staff.
Joint Mobility Internship: Located at Scott AFB IL, a key Joint base, the Joint Mobility
Interns work in USTRANSCOM, in key positions throughout the AMC staff and 618th Tanker
Airlift Control Center, focusing on the development of selected officers’ understanding of air,
space and cyberspace power in addition to broadening their perspectives through personal
observation of senior DoD, Air Force, legislative, political and academic leaders making strategy
and policy decisions. These positions are rotated every 4 months to give the most exposure
without losing productivity of the learning process. This challenging and productive year
exposes these officers to unique leadership opportunities in multiple levels of development.
Interns attend quarterly meetings and professional development seminars and tours. There are
three four-month rotations on the AMC staff or USTRANSCOM staff – one rotation per intern in
each of these two program options. After completion, Interns leave with a senior perspective
that will pay dividends to the Air Force for years to come. Only MAF officers are eligible to
compete: 11XX, 12XX. Required follow-on assignment to AMC or TRANSCOM staff.
Strategic Communications Internship: To develop officers’ understanding of air, space, and
cyberspace power and to broaden their perspectives through personal observation of senior DoD,
Air Force, legislative, political, and academic leaders making strategy and policy decisions.
Officers will obtain a Master’s degree in Strategic Communications in the NCR. All AFSCs are
eligible to compete except for 35PX. Required follow-on assignment to SAF/PA.
Special Operations Legislative Affairs (SOLA) Internship: Officer will obtain a Master’s
degree in International Public Policy, in the areas of international relations, international
economics or a combination of these sub-fields, from Johns Hopkins University. Tuition, books
and fees funded by USSOCOM. Officers with the following AFSCs are eligible to compete:
11SX, 12SX, 13DX. Required follow-on assignment to USSOCOM approved billet in
Washington DC.
CSAF Scholar Internship: Broad, strategic Master's degrees intended to develop future AF and
Joint leaders. Programs targeted may include: 1) JFK School of Government at Harvard,
master's of Public Administration; 2) Princeton's School of Public & International Affairs,
Master's of Public Policy; 3) Stanford University (Sloan Program), Master's in Science &
Management. All AFSCs are eligible to compete.
McConn Public Policy Internship: Sponsor US Air Force Academy graduate for a one-year
graduate degree at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. Selected officers will learn both the
art and science of policy management and leadership. Students develop leadership and
communications skills in a curriculum that emphasizes analytical rigor to advance policy
agendas. Graduates receive a Master of Policy Management degree. Required follow-on
assignment to OSD, JCS, SAF or Air Staff office with legislative branch interaction.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         59


Project on National Security Reform Fellowship: Air Force Fellow assists the Project on
National Security Reform (PNSR) on implementing specific reforms of national security focused
on interagency planning and teaming. They participate in major case studies/working groups and
produce products used within the executive branch and Congress to develop mechanisms to
reform legislative proposals, executive orders, and amendments to House and Senate rules.
AF Legislative Fellows: The Air Force Legislative Fellows receive instruction and hands-on
experience on Capitol Hill through education and development activities consisting of an
intensive orientation of Congress; a full time assignment to the staff of a Member, committee, or
support agency of Congress in Washington D.C. in addition to periodic seminars throughout the
fellowship year. The AF Legislative Fellowship program provides an outstanding opportunity to
write, develop research for potential legislation issues of immediate or ongoing concern of the
Air Force and the nation. The officer/civilian will develop an enhanced perspective of the
legislative process on a wide range of issues. AF Legislative Fellows work under the auspices of
HQ SAF/LL throughout the year-long AF Legislative Fellowship cycle. Required follow-on
assignment to OSD, JCS, SAF or Air Staff in a legislative related position.
National Laboratory Technical Fellowship Program (NLTFP): Meet AF nuclear and future
technologies experience requirements by developing a cadre of nuclear and cutting-edge energy-
experienced personnel to shape and influence a flexible and responsible nuclear force as well as
the way ahead to meet the 21st century energy and fuel needs of the AF. One aspect focuses on
understanding the historical development of nuclear weapons technologies with an emphasis on
applying knowledge to current/future stockpile activities and applications and developing
knowledge of US nuclear community for use in issue resolution on behalf of AF. Other aspects
focus on future fuel development, cyber, and energy conservation. Fellowships are available at
Sandia National Lab NM; Argonne National Lab IL; Oak Ridge National Lab TN; Idaho
National Laboratory ID; Lawrence Livermore National Lab CA. Participation is open to
applicable AFSCs and qualified AF Medical Service (AFMS) officers. Required follow on
assignment to nuclear-related position for Fellows at Sandia and Lawrence Livermore Labs.
Required follow-on assignment to cyber-related position for Fellows at Idaho National Lab.
a. The Sandia National Laboratories’ Weapon Intern Program provides a broad-based education
about nuclear weapons. The goal of the program is to accelerate the development of engineers
and scientists in their understanding of the enduring nuclear stockpile and the science-based
stockpile stewardship tools, processes, and techniques to keep the stockpile safe, secure, and
reliable in the absence of underground nuclear testing. Prepare future generation of experts for
critical positions in nuclear weapons stewardship program and maintain a corps of expertise to
ensure the U.S. remains the preeminent nuclear superpower. The Sandia Weapons Intern
Program uses a combination of on-the-job learning and education course work. Program of
study includes historical development, current stockpile activities and lessons learned, as well as
modeling and simulation, validation and advanced manufacturing processes and techniques. AF
Nat'l Lab Tech Fellows learn in both the classroom and in the laboratory gaining experience with
current and future nuclear stockpile programs, surety principles, nuclear subsystems and
components and modeling and simulation. Importantly, the program also focuses on the
management of nuclear weapons programs, including laboratory Technical Business Practices,
nuclear weapons information and knowledge management and the roles and responsibilities in
the U.S. nuclear weapons complex and community.
 60                                                                  AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


b. Argonne National Laboratory’s mission is to serve the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and
national security by advancing the frontiers of knowledge, by creating and operating forefront
scientific user facilities, and by providing innovative and effective approaches and solutions to
energy, environmental, and security challenges to national and global well-being, in the near and
long term, as a contributing member of the DOE laboratory system. They contribute significantly
to DOE's mission in science, energy resources, environmental stewardship, and national security,
with lead roles in the areas of science, operation of scientific facilities, and energy. In
accomplishing their mission, they partner with DOE, other federal laboratories and agencies, the
academic community, and the private sector.
c. Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) is the Department of Energy’s largest multi-program
science and technology laboratory and is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC. Scientists and
engineers at ORNL conduct basic and applied research and development to create scientific
knowledge and technological solutions that strengthen the nation's leadership in key areas of
science; increase the availability of clean, abundant energy; restore and protect the environment;
and contribute to national security. ORNL also performs other work for the Department of
Energy, including isotope production, information management, and technical program
management, and provides research and technical assistance to other organizations.
d. Idaho National Laboratory (INL) is operated by the Department of Energy researching areas
such as Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems and wireless
communications infrastructure programs. Additional insight into developing leading-edge
capabilities for network defense, network exploitation, network attack and information
operations through a variety of communications.
e. Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) is a premier research and development
institution for science and technology applied to national security. We are responsible for
ensuring that the nation’s nuclear weapons remain safe, secure, and reliable. LLNL also applies
its expertise to prevent the spread and use of weapons of mass destruction and strengthen
homeland security. Their national security mission requires special multidisciplinary capabilities
that are also used to pursue programs in advanced defense technologies, energy, environment,
biosciences, and basic science to meet important national needs. These activities enhance the
competencies needed for their defining national security mission.
POLAD: The goal is to increase Pol/Mil capability within the AF by training mid-level officers
and fielding qualified advisors for Senior Leaders. Under the auspices of the Office of the
Foreign Policy Advisor (CC-POLAD) to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), the POLAD
Fellows focus of study is in two major areas. One area of study is regional focused (e.g., the
Middle East, Europe, Asia, South Asia, Latin America) aimed at preparing the candidate for their
follow-on assignment. The other area of study is functional in focus (e.g., counterterrorism,
international space policy, arms control, peacekeeping, humanitarian aid) to provide exposure to
dealing with issues global in nature. Direct experience working outside of the Pentagon on these
issues is also offered during the fellowship. Candidates should possess a deep interest in and
working knowledge of U.S. foreign policy and international events. Academic background in
international relations is desirable. Required follow-on assignment to a Political Advisor
position at a MAJCOM, NAF or unified command.
DOE Fellowship: Through DOE and the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA),
the fellow works to enhance national security through the military application of nuclear energy.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                       61


The NNSA maintains and enhances the safety, reliability, and performance of the United States
nuclear weapons stockpile, including the ability to design, produce, and test, in order to meet
national security requirements. Rotations may include Defense Programs Division--ensures that
the U.S. nuclear arsenal meets the country’s national security requirements and continues to
serve its essential deterrence role; Nuclear Non-proliferation Division--works closely with a
wide range of international partners, key U.S. federal agencies, the U.S. national laboratories,
and the private sector to detect, secure, and dispose of dangerous nuclear and radiological
material, and related WMD technology and expertise; Nuclear Security--responsible for securing
thousands of nuclear weapons and components, and hundreds of tons of special nuclear material
in all forms, shapes and sizes. Required follow-on assignment to a Nuclear-related billet in the
NCR.
DARPA: Mission is to assure the U.S. maintains a lead in applying state-of-the-art technology
for military capabilities and to prevent technological surprise from adversaries. The DARPA
Fellowship gives a talented officer an expert, insider understanding of significant impending
technological changes which the CSAF views as likely to revolutionize air and space as well as
joint warfighting capabilities. Following their DARPA fellowship, the officer becomes the
‘expert’ who can articulate and explain the revolutionary technological advances underway, and
provide advice to leadership as to how to best take advantage of these advances. Officers should
primarily come from operational warfighting communities. Required follow-on assignment to a
technical/systems agency (such as ESC or Systems Communication Center).
 62                                                                 AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                         Attachment 4
       AIR FORCE OFFICER/CIVILIAN SDE FELLOWSHIP (AFF) PROGRAM
                             DESCRIPTIONS

The Air Force assigns a small number of carefully chosen, experienced officers to serve one-year
tours at distinguished civilian institutions and think tanks studying national security policy and
strategy. These programs are equivalent to resident SDE for eligible officers. There are three
programs sponsored by the AF: AF National Defense Fellows (NDF) Program, National Security
Fellows (NSF), and the RAND Fellows Program. Additionally, eligible officers may also serve
as Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) Fellows. NOTE: lieutenant colonel-selects are eligible for all
SDE equivalent fellowships (unless otherwise noted), but must be pinned-on by the class start
date.
All AF Fellowships are reviewed biannually to ensure continued suitability, cost efficiency and
program objectives are in concert with AF DE goals and guiding philosophy.
A list of all AF Fellows programs is below with a more detailed description of each fellowship
following the listing.
AF Fellowship Programs
National Defense Fellows (SDE)
1. Air Force Special Ops and Low Intensity Conflict (SOLIC) Fellow, Department of Defense
Analysis (DDA), Navy Postgraduate School, Monterey CA
2. Atlantic Council of the United States (ACUS), Washington DC
3. Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University, Cambridge MA
4. Center for New American Security (CNAS), Washington DC
5. Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington DC (must be a colonel)
6. Congressional Research Service (CRS), Foreign Affairs, Defense and Trade Division (FDT),
Library of Congress, Washington DC
7. Department of State, Washington DC
8. Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, Washington DC (must be a colonel)
9. Hoover Institute on War, Revolution & Peace, Stanford University Stanford CA
10. International Security Studies Program, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts
University, Medford MA
11. Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), Strategy, Forces and Resources Division, Washington
DC
12. Institute for the Study of Conflict, Ideology and Policy (ISCIP), Boston University, Boston
MA
13. Institute for the Study of Diplomacy (ISD), Georgetown University, Washington DC
14. Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), Washington DC
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        63


15. Security Studies Program (SSP) Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge MA
16. The Washington Institute (TWI), Washington DC
17. Weatherhead Center for International Affairs (WCFIA), Harvard University, Cambridge MA
(must be a colonel)
18. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington DC (must be a colonel)
19. Freeman Spogli Institute (FSI), Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC),
Stanford University
20. Stimson Center, Washington DC
21. Air Force National Laboratories Technologies Fellows (AFNLTF) at Los Alamos NM,
Argonne Labs IL, Idaho National Laboratory, and Oak Ridge Labs TN
22. National Security Fellows, John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University
Cambridge MA (SDE)
23. RAND Fellows (SDE), Santa Monica CA
24. Lean Aerospace Initiative (LAI) Fellowship at MIT, MA
25. Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellows (Fortune 500 Companies CONUS and abroad)
(must be two colonels in addition to a lieutenant colonel)
26. Air University Research Fellowship
Description of AF Fellows Programs
National Defense Fellowships (NDF)
1. Air Force Special Ops and Low Intensity Conflict (SOLIC) Fellow, Department of Defense
Analysis (DDA), Navy Postgraduate School, Monterey CA provides a member of the special
operations community the opportunity for study and analysis of special interest to the Air Force
Special Operational Command (AFSOC) and Special Operations Command (SOCOM). The AF
Fellow centers on issues and challenges of immediate concern to AFSOC and SOCOM. Of
special interest for this fellowship is a program of study in the areas of political violence,
irregular warfare and the role of special operations forces in US foreign and defense policy. The
fellowship is designed to reflect the rapidly changing nature of the international conflict
environment, which is increasingly characterized by the proliferation of locally driven communal
and political wars.
2. The Atlantic Council of the United States is a non-profit organization which promotes
constructive U.S. leadership and engagement in international affairs based on the central role of
the Atlantic community in meeting the international challenges of the 21st century. The Council
embodies a non-partisan network of leaders whose aim is to stimulate dialogue and discussion
about critical international issues with a view to enriching public debate and promoting
consensus on appropriate responses in the Administration, the Congress, the corporate and
nonprofit sectors and the media in the United States and among leaders in Europe, Asia and the
Americas. Through its diverse networks, the Council builds broad constituencies to support
constructive U.S. leadership and policies. Its program offices publish informational analyses,
convene conferences among current and/or future leaders and contribute to the public debate in
order to integrate the views of knowledgeable individuals from a wide variety of backgrounds,
 64                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


interests and experiences. The AF National Defense Fellow is one of 4-10 Senior fellows from
military, foreign and other national departments organized to assist in the many goals of the
Atlantic Council.
3. Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, John F. Kennedy School of Government,
Harvard University, Cambridge MA is the hub of the John F. Kennedy School of Government's
research, teaching, and training in international security affairs, environmental and resource
issues, and science and technology policy. Its mission is to provide leadership advancing policy-
relevant knowledge about issues where science, technology, environmental policy, and
international affairs intersect. National Defense Fellows are assigned to the center's International
Security Program which addresses the most pressing threats to U.S. national interests and
international security. The program also sponsors and edits the quarterly journal International
Security, a leading peer-reviewed journal of security affairs that provides sophisticated analyses
of contemporary security issues and discusses their conceptual and historical foundations.
4. Center for New American Security (CNAS), Washington DC is an independent and
nonpartisan research institution leading efforts to help inform and prepare the national security
leaders of today and tomorrow. It facilitates the development of strong, pragmatic and principled
national security and defense policies that promote and protect American interests and values.
Building on the deep expertise and broad experience of its staff and advisors, CNAS engages
policymakers, experts and the public with innovative fact-based research, ideas and analysis to
shape and elevate the national security debate. The organization is small enough to allow AF
Fellows to be directly involved with far-reaching strategic policy development to include
personal discussions and relationships with Washington influencers. Past CNAS areas of study
& publications include "Iran: Assessing U.S. Strategic Options," "Strategic Leadership,"
"Shaping the Iraq Inheritance," "Power of Balance: America in Asia," "A Strategy for American
Power," energy security, building partner capacity and the QDR. AF Fellows will have the
freedom to pursue any national security topic of interest that suits their interests and will have
access to many subject matter experts. CNAS hosts at least one fellow from each Service
annually.
5. Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Political Military Studies, Washington
DC is an independent institution for public policy research in foreign and national security
affairs. Its mission is to advance the understanding of emerging world issues in the areas of
international security, economics, politics and government. Since its establishment in 1962,
CSIS has become one of the country’s largest multi-discipline think tanks for strategic and
international issues. It provides research and sponsors conferences for members of Congress,
other senior US government officials, private sector leaders and their staffs. AF Fellows are
instrumental in providing CSIS with Service specific expertise for its U.S. foreign policy and
national security programs and spearheading the organization’s activities designed to promote
airpower within the Washington DC, policy community.
6. Congressional Research Service (CRS), Library of Congress, Foreign Affairs, Defense and
Trade Division (FDT), Washington DC works exclusively and directly for the members and
committees of Congress in support of their legislative, oversight and representational functions.
Its analyses and information services are required to be timely, objective, nonpartisan and
confidential. Many CRS general distribution products do, however, find audiences throughout
the government and public. CRS offices are located within the Library of Congress on Capitol
Hill. Analysts within the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division conduct research, write
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                            65


reports, lead seminars and consult with congressional staff and members on the range of national
security issues currently confronting the nation. During his/her year with CRS, the AF Fellow is
expected to represent CRS within the Congress and the national security community while
adding a current, accurate and personal understanding of defense issues to the debate. AF
Fellows will be expected to author reports and memoranda for Congress, as well as answer
specific requests of members of Congress on certain national defense issues.
7. Department of State, Washington DC, advances freedom for the benefit of the American
people and the international community by helping to build and sustain a more democratic,
secure, and prosperous world composed of well-governed states that respond to the needs of their
people, reduce widespread poverty, and act responsibly within the international system. Security
is a necessary precursor to the worthy goals of promoting peace, liberty, and prosperity for all
people. The Department directly confronts threats to national and international security from
terrorism, weapons proliferation, failed or failing states, and political violence. It strengthens the
capability of the U.S. Government and of international partners to prevent or mitigate conflict,
stabilize countries in crisis, promote regional stability, protect civilians, and promote just
application of government and law. An AF Fellow assigned to the Department of State will be
assigned to one or more Bureaus to gain an appreciation of the development and conduct of U.S.
foreign policy and to seek a better understanding of cooperation and coordination within the
Interagency. The Department of State provides the fellows an outstanding opportunity to
enhance their leadership and executive skills in preparation for top-level assignments abroad and
in the United States.
8. Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, Washington DC is a private, nonprofit
organization devoted to research, education and publication on important issues of domestic and
foreign policy. Brookings functions as an independent analyst and critic, publishing its research
findings for public dissemination. AF Fellows are normally designated a Federal Executive
Fellow with Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution. They participate in the development
and conduct of high-level conferences, seminars and programs for senior government and
business executives covering a wide spectrum of major policy issues. The NDF is immersed in
the Foreign Policy Studies program and has full access to the large multi-disciplinary research
resources of the institution.
9. Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, Stanford University, Stanford CA, is one of
the nation’s most prestigious centers for advanced study in domestic and international affairs.
Through its programs in National Security Affairs, International Studies and Domestic Studies,
its distinguished security experts, economists, political scientists, sociologists, educators, and
historians publish analyses of public policy and current research. The Hoover Institution also
focuses its intellectual resources on key national security, economic development, and terrorism
topics, with scholars collectively researching issues through directed task forces. Designated as
a National Security Affairs Fellow while at the Hoover Institution, Air Force officers provide a
"real world" military perspective for resident and visiting scholars, as well as Stanford graduate
students pursuing defense and national security-related studies. Fellows conduct independent
research, lead research seminars, and discuss military-related issues at Hoover Institution
functions. Additionally, Air Force Fellows are invited to speak to their “real world” experiences
with graduate-level classes, and both university and student-led organizations.
10. Institute for Defense Analysis (IDA), Strategy, Forces and Resources Division (SF&RD),
Washington DC performs inter-disciplinary studies and analyses of national security strategy, the
 66                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


structure and capabilities of US and foreign forces and defense infrastructure. In support of this
work the division develops analytical methodologies, quantitative models and simulations.
Areas emphasized in SF & RD’s current research portfolio include: preparation for the
Quadrennial Defense Review; politico-military assessments pertaining to countries of the FSU
and East Asia; international armaments cooperation and interoperability; skill-technology
interaction in determining military force effectiveness; counter-proliferation of WMD; chemical
and biological defense of military forces and civilian populations; and training and readiness of
US Forces. The mission of IDA is to assist OSD, the Joint Staff, the Unified Commands and
Defense Agencies in addressing important national security issues, particularly those requiring
scientific and technical expertise. The Institute operates two Federally Funded Research and
Development Centers (FFRDC) for the Department of Defense -- one focusing on studies and
analyses, the other on communications and computing.
11. Institute for the Study of Conflict, Ideology and Policy, Boston University, Boston MA was
chartered in 1988 to focus on conflict-prone societies in crisis, particularly Russia and the other
post-Soviet republics. Working as an integral member of the Institute’s research team, AF
Fellows have an excellent opportunity to participate in all university activities and interact with
faculty and graduate students. The Institute addresses the full spectrum of security issues,
including studies of international alliances, treaties, military balance, defense strategy, low
intensity conflict and Soviet/post-Soviet affairs. The primary research effort is the continued
development of a current on-line database concerning the institutions and personalities in the
post-Soviet states and Eastern Europe, with the AF Fellow focusing on current military events,
institutions and doctrines and their potential impact on US security policy. AF Fellows also play
a key role in organizing the biannual crisis management simulation exercises sponsored by the
Institute and in arranging guest speakers for the Institute’s Distinguished Speakers Program.
12. Institute for the Study of Diplomacy (ISD), School of Foreign Service (SFS), Georgetown
University, Washington DC is the oldest school of international affairs in the United States and
the largest of its type in the world. The Institute for the Study of Diplomacy is the school's
primary window on the world of the foreign affairs practitioner. ISD studies the practitioner's
craft: how diplomats and other foreign affairs professionals succeed and the lessons to be learned
from their successes and failures. Institute programs focus on the foreign policy process, how
decisions are made and implemented. The School of Foreign Service and the Institute for the
Study of Diplomacy provide a distinguished forum for Air Force Fellows to interact with
eminent faculty members and graduate students preparing for careers in government or Foreign
Service.
13. International Security Studies Program (ISSP), the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy,
Tufts University, Medford MA is the oldest graduate school of diplomacy in the US. The ISSP
addresses the full spectrum of security issues, including studies of international alliances,
especially NATO, treaties, military balance, defense strategy, low intensity conflict and Soviet
affairs. AF Fellows are fully involved in planning and conducting ISSP courses, seminars,
conferences and oral history programs. AF Fellows traditionally organize and conduct a crisis
management exercise for graduate students and faculty, simulating decision-making processes by
civil-military leadership.
14. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) Fellowship, Washington DC was
created in 2005 to increase collaboration across the sixteen federal intelligence organizations. Its
creation followed the release of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                              67


States (better known as the 9/11 Commission). While establishing objectives and priorities for
collection, analysis, production and dissemination of national intelligence, the ODNI ensures that
timely and objective national intelligence is provided to the President, the heads of departments
and agencies of the executive branch; the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and senior
military commanders; and the Congress. The Air Force Fellow at ODNI is involved in a three-
part program including taking classes/seminars within the sixteen intelligence organizations and
in Washington, engaging in experiential opportunities to learn more about the intelligence and
national security communities and conducting research designed to produce papers of interest to
the Director and/or intelligence leaders.
15. Security Studies Program (SSP), Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge
MA is a graduate research institution whose focus is in international affairs and comparative
studies that will contribute to both a basic understanding and possible solution to some of the
long-term problems, which confront today’s decision makers. The emphasis at SSP is strategy,
technology and bureaucratic political issues to include among others: international security
issues, nuclear weapons and arms control policy, defense environmental problems and the impact
of casualties on US foreign policy. The program’s prime task is educating those young men and
women who will be the next generation of scholars and practitioners in international security
policy making.
16. The Washington Institute (TWI), Washington DC is a prestigious institute centering on
research and analysis of Middle East issues and security policy challenges. Experience,
operational and/or academic, in Middle East studies will assist the individual in this institute's
programs. A significant strength of this institute rests with the direct interaction between the
NDF and Middle East policy makers and analysts. The center is well placed in the network of
leading Middle East scholars and diplomats.
17. Weatherhead Center for International Affairs (WCFIA), Harvard University Cambridge MA
provides a multidisciplinary environment for policy-relevant research on international issues that
is both academically rigorous and tied to contemporary problems. The Weatherhead Center is
structured to encourage the highest practical level of personal and intellectual interaction around
a diverse community of scholars and practitioners. The Weatherhead Center sponsors a wide
array of seminars, research programs, workshops and conferences. These activities not only
encourage interaction among resident affiliates but also serve to involve a wide variety of
scholars, government officials, representatives of the private sector and others from around the
world. Air Force Fellows may have many opportunities to articulate defense policy and
capability through contributions to these activities, both in the Weatherhead Center and in other
university forums. The fruits of Weatherhead Center research are made available to the public
policy community through books, articles, reports, seminars and lectures, as well as through the
personal participation of Weatherhead Center members in policy planning and decision-making
in governments and institutions outside the university. The Weatherhead Center for International
Affairs is an integral component of Harvard University's Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
18. Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington DC was created by the
Congress in 1968, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars is the official and
living memorial to the 28th President. The Center seeks to commemorate both the scholarly
depth and the public concerns of Woodrow Wilson through its program of advanced research.
The Center emphasizes breadth of representation in its international company of scholars and an
active life of dialogue within the Center and within Washington. The Center offers a forum for
 68                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


the widest diversity of views and encourages free and lively debate among them. At its core, the
Center remains a place where top scholars, exceptional thinkers and outstanding leaders in a
variety of fields, from across the country and around the world, come to reflect, to write and to
exchange ideas with others. As a practitioner of policy, the single authorized Air Force scholar
provides practical insights to the Center's research and discourse on international security
studies. Additionally, the Air Force scholar remains "plugged in" to current strategy projects on
the Air Staff and Joint Staff and provides inputs and research as necessary.
19. Freeman Spogli Institute (FSI), Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC)
at Stanford University allows fellows to conduct independent research, lead research seminars,
and discuss military-related issues at Hoover Institution functions that are nuclear related.
Additionally, Air Force Fellows are invited to speak to their “real world” experiences with
graduate-level classes, and both university and student-led organizations.
20. Stimson Center in Washington DC allows Fellows to be instrumental in providing CSIS with
Service specific expertise for its U.S. foreign policy and national security programs in relation to
nuclear deterrence and non-proliferation issues as well as spearheading the organization’s
activities designed to promote airpower and nuclear related issues within the Washington DC
policy community.
21. Air Force National Laboratories Technologies Fellows (AFNLTF): Meet AF nuclear and
future technologies experience requirements by developing a cadre of nuclear and cutting-edge
energy-experienced personnel to shape and influence a flexible and responsible nuclear force as
well as the way ahead to meet the 21st century energy and fuel needs of the AF. One aspect
focuses on understanding the historical development of nuclear weapons technologies with an
emphasis on applying knowledge to current/future stockpile activities and applications and
developing knowledge of US nuclear community for use in issue resolution on behalf of AF.
Other aspects focus on future fuel development and energy conservation. Fellowships are
available at Los Alamos NM, Argonne National Lab IL; Idaho National Laboratory ID; Oak
Ridge National Lab TN. Participation is open to applicable AFSCs and qualified AF Medical
Service (AFMS) officers. Required follow on assignment to nuclear-related position for Fellows
assigned to Los Alamos. Required follow on assignment to cyber-related position for Fellows
assigned to Idaho Labs.
a. Los Alamos National Laboratory is operated by the University of California for the National
Nuclear Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy and works in partnership
with NNSA's Sandia and Lawrence Livermore national laboratories to support NNSA in its
mission. Los Alamos enhances global security by ensuring the safety and reliability of the U.S.
nuclear deterrent, developing technologies to reduce threats from weapons of mass destruction,
and solving problems related to defense, energy, environment, infrastructure, health and national
security concerns.
b. Argonne National Laboratory’s mission is to serve the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and
national security by advancing the frontiers of knowledge, by creating and operating forefront
scientific user facilities, and by providing innovative and effective approaches and solutions to
energy, environmental, and security challenges to national and global well-being, in the near and
long term, as a contributing member of the DOE laboratory system. They contribute significantly
to DOE's mission in science, energy resources, environmental stewardship, and national security,
with lead roles in the areas of science, operation of scientific facilities, and energy. In
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         69


accomplishing their mission, they partner with DOE, other federal laboratories and agencies, the
academic community, and the private sector.
c. Idaho National Laboratory (INL) is operated by the Department of Energy researching areas
such as Supervisory Control & Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems and wireless
communications infrastructure programs. Additional insight into developing leading-edge
capabilities for network defense, network exploitation, network attack and information
operations through a variety of communications.
d. Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) is the Department of Energy’s largest multi-program
science and technology laboratory and is managed by UT-Battelle, LLC. Scientists and
engineers at ORNL conduct basic and applied research and development to create scientific
knowledge and technological solutions that strengthen the nation's leadership in key areas of
science; increase the availability of clean, abundant energy; restore and protect the environment;
and contribute to national security. ORNL also performs other work for the Department of
Energy, including isotope production, information management, and technical program
management, and provides research and technical assistance to other organizations.
22. National Security Fellows (NSF). Five lieutenant colonels and/or lieutenant colonel-selects,
three active-duty and one each Reserve and Air National Guard, are named to the National
Security Fellows Program at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University,
Cambridge MA. The selection criteria and program requirements are identical to the National
Defense Fellows (NDF) program. This program provides the fellows an outstanding opportunity
to research, write and speak on issues of immediate or ongoing concern of the Air Force and the
nation. The officer will develop an enhanced perspective of the wide range of issues
encompassed by the broader spectrum of the national security arena. While intellectual
enrichment is the fundamental purpose of the program, the officer's position offers an excellent
environment to represent the Air Force and DoD before well-known scholars, foreign dignitaries
and leading policy analysts. The AF Fellow serves as a liaison between the Air Force and the
civilian defense and national security academic communities.
23. RAND Fellows, Santa Monica CA. The RAND Fellowship Program selects several
officers/civilians each year. Officers/civilians selected for RAND Fellowships employ advanced
research techniques while working on AF sponsored research. The program provides an
important cross flow of information between the AF and a major research institution. A HAF
two-letter/digit sponsors each officer. The general areas of interest and HAF two-letter/digit
requirements include:
a. AF/A2: Strong background in intelligence analysis, applications and/or training. Recent
operational Intel experience is usually desirable. A Master’s of Arts degree in a subject related
to intelligence (area studies for example) is required. A second language is desirable.
b. AF/A1: Candidate must have manpower/personnel/services experience and
technical/analytical capabilities. An MA, MS, or MBA is required.
cc. AF/A3: Candidates must be rated officers with strong operational backgrounds. The officer
must be capable of conducting serious research and possess a graduate degree.
d. AF/A4-7: Candidates must have a graduate degree; an emphasis in logistics management is
preferred. The officer must have a broad knowledge of logistics with previous assignments at
base and MAJCOM level.
 70                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


e. AF/SG: Candidates must have a Master’s degree or higher; strong record; significant
operations and staff experience; interest in healthcare policy and management. The candidate
must have a broad working knowledge of the various aspects of healthcare management with
previous experience at MAJCOM, NAF, Air Staff or Health Affairs desirable.
f. AF/A10: Candidate must have a technical degree; an emphasis in nuclear management is
required. Work with classified projects inside policy research in conjunction with Air Staff
nuclear policy offices.
24. Lean Aerospace Initiative (LAI) Fellowship at MIT, MA. Security Studies Program is a
graduate research institution whose focus is in international affairs and comparative studies that
will contribute to both a basic understanding and possible solution to some of the long-term
problems which confront today’s decision makers. The emphasis with LAI is strategy,
technology and bureaucratic political issues to include among others: international security
issues, nuclear weapons and arms control policy, defense environment problems, the impact of
casualties on US foreign policy. The program’s prime task is educating those young men and
women who will be the next generation of scholars and practitioners international security policy
making.
25. Secretary of Defense Corporate Fellows Program (SDCFP). The SDCFP was established
by the Secretary of Defense in 1994, to become a long-term investment in transforming U.S.
forces and capabilities and, as such, is a key part of the Department of Defense (DoD) strategy to
achieve its transformational goals. Officers from each military Service are selected each year to
receive their military senior DE credit by training with sponsoring institutions, i.e., corporations,
companies, commercial enterprises, etc., who have earned a reputation for insightful long-range
planning, organizational and management innovation, and implementation of new information
and other technologies. SDCFP Fellows form a cadre of future leaders made knowledgeable in
the organizational and operational opportunities made possible by their training throughout the
year. At the conclusion of the assignment, each member of the SDCFP provides group/individual
briefings to the Secretary of Defense/Deputy Secretary of Defense, Service Secretaries and
Chiefs, and over three dozen other senior OSD and Service leaders on private industry best
practices and the Fellow’s assessment as to their applicability to transform the Department of
Defense. Recent Fellows have spent a year at Booz Allen Hamilton, FedEx Corporation,
Johnson & Johnson, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Raytheon Company, Sarnoff Corporation,
Southern Company, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and United Technologies Corporation.
26. AU Research Fellowship. Air University is in the process of accrediting a PhD program in
Military Strategic Art. When this program is accredited (anticipated December 2010), select
students of the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies who achieve all-but-dissertation status
at graduation will be given the opportunity for a one-year research fellowship to complete a
book-length dissertation that makes an original contribution to the field of strategy or security
studies. Upon completion of the dissertation, candidates will be awarded a Doctorate of
Philosophy in Military Strategic Art. The location of the fellowship will be conducive to
researching the subject at hand and perhaps a follow-on assignment. Fellows may attend Joint
Forces Staff College for Phase II JPME.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                          71


                                          Attachment 5
                    OFFICER/CIVILIAN PRIMARY DE (PDE) CREDIT

Officers and civilians from sister-Services who have transferred into the Air Force will be
granted resident PDE credit for the completion of the following courses under the following
conditions: 1) if the officer transferring to the AF is at least a captain and outside the SOS
eligibility window but attended one of the resident courses below; 2) if the officer transferring to
the AF has attended one of the resident courses below and is still SOS eligible, SOS must be
completed by correspondence before resident PDE credit will be awarded.
An AF officer who wishes to attend a sister Service resident PDE equivalent course must
complete resident or DL SOS prior to attending to receive resident PDE credit.
Army
US Army Captains Career Courses: Adjutant General, Air Defense Artillery, Finance, Chaplain,
Armor, Infantry, Judge Advocate, Quartermaster, Signal, Transportation, and Engineer
Army Medical Department (AMEDD) Captains Career Course
Combined Arms & Services Staff School
US Army Aviation Captains Career Course
Navy
Sea, Air, and Land Course (SEAL LT Career Course)
Surface Warfare Officer Department Head Course
Submarine Officer Advanced Course
Marines
USMC Expeditionary Warfare School
 72                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                        Attachment 6
                      DEGREES AWARDED BY AIR UNIVERSITY

Master of Strategic Studies: Air War College
Master of Military Operational Art and Science: Air Command and Staff College
Master of Airpower Art and Science: School of Advanced Air and Space Studies
Master of Science in Test Flight Engineering: USAF Test Pilot School
Associate in Applied Science: Community College of the Air Force
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         73


                                          Attachment 7
                    DE EQUIVALENCY FOR NON-AF PME SCHOOLS

DE Equivalency for international Service schools. DE equivalency for international Service
schools is granted by AF/A1DL upon formal AU/CF recommendation based upon a full review
of the program (Attachments 9).
A program is considered equivalent to an AF PME program when its curriculum, in terms of
educational level, content, and academic rigor, is the same as or very similar to the PME
program to which it is being compared. For example, comparing respective sister Service
schools.
Another military school program may be considered comparable, but not equivalent, if the
curriculum meets the educational level, academic rigor, and most major content areas, but not all
the key content of the AF PME program. For example, a program comparable to AWC may be
similar in most areas, but lacking in one or more of the major subject areas.
The term “academic rigor” in the above paragraphs relates to a variety of curriculum and
instructional issues. To ensure a relatively consistent application of standards of academic rigor
in equivalency/comparability evaluations, AU focuses on several categories, such as the
instructional program, faculty, students, and curriculum content. Attachment 8 provides a set of
categories used by AU for equivalency/comparability evaluations.
 74                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                          Attachment 8
      EQUIVALENCY/COMPARABILITY RECERTIFICATION GUIDANCE FOR
                   INTERNATIONAL PME PROGRAMS

The US Air Force provides for the evaluation of international PME programs to determine their
equivalence/comparability with AF PME programs. Equivalency certification benefits AF
officers by ensuring they receive the appropriate level of PME at the schools they attend. The
Air University (AU) is the AF agent for determining educational equivalence/comparability of
international PME programs.
Because PME programs change over time, it is imperative that equivalent/comparable
international PME programs be reviewed periodically to ensure their continued
equivalence/comparability with AF PME programs. This, in turn, ensures AF officers continue
to receive the best possible education from cooperating international programs.
Following initial determination of equivalence/comparability with an AF PME program,
international PME programs must be re-certified to continue that status every five years
thereafter. In December of each year, AU provides AF/A1DL a list of international PME
schools requiring recertification the following calendar year. AF/A1DL requests SAF/IA acquire
the necessary curriculum documents, in English, from the international schools and forward them
to AU for review. The minimum information needed by AU for conducting a review is listed in
Attachment 9 of this Instruction.
International PME programs that are determined not to be equivalent or comparable, or that do
not submit their curriculum for recertification, are recommended to be placed on probationary
status for one year. The following year, the program will be reviewed again. If that review still
shows the program is not equivalent or comparable, then a recommendation for removal from the
“Equivalent Schools” list may be made to AF/A1DL. Final approval authority is the AF/A1.
If a school is approved for removal from the Equivalent Schools list, AF personnel currently in
the pipeline to attend the school will be authorized to attend the school and will receive the
appropriate DE credit for completion of the program. However, no new personnel will enter into
the pipeline (to include language training, etc) for that specific school.
A school that has been removed from the Equivalent Schools list may resubmit their curriculum
for another equivalency review at any time, and may, upon determination of
equivalency/comparability, be reinstated on the list. Once a school has been reinstated to the list,
AF personnel may again be entered into the pipeline for school attendance.
The requestor must complete Attachment 9 and send to AU/CF.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                           75


                                           Attachment 9
      MINIMUM INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDUCTING A PME
                       EQUIVALENCY REVIEW

The following categories of data comprise the minimum essential information for a conclusive
determination of program equivalency/comparability with AF PME Programs. Complete below
and submit to AU/CF.
1. Instructional Program
a. Purpose
b. Mission
c. Duration (Calendar Weeks/Months)
d. Class Military Rank and Years of Military Service
e. Degree or Diploma Awarded
f. Exercises, Field Trips, Research Required
2. Faculty
a. Number of Teaching Faculty (Military and Civilian)
b. Typical Credentials of Military/Civilian Faculty (Rank, Service Affiliation, Prior Education,
Service Experience)
c. Do Faculty teach all Courses? Do External Personnel Teach in the Program? Are Any Classes
Student Led? Explain.
3. Curriculum
a. Total Academic Hours (contact hours, research, field trips, other)
b. Description of Course (Courses should cover all core courses in the PME program being
compared to; content should be the same or very similar)
c. Military Exercises (Should be similar in scope, breadth, realism, and rigor as the exercises
used in the PME school being compared to)
d. Complete Course Syllabus Should Contain Course and Lesson Objectives, Lists of Assigned
Readings, and Description of Oral and Written Assignments (If a complete course syllabus is not
readily available in English, countries should provide a narrative description of the level of
learning each major instructional area is designed to achieve)
e. Description of Student Evaluations (tests, papers, thesis, briefings, etc.)
f. Description of Graduation Requirements.
 76                                                                   AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                          Attachment 10
      APPLYING FOR MISSION ESSENTIAL OR HUMANITARIAN WITHDRAWAL
                                FROM CDE

The following format should be used to request withdrawal, and should flow through the chain of
command for approval by the nominating organization.
Appropriate Letterhead
MEMORANDUM FOR NOMINATING ORGANIZATION/                                               (Date)
                         FUNCTIONAL MANAGER
FROM:                  (Individual/Functional Address Symbol)
SUBJECT:               Request for Mission Essential/Humanitarian Withdrawal from (name of
                       CDE Program and course dates)
1. Request a mission essential/humanitarian withdrawal from the (selected program) for the
following reasons: (Give all relevant information available to support your request.)
2. I became aware of the need to decline selection for the (give name of program) on (date)
when (discuss details of the situation that prompted this request).
3. I have taken the following actions or steps to resolve the situation:
4. I submit the following supporting information:
a. Organization and location (current and projected), E-mail address, data fax phone number,
and phone number where you can reach me.
b. Information on mission-related emergency that makes withdrawal crucial or information on
family member concerned (e.g. home address, death certificate, doctor's statement).
c. Verification of serious financial problem due to loss (e.g. police report, statement from
insurance company, photographs).
5. I have (not) previously requested withdrawal from a CDE program for humanitarian reasons.
If so, indicate date and reason.
6. I understand if my situation is resolved before school begins, I cannot resume my status in the
selected program for the current school year.
7. I also understand that if my request is not approved and I decline attendance in the selected
course, I have no further opportunity to compete for in resident CDE at the same level.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                         77


                                         Attachment 11
               USAF PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION POLICY

A11.1. Overview. AF Professional Military Education Program (AFPMEP) supports the Air
Force CoL by integrating the Air Force institutional competencies into its curriculum. The
AFPMEP guidance reflects principles contained in CJCSI 1800.01, Officer Professional
Military Education Policy – OPMEP; and the CJCSI 1805.01, Enlisted Professional Military
Education Policy – EPMEP; Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1, Air Force Basic
Doctrine, Organization, and Command; and reinforces and builds on principles outlined in
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development.
A11.2. Levels of PME. The Air Force CoL framework incorporates a model of institutional
competencies and integrates into various educational and training programs to develop airmen
over the course of their careers. The Air Force CoL framework reflects the dynamic and
continuous system of Air Force PME.
A11.2.1. Officer. The baseline for the three levels of PME in an officer’s career requires several
common core curriculum areas that span their career and a broad listing of topics that define each
core area (Table A11.1).
       A11.2.1.1. Primary Level. Primary level PME is typically received at grade O-3. The
       Squadron Officers School (SOS) currently comprises the primary level. Education
       focuses on preparing junior officers for leadership roles at the tactical level based on Air
       Force core values and the professional attributes and leadership traits required of these
       core values. This level of PME gives company grade officers the “big picture” of
       airpower before they become “airpower specialists” within their Air Force Specialties
       (AFS).
       A11.2.1.2. Intermediate Level. Education is typically received at grade O-4. Air
       Command and Staff College (ACSC) currently comprises the intermediate level of the
       continuum of AF PME. This level of PME focuses on warfighting within the context of
       operational art. At this level, students expand their understanding of joint force
       deployment and employment at the operational and tactical levels of war. Intermediate
       PME emphasizes operational art and how airpower integrates with joint, multinational,
       and interagency operations to support Joint Force Commanders (JFC).
       A11.2.1.3. Senior Level. PME is typically received at grades O-5 and O-6. Senior level
       PME is designed to educate senior officers to lead at the strategic level in the
       employment of airpower forces, including joint operations, in support of national
       security. Senior field grade officers learn strengths and limitations involved when
       applying the national instruments of power. They learn to create strategies to reach
       National Command Authority (NCA) objectives and execute JFC guidance.
   A11.2.2. Enlisted. The Continuum of Enlisted Professional Military Education (EPME)
   includes three PME levels relating to significant phases in an enlisted airman’s career:
   A11.2.2.1. Primary Level. Education focuses on developing the knowledge, skills, and
   attitudes of Airmen in the grades of E-4 to E-6 in ways appropriate for leadership and
   supervisory duties while fostering a commitment to the military profession.
 78                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


       A11.2.2.2. Intermediate Level. Education is designed to broaden and cultivate leadership
       and supervisory skills of NCOs in the grade of E-7 to lead and manage at the unit level
       effectively and inspire a commitment to the military profession.
       A11.2.2.3. Senior Level. Education focuses on refining and expanding senior NCO
       leadership capabilities and confirming the commitment to the military profession to
       effectively lead the enlisted force for NCOs at the grades of E-8 to E-9.
A11.3. AFPME Core Curriculum. The Air Force needs its future leaders to share a full and
common knowledge of airpower; history; doctrine; operations; joint war fighting; and core
values. The institutional competencies provide the foundation for Air Force PME requirements.
The continuum framework includes a progression and relationship among the institutional
competencies and the core curriculum areas.
   A11.3.1. Profession of Arms. This core area focuses on distinctive knowledge, exclusive
   group coherence, career structure, and the Airmen's role in society. It also addresses core
   values, discipline, professional ethics, dress and appearance, oath of office, drill and
   ceremonies, customs and courtesies, accountability, and security awareness.
   A11.3.2. Warfare Studies. This core area develops an understanding and appreciation of the
   nature of war and the art of employing military power across the range of military operations.
   Warfighting includes historical and modern roles and missions, force structures, joint
   operations, core competencies, and tactics across the spectrum of conflict and the domains
   such as land, sea, air, space and cyberspace in order to develop an understanding of the
   theories, strategies, and doctrinal underpinnings of how best to achieve national security
   objectives.
   A11.3.3. Leadership Studies. This core area includes broad categories focusing on leadership
   styles, organizational leadership, functions of management, and command responsibilities. It
   draws from the study of great leaders to develop an understanding and appreciation of the
   professional, organizational, and interpersonal dimensions of influencing and directing
   people and other resources to accomplish the mission.
   A11.3.4. International Security Studies. This core area includes the nature and causes of war
   and peace, patterns of change and major global and regional trends, contemporary problems
   and issues, and maintaining global vigilance using intelligence capabilities. Special
   emphasis is given to the non-military instruments of power and how they affect global,
   regional, and national security conditions, problems and issues. It also includes the study of
   national security strategy and the national security decision-making process, civil-military
   relations, and critical contemporary regional and functional problems/issues.
   A11.3.5. Communication Studies. This core area focuses on interpersonal, small group and
   organizational dynamics, cross-cultural communications, and the processes and networks for
   communication. This core area also involves relations with the media and the nuances of
   persuasion, rhetoric, negotiation, and propaganda.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                     79


Table A11.1. Core Curriculum Topics and Subtopics

                           CORE CURRICULUM AREA EMPHASIS
   Leadership Studies                         Warfare Studies
   Leadership Supervision Skills Mentoring    Nature of War General Military History USAF
   Evaluation Systems Functions of            History Capabilities and Limitations of US
   Management Diversity/Equal                 Military Forces Military Theory and Doctrine
   Opportunity Group Dynamics Dynamic         Military Strategy Spectrum of Operations Joint,
   Followership Building Teams and            Enterprise & Multinational Operations Air and
   Coalitions Change Management Problem       Space Doctrine & Employment Operational and
   Solving Risk Management Time               Strategic Art
   Management Personal and Professional
   Development Roles/Responsibilities
   Continuous Process Improvement
                                           International
   Profession Of Arms                                             Communication Studies
                                           Security Studies
   Airmanship/Military Culture             National and           Active Listening
   Professional Relations Civil-Military   International          Critical Thinking
   Relations Security Awareness            Security Issues
   Wellness Core Values Professional       Instruments of         Audience Analysis
   Ethics Warrior Ethos                    National Power         Writing
                                           National Security
                                           Strategy and Policy    Speaking
                                           Interagency            Research
                                           Collaboration Cross-
                                           Cultural Competence    Negotiating

   NOTE: This list is not comprehensive and is subject to change based on emerging issues and
   AF needs. Changes to these core areas are vetted through the AF Learning Committee
   (AFLC) for approval/disapproval by the Force Management Development Council. The
   AFLC process is outlined in Attachment 12.

A11.4. AFPME Triennial Review. A triennial review of all levels of PME will be conducted via
an ad hoc committee under the AF Learning Committee (Attachment 12).
   A11.4.1. The ad hoc committee will be comprised of educators from AETC, Air University,
   MAJCOMs A1s, the Air Force Academy, the Air Force Institute of Technology and
   educators on the HQ USAF Staff as appropriate.
   A11.4.2. Primary responsibility of the ad hoc committee is to assess adherence to AFPME
   program standards, determine life cycle of Special Areas of Emphasis (SAE), and to ensure
   the curriculum is aligned with Air Force priorities and force development strategies.
   A11.4.3. Results will be presented to the AFLC Executive Session no later than one year
   after the review. The AFLC ES will vet any findings and/or recommendations for
   submission to the FMDC for approval/disapproval.
 80                                                               AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


                                       Attachment 12
                              AF LEARNING COMMITTEE

A12.1. Overview. The Air Force Learning Committee (AFLC) was established by the Force
Management Development Council (FMDC) in 2008. The AFLC provides senior leader
guidance regarding the focus and subject matter of Air Force institutional competencies
development programs (ICDP). The AFLC also complements the Military Education
Coordination Council (MECC) which determines the Learning Areas (LAs) and JPME SAEs
required for JPME I and II accreditation for Air Command and Staff College (ACSC) and Air
War College (AWC) . The AFLC process includes a working group (WG) and an executive
session (ES).
A12.2. Scope. AFLC has senior leader oversight of changes to the established institutional
competency development programs (ICDP) baseline requirements. Once a proposed change is
vetted and a decision made, ICDP OPRs will follow the guidance provided and adjust their
programs accordingly. This does not include the Air Force Institute of Technology, School of
Advanced Air and Space Studies, or experiential development opportunities beyond fellowships
and internships.
A12.2.1. Institutional Competencies Development Programs. AF education ICDPs include
officer and enlisted PME curriculums, internships and fellowships, AF commissioning programs,
and BMT. Proposed changes to these programs will be vetted through the AFLC.
A12.2.2. Special Areas of Emphasis. Special Areas of Emphasis (SAE) are emerging topics that
may need special emphasis across the continuum of Learning (CoL). The areas may be
incorporated into the core curriculum areas at the appropriate level once validated through the
AFLC.
A12.2.2.1. AFLC will limit the AF SAEs list at any given time to ensure the ICDP curriculums
maintain a reasonable balance between core content requirements and SAEs. The AFLC will
work with functional communities to review all SAEs to ensure the requirement for inclusion
still exists. This review will be aligned with the PME triennial curriculum review.
A12.2.2.2. Any recommendations impacting JPME SAE will be vetted through the Military
Education Coordination Committee (MECC) and/or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
A12.3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   A12.3.1. FMDC. The FMDC is the final decision-making authority for the AFLC process.
   Chaired by the AF/CV, the FMDC is composed of MAJCOM/CVs, Functional Authorities,
   Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, and the Chair of the Executive Resources Board.
   AU/CC and USAFA/CC act as advisors.
A12.3. 1.1. AFLC ES. The AFLC ES is comprised of AF MAJCOM A1s and Functional
Authority Force Development (FAFD) leads. The members are 0-7/0-6 or civilian equivalent,
whose primary function is to vet all proposals for modifying the baseline of ICDPs and adding
AF SAE. Appropriate representatives from USAFA, AETC, AU, AFIT, AFRI, and BMT act as
advisors. AFLC ES recommendations are forwarded to the FMDC for final adjudication.
A12.3.1.2. AFLC WG. AFLC WG is composed of representatives at the O-5/O-6 level as well
as advisors from AUCF, Holm Center, AMS, PME schools, AFRI, USAFA and BMT as
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                        81


appropriate. The primary responsibility of this group will be to analyze the new requests for
completeness and viability, aid in the development process, and make recommendations to the
executive session. This body may meet virtually.
A12.3.2. Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1).
AF/A1 owns the AFLC process because it is the authority responsible for all issues affecting
personnel.
A12.3.3. Air Force Director for Force Development (AF/A1D). A1D chairs the AFLC ES and
oversees management and synchronization of the AFLC process.
A12.3.4. Air Force Learning Division (AF/A1DL). A1DL chairs the AFLC Working Group and
is responsible for all issues related to learning in the development of institutional competencies
for Airmen, including developmental education, ancillary training, and BMT policy. As the
executive secretary for the AFLC process, this division coordinates the agenda and prepares and
disseminates the meeting minutes.
A12.3.5. Commissioning Training and Education Committee (CTEC). As the authority
responsible for addressing the integration and standardization of commissioning training and
education among all Air Force commissioning sources (AFROTC, OTS, USAFA, and AMS), the
CTEC considers new accession training and education proposals and makes a recommendation
to the AFLC.
A12.3.6. Functional Authority Force Development (FAFD) Lead. As the focal point for Airmen
development within their functional areas, FAFD leads are O-6 level POCs who submit requests
to change ancillary training, the ICDP baseline, or include AF SAEs. They serve as the OPR for
identifying requirements in their respective areas.
A12.3.7. MAJCOM/A1s. As the focal point for Airmen development in the field,
MAJCOM/A1s can submit requests to change the institutional competency development
program baseline or include AF SAEs. Their request must be endorsed by the MAJCOM/CV.
A12.3.8. Advisors. AETC, AU, USAFA, BMT, and AMS serve as primary advisors to the
AFLC. The accredited organizations with joint training implications serve as the advisors on
both JPME and accreditation requirements, ensuring the AFLC is aware of any proposed changes
that may impact their ability to meet these requirements.
A12.3.9. Air University.
A12.3.9.1. Chairs the ad hoc committee under the AFLC for the triennial AF PME review.
A12.3.9.2. Provides agenda for the AF PME Triennial Review and prepares and coordinates the
report and reports to the AFLC.
A12.4. AFLC Process.
   A12.4.1. Strategic Planning. AF Education and Training principals will work within the
   AFLC to define the AF-wide learning strategy or direction and to help senior leaders make
   decisions on allocating AF resources to pursue this strategy.
   A12.4.2. AFLC Review Process. The AFLC review provides a formalized process for
   evaluating new requirements for AF institutional competency development curricula and
   programs. The basic process encompasses the following steps:
 82                                                                AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010


   A12.4.2.1. AF/A1DL sends a data call to the field requesting requirements for changes to
   IC baselines, ancillary training, or implementation of an enterprise learning solution in the
   Spring and in the Fall. The proposals may be submitted by MAJCOM/A1s, functional
   authority force development leads, or other organizational directors of personnel.
   A12.4.2.2. When AF/A1DL makes sure the requestor develops the intended
   competencies/learning outcomes before coordinating with appropriate organizations (e.g.
   AETC/AU, USAFA, AMS, and BMT) for further study.
   A12.4.2.3. The ICDP OPRs will establish a process to review the proposals; identify which
   proposals are already addressed by existing programs or curricula, and present proposals for
   change or implementation.
   A12.4.2.4. Once the proposal has been evaluated by the appropriate ICDP OPRs, they
   submit the results of the assessment to AF/A1DL, which can include a proposal of an
   alternate course of action. A1DL will then notify the respective MAJCOM or FAFD lead to
   build a business proposal to include an initial cost assessment.
   A12.4.2.5. The business case will flow back to AF/A1DL to be included as an agenda item
   for the AFLC WG meetings. AFLC WG will vet new proposals to ensure several factors.
   A12.4.2. 5.1. Proposals are targeted to the correct audience via the appropriate delivery
   method.
   A12.4.2. 5.2. Proposals are properly defined and clearly identify the IC(s) addressed.
   A12.4.2.5.3. There is an implementation/replacement strategy for existing curriculum.
   A12.4.2. 5.4. The proposals capture withdrawal of other curriculum to meet new
   requirements.
   A12.4.2.5.5. There is an understanding of the “cost” to accommodate the new requirement.
   A12.4.2.6. The AFLC WG members may request additional information from the requestor
   or decide to make a recommendation to AFLC ES to forward to the FMDC for
   approval/disapproval.
   A12.4.2.7. AFLC agenda items will stay open for two years. After remaining on the agenda
   for two years, AFLC WG will reassess the viability of the proposal.
A12.5. ICDP Curricula and Program Content Reviews
A12.5.1. Any request for an ICDP to conduct any type of curricula or program content review
will be considered a new requirement, and the request must first go to AF/A1DL. If an ICDP
receives a request to perform a content review from an organization other than AF/A1DL, the
ICDP will forward to AF/A1DL.
   A12.5.2. The requesting agency will define the institutional or occupational competency and
   the associated five proficiency levels before an ICDP performs a content review. Once done,
   AF/A1DL will determine if the AFLC process will be used to perform the content review.
AFI36-2301 16 JULY 2010                                                                                       83


                                                       Attachment 13
                                 PME/AFIT/RTFB/OFFICER WORKSHEET

Figure 13.1. PME/AFIT/RTFB/OFFICER WORKSHEET

                                  PME/AFIT/RTFB/OFFICER WORKSHEET
PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT
AUTHORITY: 10 U.S.C. 8013 and EO 9397.
PURPOSE: To provide a vehicle for the officers to indicate his or her preferences. SSN is used for positive
identification.
ROUTINE USES: None.
DISCLOSURE: Mail form to the appropriate office.
                         PART I - MEMBER IDENTIFICATION DATA (MANDATORY)
NAME (Last, First,        SSN            GRADE                DAFSC/CORE ID          LOCATION
Middle Initial)
                                          PART II – PREFERENCES
1ST

2N
D

3R
D
                              OVERSEA COUNTRY/LOCATION PREFERENCE
                        1ST         2ND          3RD           4TH                                   5TH
  LOCATION

                                      PART III - MEMBER'S COMMENTS




SIGNATURE                                    DATE                                      PHONE
                                                                      DSN             COMMERCIAL

             PART IV - COMMANDER'S/SUPERVISOR'S RECOMMENDATION (MANDATORY)
REMARKS:




SIGNATURE                                   DATE                                      PHONE
                                                                  DSN                COMMERCIAL
AF IMT 3849, 19960101, V2                             Previous edition is obsolete
