BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-219
MIINOT AFB
                                                                                             MINOT AFB
                                                                                              Supplement
                                                                                         17 APRIL 2008

                                                                                                 Services

                                                               ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 5 FSS/A1C                                       Certified by: 5 MSG/CC (Colonel Glenn A. Lang)
Supersedes AFI34-219_MINOTAFBSUP1,                                                         Pages: 2
           1 August 2003

AFI 34-219, 17 October 2007, is supplemented as follows: This supplement contains guidance and proce-
dures for managing the alcoholic beverage program. It states requirements for the sale, serving, and con-
sumption of alcohol on Minot AFB as well as locations where alcohol can be served and consumed. It
states requirements and procedures for requesting permission to serve alcohol in locations other than 5th
Force Support Squadron facilities. It applies to all organizations on Minot AFB. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route the AF IMT 847 from the field through
the Base Publishing Manager. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed processes IAW AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as required. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publica-
tion does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Throughout entire supplement, Services was changed to "Force Support." OPR office symbol changed
from “5 SVS/SVB” to "5 FSS/A1C”. 5 MSG/CC and 5 BW/CC's names were updated. Paragraph 2.1.9.
(Added), changed from “paragraphs 2.1.1 - 2.1.5.” to "2.1.1. - 2.1.8."
1.3.1. "For the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverage," North Dakota law identifies the minimum
age for purchasing, possessing, or consuming alcoholic beverages as 21 years old.
1.7.1.4. The hours of operation for Minot AFB facilities selling or dispensing alcoholic beverages will be
approved in writing by the 5th Mission Support Group Commander. A copy of the approval will be main-
tained by the activity or the OPR until superseded. These hours may be extended up to 60 minutes by the
activity manager of each facility; however, any further extension of hours must be approved by the 5th
Mission Support Group Commander in advance.
2                                                        AFI34-219_MINOTAFBSUP 17 APRIL 2008


2.1.6. Alcoholic beverages may be served and consumed in the areas listed in the basic instruction with
the following additions:
2.1.6.1. (Added) Private Organizations approved in accordance with AFI 34-223, Private Organization
(PO) Program, cannot sell alcoholic beverages on the installation. Private groups or parties may serve and
consume malt beverages at Bud Ebert park and the Golf Course picnic pavilion.
2.1.6.2. (Added) Alcoholic beverages may be served and consumed within all government living areas,
including dormitories and transient living quarters.
2.1.6.3. (Added) Alcoholic beverages may be served and consumed in other designated areas including
hangars, specific work centers, or on the flight line on an infrequent, non-recurring basis to foster camara-
derie when marking a unique occasion as approved in writing by the installation commander (delegated to
5th Force Support Squadron Commander). Appropriate Dram Shop training is available by a Force Sup-
port representative to designated servers of alcoholic beverages during these non-Force Support/AAFES
functions.
2.1.9. (Added) Under the authority of paragraph 2.1, all Force Support operated activities may sell alco-
holic beverages subject to the limitations of paragraphs 2.1.1 - 2.1.8.
3.2.1. Rough Riders is authorized to sell beer and wine coolers for off-premise consumption in conjunc-
tion with food orders. The seller must verify that the customer is 21 years old by personally checking a
photo ID. The Doolittle Center, J.R. Rockers, and the Golf Course are authorized to sell keg beer for
off-premise consumption.



                                                JOEL S. WESTA, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 5th Bomb Wing
