BY ORDER OF THE                                                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-8101
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                         4 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                                                          Personnel

                                                                           TOTAL FORCE HUMAN RESOURCE
                                                                              MANAGEMENT (HRM) DOMAIN
                                                                                          GOVERNANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A1X                                                                Certified by: SAF/MR (Ms. Sheila Earle)
                                                                                                        Pages: 17



This instruction establishes Air Force (AF) policies and procedures for the oversight,
management, and execution of the Total Force (TF) Human Resource Management (HRM)
Enterprise Domain. It implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-81, TF HRM Domain
Governance; AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation; AFPD 90-10, TF Integration Policy; and AFPD
90-11, Strategic Planning System as they pertain to the AF HRM Domain. Compliance is
mandatory for all military and civilian personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and
Air National Guard (ANG), contractors and consultants (when contract performance supports the
AF), and non-DoD U.S. Government Agencies whose personnel, by mutual agreement, require
support from or conduct operational activity with the AF. In collaboration with the Chief of Air
Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE), the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), and the
Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ USAF/A1), the Assistant
Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR) develops HRM policy
for the TF HRM Governance. This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any
level; all MAJCOM-level supplements must be approved by the HRM Strategic Board (HSB)
prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the field through the
functional chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.


       1.     Purpose and Overview. ..........................................................................................    2
 2                                                                                        AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


        2.      Total Force HRM Governance Framework. ..........................................................                           3
Figure 1.       Total Force Human Resource Management Governance. .....................................                                    4
        3.      The HRM Executive Secretariat (ES). ...................................................................                    5
        4.      HRM Business Activity Teams (BATs). ...............................................................                        7
Figure 2.       HRM Domain Business Activity Model (as of July 2013). ...................................                                  7
        5.      TF HRM Integration and Innovation (I & I) Teams. .............................................                             8
        6.      TF HRM Strategy. .................................................................................................        10
        7.      TF HRM Integrated Policy Management. ..............................................................                       11
        8.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................   12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            15


1. Purpose and Overview.
     1.1. This instruction prescribes policies, responsibilities, relationships and integration points
     within the TF HRM Domain. The HRM Domain comprises the organizations, systems,
     strategies and policies that produce and sustain the Air Force’s investment in human capital
     (military and civilian Airmen). HRM Domain Governance is the cross-component,
     integrated governing capability to administer the TF HRM Domain for the Regular Air Force
     (RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG). This governance serves
     to enable a single integrated TF HRM Domain voice to the Air Force Corporate Structure
     (AFCS) and the Air Force Core Function Lead Integrators (CFLIs), and MAJCOMs.
     1.2. This instruction establishes a standard governance structure for TF HRM Enterprise and
     Human Capital Strategies and oversight of the HRM Domain. It specifies authorities, roles,
     and responsibilities to govern, integrate, and ensure effective coordination among TF
     components and stakeholders.
     1.3. This instruction describes the processes and relationships within the enterprise
     governing framework to ensure TF HRM strategies, policies, systems, processes, and
     structures are developed and implemented by various organizations. These processes and
     relationships support stronger connections among TF components and functional area leaders
     while increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
     1.4. Working within their respective authorities and responsibilities, TF component chiefs
     and HRM leaders will collaborate to align HRM Domain strategy, integrate policy
     development and execution, align resource planning and programming, and create synergy
     around other areas affecting the TF HRM Domain. Where the HRM Governance is a
     collaborative effort among three component organizations, TF component equities and
     authorities must be acknowledged and addressed in decision making. Such component
     authorities, where permissible, should be executed under the authority of the TF HRM
     Governance, where such collaboration serves to promote efficiency and preclude
     unnecessary duplication of effort by the other components (e.g. publishing an AF Instruction,
     AF Reserve Instruction, and an ANG Instruction for similar policies). The purpose of the TF
     HRM governance is to:
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   3


      1.4.1. Improve consistency of TF HRM services to Airmen and families across all
      components.
      1.4.2. Eliminate unnecessary overlap and duplication in HRM management among
      components.
      1.4.3. Improve integration and collaboration among components to better develop and
      execute HRM capabilities across the Total Force.
      1.4.4. Improve capabilities across all components through TF HR solutions.
      1.4.5. Transform the principal values and focus of TF HRM from transactional services
      to strategic partnerships with Airmen, families, and TF leaders.
2. Total Force HRM Governance Framework.
   2.1. The TF HRM Governance framework provides a means to bring together multiple
   organizations and senior leaders from across the HRM Domain to discuss strategic and
   operational HRM issues, address common strategy, governance, and policy issues and align
   resources across the domain (Figure 1). This collaboration is intended to facilitate TF HR
   solutions to Air Force operational challenges.
   2.2. Oversight of the HRM Domain is provided through two primary decision-making
   bodies, the HRM Strategic Council (HSC) and HRM Strategic Board (HSB). They are
   chartered by the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and
   Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) to provide an integrated TF perspective for HRM strategy, policy,
   planning, and programming. The business of the HSC and HSB require the active
   participation and engagement of designated principals. Substitute representatives may attend
   HSC and HSB meetings in lieu of principals on a case by case basis, but only with prior
   approval from the appropriate chair. Substitute representatives will be empowered to make
   decisions on behalf of their principal. Comprised of senior leaders from the SAF/MR,
   SAF/FM, AF/A1, AF/RE, and NGB/CF staffs, the HSC and HSB oversee cross-component
   teams to effect change across the Total Force. Other regular attendees for HSC and HSB
   meetings include the HRM Executive Secretariat Staff for meeting support and issue briefers
   as required by the meeting agenda. HSC and HSB duties include:
      2.2.1. Identifying and resolving critical TF HRM issues that must be addressed as a part
      of fulfilling AF strategic and operational needs.
      2.2.2. Harmonizing HRM policy and processes in a timely manner to effect change.
      2.2.3. Selecting and prioritizing TF HRM high priority efforts that will be the delivery
      focus for AF strategic and operational needs.
      2.2.4. Providing oversight for TF HRM investments (e.g. programs, projects, initiatives,
      and including information technology).
      2.2.5. Providing a single “corporate voice” for TF HRM strategic efforts and
      communications to the Air Force Corporate Structure.
      2.2.6. Reporting ongoing status and milestone achievements to the SecAF regarding TF
      HRM issues.
 4                                                           AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


Figure 1. Total Force Human Resource Management Governance.




     2.3. The Human Resource Management Strategic Council (HSC) is chaired by the
     Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
     (SAF/MR) and consists of core members and strategic principals. Core members include
     SAF/MR, SAF/FM, SAF/US(M), AF/A1, AF/RE, and NGB/CF and participate in all HSC
     activities. HSC Strategic Principals and Advisors participate as determined by the agenda
     and called by the chair. Principal and Advisory membership differs only in the level of
     participation where participation by Strategic Principals are expected to be greater. These
     members will be identified in advance of HSC meetings and are permitted attendance for
     specified HSC sessions. Each core member may elect to invite one high-level subject matter
     expert to the HSC with prior approval from the HSC Chair. The HSC shall:
        2.3.1. Provide a unified TF perspective on HRM Domain policy issues to the Department
        of Defense, Executive agencies, and other external organizations.
        2.3.2. Oversee human capital and quality of life sustainment issues for the RegAF, AFR,
        and ANG. HSC members periodically review progress of HRM Domain strategic
        objectives and initiatives through a deliberate strategy management methodology and
        approve strategic planning, programming, budgeting, and execution decisions.
        2.3.3. Serve as the HRM Domain executive steering group for strategy management and
        serves as the governance link between the Air Force Strategic Planning and
        Programming, CFLIs, and internal designated OPRs for HRM Domain strategic
        objectives.
        2.3.4. Serve as SAF/MR, AF/A1, AF/RE, NGB/CF, SAF/FM and SAF/US(M) two-letter
        coordination authority for any HRM policy.
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   5


       2.3.5. Convenes at least quarterly, to review progress of ongoing initiatives, assess
       performance of the HRM Domain, and make planning, resourcing and policy decisions.
       Additional meetings may be held at the direction of the Chair and business may be
       conducted in person or through electronic means.              Resolution of issues and
       recommendations are achieved through consensus of core members in attendance. If
       issues of significant disagreement cannot be satisfactorily reconciled by the membership
       of the HSC, SAF/MR may elect to elevate the issue to the SecAF for decision.
   2.4. The Human Resource Management Strategic Board (HSB) is chaired by the Deputy
   Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MRR) and
   consists of core members and strategic principals. Core members include SAF/MRR,
   SAF/FMP, AF/A1X, AF/REP, and NGB/A1. Strategic Principals are HQ AF/A1 Director-
   level, AF/REP and NGB/A1 Division Chief-level, and HRM Field Operating Agency (FOA)
   Commanders (AFPC/CC, ARPC/CC, AFPOA Director). HSB Strategic Principals and
   Advisors participate as determined by the agenda and called by the chair. These members
   will be identified in advance of HSB meetings and will be permitted attendance for specified
   HSB sessions. Each core member may invite one high-level subject matter expert to the
   HSB, with prior approval from the HSB Chair. The HSB shall:
       2.4.1. Implement strategic direction      from   the   HSC     and   provide   strategic
       recommendations to the HSC.
       2.4.2. Serve as the policy implementation board to the HSC and be responsible for
       integration of IT requirements
       2.4.3. Recommend allocation of resources across the HRM Domain.
       2.4.4. Periodically reviews progress of HRM Domain strategic objectives and initiatives
       through a deliberate strategy management methodology and recommend strategic
       planning, programming, budgeting, and execution decisions for HSC consideration and
       approval.
       2.4.5. Serves as the governance link between Business Activity Teams (BATs),
       Integration and Innovation (I & I) teams, component HR governance, and the HSC.
       2.4.6. Serves as SAF/MR, AF/A1, AF/RE, NGB/CF, SAF/FM three-letter coordination
       authority for any HRM Domain policy.
       2.4.7. Convenes at least monthly, to review progress of ongoing initiatives, assess
       performance of the HRM Domain, and make planning, resourcing and policy decisions.
       Additional meetings may be held at the direction of the Chair and business may be
       conducted in person or through electronic means.             Resolution of issues and
       recommendations are achieved through consensus of core members in attendance. Issues
       of significant disagreement that cannot be reconciled by the membership of the HSB will
       be elevated to the HSC for decision.
3. The HRM Executive Secretariat (ES). The HRM Executive Secretariat (ES) is a
permanent office comprised of TF Airmen who operate under operational authority of
SAF/MRR, as the HSB Chair, to administer the TF HRM Governance process. The HRM ES is
the designated OPR for managing all HSC and HSB business, to include building the agenda,
logistics, scheduling, recording of minutes and action items, and tracking follow-up issues.
 6                                                           AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


Requests for member substitution should be sent to the HRM ES for coordination with the
appropriate chair. The HRM ES also assists the HSC and HSB with data collection, analytical
support, project/change management, and solution development capability. The HRM ES shall:
     3.1. Forward HSC and HSB meeting minutes to each core member for review and approval
     within set standards to ensure accuracy in documentation. Core members may elect to
     designate staff to review minutes on their behalf. The HRM ES publishes and distributes
     meeting minutes for access following comment adjudication.
     3.2. Facilitate the planning and oversight of actions requiring decisions by the HSC and
     HSB.
     3.3. Assist with project controls implementation, including updating forecasts, performing
     weekly analysis, and assisting with the implementation of work plan changes.
     3.4. Provide administrative support, to include preparation of communications and official
     correspondence.
     3.5. Coordinate component comments for senior level briefings, taskings and reports.
     3.6. Serve as the focal point for all incoming issues presented to the HSC and HSB. With
     exception for core members and principals, no issue should be briefed to the HSC or HSB
     without prior coordination with the HRM ES.
     3.7. Serve as final administrative review for presentations meeting the HSC and HSB.
     3.8. Maintain and schedule all HSC and HSB meetings.
     3.9. Schedule Rapid Improvement Events (RIE) and Value Stream Analysis (VSA) type
     events for issues impacting the HRM Domain.
     3.10. Ensures read-aheads are distributed to HSC and HSB members within the set standards
     of each.
     3.11. Maintain archives of all final briefings meeting the HSC and HSB.
     3.12. Develop briefing templates for HSC and HSB meetings.
     3.13. Develop communication products for the HSC and HSB. Coordinate communication
     across HRM Domain projects.
     3.14. Facilitate progress on projects within the HRM Domain.
     3.15. Develop project management policies, procedures, templates, and other shared
     documentation.
     3.16. Provide tools for compliance with project management standards, policies, procedures,
     and templates.
     3.17. Serve as a conduit between HSB, HSC and project teams regarding new or approved
     initiatives.
     3.18. Assist in identifying touch points among teams, foster collaboration among affected
     teams, and track work plans.
     3.19. Inform governance members on HRM governance processes and issues.
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  7


   3.20. Advise other Total Force initiatives outside of the HRM domain as required by sharing
   lessons learned.
4. HRM Business Activity Teams (BATs). HRM Business Activity Teams (BATs) are TF
teams comprised of policy and business process owners designated by and accountable to the
HRM Governance for the proposal and execution of strategic change affecting the HRM
Domain. They are responsible for coordinating and integrating cases for change that consider
resource and policy implications for approval and oversight by the HRM governance. Once the
HRM governance approves a case for change proposal, the BAT oversees implementation and
periodically reports progress to the HSB and HSC. Projects affecting business areas within the
HRM Domain will be assigned to a BAT for oversight. In cases where change activities cross
multiple BATs, the HSB will designate a lead BAT or assign the project to an I&I team. BATs
shall be:
   4.1. Comprised of members representing components with team leaders approved by the
   HSB.
   4.2. Responsible for overseeing and reporting on assigned case for change under their
   respective area of responsibility.
   4.3. Aligned and assigned to the business activities model for the HRM Domain.

Figure 2. HRM Domain Business Activity Model (as of July 2013).
 8                                                             AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


     4.4. Accountable to the HSB for deliverables.
     4.5. Annually evaluate IT systems and services which support their respective business
     activities to ensure alignment with the HRM Domain strategy, appropriate prioritization of
     funding, and minimization of redundant capabilities.
     4.6. ‘Case for Change’ Process. The case for change process is intended to balance the
     consideration of new ideas or the need for corrective action with the resources required to
     assess and implement changes to current policy, process, or practice. Where HRM capacity
     is finite, the objective is to ensure effort and resources are spent on those areas deemed the
     highest priority with the highest returns on investment (ROI).
        4.6.1. New initiatives and actions are championed by HSB members, and initially
        socialized among HSB members, to assess viability and ROI. New initiatives are
        submitted, justified and assessed using the HRM “case for change” template.
        4.6.2. Phase I of the process requires the HSB to make an initial decision to request
        additional information or forward to HSC for consideration. Phase II of the process
        requires more in depth analysis of alternatives, return on investment data and
        recommendations made by the appropriate BAT, after consultation/coordination with the
        I & I teams.
        4.6.3. The HSC makes final decisions on recommended courses of action and prioritizes
        effort and resources with other initiatives. Following HSC decisions to proceed, BATs
        develop implementation plans and periodically report progress of execution to the HSB
        and HSC.
5. TF HRM Integration and Innovation (I & I) Teams. TF HRM Integration and
Innovation (I & I) Teams are responsible for aligning and deconflicting TF HRM strategies,
policies, resource management, and information technology. I & I “areas of focus” operate as
integrated teams, providing analyses through “lenses” of horizontal integration to present
optimum business recommendations to BATs for HSB review and HSC approval. Team
composition will include representation from all components and work in concert with business
champions to develop enterprise solutions. Each I& I team shall develop and maintain a
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that details processes and procedures for integrating team
activities with other elements of the HRM Domain. Unless otherwise specified in this
instruction, leaders of I & I teams will be determined by the HSB. The following perspective
will be included in the I & I Team:
     5.1. HRM Resource Management I & I Team. Provides a single HRM perspective on
     prioritization and strategy for developing the HRM Domain portion of the AF program
     objective memorandum (POM). Without usurping the authorities of component leaders for
     planning, programming, budgeting and executing resources, the Resource Management I & I
     Team members are responsible for synchronizing the HRM fiscal resources of all
     components to enable effective programming, budgeting, and execution to maximize
     strategic effects of AF investment in people. This includes deconflicting component
     initiatives that do not support Total Force objectives and to the greatest extent possible,
     minimizing component unique initiatives that could otherwise be supported by collaborative
     effort. The intent for the HRM Domain is to present a mutually supported resourcing
     strategy to the AF Corporate Structure and the appropriate CFLIs.
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                    9


     5.1.1. The Resource Management I&I team will consist of representatives from each
     component (RegAF, AFR, ANG) who will develop processes and procedures to build
     resource recommendations for HSB and HSC decision.
     5.1.2. The I & I team will brief the Personnel & Training (P&T) Panel on the HSC
     resourcing strategy at least annually in advance of the POM build. The I & I team will
     periodically brief the HSB and HSC on the status of current year budget execution.
  5.2. HRM Organization and Workforce Development I & I Team. Oversees the development
  of RegAF, AFR, ANG HRM Domain organizations and Airmen to provide consistent and
  seamless HRM services to individual Airmen, families, retirees, and commanders at all
  levels. The team also ensures effective development of the HRM workforce, to include
  identifying and institutionalizing professional development to deliver efficient and effective
  HRM capabilities at all organizational levels.
  5.3. Information Technology (IT) I & I Team. Advances in Information technology will
  continue to provide an increasing percentage of the HRM Domain capability as well as help
  define the appropriate business models. Sustainment of existing HRM IT capabilities
  requires balance with continuous efforts to incorporate improved technologies and available
  resources. The IT I & I team is chartered to oversee the TF HRM investment in technology
  and develop appropriate strategies for leveraging integration and investment in IT resources.
  Any new HRM IT investment must be supported by an HSC-approved case for change.
  Following HSC-approval of the case for change, all action offices must follow HSC
  approved HRM IT SOP’s. The IT I & I Team shall:
     5.3.1. Analyze and recommend proposals for IT related business requirements in support
     of the Total Force HRM Domain, employing the the most cost effective selection
     methods where applicable and appropriate.
     5.3.2. Support the BATs in the annual evaluation of IT systems and services to ensure
     alignment with the HRM Domain strategy, appropriate prioritization of funding, and
     minimization of redundant capabilities.
     5.3.3. Oversee implementation of approved IT investments within the A1 portfolio and
     the HRM Domain.
     5.3.4. Ensure IT solutions adhere to and align with approved HRM Domain Capabilities
     depicted in the HRM Enterprise Architecture.
  5.4. Policy & Legislation I & I Team. Facilitates, to the greatest extent practicable, the
  sharing of common HRM policies among all the TF components. The Policy and Legislation
  team is also responsible for the standardizing processes and procedures for the development
  of HRM policy. Even where differences in component missions require divergence in
  policy, integrated policy documents will acknowledge those differences and reflect TF
  coordination. Likewise, legislative change initiatives affecting HRM policy or resourcing
  will be coordinated and integrated through the Unified Legislation and Budgeting (ULB)
  process to ensure the HRM Domain speaks with a unified voice. The HSB and HSC will
  review ULB initiatives and make recommendations to SAF/MR for decision.
     5.4.1. AF/A1X is the designated office to serve as the TF HRM lead coordinator for the
     ULB process. Components coordinate and vote on all ULB initiatives. AF/A1X ensures
 10                                                          AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


       ULB initiatives are vetted with components, and coordinated with the Personnel &
       Training Panel, AF Board, HSB, and HSC prior to forwarding recommendations to
       SAF/MR for decision.
       5.4.2. All HRM Omnibus initiatives not already considered in the ULB process will be
       communicated with the HRM Legislative and Policy I & I Team.
6. TF HRM Strategy. This instruction establishes the foundational nature of implementing
strategy to inform TF HRM Governance decision-making and describes roles of key offices
responsible for strategy. In its basic form, TF HRM strategy is a high-level plan with a clear
purpose that guides choices made by the TF HRM Governance. TF HRM strategy is derived
from and directly supports strategic priorities of component strategies, which in turn support Air
Force strategy. A central pillar in the strategic management of human capital is alignment of
human capital strategies with Air Force mission, goals, and objectives through analysis,
planning, investment, and management of human capital programs. To support Air Force and
component strategies, the TF HRM Governance oversees two strategies: the TF HRM Domain
Strategy and TF Human Capital Strategy.
   6.1. TF HRM Domain Strategy. This is the long term vision of the TF HRM functional
   community derived from the work of HRM BAT and I & I Teams. This strategy includes
   performance management to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of HRM efforts to
   produce the TF objective workforce. The principal audiences for this effort are the HRM
   Governance and HR professionals to measure progress in developing HR capabilities.
   Where the ultimate strategic measure of HR success is the achievement of an objective
   workforce that meets requirements, the Domain Strategy focuses on actions required to
   develop the capability and capacity to create an objective workforce. The HRM Domain
   Strategy should be articulated in the Agile Combat Support and Education and Training Core
   Function Master Plans.
       6.1.1. The HSC is responsible for publishing a HRM vision and strategy for the HRM
       functional community that guides level of effort and resourcing decisions. AF/A1X will
       serve as lead coordinator with appropriate CFLIs to ensure the coordinated TF HRM
       Domain Strategy is considered in CFLI planning and programming.
   6.2. TF Human Capital Strategy. Where the HRM Domain serves as the Air Force’s
   principal HRM functional capability, Air Force HRM senior leaders are ultimately
   responsible for enabling the decisions that develop Air Force capabilities to meet combatant
   commander requirements. The HRM Domain is accountable to the Air Force enterprise for
   the strategy of creating a workforce that puts the right Airman at the right place and time.
   This process requires overseeing investments in TF military Airmen assigned to the RegAF,
   AFR, and ANG balanced with the right civilian expertise. The right TF component balance
   and military/civilian mix are requirements driven by mission sets assigned to components.
   The alignment of personnel requirements with mission sets defines the objective workforce
   which defines the TF requirement to which the HRM Domain acquires and develops Airmen.
   The process of defining the requirements for the right component balance, force size and
   mix, and identification of required skills produces the objective force. By assessing the gaps
   between the objective force and the current force the HRM Domain develops the TF Human
   Capital Strategy to realize the objective force.
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  11


      6.2.1. The primary audience for the Human Capital Strategy is TF senior leaders, TF
      component chiefs, and CFLIs. CFLIs are responsible for the planning and programming
      for 13 AF core function capabilities. As such, each CFLI should articulate the human
      capital gaps risks and shortfalls in their Core Function Master Plans.
      6.2.2. Resourcing decisions for the TF Human Capital Strategy are made by the AF
      Corporate Structure and guide HRM Domain priorities. Where contractor personnel
      provide essential contributions to the AF workforce, the HRM Domain should manage
      the objective workforce with the intent that contractor contributions provide
      complimentary capabilities for a reasonable cost.
      6.2.3. Where every Air Force capability requires people, the scope of developing a TF
      Human Capital Strategy extends far beyond the HRM Domain. The AF Corporate
      Structure serves to approve the apportionment of investment in Airmen. MAJCOM
      commanders and CFLIs, in concert with subordinate commanders and manpower
      professionals, are responsible for defining requirements for Airmen that produce Air
      Force capabilities. Given an objective workforce requirement, the HRM Domain
      collaborates with functional managers to produce a workforce that meets defined
      requirements.
7. TF HRM Integrated Policy Management. The HRM governance manages the publication
approval process for 34-, 36-, and 38-series publications and select 10- and 90-series
publications focusing on HRM issues. The HRM governance will also approve appropriate
HRM Domain forms using the same process.
   7.1. Revisions to SAF/MR, AF/A1, AF/RE and NGB Air Force Mission Directives
   (AFMDs), along with new and revised HRM Domain Air Force Policy Directives (AFPDs)
   and publications will be reviewed by the HSB during initial two-letter coordination. The
   HSB will thoroughly vet publications leading to concurrence from each component,
   SAF/FMP, and SAF/MRR. The HSB serves to ensure each component is recognized as a
   “mandatory coordinator” on all publications, including interim changes and guidance
   memorandums. Mandatory coordination must include AF/JAA and may also include
   SAF/GC, AFRC/JA, and NGB/JA. Components are responsible for ensuring policy changes
   are coordinated as required with appropriate HRM Field Operating Agencies (AF Personnel
   Center, Air Reserve Personnel Center, and AF Personnel Operations Agency) and lead
   MAJCOMs (Air Force Reserve Command, Air National Guard, and Air Education and
   Training Command) prior to HSB review.
   7.2. HSB recommendations will be presented to the HSC for consideration. Upon final
   concurrence on publications, SAF/MR (PDAS) is the Certifying Official, and SAF/MR is
   the Approving Official for all HRM Domain publications. The Secretary of the Air Force is
   the Approving Official for AFPDs. The Certifying Official and Approving Official
   authorities will not be further delegated.
   7.3. When RegAF, AFR, and ANG HRM Enterprise AFMDs and AFPDs are consolidated,
   created, or updated, the following statements will be included in the opening paragraph: “In
   collaboration with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve, (HQ USAF/RE), and the Director of
   the Air National Guard, (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and
   Services (HQ USAF/A1) develops personnel policy for [subject of publication]. This
   publication may not be supplemented.”
 12                                                           AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


   7.4. When all other Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard HRM Domain
   publications (AF Instructions, ANG Instructions, AFRC Instructions, AF Guidance
   Memoranda, etc.) to include Interim Changes (ICs) are consolidated, created or updated, the
   following statements will be included in the opening paragraph: “In collaboration with the
   Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard
   (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ
   USAF/A1) develops personnel policy for [subject of publication]. This Air Force publication
   may be supplemented at any level; MAJCOM-level supplements must be approved by the
   HSB prior to certification and approval.”
8. Responsibilities.
   8.1. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) will:
       8.1.1. Serve as the Air Force authority for overall policy management and oversight.
       8.1.2. Support the TF HRM governance through efficient processes for policy
       development and dissemination.
   8.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
   (SAF/MR) will:
       8.2.1. Lead, shape, direct, oversee, and advocate for Air Force activities within the HRM
       Domain.
       8.2.2. Provide oversight and direction to the TF management, manpower and workforce
       management programs, including RegAF, AFR, ANG military, civilian, and contractor.
       8.2.3. Provide oversight and direction to training, readiness and mobilization policies,
       plans and programs affecting the Air Force (Regular and Reserve Components) with a
       strong emphasis on reviewing all policies and programs pertaining to mobilization,
       demobilization, and accessibility of Air Reserve Components.
       8.2.4. Provide proactive leadership, shape policy development, and oversee policy
       execution through the HRM Governance.
       8.2.5. Provide two-letter representation to chair the HSC and three-letter representation
       to chair the HSB.
       8.2.6. Inform the Secretary of the Air Force of HSC activities.
   8.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will:
       8.3.1. Develop, sustain, and maintain overall responsibility for the HRM acquisition
       programs and create appropriate guidance and policy.
   8.4. The Deputy Chief Management Officer (SAF/US(M)) will:
   8.4.1. Provide outside perspective on HRM Domain business operations and organization.
   8.4.2. Provide subject matter expertise and facilitation in improving HRM Domain business
   processes.
       8.4.3. Provide two-letter representation to the HSC.
   8.5. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will:
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  13


     8.5.1. Collaborate with the AF/RE and NGB/CF to develop, manage, and execute HRM
     Domain policies, plans, and programs with a TF perspective. The HRM team will ensure
     TF HR readiness to meet operational requirements.
     8.5.2. Maintain overall responsibility for the execution of RegAF Manpower, Personnel,
     and Services programs in concert with the AFR and ANG.
     8.5.3. Provide two-letter representation to the HSC and three-letter representation to the
     HSB.
     8.5.4. Provide subject matter expertise and leadership for the I & I Team and BATs
     described in sections 4.0 through 5.0 to further the objectives of the TF HRM
     governance.
  8.6. The Chief of the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) will:
     8.6.1. Collaborate with the AF/A1 and NGB/CF to develop, manage, and execute HRM
     Domain policies, plans, and programs with a TF perspective. The HRM team will ensure
     TF HR readiness to meet operational requirements.
     8.6.2. Maintain overall responsibility for the execution of AFR Manpower, Personnel,
     and Services programs in concert with the RegAF and ANG.
     8.6.3. Provide two-letter representation to the HSC and three-letter representation to the
     HSB.
     8.6.4. Provide subject matter expertise and leadership for the I & I Teams and BATs
     described in sections 4.0 through 5.0 to further the objectives of the HRM governance.
  8.7. The Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will:
     8.7.1. Collaborate with the AF/A1 and AF/RE to develop, manage, and execute HRM
     Domain policies, plans, and programs with a TF perspective. The HRM team will ensure
     TF HR readiness to meet operational requirements.
     8.7.2. Maintain overall responsibility for the execution of ANG Manpower, Personnel,
     and Services programs in concert with the RegAF and AFR.
     8.7.3. Provide two-letter representation to the HSC and three-letter representation to the
     HSB.
     8.7.4. Provide subject matter expertise and leadership for the I & I Teams and BATs
     described in sections 4.0 through 5.0 to further the objectives of the HRM governance.
  8.8. HRM Field Operating Agencies (AF Personnel Center, Air Reserve Personnel
  Center, AF Personnel Operations Agency) will:
     8.8.1. Assist, where needed, in developing and coordinating on policy changes and
     documentation.
     8.8.2. Participate as required in HSB and HSC meetings and activities.
     8.8.3. Provide subject matter expertise and analysis, when required, to assist the HRM
     Governance in decision-making.
     8.8.4. Implement HRM Governance direction and approved policies to achieve stated
     objectives.
14                                                         AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


     8.8.5. Provide three-letter representation to the HSB as required.
  8.9. MAJCOMs will:
     8.9.1. Assist in developing and coordinating on policy changes and documentation.
     8.9.2. Participate as required in HSB and HSC meetings and activities.
     8.9.3. Provide subject matter expertise and analysis to assist the HRM Governance in
     decision-making.
     8.9.4. Implement HRM governance direction and approved policies to achieve stated
     objectives.




                                           DANIEL B. GINSBERG
                                           Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                           (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                              15


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-81, Total Force Human Resource Management (HRM) Domain Governance, 15
November 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Agile Combat Support
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPE—Air Force Personnel Enterprise
AFPOA—Air Force Personnel Operations Agency
AFRC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
BAT—Business Activity Team
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
HRM—Human Resource Management
HSB—Human Resource Management Strategic Board
HSC—Human Resource Management Strategic Council
I & I Team—Integration & Innovation Team
MAJCOM—Major Command
P & T—Personnel and Training
TF—Total Force

Terms
Airmen—Uniformed members of the US Air Force (officer or enlisted; regular, reserve, or
guard) regardless of rank, component, or specialty and Department of the Air Force civilian
employees.
Chief Human Capital Officer—A senior official designated to provide strategic management
of personnel equities within the Air Force to produce an integrated and unified Personnel
Domain. For the Air Force, this responsibility is assigned to SAF/MR.
 16                                                           AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013


HRM Civilian Career Fields—As the Functional Authority of the HRM career fields, AF/A1
provides oversight and functional advisory services to the 0201 job series (Personnel) and other
occupational series employees within the personnel function. The HRM Governance will
provide guidance and oversight to ensure employees within the HRM Domain are career
broadened and cross-functionally developed, equipped, and sustained to provide TF HRM
capabilities. This may include, but is not exclusive of, series 0101, 0201, 0260, 0301, 0301,
0343, 1101, 1701, 1712, 1740, 1750, 0030, 0050, 0185, 0896, and 1410.
Enterprise Architecture—A modernization blueprint used by organizations to describe a
current and desired future state to transform mission operations. The importance of developing
well-defined enterprise architectures is to mitigate perpetuation of ineffective and inefficient
actions that burden organizations. Effective use of enterprise architecture is a hallmark of
successful organizations and essential to achieving operations and technology environments that
maximize institutional mission performance and outcomes. Enterprise architecture is a key
mechanism for identifying gaps and redundancies in mission processes. Inherent to enterprise
architecture is the creation of proactive policies and structure resulting in convergence which
drives organizational and membership behaviors.
Governance—The Air Force’s ability to serve its members through the rules, processes, and
behavior by which interests are articulated, resources are managed, and power is exercised to
accomplish its statutory responsibilities. The key to effective governance at any staff level is a
representative participatory decision-making process consistently aligned with Air Force core
values.
HRM Domain—The totality of organizations, people strategy, policies, systems, and processes
across the Total Force responsible for the management, development and sustainment of the
Total Force population. Every echelon and function chartered to execute some portion of the
HRM Domain is included in the enterprise: Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower and Readiness
(SAF/MR), AF Reserve (AF/REP), Air National Guard (NGB/A1), Headquarters Air Force
Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1), Air Education and
Training (AETC), Major Command Personnel Directorates (MAJCOM/A1s), Air Force
Personnel Center, Air Reserve Personnel Center, Air Force Personnel Operating Agency
(AFPOA), Air Force Mortuary Affairs Office (AFMAO), Force Support Squadrons, HRM
elements deployed to provide expeditionary services, Manpower Readiness Squadrons (MRS),
Command Support Staffs (CSSs) and Wing Staff agencies that perform personnel support
functions (Equal Opportunity offices, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response offices, Protocol
Offices).
Integration—The identification of risks and interdependencies between functions and processes
within the TF HRM Enterprise and the development of managed process solutions to address
those risks and interdependencies. It is not integration, but rather it is about integrating the
human resource disciplines with the mission to deliver value. It relies on a common view of
mission across the disparate risk domains and a common framework from which to operate. The
converged approach reaches across people, policies, systems, processes, and technology.
Oversight—Authority to monitor, review, inspect, investigate, analyze, evaluate and advise an
organization’s management, operation, performance, and processes through policy, guidelines,
instructions, regulations or other structures to maintain compliance and effectiveness within the
National Security construct.
AFI36-8101 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     17


Total Force—US Air Force organizations, units, and individuals that provide the capabilities to
support the Department of Defense in implementing the national security strategy. Total Force
includes Regular Air Force, Air National Guard of the United States, Air Force Reserve military
personnel, US Air Force military retired members, US Air Force civilian personnel (including
foreign national direct and indirect-hire, as well as non-appropriated fund employees), contractor
staff, and host-nation support personnel.
Total Force Human Resource Management (HRM) Domain—The broad disciplines across
the Total Force associated with developing and caring for the individuals who make up the Total
Force, along with military families, wounded warriors, beneficiaries, and next of kin, to provide
for mission-ready personnel with capabilities that align with the intent of National Military
Strategy, National Defense Strategy, and National Security Strategy. From a headquarters
perspective, HRM Domain disciplines include those within Manpower, Personnel, and Services.
From an enterprise architecture perspective, HRM Domain disciplines include: Define the Force,
Acquire Airmen, Develop Airmen, Utilize Airmen, Sustain Airmen, Transition Airmen,
Compensate Airmen, and Enable the Air Force Human Resource Management Enterprise. These
disciplines form the eight top-line business activities of the HRM Domain Enterprise
Architecture.
