BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2830
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   31 JULY 2003

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                         AIR FORCE PRODUCTIVITY EXCELLENCE
                                                                                     AWARD



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFMIA/MIPI (Ms. Audrey Tudyk)                    Certified by: HQ USAF/XPM (Brig Gen W. P. Ard)
Supersedes AFI 36-2830, 1 July 1998.                                                         Pages: 6
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams. It prescribes the eligibility rules, criteria, and nomination procedures for the annual Air Force Pro-
ductivity Excellence Award Program. The program, sponsored by the Secretary of the Air Force and
administered by the Air Force Manpower and Innovation Agency (AFMIA), recognizes individuals and
small groups of military/civilians (not organizations) who have made substantial improvements in the
quality and productivity of operations through ideas, special acts, and other management initiatives which
resulted in a savings of at least $1 million. Ensure all records created by this AFI are maintained and dis-
posed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

In accordance with AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 1 August 1997, and guidance con-
tained in the Air Force Awards Review Team final report, February 2000, this revision changes the
award’s name, purpose, eligibility, criteria, and nomination process.


1. Eligibility. Individuals or small groups (4 or less people) of military members and civilian employees
of the Air Force are eligible. This is not an organizational award; therefore, commands, organizational
units, offices, etc., are not eligible. Nominations must have demonstrated savings of at least $1 million
over a consecutive 12-month period within the past 5 years. The award eligibility cut-off date is 5 years
prior to 15 November of the current year. A specific achievement may be nominated for this award more
than once, provided it still meets eligibility requirements; however, an achievement can win only once.

2. Criteria.
   2.1. Initiative - The nominated achievement must result from the individual’s/group’s own initiative,
   not as a result of an assigned task or as part of job responsibilities, requirements, or expectations.
2                                                                           AFI36-2830 31 JULY 2003


    2.2. Innovation and Creativity - The improvement must be achieved through innovative and/or cre-
    ative methods.
    2.3. Applicability - Must show the different levels of applicability where this achievement has been
    applied within the Air Force, the Department of Defense and, if applicable, any other government
    agency.
    2.4. Previous Recognition - Must show different types of recognition and award amounts (if applica-
    ble) that the improvement has received.
    2.5. Tangible Savings Benefit - The improvement must show a tangible savings benefit of at least $1
    million over a consecutive 12-month period. Savings must be measurable, quantifiable and verifiable .

3. Nomination Format.
    3.1. Nominations must be submitted IAW the format of Attachment 2.
    3.2. Bracketed comments in Attachment 2 are provided for information only and should not be
    included in the final nomination form.
    3.3. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font, and 1-inch margins. Nominations should be no more than
    3 pages. Nominations must be unclassified.

4. Selection Process and Responsibilities.
    4.1. AFMIA will send a call for nominations to HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, ANG, FOAs, and DRUs, in
    September.
    4.2. HQ USAF, MAJCOM, and ANG coordinating offices disseminate the schedule of events pub-
    lished by AFMIA to their subordinate organizations and establish procedures for collecting nomina-
    tion packages from their subordinate units .
    4.3. Each HQ USAF, MAJCOM, and ANG coordinating office ensures that the number of nomina-
    tions sent to AFMIA does not exceed the number allowed, applicants meet eligibility requirements,
    and complete application packages are submitted to reach AFMIA by the suspense date.
       4.3.1. Each MAJCOM and ANG may submit up to five nominations.
       4.3.2. HQ USAF (to include its FOAs and DRUs) may submit up to five nominations.
    4.4. Deadline for nominations is 15 November. Mail one original and 4 hard copies, along with one
    electronic copy in Microsoft Word for Windows format, to AFMIA/MIPI, ATTN: AF Productivity
    Excellence Award, 550 E Street East, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4451. Application packages received
    in the wrong format will not be accepted and will be returned for corrections. Applications or cor-
    rected applications received after the cut-off date will not be accepted.
    4.5. A panel of judges will select up to 10 winners based on the criteria outlined in this instruction.
    The judges will be provided through the Air Force Senior Leader Management Office (AFSLMO).
       4.5.1. AFMIA will provide AFSLMO with demographic criteria for use in obtaining four colonels
       or civilian equivalents to serve as judges during the award process. To ensure that judges will not
       be in the chain of command of any competing team, AFMIA will forward a list of participating
       organizations to AFSLMO as soon as it becomes available.
AFI36-2830 31 JULY 2003                                                                              3


      4.5.2. The HQ USAF Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel serves as approval authority for the
      membership of this panel of judges.
   4.6. The Director of Manpower and Organization, HQ USAF/DPM, approves selection and
   announces award winners.

5. Recognition.
   5.1. Winners will receive recognition mementos at a formal ceremony.
      5.1.1. AFMIA obtains award mementos and arranges appropriate recognition ceremony and
      reception.
      5.1.2. Submitting units (MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs) provide TDY funding for winners to
      attend award presentation.
   5.2. Individual award winners are entitled to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or
   Lapel Pin (civilian) according to AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards .
      5.2.1. AFMIA will provide documentation to the individual award winners, authorizing the wear
      of the recognition ribbon and lapel pin, through appropriate channels.
      5.2.2. Award winners must provide documentation to their servicing military/civilian personnel
      flight, to update personnel records, before being authorized to wear the recognition ribbon/lapel
      pin.



                                                  RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                  Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel
4                                                                           AFI36-2830 31 JULY 2003


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
Title 5, United States Code, Government Organizations and Employee, current edition
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Administrative Personnel, current edition
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, current edition
DoDD 1400.25-M, DoD Civilian Personnel Manual System, current edition
AFPD 36-10, Civilian Performance and Recognition, 31 Oct 2000
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 Aug 1997
AFI 36-1004, Managing The Civilian Recognition Program, 8 Feb 2001
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 Jun 2001
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 25 Jun 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSLMO—Air Force Senior Leader Management Office
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMIA—Air Force Manpower and Innovation Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IDEA—Innovative Development through Employee Awareness Program
MAJCOM—Major Command

Terms
Special Act—A nonrecurring superior achievement that saves the government significant time,
manpower, or money.
Tangible Savings Benefit—Measurable, quantifiable savings that can be precisely or logically identified
using standard accounting principles. Savings are actual reduced or removed costs. Capability to reach a
required higher level of readiness or increased value (quality or timeliness) of output without increasing
staffing or cost is also defined as tangible savings.
AFI36-2830 31 JULY 2003                                                                                5


                                              Attachment 2

                                      [SAMPLE FORMAT FOR]



                           Air Force Productivity Excellence Award
                                              Nomination

ELIGIBILITY. [Mark an X in one]

       Individual                     Group


PERSONAL DATA. [If group, provide the following for each individual on one page]
       Name: [Full name, providing gender if not obvious by spelling]
       Grade/Rank: [Spell out; do not abbreviate]
       Job Title: [AFSC for military or Series for civilian, and job title]
       Organization: [Spell out; do not use acronyms]


PREVIOUS RECOGNITION.
      Type of Recognition, award amount (if applicable) and date granted (awarded).
      [Provide award information only if it was awarded as a direct result of the nominated
      achievement]


TANGIBLE SAVINGS BENEFITS.
       Savings Amount: ____________                                  Period of Savings: ____________
                                                                    [Beginning mo/yr – ending mo/yr]
[Savings may not be estimated or projected. Savings must be verifiable and may be subject to audit. Tan-
gible savings such as fuel savings, contract savings, decreased unit operating and maintenance costs,
reduced civilian overtime, etc., must be measurable or quantifiable savings (includes cost avoidance).
Whole manpower authorizations and documented civilian overtime savings are tangible savings.]
6                                                                             AFI36-2830 31 JULY 2003


DESCRIPTION OF ACHIEVEMENT. [Limit Description of Achievement to no more than ONE page.
Describe the achievement in non-technical terms (no acronyms). Describe how the achievement resulted
from the individual’s/group’s own initiative, not as a result of an assigned task or as part of job responsi-
bilities, requirements, or expectations. Describe the former method or process and the problems encoun-
tered. Describe the new process or achievement and exactly how the new/revised idea improved the
former method. Describe innovative and/or creative methods used to achieve improvement. Show how
the savings were achieved. Be sure to account for any implementation costs for the new achievement,
method, or process when demonstrating the savings. Describe how quality and timeliness of the process/
system was improved and productivity increased. Describe the impact of the improvement and its appli-
cability within the Air Force, the Department of Defense and, if applicable, any other government
agency.]


PROPOSED CITATION. [Simple, concise description of the achievement. Identify improvement/idea,
results/impact, and savings. Limit to 6-8 sentences. ]


POINT OF CONTACT. [Name and DSN/commercial phone number of individual who is most knowl-
edgeable about the facts.]
       Name:
       Grade/Rank:
       Organizational Mailing Address:
       Phone: [DSN, Commercial, and Fax]
       E-mail Address:


REVIEW AND APPROVAL. (Typed name, grade and title) MAJCOM submits nomination, review and
approval letters with nomination package
a. Nominated by: (Submitting organization’s commander or equivalent)
b. Reviewed by: (MAJCOM/XPM)
c. Approved by: (MAJCOM/XP or above)
