BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-150
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            30 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                            MANAGEMENT OF CYBERSPACE
                                                                   SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6ONI                                                            Certified by: SAF/A6ON
                                                                               (Col Daniel Elmore)
Supersedes:    AFI33-150,                                                                 Pages: 20
               26 November 2008,
               AFI33-104, 10 May 2001


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive AFPD 33-1, Information
Resource Management. It establishes the management of cyberspace resources to include
systems, equipment, personnel, time, and money and provides the directive guidance for Air
Force cyberspace support activities. This publication applies to all military and civilian Air Force
personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG),
third-party governmental employee and contractor support personnel in accordance with
appropriate provisions contained in memoranda support agreements and Air Force contracts. In
this document, the term " cyberspace support activity" is defined as any action taken to restore
communications systems/equipment to operational status, to perform preventive maintenance
inspections (PMI) on communications systems/equipment and/or components, or to install or
remove communications systems/equipment. The term "Communications systems/equipment" is
defined as: transmission, switching, processing, systems-control, and network management
systems, as well as equipment, software, and facilities, fixed and deployable, that supports a
mission area. The intent of this instruction is to ensure only qualified personnel perform
cyberspace support activities and prevent damage to communications hardware, software, stored
information, and current mission operations. Send recommended changes or comments to Air
Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC/ESPP), 203 West Losey Street, Room 1200, Scott
AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, with an information copy to Headquarters United States Air Force
(SAF/A6O), 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030. When collecting and
maintaining information protect it by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
 2                                                                                          AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision acknowledges Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) as the lead command for all
Air Force Cyberspace Operations via the 24th Air Force, and it defines the framework for the
Engineering and Installation Governance Structure (EIGS). This revision replaces all instances of
the Air Force Communications Agency (AFCA) with the Air Force Network Integration Center
(AFNIC), and it clarifies AFNIC responsibilities. This revision changes the title from
Management of Communication Activities to Management of Cyberspace Support Activities to
reflect the transformation from communications and information to cyberspace. In addition, it
clarifies and defines additional responsibilities at all levels. Minor administrative corrections and
reference updates were also made. This revision supersedes AFI 33-104, Base-Level Planning
and Implementation. Planning and Implementation activities are documented in MPTO 00-33D-
3003. In addition, it clarifies and defines additional responsibilities at all levels.

        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               3

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                13


1. Purpose. This instruction implements new communications systems/equipment activity
guidelines and changes or eliminates the requirement to complete redundant procedures and
practices. Guidance in this publication is intended to assist Air Force personnel in identifying
activities required to support Air Force communications. This instruction is an initiative to
reduce the number of SAF/CIO A6 departmental- level publications by changing their
publications from "stove-piped" system/program-based to audience/role-based focus. Specific
procedural information is located in the more detailed Methods and Procedures Technical Orders
(MPTO) or specialized publications. Common core communication services for standard user
information (e.g., e-mail, phone, messaging, etc.) are located in AFI 33-100, Users
Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems. Information targeting Air Force
commanders is located in AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities. Guidance
for acquisition and sustainment planning is located in AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment
Life Cycle Management.
     1.1. Objectives. The primary objectives of cyberspace support activities are to ensure
     continuous security, operational availability, and reliability of systems and equipment
     supporting the Air Force mission. This instruction outlines unit roles and responsibilities to
     ensure communications systems/equipment are serviceable and properly configured to meet
     mission requirements.
     1.2. Intent. This instruction directs the use of MPTO 00-33A-1001, General
     Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice Requirements, which
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    3


   establishes implementation guidance and procedures. This instruction directs the use of
   MPTO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the Cyberspace
   Infrastructure Planning System, which explains how to use the Cyberspace Infrastructure
   Planning System (CIPS) to document, fund, distribute, implement, and manage the
   cyberspace infrastructure. These elements support the objectives in paragraph 1.1. Note: This
   AFI and supporting MPTOs shall not alter or supersede the existing authorities and policies
   of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) regarding the protection of Sensitive
   Compartmented Information (SCI) systems or intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance
   mission and mission support systems. This AFI and supporting MPTOs shall not alter or
   supersede higher authoritative guidance governing Special Access Program (SAP) systems,
   counterintelligence or law enforcement collection operations, or investigations involving
   communication systems. When DNI or SAP authorities fail to address areas covered by this
   AFI, this AFI and associated MPTOs will be followed. If there is conflict between this AFI
   and associated MPTOs with guidance issued by DNI or SAP authorities, DNI or SAP
   guidance will take precedence. TOs are available for ordering through the Enhanced
   Technical Information System (ETIMS) application on the AF Portal, per TO 00-5-1, Air
   Force Technical Order System. Contact unit Technical Order Distribution Office (TODO) for
   assistance.
2. Roles and Responsibilities. Note: For this instruction, the term major command
(MAJCOM) also applies to Numbered Air Forces (NAF), Field Operating Agencies (FOA) and
Direct Reporting Units (DRU).
   2.1. Cyberspace Operations (SAF/A6O). Develops and publishes cyberspace support
   activities, strategy, policy, tactical doctrine, and programs to integrate warfighting and
   combat support capabilities, and oversees implementation of enterprise information,
   information resources, and data management capabilities for Joint, Coalition and Air Force
   warfighters. Coordinates with military services, MAJCOMs and any additional government
   agencies as applicable. In addition, SAF/A6O will:
      2.1.1. Manage cyberspace operations career fields.
      2.1.2. Act as the approval authority for waiver requests to deviate from the requirements
      of this publication.
      2.1.3. Appoint a lead command according to AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command--
      Communications and Information Systems Management.
      2.1.4. Appoint executive agent for IT emerging technologies.
      2.1.5. Establish overall guidance, act as approval authority for plans, and resolve
      proposed consolidation actions for Centralized Repair Activities (CRA).
      2.1.6. Act as the approval authority for:
          2.1.6.1. Proposed temporary T-1 Air Force Global Information Grid (AF-GIG)
          system/equipment modifications according to AFI 63-131, Modification Program
          Management.
   2.2. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC). As Lead Command for all Air Force
   Cyberspace Operations via the 24AF(AFCYBER), AFSPC will be the Air Force focal point
   for establishment, operation, maintenance, defense, exploitation, and attack Cyberspace
 4                                                             AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


     Operations. AFSPC coordinates the prioritization of all Cyberspace Infrastructure
     requirements. In addition, AFSPC will:
        2.2.1. Control the membership of the EIGS.
        2.2.2. Coordinate the establishment of and the schedule for the EIGS composed of
        representatives from all MAJCOMs for the review, prioritization, and funding of EI
        projects Air Force-wide.
        2.2.3. Ensure program information is documented in the CIPS.
        2.2.4. Manage and distribute the consolidated funding for EI (Engineering &
        Installation) projects.
        2.2.5. Manage and distribute the consolidated Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA)
        man-days for ANG implementation of projects.
        2.2.6. In coordination with 38th Cyberspace Engineering Group (38 CEG), monitor the
        execution of cyberspace projects approved for implementation.
        2.2.7. In coordination with the A6 community, develop, manage, and defend EI Program
        Objective Memorandum (POM) inputs with the information that resides in CIPS.
     2.3. Air Force Network Integration Center. As a Direct Report Unit to AFSPC, AFNIC is
     designated as the United States Air Force (USAF) executive agent to develop policy and
     guidance for cyberspace support activities and related areas to shape, provision, integrate and
     sustain the AF Cyber Network in all four domains: terrestrial, air, space and cyberspace. In
     addition, AFNIC will:
Note: “Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA) will perform Air Traffic Control and
Landing Systems (ATCALS) activities for the following paragraphs in paragraph 2.3; 2.3.1.2,
2.3.1.3, 2.3.1.4, 2.3.1.5, 2.3.1.6, 2.3.1.7, 2.3.1.8, 2.3.1.9, 2.3.1.10, and 2.3.3.3”.
        2.3.1. AFNIC Enterprise Systems Policy, Procedures and Support Division (ESP) will:
            2.3.1.1. Manage assigned cyberspace support activities policy, procedures, and
            MPTO 00-33A-1001.
            2.3.1.2. Manage all waiver requests relating to cyberspace support activities.
            2.3.1.3. Manage the Air Force Communications Quality Control Checklist
            (AFCQCC) program.
            2.3.1.4. Represent the communications personnel/community as members of
            workgroups, integrated process/product teams as required.
            2.3.1.5. Serve as focal point for Air Force guidance and directives regarding
            communication systems/equipment modifications except when MAJCOM is
            designated as the Air Force Lead or lead command per paragraph 2.4.5.
            2.3.1.6. Under direction from SAF/A6OD, develop compliance inspection criteria for
            the Air Force Inspector General (TIGs).
            2.3.1.7. Act as focal point for Standard Reporting Designator assignment for non-Air
            Force Material Command (AFMC) centrally managed commercial items and/or
            Government-Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) equipment.
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    5


        2.3.1.8. Manage Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance, Low Density Level
        (LDL) assets, non-airborne Readiness Spares Packages (RSP), and provide material
        management assistance to units.
        2.3.1.9. Provide enterprise level equipment analysis capability metrics, such as
        reliability, availability, and maintainability, utilizing approved automated information
        system (AIS).
        2.3.1.10. Perform unit-funded staff assistance visit (SAVs) upon request and
        availability of manpower.
        2.3.1.11. Manage Information Technology (IT) hardware asset accountability
        according to AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management.
     2.3.2. AFNIC Enterprise Systems Cyber Force Strategies (ESF) will:
        2.3.2.1. Manage training resources in support of formal courses, upgrade training,
        certification training and newly integrated technology training.
        2.3.2.2. Support cyberspace operations career fields and systems providing/managing
        computer based training, instructor led training, and virtual instructor led training.
     2.3.3. AFNIC Enterprise Systems Maintenance Management (ESM) will:
        2.3.3.1. Perform system management duties and responsibilities as specified in
        current Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), Memoranda of Agreement (MOA),
        and Service Level Agreements (SLA).
        2.3.3.2. Review MAJCOM recommended changes to Air Force-managed programs,
        systems/equipment.
        2.3.3.3. Assess, evaluate, and ensure compliance with governing directives for
        communications systems/equipment, as directed or requested.
     2.3.3.4. AFNIC Integration Engineering (EN) will:
        2.3.3.5. Direct engineering standards and solutions to configuration manage, control,
        integrate, and optimize Air Force network (AFNet) Cyberspace operations and the
        core services it provides.
        2.3.3.6. Provide engineering analysis and assessment to characterize and resolve
        AFNet performance, integration, and interoperability issues to meet customer quality
        of service delivery expectations.
  2.4. Major Commands (MAJCOMs). MAJCOMs implement Air Force guidance
  concerning their communications systems/equipment. MAJCOMs will:
     2.4.1. Manage and       provide    support    for    command-unique       programs     and
     systems/equipment.
     2.4.2. Coordinate MAJCOM policy, procedures, and Technical Order (T.O.)
     supplements for implementation consideration affecting cyberspace support activities,
     subject to the following conditions:
        2.4.2.1. Supplements must not be less restrictive than higher level publications or the
        basic publications being supplemented, and must not contradict or conflict with Air
6                                                           AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


           Force-wide policy, procedure, or publications according to AFI 33-360, Publications
           and Forms Management.
           2.4.2.2. Supplements must contain only MAJCOM unique material.
           2.4.2.3. Recommended MAJCOM supplements to Air Force publications, forms, and
           checklists. Also, proposed changes to Air Force-wide communications
           systems/programs/equipment must be coordinated with the appropriate OPR or lead
           command.
       2.4.3. When designated, perform duties as lead command or system affiliate for
       communications systems/equipment as specified in AFI 10-901.
       2.4.4. Ensure logistics support and life-cycle management plans are developed for
       MAJCOM-acquired/ procured commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) communications
       systems and equipment.
       2.4.5. When designated as Air Force Lead (early development) or as lead command,
       serve as focal point to develop/implement Air Force guidance and directives concerning
       communications systems/ equipment.
       2.4.6. Review and forward all waiver requests relating to communications
       systems/equipment activities to AFNIC/ES via AFSC 3DXXX Functional Managers.
       Forward ATCALS waiver requests to AFFSA/A4L.
       2.4.7. Act as approval authority for MAJCOM-developed Local Communications
       Quality Control Checklist (LCQCCs) for command-unique programs, systems and
       equipment, IAW T.O. 00-33A-1001.
       2.4.8. Provide quality assurance (QA) guidance, if required. Note: QA guidance for
       ATCALS will be provided by AFFSA via the Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
       (ATSEP).
       2.4.9. Manage and act as approval authority for support/maintenance assistance requests.
       Assistance requests may be accomplished if unit-funded and manpower is available.
       2.4.10. Establish focal point for CRA management, if applicable.
       2.4.11. Prioritize their own work plan(s) and provide representatives to the EIGS for the
       review, prioritization, and funding of projects Air Force-wide. Reference paragraph 2.6.
       for EIGS structure.
       2.4.12. Designate appropriate system functional managers.
    2.5. Engineering and Installation Governance Structure (EIGS). EIGS organizations
    include the EIGS Council (composed of MAJCOM two-letter representatives), the EIGS
    Board (MAJCOM three-letter level), and the EIGS Group (MAJCOM four-letter level)
    which prioritize and approve EI requirements Air Force-wide. In addition, the EIGS will:
       2.5.1. Provide senior leader guidance to Cyberspace program planners to help determine
       project priorities.
       2.5.2. Develop minimum submission criteria, provide guidance, and set the schedule for
       cyberspace infrastructure work plans.
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    7


     2.5.3. Establish the funding "cut line" for the EI PEC (Program Element Code) 27436F
     based on the amount disbursed.
     2.5.4. Review the priorities, adjust them if needed, and approve a single consolidated Air
     Force-wide centralized EI work plan, considering both contractual implementation and
     organic implementation.
     2.5.5. In coordination with 38 CEG, monitor execution of approved EI requirements.
  2.6. 38th Cyberspace Engineering Group (38 CEG). The 38 CEG plans, designs,
  engineers, and documents interoperable cyberspace systems to support the Air Force war
  fighting mission. In addition, the 38 CEG will:
     2.6.1. Provide engineering planning and consultation to plan, program, and budget for
     life-cycle support of base-level cyberspace infrastructure to ensure standardized
     integration of emerging technologies and the use of IT Lean process working with
     MAJCOMs and base level organizations.
     2.6.2. Provide Subject Matter Expert (SME) consultation and engineering support to all
     Air Force customers in all cyberspace infrastructure asset/commodity and local
     commercial services.
     2.6.3. Provide Air Force-wide cyberspace infrastructure assessments to identify
     shortfalls. Provide management functions for upward generated and downward directed
     cyberspace infrastructure requirements through CIPS. Provide support for documentation
     and development of training material for CIPS.
     2.6.4. Provide engineering planning, implementation, management, and consultation
     support to enable establishment of forward operating bases, combatant command, Air
     Force, and Joint service net-centric environment transition activities to include technical
     support for program objective memoranda cycle and architecture planning assistance.
     2.6.5. Initiate, organize, and manage integrated process teams to include engineering,
     installation, and contracting personnel in support of funded project implementation to
     ensure coordinated and successful completion.
     2.6.6. Publish and maintain Base Information Transport System Engineering Planning
     (BITSEP) guidance. Documentation is currently located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
     af/USAF/ep/browse.do?programId=t5FDEA9F023389B6301234D0DE838015D&cha
     nnelPageId=sF575FC8E22DC74AF01230AFDFC071A07.
     2.6.7. Review system program office program documentation and facilitate coordination
     of planning and implementation to MAJCOMs and field level organizations.
     2.6.8. Be the CIPS Program Office (PO). The CIPS PO in conjunction with the
     Oversight Group is responsible for developing, implementing, and fielding CIPS. The 38
     CEG/CC chairs the CIPS Oversight Group consisting of MAJCOM representatives.
        2.6.8.1. Manage the system and account administration for CIPS.
        2.6.8.2. Establish standard terminology and symbology for use within CIPS.
        (Reference MPTO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the
        Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System.)
8                                                            AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


       2.6.9. Provide for both contract and organic implementation of cyberspace infrastructure
       requirements. Reference MPTO 00-33D-3003 for additional information.
           2.6.9.1. Provide overall enterprise monitoring of all funded and assigned projects for
           implementation.
           2.6.9.2. Provide, manage, and maintain contracting documents for Air Force-wide as
           well as local project implementations, Operations and Maintenance (O&M), and local
           Communications Service Authorization (CSA). Additionally assist MAJCOMs and
           bases in the management of communication services authorization procedures to
           include contractor liaison activities.
           2.6.9.3. Coordinate with MAJCOM and Wings to maintain situational awareness of
           implementations and provide reach back support to resolve implementation issues.
       2.6.10. Chair the EI Total Force Group conferences.
       2.6.11. Provide specialized engineering services. See MPTO 00-33D-3003 for additional
       information.
       2.6.12. Act as the EI MPA man-day Functional Area Manager in accordance with (IAW)
       AFI 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Man-Day Program.
       2.6.13. Oversee the System Telecommunications Engineering Manager (STEM) program
       IAW MPTO 00-33D-2002.
       2.6.14. Act as the AFNet STEM keeping blueprints for the AFNet to include all migrated
       bases, data centers, Integrated Network Operations & Security Center, Enterprise Service
       Unit, and Enterprise IT Service Desk (ESD).
    2.7. Program Managers. Program managers will document their program information in
    CIPS IAW MPTO 00-33D-3003, AFI 63-101, and AFI 33-101.
    2.8. Engineering and Installation Total Force Group. The Engineering and Installation
    Total Force Group (TFG) provides the organic capability to implement EI projects. The TFG
    consists of the 38 CEG, 85th Engineering and Installation Squadron (EIS), ANG lead EI
    Group, and 16 ANG EI squadrons. The TFG enterprise is jointly managed by the 251 CEIW,
    the 38 CEG, and the 85 EIS. The National Guard Bureau (NGB)/A6O and the 38 CEG have
    oversight and management responsibility for the TFG process. Conferences will be held to
    recommend projects for EI implementation to 38 CEG. In addition, the TFG will:
       2.8.1. Review EIGS prioritized projects and make recommendations for organic
       implementation.
       2.8.2. Dispense EIGS approved projects for organic implementation.
    2.9. Unit Commanders. Unit or Communications Group commanders of communications
    personnel will:
       2.9.1. Implement all applicable programs listed in MPTO 00-33A-1001.
       2.9.2. Unit establishes QA work center directly under the commander. Communications
       Group establishes a QA work center logically under the commander, but may reside
       physically in the Commander Support Squadron. Note: except for ATCALS work
       centers, systems, and personnel which will be accomplished by the MAJCOMS via the
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                  9


     Air Traffic System Evaluation Program (ATSEP). DATCALS (Deployable Air Traffic
     Control and Landing Systems) will continue to be aligned under the purview of the local
     unit.
     2.9.3. Review system, equipment, training, and certification programs with
     organizational leadership to ensure compliance with Air Force standards on a regular
     basis.
     2.9.4. Ensure only Air Force-approved AIS such as Integrated Maintenance Data System
     (IMDS), Remedy, Telephone Management System (TMS), CIPS, and Training Business
     Area (TBA) are used for all customer service requests/work orders and training
     documentation unless granted a higher headquarters waiver. Note: Follow approved
     security classification guide or authoritative SAP and DNI guidance when applicable.
     2.9.5. Ensure life cycle management and logistics support are available and used for
     sustained operations for unit-acquired COTS systems and equipment.
     2.9.6. Ensure all systems/equipment supported by cyberspace support activities is
     tracked in the approved AIS to include antennas.
     2.9.7. If applicable, operate a CRA.
     2.9.8. Submit Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) waivers IAW AFI 33-106, Managing
     High Frequency Radios, Personal Wireless Communication Systems, and the Military
     Affiliate Radio System.
     2.9.9. Be the “Approval Authority” for CIPS accounts IAW MPTO 00-33D-3003.
     2.9.10. Validate the base blueprint in CIPS prior to Installation commander’s
     endorsement (reference AFTO Form 330, Base Blueprint Endorsement Checklist).
     2.9.11. Manage and document base infrastructure projects in CIPS. Coordinate and
     prioritize base infrastructure projects in CIPS for current and out years. Reference MPTO
     00-33D-3003.
     2.9.12. Prioritize and approve projects on Work Plan submissions.
     2.9.13. Appoint a primary and alternate CIPS Organizational Structure Manager to
     maintain the organizational tree IAW AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, and AFPD
     38-1, Organization and Unit Designations.
  2.10. Flight Commander/Flight Chief. At a minimum, the Flight Commander and Flight
  Chief of cyberspace personnel will:
     2.10.1. Designate, in writing, personnel authorized to perform ATCALS facility
     certifications, if performed locally.
     2.10.2. Direct PMIs to be accomplished IAW appropriate or established T.O.s or in the
     absence of T.O.s, commercial manuals or publications.
     2.10.3. Publish local workcards (LWC) and/or checklists if required.
     2.10.4. Waive the accomplishment or approve deviations of scheduled inspections (e.g.,
     PMIs) under conditions listed in MPTO 00-33A-1001.
10                                                        AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


     2.10.5. Increase frequency or scope of scheduled inspections (e.g., PMIs) or individual
     inspection requirements when, and if, required.
     2.10.6. Coordinate with applicable agencies/units for cyberspace support activities
     impacting operations.
     2.10.7. Authorize use of local CQCCs.
     2.10.8. Manage cyberspace deployment processes for equipment, personnel and
     technical documents.
     2.10.9. Serve as approval authority for cannibalization or controlled substitution
     activities.
  2.11. Work center Supervisors. At a minimum, work center supervisors of cyberspace
  personnel will:
     2.11.1. Ensure compliance with directives, technical publications, and supplements.
     2.11.2. Ensure customer      service    requests   and   work   orders   reflect   current
     system/equipment status.
     2.11.3. Understand supervisors’ roles and responsibilities in the QA program.
     2.11.4. Secure and control government property to include tracking warranty
     information.
     2.11.5. Coordinate scheduled support actions (e.g., Time Change Item (TCI), and Time
     Compliance Technical Order (TCTO), Time Compliance Network Order (TCNO),
     Maintenance Tasking Order (MTO), Network Tasking Order (NTO), etc.) with
     Communications Focal Point (CFP).
     2.11.6. Appoint project coordinator [e.g., EI, self-help, Specialized Communications
     Team (SCT), CIPS], and ensure required duties are accomplished.
     2.11.7. Manage test, measurement, and diagnostic equipment and other test equipment.
     2.11.8. Establish a comprehensive safety program to include such programs as Radio
     Frequency Radiation, Hazard Material, Hazard Communication, confined space, facility
     grounding, lock out/tag out, and climbing training.
     2.11.9. Manage work center corrosion prevention and control program (CPCP) and
     electrostatic discharge program according to AFI 21-205, (S) Command Disable System
     (CDS) (U).
     2.11.10. Ensure work center logistics support management responsibilities are
     accomplished.
     2.11.11. Maintain historical    files   and   master inventories   on    communications
     systems/equipment.
     2.11.12. Maintain asset/commodity information in CIPS in accordance with MPTO 00-
     33D-3003.
  2.12. Communications Focal Point (CFP). In the base communications squadron/flight,
  the CFP is the combination of the Maintenance Operations Center, telephone helpdesk and
  the traditional network helpdesk functions. The CFP function has tactical control (TACON)
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 11


   of the client service team (CST) Work center. The CST unit commanders retain
   administrative control of CSTs. The CST Work center retains TACON of all CSTs assigned
   to the base. Note: CFP and ESD integration is contained in MPTO 00-33A-1001. The CFP
   will:
Note: For ATCALS CFP duties refer to TO 00-33A-1001.
      2.12.1. Manage customer service requests, work orders, and equipment status reporting.
      2.12.2. Provide a 24-hour contact number to customers/users and base Command Post.
      2.12.3. Manage/review approved AIS management products for accuracy and analyzes
      data for negative trends.
      2.12.4. Manage reports (e.g., situational reports (SITREP), communications statistics,
      etc.) and disseminate to appropriate personnel for action. The CFP will disseminate
      monthly ticket and activities information to the unit commander.
      2.12.5. Document and control removal/replacement/cannibalization actions.
      2.12.6. Act as focal point for depot maintenance requests.
      2.12.7. Ensure master PMI schedule is entered into the AIS and includes antennas.
      2.12.8. Review, direct, and monitor accomplishment of scheduled and unscheduled
      support actions (e.g., TCI, TCTO, TCNO, MTO, NTO, outages, etc).
      2.12.9. Serve as focal point (i.e., sub-system manager) for the Air Force-approved AISs
      (e.g., IMDS, Remedy, etc.).
      2.12.10. Develop procedures to sustain operations in the event of power failure,
      communications outage, etc.
      2.12.11. Review all SLAs, MOAs, or MOUs for applicability and impact to current
      cyberspace support activities according to AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures.
      2.12.12. Provide customers with reporting procedures for communications systems
      outages/problems.
      2.12.13. Perform the Logistics Service Center (LSC) liaison duties of Mission Capable
      and Turn-Around (TRN) Monitors.
      2.12.14. Act as the main interface with the AFNet ESD.
      2.12.15. Forward all CIPS requirements to the appropriate authority for implementation.
   2.13. Quality Assurance (QA). The QA program is responsible directly to the commander
   or deputy. The QA program applies to all cyberspace AFSCs who sustain systems. At a
   minimum, QA personnel will:
Note: For ATCALS QA duties refer to TO 00-33A-1001.
      2.13.1. Provide assistance, advice, and authoritative references to work center
      supervisors and unit leadership.
      2.13.2. Establish and maintain a technical publications program (e.g., technical orders,
      Air Force Network Standard Operating Procedures, etc.).
12                                                       AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


     2.13.3. Manage Quality Assessments and Trend Analysis activities using Air Force
     approved systems.
     2.13.4. Process material and T.O. deficiencies.
     2.13.5. Review work center facility, systems installation, and equipment records
     management.
     2.13.6. Perform technical reviews of modifications proposals and process valid proposals
     according to applicable directives.
     2.13.7. Perform CPCP and electrostatic discharge (ESD) focal point duties according to
     AFI 21-105.
     2.13.8. Review locally devised checklists, operating instructions, publications, and
     directives annually.
     2.13.9. Submit changes to various publications, T.O.s and other guidance.
     2.13.10. Review statements of work where cyberspace support activities are outsourced.
     2.13.11. Complete Air Force Job Qualification Standard (AFJQS) 3DXXX-201G,
     Quality Assurance, within 180 days of assuming responsibilities unless previously
     completed and documented. Use this AFJQS as a guide for training Quality Assurance
     Representative (QAR) personnel.
     2.13.12. Validate and manage LWCs.
     2.13.13. Use applicable AFCQCCs during evaluations according to MPTO 00-33A-
     1001.
     2.13.14. Perform in-process, acceptance, deactivation, or transfer inspections on
     equipment/systems being overhauled, repaired, installed, removed, or newly acquired.




                                          WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
                                          Information Officer
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 13


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command - Communications and Information Systems
Management, 22 March 2001
AFI 20-101, Logistics Strategic Planning Procedures, 12 November 1993
AFI 21-205, (S) Command Disable System (CDS) (U), 24 October 2007
AFI 25-201, Supports Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 33-100, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 19 November 2008
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-111, Voice Systems Management, 24 March 2005
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 36-2619, Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) Man-Day Program, 22 July 1994
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment
Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-1101, Modification Management, 17 July 2001 (superseded by AFI 63-131, Modification
Program Management, dated 6 November 2009)
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFPD 38-5, Unit Designation, 1 July 1966
MPTO 00-33A-1001 General Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice
Requirements, 31 March 2010
MPTO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the Cyberspace
Infrastructure Planning System, 30 December 2010
T.O. 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, 1 December 2004
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 330, Base Blueprint Endorsement Checklist, AF Form 673, Air Force
Publication/Form Action Request, and AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. See MPTO 00-33A-1001, for other adopted forms.
 14                                                  AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force (as used in forms)
AFC2IC—Air Force Command and Control Integration Center
AFCQCC—Air Force Communications Quality Control Check sheet
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJQS—Air Force Job Qualification Standard
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserves Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AIS—Automated Information System
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ANG—Air National Guard
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
ATSEP—Air Traffic System Evaluation Program
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CIPS—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
CITS—Combat Information Transfer Systems
COTS—Commercial-off-the-shelf
CPCP—Corrosion Prevention and Control Program
CRA—Centralized Repair Activity
CSA—Communications Service Authorization
CSC—Client Service Center
CST—Client Service Team
DATCALS—Deployable Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DOD—Department of Defense
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                               15


DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EI—Engineering and Installation (also E&I)
EIGS—Engineering and Installation Governance Structure
ESD—Enterprise IT Service Desk
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOTS—Government Off-The-Shelf
IAW—In Accordance With
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
IT—Information Technology
JTRS—Joint Tactical Radio System
LDL—Low Density Level
LSC—Logistics Service Center
LWC—Local Workcards
MAJCOM—Major Command
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
MPTO—Methods and Procedures Technical Order
MTO—Maintenance Tasking Order
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NTO—Network Tasking Order
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEC—Program Element Code
PMI—Preventative Maintenance Inspection
PMO—Program Management Office
QA—Quality Assurance
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAP—Special Access Program
SCT—Specialized Communications Team
 16                                                          AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


SITREPS—Situational Reports
SLA—Service Level Agreement
STEM—System Telecommunications Engineering Manager
TACON—Tactical Control
TBA—Training Business Area
TCI—Time Change Item
TCNO—Time Compliance Network Order
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TFG—Total Force Group
TMS—Telephone Management System
T.O.—Technical Order
TRN—Turn-Around
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Air Force—Approved AIS—An Air Force-approved automated information system is any
system that the Air Force maintains and operates at an enterprise level such as Cyberspace
Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS), Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS), Training
Business Area (TBA), Remedy, and Telephone Management System (TMS). MAJCOM-unique
systems are not Air Force-level AISs.
Air Force Communications Special Instructions—AFCSIs provide a means to temporarily
issue inspection and servicing requirements, operational performance checks, and special
instructions related to standard communications equipment for which formal T.O. procedures are
not yet published. They may also provide a means to issue optional or temporary modifications
on communications equipment. They are only published for equipment that is applicable to more
than one MAJCOM and until applicable T.O. can be developed.
Air Force—Global Information Grid (AF-GIG)—The Air Force-provisioned portion of the
Global Information Grid (GIG) that the Air Force has primary responsibility for the procurement,
operations, and defense. It provides global connectivity and services, in addition to C2 of that
connectivity and those services that enable Air Force commanders to achieve information and
decision superiority in support of Air Force mission objectives. The AF-GIG consists of fixed,
mobile, and deployable facilities, and equipment, as well as processes, trained personnel and
information.
Assets/Commodities—Refers to the list of communications categories that provide a
communications capability: Distribution Systems, Data, Flight Support Systems, Long Haul
Comm., Network Control Center, Premise Wiring, Public Address, Radio, Security, Video, and
Voice Switching Systems. This includes equipment and infrastructure.
Cannibalization—Cannibalization is the removing of parts from one end item and placing the
removed parts into another like item. This is done to restore systems/equipment quickly. The part
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                     17


is then ordered and installed into the item which the part was removed from to restore the first
item.
Centralized Repair Activity (CRA)—Consolidates support and supply resources at designated
locations to support dispersed equipment. It integrates support, supply and other logistics
elements providing a cohesive support program that enhances logistics responsiveness and
operational effectiveness while reducing costs (see AFMAN 23-110 Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter
21, Section 21N).
Certified Personnel—Certified personnel are qualified personnel who have completed hands-on
performance training designed to qualify an airman in a specific position (duty position or skill-
level), however they have been evaluated by an outside source (e.g., QA, Stan/Eval, Cisco,
Microsoft, etc). In the CFETP, the task certifier block is used to document third party
certifications if required by your Air Force Career Field Manager (AFCFM). Not all tasks
require certification on the CFETP however once that specific task has been certified by an
outside source, it can reflect that certification. Also to certify ATCALS equipment and systems,
the qualified personnel needs to be certified on the equipment or systems being ATCALS
certified.
Client Service Center (CSC)—The Client Service Center (CSC) is the work center that will
perform the following functions Communications Focal Point, Voice/Video/Data/Personnel
Wireless Communications System Appliances, Account Management, and Asset Management.
These functions are responsible issuing and tracking communications systems/equipment.
Commercial—Off-The-Shelf (COTS)—COTS systems or equipment are products/items
designed and manufactured for commercial use, purchased, and used "as-is" by the military.
Cyberspace support activity—Any actions taken to restore communications systems/equipment
to operational status, to perform preventive maintenance inspections (PMI) on communications
systems/equipment, and/or component, or to install or remove communications
systems/equipment.
Communications Focal Point (CFP)—CFP is the consolidation of help desk, telephone trouble
tickets and Maintenance Operations Center. This function tracks all communications
systems/equipment and/or component outages and resides with the Client Service Center (CSC)
work center.
Communications systems/equipment—Any item maintained, restored, installed or removed by
cyberspace personnel to include circuits. "Communications systems" are defined as:
transmission, switching, processing, systems-control, and network management systems, as well
as equipment, software, and facilities, fixed and deployable, that supports a mission area.
Examples include: Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems (ATCALS), base telephone
switches, cable plants, cable television, Automated Message Handling System (AMHS), Defense
Message System (DMS), antennas, land mobile radio systems and cryptographic systems. The
Air Force-provisioned portion of the Global Information Grid (GIG) that the Air Force has
primary responsibility for the procurement, operations, and defense. It provides global
connectivity and services, in addition to C2 of that connectivity and those services that enable
Air Force commanders to achieve information and decision superiority in support of Air Force
mission objectives. The AF-GIG consists of fixed, mobile, and deployable facilities, and
equipment, as well as processes, trained personnel and information. This document implements
 18                                                           AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


DoD Directive (DoDD) 8100.1, Global Information Grid (GIG) Overarching Policy, and defines
Air Force roles and responsibilities for protecting and maintaining the AF-GIG; and also
encompasses terrestrial, space and airborne networks [networks are defined as all wired and
wireless information (data/voice/video) exchange systems - even if not Internet Protocol (IP)-
based].
CyberspaceCDefined in JP 1—02 as “A global domain within the information environment
consisting of the interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the
internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and
controllers.” Air Force considers cyberspace to be a physical domain and therefore subject to all
physical laws of nature. In a physical sense, the Air Force considers cyberspace to include things
such as the internet (Global Information Grid or GIG), telecommunications networks (combat
communications, satellite communications), computer systems, network operations and
command and control [e.g., Air Force Network Operations Center, Integrated Network
Operations Security Centers (I-NOSC)], and embedded processors and controllers.
Cyberspace Infrastructure—Refers to the equipment and network infrastructure to provide the
internet, telecommunications network, network operations, command and control and embedded
processors and controllers.
Engineering Installation—Program that provides engineering, implementation, restoral,
removal and reconstitution of Air Force cyberspace infrastructure. The program focuses on the
highest priority cyber infrastructure requirements impacting the Air Force.
Executive Agent—Indicates a delegation of authority by a superior to a subordinate to act on
behalf of the superior. An agreement between equals does not create an executive agent.
Designation as executive agent, in and of itself, confers no authority. The exact nature and scope
of the authority delegated must be stated in the document designating the executive agent. An
executive agent may be limited to providing only administration and support or coordinating
common functions or it may be delegated authority, direction, and control over specified
resources for specified purposes.
Flight Commander and Flight Chief—Any officer, enlisted or civilian member fulfilling those
duties serving over the flight of personnel.
Global Information Grid (GIG)—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The GIG includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems and
services, software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated services
necessary to achieve Information Superiority. It also includes National Security Systems as
defined in section 3542(b) (2) of Title 44 United States Code (U.S.C.). The GIG supports all
DoD, National Security, and related Intelligence Community missions and functions (strategic,
operational, tactical, and business), in war and in peace. The GIG provides capabilities from all
operating locations (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile platforms, and deployed
sites). The GIG provides interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DoD users and systems. It
includes any system, equipment, software, or service that meets one or more of the following
criteria: transmits information to, receives information from, routes information among, or
interchanges information among other equipment, software, and services; provides retention,
organization, visualization, information assurance, or disposition of data, information, and/or
AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                      19


knowledge received from or transmitted to other equipment, software, and services; processes
data or information for use by other equipment, software, or services. (10 U.S.C. 2513).
Government Off—The-Shelf (GOTS)—Equipment, systems, and/or products that are typically
developed by the technical staff of the government agency for which it is created. It is sometimes
developed by an external entity, but with funding and specification from the agency. Because
agencies can directly control all aspects of GOTS products, these are generally preferred for
government purposes.
Hands-on—Any activity involving active participation to include actual performing the task at
hand.
Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS)—A Defense Department-wide initiative to develop a
family of revolutionary software-programmable tactical radios that will provide the warfighter
with voice, data and video communications, as well as interoperability across the joint battle
space. The JTRS radios envisioned by DoD, expected to begin coming on line in the 2011 or
2012 timeframe, are based on software development that enables one radio to handle various
waveforms.
IT Lean Process—The Information Technology Lean (IT Lean) process is a tailored version of
the DOD 5000 series acquisition process specifically designed for small IT programs, and
applies to systems in acquisition or sustainment including upgrades or modernizations. See AFI
63-101 for use of IT Lean in conjunction with the Security, Interoperability, Supportability,
Sustainability and Usability (SISSU) process using EITDR to manage the acquisition process.
See AFI 33-210 for use of IT Lean in certification and accreditation, and for scope and
limitations of the IT Lean process.
Local Commercial Services—Telecommunications Services provided by the local exchange
carrier (LEC) within the local area transport access (LATA).
Low Density Level (LDL)—Low density parts which are positioned at a LSC based on the
number of TRNs submitted. There are very few of these parts available and it is a first come, first
serve basis request. LSC manages this process in coordination with the unit.
Lead Command—The MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA assigned as the Air Force user advocate.
Maintenance Tasking Order (MTO)—Used by the AFCYBER community to assign workload
to a field technician.
Network Tasking Order (NTO)—Used to direct changes to the Air Force-Global Information
Grid (AF-GIG).
Quality Assessments—An element in the Quality Assurance (QA) program. Its purpose is to
provide assurances, through some type of evaluation, that the Quality System functions are
effective. Quality Assessment activities can be categorized as either internal or external
assessments, evaluations, audits, or certifications. The QA program may use technical,
personnel, and managerial evaluations to fill these requirements.
Quality Assurance (QA)—Embodies a leadership philosophy that creates and inspires trust,
teamwork, and a quest for continuous, measurable improvement throughout the
working/production environment in the organization. It is the commander's tool for ensuring that
a process, end item or service is of the type and quality to meet or exceed requirements for
effective mission operations. It performs regular evaluations on unit personnel, equipment, and
 20                                                           AFI33-150 30 NOVEMBER 2011


programs to ensure unit is adhering to the instructions and technical publications and properly
maintaining system/equipment. QA program consists of three essential elements: Quality
System, Quality Assessments, and Trend Analysis. These three elements create an environment
supporting the key objective of continuous process improvement.
Quality Assurance Representative (QAR)—Appointed by the commander, complete required
training, then assist the QA work center in the accomplishment of evaluations.
Qualified Personnel—Personnel who have completed hands-on performance training designed
to qualify an airman in a specific position (duty position or skill-level). Qualifications training
occur both during and after upgrade training to maintain up-to-date qualifications and are used to
determine qualified personnel. This does not mean personnel are certified.
Situational Reports (SITREPS)—Reports generated                by   a   command      and   control
authority/function that advises leadership of a situation.
Specialized Communications Team (SCT)—Provides a specialized maintenance and training
capability above those normally found in the O&M units. SCTs perform emergency restoral of
failed or degraded facilities, systems, or equipment and provide follow-on training to prevent
recurrence of the problem.
Support Activities—Any actions or processes (e.g., publication management, time change
management) that assist personnel with supporting the communications systems/equipment. The
activities minimize fraud waste and abuse and provide common practices among all cyberspace
personnel no matter the duty location.
System Affiliate—A MAJCOM or agency designated by a negotiated formal agreement with the
lead.
Systems/equipment—See Communications systems/equipment.
Time Change Item (TCI)—Scheduled actions that personnel perform to support a piece of
equipment. They are listed in the technical publications and occur as deemed. For example:
replacement of the oil after 3000 hours of operation.
Time Compliance Network Order (TCNO)—Generated by AFCYBER/Air Force Combat
Communications Center (AFCCC) and direct a change to systems/equipment. Air Force level
TCNOs are converted to TCTOs if required by the Program Management Office (i.e., Combat
Information Transport System [CITS], etc.).
Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO)—Directs a modification or change to a system or
piece equipment and are published by the Program Management Office (PMO).
Tools—Any device used to restore, repair, change, modify, clean, etc. a piece of
communications equipment. Tools can be physical items such as a screwdriver, pad, resistor,
junction boxes, hammer, pre-made cabling, etc., as well as software items such as restoral disks,
software imaging disks, drivers, program software, disk duplicator, etc. These items need to be
stored and maintained according to MPTO 00-33A-1001, T.O. 32-1-101 and unit
guidance/policy.
