BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2868
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                        18 MARCH 2009
                                                                          Certified Current 14 April 2011
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                            CHIEF OF STAFF TEAM EXCELLENCE
                                                                                     AWARD



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMA/MAPI                                                              Certified by: HQ USAF/A1M
Supersedes: AFI36-2868, 1 July 1998                                               (Mr. William H. Booth)
                                                                                              Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. It
prescribes the eligibility rules and nomination procedures for the annual Chief of Staff Team Excellence
Award Program. It applies to individuals at all levels, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and Air National Guard (ANG) units. The program, sponsored by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
and administered by the Air Force Manpower Agency (AFMA), recognizes outstanding team
performance and shares best practices within the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Pubication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Field activities must send implementing publications to the higher
headquarters functional OPR for review and coordination before publishing. OPR determines that no
waivers may be granted for any part of the publication. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or
maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code, Section 1125 and
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.
The applicable Privacy Act System Notice(s) F036 AF PC V is available online at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this pubication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Recent changes to AFI 36-2868 include elimination of the requirement for the Technical Review Team
(TRT), TRT scoring of the team packages, and subsequent feedback comments; condensing the 10-page
nomination package to a two page AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award; and inclusion of a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                                     AFI36-2868     18 MARCH 2009


1. Purpose.      The Chief of Staff Team Excellence Award (CSTEA) recognizes outstanding team
performance and shares best practices within the Air Force. It promotes a systematic approach for
enhancing mission capability, improving operational performance, and achieving sustained results while
maximizing efficiency.
2. Eligibility. Competing teams must have completed a performance improvement within the last two
years. The award eligibility cut-off date is two years prior to 1 September of the current year. Eligible
nominations are as follows:
     2.1. HQ USAF to include Field Operating Agencies (FOA)/Direct Reporting Units (DRU) – total of
     two
     2.2. Major Commands (MAJCOM) – two each
     2.3. Air National Guard (ANG) – two

NOTES:
1. A team is defined as a group of thirty or less people, organized for a common purpose. The team
construct can include supporting contractor personnel. Air Force leadership (e.g., wing commanders,
directors) and management are generally not part of the team; usually they empower and provide
resources but do not actively participate in the day-to-day activities of the team during the process
improvement effort. Although several related teams may be working several different efforts in order to
achieve a larger common goal, these are viewed as two or more teams. If these teams are viewed by
management as deserving nomination for the CSTEA, they should be submitted as separate teams.
2. A process improvement may be nominated for this award more than once, provided it meets the
following eligibility requirements; however, a process improvement can win only once.
a. Be implemented within the applicable two-year completion period
b. Nomination package includes most current data which shows the process has improved over the
previous year’s submission
c. New/additional resource savings must be validated by an independent office
d. Includes data to prove the improvement is sustainable (not a one-time fix)
3. Criteria.      The criteria are in Attachment 2, AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. They are
divided into three sections: Process, Impact and Results, and Sustainment and Standardization.
4. Schedule. AFMA will begin each CSTEA cycle by publishing a schedule of events. Each year’s
schedule will be published under separate cover. The T-minus numbers in the process flowchart in
Attachment 3 are only guidelines.
5. Nomination Package.
     5.1. The application package will be completed by the team and stand on its own. Information
     should be concise and quantitative. Statements should be supported by facts and other data. Non-
     standard acronyms should be spelled out the first time used, and terminology specific to the
     applicant’s organization should be fully defined. The nomination will not contain any classified
     information.
     5.2. The nomination package will include the following:
        5.2.1. Nomination Memorandum: Teams are limited to 30 team members. All team members
        must be included on the nomination memorandum when submitted. Teams will not be allowed
        to add members once their package has been received by AFMA. See Attachment 2 for
        format and requirements.
AFI36-2868 18 MARCH 2009                                                                               3


      5.2.2. AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award: Must not exceed two pages. See Attachment 2
      for required categories. Do not include the identification of points or the subparagraph numbers.
      Do not use binders, covers, tabs, photographs, or attachments.
6. Submission of Application.
   6.1. HAF/HR, MAJCOM, and ANG coordinating offices will disseminate the schedule of events
   published by AFMA to their subordinate organizations and determine the procedures for collecting
   CSTEA nomination packages from their subordinate units. Organizations wishing to compete for
   the CSTEA will contact the installation Manpower and Organization Office or coordinating office
   for submission guidance.
   6.2. Each HAF/HR, MAJCOM, and ANG coordinating office will ensure: (1) the number of
   nominations sent to AFMA does not exceed the number allowed, (2) applicants meet eligibility
   requirements, and (3) an electronic or CD copy of the application package is provided to AFMA by
   the suspense date. Send CD copy submissions to AFMA/MAPI (Attn: Chief of Staff Team
   Excellence Award), 550 E Street East, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4451 and electronic submissions to
   afma.performanceawards@randolph.af.mil. Application packages received in the wrong format will
   not be accepted and will be returned for correction. Applications or corrected applications received
   after the cut-off date will not be accepted.
   6.3. Once submitted, the application becomes the property of the United States Air Force and may
   be released to other organizations after the presentation of awards.
7. Process Support Requirements.
   7.1. The Air Force General Officer Management Office, AF/DPG, and the Air Force Senior
   Executive Management Office, AF/DPS, will identify five general officer/senior executive service
   personnel to serve as judges. To ensure that judges are not in the chain of command of any
   competing team, AFMA will provide a list of competing teams to AF/DPG and AF/DPS. HQ USAF
   Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel will serve as approval authority for the
   membership of this panel. Judges will include four judges from HQ USAF and one from either the
   Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve Command. Three judges should be operational and two
   nonoperational. AFMA will fund all judges’ TDY expenses. Units/MAJCOMs will fund all
   required man-day allocations if required for the judges. No CSTEA panel judge may repeat in
   consecutive years. This is to reduce the chance of a judge scoring a team who competes in
   consecutive years.
   7.2. The sponsoring unit will fund all associated costs, to include TDY costs, for all competing
   teams.
8. Evaluation Process.
   8.1. Each team will make a 15-minute presentation and answer questions from the judges for a 10-
   minute period following their presentation. Judges will award points for the presentation based on
   the three categories and point distribution listed in Table 1 below. After the last team presentation,
   judges will finalize team scores and select up to five teams for the CSTEA. Final team scores will
   not be released.
 4                                                                         AFI36-2868      18 MARCH 2009


     Table 1. Point Distribution Table.
                     Criteria                                       Presentation Points
                     Process                                        10
                     Impact and Results                             25
                     Sustainment and Standardization                15
                     TOTAL                                          50

9. Team Presentations.

     9.1. The presenters will be limited to team members listed in the nomination package. Substitutions
     to the team, for presentation purposes only, may be made when sufficient team members (a
     minimum of two) are not available because of separation from the service, PCS, TDY,
     hospitalization, or other valid reasons. Names of substitutions must be provided to AFMA prior to
     live presentations in Washington DC.
     9.2. The presentation should explain information contained in the nomination package and address
     any new data collected since submission of the application. No equipment, display materials, or
     handouts will be allowed during the presentation competition.
     9.3. Time will be allotted prior to the start of team presentations for teams to practice their briefings.
     Teams will have time during the practice session to copy their program files to the hard disk of the
     computers used in the presentation rooms. AFMA will publish a list of equipment available for team
     presentation briefings at least 90 days prior to the briefings.
10. Display Booths. Each team will be required to set up a display booth in a designated area to share
their success stories with others. Each team will be provided an 8 x 10-foot area, funded by AFMA, for
their display booth. Each booth will be equipped with one six-foot table, two chairs, one trashcan, and
one 110v outlet. Equipment and materials on display at the team’s display booth will not be removed
for any reason. The display booth will not be scored in the judging process.
11. Best Practices.
     11.1. The MAJCOM coordinating office is encouraged to provide copies of their field-nominated
     award packages to MAJCOM functionals for consideration as Best Practices and for possible
     command-wide implementation. If the improvement has possible Air Force-wide applicability, the
     functional should notify the coordinating office and forward the package to the appropriate HQ
     USAF functional for Air Force-wide implementation consideration.
     11.2. The CSTEA judges will evaluate all command-nominated team improvements for possible
     selection/validation as a Best Practice. Validated Best Practices will be recognized by the CSAF at
     the CSTEA presentation ceremony. AFMA will enter validated candidates into the Air Force ―     Best
     Practices‖ database.
12. Recognition.
     12.1. All team members competing at the Air Force-level will receive a CSTEA coin and a
     certificate.
     12.2. The Air Force Chief of Staff or his designee will present a CSTEA team trophy to each
     winning team. In addition, each team member identified in the nomination package of winning
     teams will be authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition Ribbon (military) or lapel pin (civilians)
AFI36-2868 18 MARCH 2009                                                                          5


   IAW AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards.         They will also receive a memento and a
   certificate signed by CSAF.
13. Questions and Additional Information.             The supporting HQ USAF, MAJCOM, or ANG
coordinating office is the team’s primary source of information for the CSTEA. You may also call the
CSTEA office at AFMA, DSN 487-4331, commercial (210) 652-4331.
14. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   14.1. Prescribed Forms. None
   14.2. Adopted Forms.
   AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
   AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award



                                          RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          DCS, Manpower and Personnel
 6                                                            AFI36-2868   18 MARCH 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001
AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—- Air Force Reserve Command
AFI—- Air Force Instruction
ANG—- Air National Guard
CD—- compact disc
CSTEA—- Chief of Staff Team Excellence Award
DRU—- Direct Reporting Units
FOA—- Field Operating Agencies
MAJCOM—- Major Commands
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—- temporary duty
TRT—- Technical Review Team
AFI36-2868 18 MARCH 2009                                                                          7


                                           Attachment 2
                     SAMPLE NOMINATION MEMORANDUM FORMAT

Figure A2.1. Sample Nomination Memorandum Format.

MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM POC OFFICE) (ATTN: CSTEA)
FROM: (Submitting Unit)
SUBJECT: Nomination for Chief of Staff Team Excellence Award

1. Team Name:

2. Applicant Organization:
   Address:
   City, State, Zip:

3. Team Member POC: (This person will be the single point of contact for coordinating team issues
before, during and after the team presentation.)
   Name: [Rank/Civ Grade/Civ Title (e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr.)/First Name/MI/Last]
   Duty Title:
   Organization and Office Symbol:
   Mailing Address:
   City, State, Zip:
   DSN Telephone:
   Commercial Telephone:
   DSN FAX:
   Commercial FAX:
   E-mail Address:

4. Alternate Team Member POC: (This person will replace the lead POC in case of PCS, retire,
separate, etc.)
   Name: [Rank/Civ Grade/Civ Title (e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr.)/First Name/MI/Last]
   Duty Title:
   Organization and Office Symbol:
   Mailing Address:
   City, State, Zip:
   DSN Telephone:
   Commercial Telephone:
   DSN FAX:
   Commercial FAX:
   E-mail Address:

5. Other Team Members: (Include the following information on all team members. Include those who
have retired, PCS’d, or otherwise no longer in the organization. Include last known duty address for
retired and separated individuals.)
    Name: [Rank/Civ Grade/Civ Title (e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr.)/First Name/MI/Last]
    Duty Title:
    Position on Team: (Leader, facilitator, scribe, member, etc):
 8                                                                      AFI36-2868     18 MARCH 2009


     Organization:
     Duty Mailing Address:
     City, State, Zip:
     Duty DSN Telephone:
     Commercial duty Telephone:
     E-mail Address:

Note: Teams are limited to 30 team members. All team members must be included on the nomination
memorandum when submitted. Teams will not be allowed to add members once their package has
been received by AFMA. Special care must be taken to identify all team members with the proper
spelling of their names. Civilians must be identified by grade and proper title, e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr. Place
the person’s gender in parentheses after their name if the title/name does not make it clear, e.g., Terry,
Tracy, Bobby, Chris, Toni.

6. Coordinating POC in Installation Manpower and Organization Office:
   Name: [Rank/Civ Grade/Civ Title (e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr.)/First Name/MI/Last]
   Duty Title:
   Organization and Office Symbol:
   Mailing Address:
   City, State, Zip:
   DSN Telephone:
   Commercial Telephone:
   DSN FAX:
   Commercial FAX:
   E-mail Address:

7. MAJCOM, ANG, HQ USAF/A1M Coordinating Office
   Name: [Rank/Civ Grade/Civ Title (e.g., Mr., Ms., Dr.)/First Name/MI/Last]
   Title:
   Organization and Office Symbol:
   Mailing Address:
   City, State, Zip:
   DSN Telephone:

8. I certify that the nomination application and attachments do not contain any classified information,
resource savings have been validated, and the process improvement is in place.




(Sponsoring Organization Commander’s signature)
SIGNATURE BLOCK

Attachment:
AF Form 1206
AFI36-2868 18 MARCH 2009                                                                             9


                                            Attachment 3
                    AWARD CRITERIA FOR THE TEAM PRESENTATION

                                (to be included on an AF Form 1206)
A3.1. PROCESS (10 points).      At a minimum this category must address the following:
   A3.1.1. Process title and description
   A3.1.2. Mission of the organization, how it links to the wing (or equivalent) mission, and if it was
   self-initiated or directed by senior leadership
   A3.1.3. Key customers
   A3.1.4. Innovative tools, ideas, and concepts used to develop final solution
   A3.1.5. Comprehensive final solution and impact to key customers
A3.2. IMPACT AND RESULTS (25 points).                  At a minimum this category must address the
following:
   A3.2.1. How process affects unit mission and to what degree
   A3.2.2. Benefit to the Air Force, MAJCOM, or Wing
   A3.2.3. Costs to implement the process improvement
   A3.2.4. Return on investment (ROI) calculations
   A3.2.5. Validation of resource savings
A3.3. SUSTAINMENT AND STANDARDIZATION (15 points).                         At a minimum this category
must address the following:
   A3.3.1. Steps taken to sustain improvement
   A3.3.2. Steps taken to share improvement(s) throughout MAJCOM and/or Air Force
NOTE: Provide information in bullet format.
 10                                                  AFI36-2868   18 MARCH 2009


                                     Attachment 4
                                 PROCESS FLOWCHART

Figure A4.1. Process Flowchart
