BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 1 APRIL 1999

                                                                                DAVIS-MONTHANAFB
                                                                                        Supplement 1
                                                                                  22 SEPTEMBER 2003

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                          THE FIRE PROTECTION OPERATIONS AND
                                                                     FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEXF (Mr. James Hotell)                                    Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CC
                                                                                     (Col H. Dean Bartel)
Supersedes AFI 32-2001, 1 September 1997                                                       Pages: 42
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Protection, and DoD Instruc-
tion (DoDI) 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program, Department of Labor – Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), and National Fire Pro-
tection Association (NFPA) standards as Air Force policy unless otherwise directed in DoD or Air Force
instructions. It applies to personnel who develop and implement fire protection and fire prevention pro-
grams at Air Force installations, facilities, and contractor-operated facilities. This instruction does not
apply to Reserve or Air National Guard firefighters in training status. Refer to AFI 10-210, Prime Base
Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, and applicable Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
supplements. Users should send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form 847, Recommen-
dation for Change of Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM), Air National Guard, and
HQ AFCESA, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319 to HQ USAF/ILEO, 1260 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1260.

(DAVIS MONTHAN) This supplement implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001, The Fire Pro-
tection Operations and Fire Prevention Programs; DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emer-
gency Services Program; Department of Labor-Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA);
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR); and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards. It
applies to all personnel and activities occupying or using DoD facilities on Davis-Monthan AFB. Users
should send comments and suggested changes on AF-Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Pub-
lication, through channels to 355 CES/CEFP. The use of the name of any specific manufacturer, commer-
cial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the United States
Air Force.
2                                      AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003



SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision redefines voting and non-voting members on the Fire Protection Council (1.3.); clarifies
base fire marshal responsibilities (paragraph 1.5.); broadens scope of fire chief duties (paragraph 1.6.);
defines responsibilities and levels of authority having jurisdiction (paragraph 1.7.); provides fire protec-
tion program mission statement (paragraph 2.1.); adopts as Air Force policy OSHA regulations and NFPA
standards, with some Air Force modifications (paragraph 2.2.); formalizes Operational Risk Management
(ORM) plan process (paragraph 2.3.2.); requires installation fire protection and prevention services (para-
graph 3.1.); clarifies procedures for obtaining deviations and submission of Operational Risk Manage-
ment (ORM) plans (paragraph 3.1.1.); identifies minimum staffing requirements (paragraph 3.1.2.);
provides installation commander authority to reduce capability levels (paragraph 3.1.2.1.); limits addi-
tional duties of fire protection personnel (paragraph 3.1.2.3.); redefines firefighter duty badge wear crite-
ria (paragraph 3.1.4.); adds a requirement for the installation commander to approve mutual aid
agreements (paragraph 3.1.7.); clarifies certification, education, and training references and documenta-
tion requirements (paragraph 3.2.); requires development of pre-incident plans (paragraph 3.3.); specifies
requirements for pre-incident plans (paragraph 3.3.2.); establishes rescue team criteria (paragraph 3.3.3.;
requires emergency medical response protocols (paragraph 3.3.4.); establishes annual reporting of OSHA
and NFPA standard compliance (paragraph 3.3.5.); incorporates NFPA aircraft emergency response time
criteria (paragraph 3.3.7.); requires assignment of a fire department safety officer at off-base responses
(paragraph 3.3.9.); adds a requirement to maintain a reserve quantity of fire fighting agents (paragraph
3.3.11.); requires a minimum of two radio frequencies for fire department use (paragraph 3.3.12.);
requires the fire chief to follow specific Air Force publications (paragraph 3.4.); further defines types of
systems to be maintained (paragraph 3.6.); clarifies the role of the fire chief in performing design plan
reviews (paragraph 3.7.).
(DAVIS MONTHAN) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
(DAVIS MONTHAN) AFI 32-2001, 1 April 1999, is supplemented as follows:
      1.      Functional Area Responsibilities: ..............................................................................            4
      2.      Installation Fire Protection and Prevention Program: ................................................                       5
      3.      Program Elements: .....................................................................................................     6
      4.      Forms Prescribed .......................................................................................................   23

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           24

Attachment 1 (DAVIS MONTHAN)—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
              INFORMATION                                                                                                                27

Attachment 2—TRAINING PROGRAM                                                                                                            29

Attachment 3—FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSES                                                                                                   31
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                     3


Attachment 4—AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTIONAND
             HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT RESPONSE (US)               34

Attachment 5—SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE
             PROTECTION
             (FOREIGN)                                                36

Attachment 6—RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE FOR CIVIL
             AIRPORT JOINT-USE AGREEMENTS                             38

Attachment 7—SAMPLE CONSOLIDATED MAJCOM METRIC                        39

Attachment 8 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)—DMAFB FACILITY MANAGER’S
              CLOSING CHECKLIST                                       40

Attachment 9 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)—FACILITY MANAGERS CLOSING
              CHECKLIST                                               41

Attachment 10 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)—DAVIS-MONTHAN FIRE PREVENTION
             MONTHLY FACILITY FIRE EXTINGUISHER LOG                   42
4                               AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


1. Functional Area Responsibilities:
    1.1. HQ USAF:
       1.1.1. HQ USAF/ILE. The Office of The Civil Engineer provides fire protection and prevention
       program policy and functional oversight.
       1.1.2. HQ USAF/ILEO. The Operations and Maintenance Division in the Office of The Civil
       Engineer is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for fire protection and prevention program
       policy development.
    1.2. HQ AFCESA/CEXF. The Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency’s Fire Protection Division
    is the Office of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection. HQ AFCESA/CEXF provides technical services
    to the major commands, assists The Civil Engineer with oversight of fire protection programs, and
    implements standards to support fire protection and prevention programs.
    1.3. Air Force Fire Protection Council. The Fire Protection Council is responsible to The Civil Engi-
    neer for formulating proposed standards, technical policy, and program goals. All proposed initiatives
    and programs are coordinated with AFCESA/CC and presented to the Readiness Working Group for
    approval. Voting membership consists of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection (Chairperson), com-
    mand fire chiefs or designated representatives, and Chief of Air National Guard Fire Protection or
    designated representative. Advisors to the council include representatives from Louis F. Garland Fire
    Academy, Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT), Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL/MLQC),
    and Air Force Materiel Command (ASC/WMO and WR-ALC/LES).
    1.4. Major Commands and Field Operating Agencies. Commanders execute fire protection policy
    within their commands.
    1.5. Base Fire Marshal. The Base Civil Engineer is designated as the base fire marshal and is respon-
    sible to the installation commander for the effective and efficient execution of the installation’s fire
    protection program. Additionally, the fire marshal provides the fire chief with the necessary support
    to ensure the highest possible priority and funding of fire protection and prevention initiatives to
    accomplish mission support. For bases where the Base Operating Support is outsourced/privatized,
    the Support Group Commander is the base fire marshal.
       1.5.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Senior Fire Officer: The Fire Chief or the Senior Fire Officer
       on scene has full authority over all fire suppression and rescue operations. He or she has the
       authority to commandeer vehicles and non-fire personnel to assist at the scene of a fire. The
       On-Scene Commander may establish priorities based on prevailing conditions; however, no one
       outside the fire protection organization shall interfere with the Fire Chief’s designated representa-
       tive in the performance of fire suppression and rescue operations.
    1.6. Fire Chief. The fire chief is directly responsible to the Base Civil Engineer for determining the
    resources required for the installation’s overall fire protection program. The fire chief will establish
    and implement an effective fire protection and prevention program, including hazardous materials,
    mutual aid, initial emergency medical care, confined space rescue, and emergency response programs.
    1.7. Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ):
       1.7.1. HQ USAF/ILE is the overall AHJ for Air Force fire protection policy and approval of per-
       manent deviations to NFPA standards.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                         5


      1.7.2. The Major Command Civil Engineer (MAJCOM/CE) is responsible for execution, over-
      sight, and compliance with DoD, Air Force, and OSHA regulations and NFPA standards as imple-
      mented by the Air Force. The MAJCOM/CE is the AHJ for approval of long-term (more than
      18-month) deviations to NFPA standards. MAJCOM/CEs forward all requests for permanent
      deviations to NFPA standards to HQ USAF/ILE for approval. They ensure that installation pro-
      grams are provided with high priority and funding to maintain compliance with this program.
      They are also responsible for validation and coordination of permanent deviations that are for-
      warded to HQ USAF/ILE.
      1.7.3. The installation commander is the AHJ to approve the processes, procedures, and programs
      developed locally for compliance with this instruction. The installation commander is the AHJ for
      approval of short-term (less than 18-month) deviations. The AHJ must ensure programs are
      assigned an appropriate priority for the associated risk and adequate funding for correction and
      compliance. They also approve Operational Risk Management (ORM) plans for deviations and
      forward to the MAJCOM/CE/SE. ORM plans must: (1) identify functional areas where the
      installation fails to comply with Air Force fire protection policies; and (2) quantify the operational
      restrictions or other appropriate mitigating actions that fully offset the installation’s failure to
      explicitly comply with those Air Force standards.

2. Installation Fire Protection and Prevention Program:
   2.1. Mission Statement. By authority of DoDI 6055.6, the Air Force Fire Protection program is
   established. The mission of Air Force Fire Protection is to provide fire and emergency services to pre-
   vent and minimize losses to Air Force lives, property, and the environment occurring in periods of
   peace, war, military operations other-than-war, and humanitarian support operations. These include
   both man-made and natural incidents requiring fire protection, rescue, hazardous material, and emer-
   gency medical responses.
   2.2. Installation Commanders. Installation commanders will establish and execute comprehensive
   installation fire protection and fire prevention programs. These programs execute DoDI 6055.6,
   DoDI 6055.6-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program, AFPD 32-20, OSHA reg-
   ulations, and NFPA standards as implemented by the Air Force. The installation commander is
   responsible for allocating manpower and resources for the fire department as required by this instruc-
   tion and other applicable Air Force standards.
   2.3. Fire Chiefs develop and implement management plans for the following areas and functions:
      2.3.1. Fire risk management plans and operational policies when resources and staffing levels fall
      below Air Force standards.
      2.3.2. ORM plans when the fire department fails to comply with DoD and Air Force instructions,
      OSHA regulations, and NFPA standards (see paragraph 1.7.3.). This includes ORM plans which
      ensure firefighter safety by either (1) appropriately restricting emergency activities when OSHA
      regulations preclude normal emergency operations; or (2) establishing alternative procedures for
      safe operations.
      2.3.3. Firefighter occupational safety and health program.
      2.3.4. Procedures to ensure environmental pollution control during all fire protection activities.
6                              AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       2.3.5. Hazardous materials emergency response. The fire department’s role during hazardous
       materials emergency response is to respond to the incident to provide command and control, res-
       cue, extinguishment, and containment actions based on the conditions present. Once these actions
       have been accomplished, the fire department’s involvement reverts to a support role. Neutraliza-
       tion, recovery, cleanup, and disposition of hazardous waste are accomplished by trained experts in
       related fields and are not hazardous materials (HAZMAT) emergency response team functions.
       2.3.6. Response to incidents occurring in rough and difficult-to-reach terrain and off-installation
       Airfield Installation Compatibility Use Zone (AICUZ) areas.
       2.3.7. Selective response procedures to reduce the number of aircraft rescue and fire fighting
       vehicles responding to an emergency when appropriate.
       2.3.8. Confined space rescue.
       2.3.9. Emergency medical response.
       2.3.10. Off-installation responses.

3. Program Elements:
    3.1. Management. Each installation will provide fire protection and prevention services.
       3.1.1. Fire Protection Deviations. Installation commanders submit proposed deviations to DoDI
       6055.6, AFPD 32-20, AFMAN 32-2003, Air Force Fire Fighter Certification Program, OSHA
       regulations, NFPA standards, and this instruction through their major command civil engineer. If
       approved by the MAJCOM/CE, forward to HQ USAF/ILE, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington
       DC 20330-1260. Provide an information copy to HQ AFCESA/CC, 139 Barnes Drive Suite l,
       Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319. Deviations will be submitted in the form of an ORM plan that fully
       addresses the proposed non-compliance and alternative measures at the installation, in accordance
       with paragraph 1.7. of this instruction.
       3.1.2. Fire Protection Staffing and Vehicles. DoDI 6055.6; Air Force Manpower Standard 44EF,
       Fire Protection (AFRC and ANG MAJCOM utilize individual manpower standards); Allowance
       Standard 019, Vehicle Fleet (Registered) All MAJCOM Common; OSHA regulations; and NFPA
       standards outline minimum acceptable staffing and equipage requirements. Air Force fire depart-
       ments are staffed and equipped to respond to one major aircraft, structural, or hazardous material
       incident at a time. The fire chief and Base Civil Engineer will ensure the installation commander
       is informed of the fire department's capabilities. The fire chief will establish standard operating
       procedures on incident response priorities for approval by the installation commander.
           3.1.2.1. Staffing Reduction. Installation commanders have the authority to reduce levels of
           aircraft rescue and fire fighting capabilities during periods when the flight control tower is not
           operational due to non-flying, and combined with no aircraft ground servicing or maintenance.
           Staffing will not be reduced below the level required to meet regulatory requirements for
           structural fire fighting and hazardous material incidents. This includes ensuring sufficient
           staffing is on hand to respond the minimum required aircraft rescue and fire fighting (ARFF)
           vehicles to initiate fire suppression actions and provide fire fighting agent and water resupply.
           3.1.2.2. Memorandum of Agreement. Commanders may establish a Memorandum of Agree-
           ment (MOA) with civilian communities or other government agencies to offset internal levels
           of fire protection staffing and equipage. MOAs of this type must be coordinated with the
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                       7


          major command civil engineer and comply with AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Author-
          ities.
          3.1.2.3. Additional Duties or Details. Fire protection personnel will not be assigned additional
          duties or details outside of the fire department when it compromises mission support and Air
          Force acceptable levels of risk for safe fire fighting operations. The fire chief determines
          when additional duties or details impact mission support or acceptable levels of risk and
          advises the base civil engineer and installation commander.
       3.1.3. Fire Fighting Support Equipment. Fire chiefs will maintain sufficient stock levels of fire
       fighting support equipment. Allowance Standard 490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and
       Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment, provides the primary basis of issue. The fire chief determines
       the reserve levels of specialized equipment. Fire departments will record inspections of equip-
       ment not maintained on vehicles on AF Form 1071, Inspection and Maintenance Record, or
       automated product.
       3.1.4. Fire Protection Badge. AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel, and
       AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees, prescribe the wear of the fire protection badge.
       There are four fire protection duty-level badges:
          3.1.4.1. Firefighter (one bugle).
          3.1.4.2. Assistant chief (operations, prevention, and training) (gold shield with three bugles).
          3.1.4.3. Assistant chief for operations, readiness and logistics (gold shield with four bugles).
          3.1.4.4. Fire chief and fire marshal (gold shield with five bugles).
NOTE: Instructors at the Louis F. Garland Fire Academy may wear the firefighter duty badge. Air Staff,
major command, and Inspector General Team fire protection representatives may wear the fire chief’s
duty badge.
       3.1.5. Investigations of Fire Incidents. Wing commanders ensure investigations are performed in
       accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
       3.1.6. Fire Department Emergency Responses. Fire chiefs report emergency responses in accor-
       dance with the automated DoD Fire Incident Reporting System (DFIRS), and Attachment 3.
       3.1.7. Mutual Aid Agreements. The fire chief manages Mutual Aid Agreements in accordance
       with Attachment 4 (US) and Attachment 5 (Foreign) of this AFI. If the Air Force provides fire
       fighting services at joint-use civilian airports, include a release and indemnification clause in
       accordance with Attachment 6 of this AFI. Mutual aid agreements, and emergency responses to
       local communities not covered by mutual aid agreements, must be approved by the installation
       commander.
          3.1.7.1. Fire chiefs and their assistants must coordinate with local agencies to familiarize each
          other with the incident management system used by each emergency response agency and the
          level at which these agencies comply with NFPA 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety
          and Health Program, operational safety requirements. It is critical that off-base agencies be
          aware of NFPA 1500 requirements and the Air Force requirement to appoint a fire ground
          safety officer at any incident if one has not been appointed.
          3.1.7.2. Off-Base Surveys. Installation fire departments annually survey those areas sur-
8                              AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


           rounding the base where they may be called upon to provide mutual aid or assistance to ensure
           a full understanding of potential hazards. The installation fire department will obtain copies of
           civilian fire department emergency response plans for high hazard areas where they may be
           requested to provide assistance.
    3.2. Certification, Education, and Training. The fire chief will establish a certification and profi-
    ciency training program. All military AFSC 3E7XX, civilian GS-081, local national, and contrac-
    tor-operated fire department members will be certified by the DoD Fire and Emergency Services
    Certification Program in accordance with DoDI 6055.6-M, AFMAN 32-2003, AFI 32-4002, Hazard-
    ous Material Emergency Planning and Response Compliance, and the CerTest Computer-Based Test-
    ing Procedural Guide. Civilian employees must be certified at the next higher level to be eligible for
    promotion to that level. Military members must be certified in accordance with the Career Field Edu-
    cation and Training Plan (CFETP). Minimum proficiency training requirements are listed at Attach-
    ment 2. Trainers will record all training on AF Form 1085, Fire Protection Training Report, and
    the appropriate certification program documentation, or automated products.
       3.2.1. Training Facilities. HQ AFCESA/CEXF is responsible for investigating effective,
       cost-efficient methods to provide proficiency and certification training. HQ AFCESA/CESM
       maintains environmentally acceptable design plans and drawings for aircraft live fire training
       facilities. Aircraft live fire training facilities will be maintained and operated in accordance with
       Technical Order (TO) 35E1-2-13-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions Crash Fire Rescue
       Training Facility. Structural fire training facility designs and commercially procured products
       must satisfy the performance test elements of Firefighter II, as specified in NFPA 1001, Standard
       for Firefighter Professional Qualifications. Structural fire training facilities using liquid petro-
       leum gas for fire training will meet national safety standards.
       3.2.2. Firefighter Fitness/Wellness Program. All military AFSC 3E7XX, civilian GS-081, local
       national, and contract firefighters whose position descriptions require participation in fire fighting
       operations (to include fire chiefs, assistant chiefs, and fire inspectors) will participate in the HQ
       USAF Surgeon General approved DoD fitness/wellness program. This program is designed to
       insure that firefighters sustain a minimum degree of physical fitness and well being. Firefighter
       physical fitness will also be observed during emergency responses and training sessions. Individ-
       uals not physically capable of performing essential job functions, or who otherwise represent a
       direct threat to the public safety or the safety of coworkers will be referred to the appropriate med-
       ical authority for a fitness-for-duty evaluation in accordance with Title 5, Code of Federal Regula-
       tions, Part 339, Medical Qualification Determination, current edition.
       3.2.3. Emergency Medical Training. Personnel designated by the fire chief will be trained to at
       least the Emergency Medical Technician-Basic (EMT-B) level to support installation response and
       patient stabilization during medical emergencies. The fire chief will determine the number of
       EMT-Bs required for each shift and at outlying stations. The fire department will meet the mini-
       mum requirements outlined in DoDI 6055.6-M-1, DoD Standardized Emergency Medical Services
       Program (Draft).
       3.2.4. On-Scene Commander Training. The Fire Chief, Assistant Chief for Operations, Readiness
       and Logistics, Assistant Chief for Operations, Assistant Chief for Training, and other designated
       senior fire officials will attend the On-Scene Commanders Course as specified in AFI 32-4002.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                        9


  3.3. Operations. The fire department and other disaster response organizations must coordinate
  emergency response actions by developing pre-incident plans.
     3.3.1. Fire Protection Incident Management System. The Air Force uses NFPA 1561, Fire
     Department Incident Management System, and the National Fire Academy's incident command
     system, as modified by AFMAN 32-4004, Contingency Response Operations, as the standard for
     emergency responses.
     3.3.2. Pre-Incident Plans. Fire chiefs will determine the need and develop pre-incident plans for
     potential high fire- and life-risk facilities, hazardous operations, and assigned/transient aircraft.
     Facility pre-incident plans are recorded on an AF Form 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan, or auto-
     mated product. Aircraft pre-incident plans are recorded on an AFTO Form 88, Aircraft Pre-Fire
     Plan (TO 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information), or automated product. HQ AFC-
     ESA/CEX is responsible for the development and maintenance of TO 00-105E-9. The technical
     order provides aircraft emergency rescue, fire fighting, and hazardous materials information and
     procedures.
     3.3.3. Rescue Teams. The fire chief will establish a dedicated rescue team(s) for each shift. Fire-
     fighters perform first-aid emergency medical care within the legal limits of their training. Rescue
     team members must be: (1) DoD-certified at the Fire Fighter II and Airport Fire Fighter levels (for
     installations without a flying mission only Fire Fighter II certification is required), and (2) a grad-
     uate of, or scheduled to attend, the AETC or USAFE Fire Fighter Rescue Course.
     3.3.4. Emergency Medical Responses. With the approval of the installation and medical care
     facility (MCF) commanders, the fire department may provide installation initial response and
     patient stabilization during medical emergencies. Emergency care protocols for the fire depart-
     ment must be developed and approved by the MCF commander. MCF commanders are responsi-
     ble to fund emergency medical logistics, provide EMT training, and certification to meet locally
     established protocols and DoD requirements.
     3.3.5. Occupational Safety and Health. NFPA 1500 contains policy for firefighter safety and
     health in all Air Force fire departments. This program will be fully integrated into the installa-
     tion’s Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) and MAJCOM Environmental, Occu-
     pational Safety and Health (EOSH) programs. The fire chief will complete and forward the NFPA
     1500 Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program Worksheet provided in NFPA
     1500, Appendix B, to their MAJCOM fire chief each year by 1 September. This worksheet sub-
     mission will include an approved ORM plan for all non-compliance areas and will be maintained
     on file at the MAJCOM. MAJCOMs will consolidate base level inputs using the same worksheet.
     MAJCOMs will forward the consolidated worksheet and consolidated MAJCOM metric (Attach-
     ment 7) to HQ AFCESA/CEX each year by 1 October. ORM plans will be developed by the fire
     chief and approved by the installation commander for non-compliance with OSHA and NFPA
     1500 requirements.
     3.3.6. Fire Department Safety Officer. During an emergency, the senior fire official on-scene is
     responsible for incident safety. When the situation dictates, the senior fire official will assign an
     incident safety officer. Once assigned, the safety officer has the authority to alter, suspend, or ter-
     minate those activities deemed unsafe.
     3.3.7. Aircraft Emergency Response Requirements. Aircraft fire fighting, rescue and support
     vehicles must be capable of responding to any incident on the runways or overruns within one
10                               AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


        minute after pre-positioning for a pre-announced emergency. For unannounced emergencies, at
        least one primary aircraft fire fighting vehicle must reach the end of the furthest runway within
        three minutes from the time of dispatch from the airfield fire station. The remaining primary air-
        craft fire fighting and rescue vehicles must arrive at the incident (for both announced or unan-
        nounced emergencies) at intervals not exceeding 30 seconds.
        3.3.8. Facility Emergency Response Requirements. Facility emergency response times are out-
        lined in DoDI 6055.6.
        3.3.9. Safety During Off-Base Responses. When responding to off-base emergencies, including
        mutual aid emergencies, where local agencies routinely do not assign a safety officer, the Air
        Force senior fire official will dispatch an Air Force firefighter to act as the safety officer to observe
        Air Force portions of the operation. If unsafe conditions are observed or encountered by Air Force
        firefighters, the Air Force fire department safety officer will mitigate the condition and inform the
        incident commander. The Air Force fire department safety officer is responsible for ensuring that
        Air Force firefighters are withdrawn from unsafe fireground operations or operations violating
        OSHA or NFPA 1500 safety standards. The Air Force fire department safety officer may act as
        the safety officer for the entire incident, if requested by the incident commander.
        3.3.10. Fire Vehicle Maintenance. Force Activity Designator (FAD) codes for fire protection
        vehicles, equipment, and supplies will be equal to the mission being supported. Record all fire
        pump testing, maintenance, and annual certifications on AF Form 1078, Fire Truck and Equip-
        ment Test and Inspection Record, or automated product.
        3.3.11. Stock Levels of Fire Fighting Agents. Fire chiefs maintain a reserve quantity of aqueous
        film forming foam (AFFF) and dry chemical agent equal to the total capacity of assigned fire
        fighting vehicles at the fire station. Local procedures will be established to provide for the imme-
        diate transportation of AFFF agent for emergency operations. The fire chief will maintain a sec-
        ondary reserve of AFFF agent when the Base Logistics Center does not maintain an adjusted stock
        level. This secondary reserve of AFFF will be equal to the total capacity of assigned fire fighting
        vehicles. A secondary reserve of dry chemical agent is not required.
        3.3.12. Communication. The installation commander, with advice from the fire chief, will deter-
        mine which agencies are authorized transceiver access to the fire crash net. A minimum of two
        frequencies are required for use by the fire department. One frequency will be limited to fire
        department access only. This frequency is reserved for tactical fire ground operations and emer-
        gency use. Other emergency responders may be allowed transceiver access on the secondary fre-
        quency only, when approved by the installation commander. All fire stations must have automatic
        start/transfer emergency generator backup power.
        3.3.13. The fire chief or assistant fire chief on duty must receive at least a 30-minute prior notifi-
        cation when exercises involve fire fighting vehicles, equipment, or personnel.
     3.4. Fire Prevention. In accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety,
     Fire Protection, and Health Program and AFOSH STD 91-56, Fire Protection and Prevention (out-
     lines the fire prevention program), fire chiefs must:
        3.4.1. Implement installation fire prevention programs.
        3.4.2. Conduct annual facility fire prevention assessments, unless required more often by public
        law or other statutory requirement.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                       11


     3.4.3. Ensure AF Form 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record, or automated
     product is used as a checklist and to record the results of facility assessments.
     3.4.4. Use AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, or automated product, to identify the
     condition of the fire prevention program to commanders.
     3.4.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) INSTALLATION FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM: The
     objective of the installation fire prevention program is to eliminate the potential causes of fire,
     reduce the loss of life, injuries, property damage, and to protect the environment should fire occur.
     Accomplishing these objectives is essential if the mission is to continue without delay due to fire.
     To reach these objectives, it is vital to reduce unsafe practices and conditions. This is done through
     the education of all personnel, command support at all levels, and enforcement of safe practices.
     Therefore, fire prevention and fire safety will not be compromised for reasons of expediency or
     economy.
        3.4.5.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Functional Managers. The functional manager is the
        commander or senior operating official at any level who exercises managerial control of an
        activity or operation. Functional managers are responsible for administering the fire preven-
        tion program within their functional area, ensuring that each facility under their control has a
        written fire operating instruction, and for initiating corrective actions on fire hazards and fire
        safety deficiencies. In addition, functional managers are responsible for notifying civil engi-
        neering and the fire prevention office in writing (355 CES/CEOEP and 355 CES/CEF) of
        changes in facility managers (primary and/or alternate) and emergency contact phone num-
        bers.
        3.4.5.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Commanders/supervisors are responsible for ensuring
        sound fire prevention procedures are established and practiced in each facility and activity
        under their jurisdiction. They will enforce this instruction as it pertains to the buildings, areas,
        and property under their control. They will:
            3.4.5.2.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Ensure all newly assigned personnel are given
            fire prevention education and fire extinguisher training within the first 30 days of assign-
            ment and annually thereafter.
            3.4.5.2.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Review for completeness the corrective actions
            required and the corrective actions taken on AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit
            Report. Corrected reports will be submitted to 355 CES/CEFP within 14 days of receipt
            unless otherwise specified.
        3.4.5.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FACILITY MANAGERS:
            3.4.5.3.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Each facility manager (as designated per AFI
            32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting), is responsible to the unit com-
            mander for the fire-safe condition of all facilities under their jurisdiction. The facility man-
            ager or designated representative will accompany the Fire Prevention Inspector during fire
            prevention visits and take immediate corrective action on fire hazards or discrepancies
            found during the visit.
            3.4.5.3.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The facility manager or alternate will check all
            fire extinguishers, standpipes, fire doors, fixed suppression systems, detectors, sprinklers,
            pull stations, exits and emergency lights to ensure proper operation and report all discrep-
12                      AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       ancies to 355 CES on AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request for corrective
       action. Discrepancies involving fire extinguishers will be referred to the fire prevention
       office, fire extinguisher maintenance section. Fire extinguishers are required to be
       inspected monthly and the inspection documented on attachment four of this publication or
       on an automated product.
       3.4.5.3.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Facility managers will ensure personnel are
       knowledgeable of fire/emergency reporting, evacuation procedures, and the activation pro-
       cedures for installed fire and alarm systems.
       3.4.5.3.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Facility managers will ensure facilities are left in
       a fire-safe condition at the end of the day. Closing inspections will be conducted daily in
       all assembly occupancies and tracked on attachment two of this document or on an auto-
       mated product.
     3.4.5.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION:
       3.4.5.4.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Chief, Construction Contracting Flight, will
       establish procedures to ensure the fire prevention section is notified of all pre-construction
       and pre-performance conferences. A fire protection representative must attend these con-
       ferences to coordinate fire prevention requirements with contractors.
       3.4.5.4.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Corps of Engineers. The senior official of the
       Corps of Engineers office at D-M AFB will establish procedures to ensure the fire preven-
       tion section is notified of all pre-construction and pre-performance conferences.
       3.4.5.4.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Concessionaires. Concessionaires are responsible
       for fire prevention in their work areas and will comply with this supplement as it pertains
       to them.
       3.4.5.4.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Contractor Operations. Employees of private
       contractors performing work under government contracts are exempted from this instruc-
       tion. Contractors are, however, responsible for compliance with Department of Labor,
       NFPA standards, OSHA standards, and for the protection of their employees. Contractors
       will be provided a copy of the Fire Prevention Program Guide for Contractors during the
       pre-performance conference to be used as a reference during construction operations.
     3.4.5.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FIRE PREVENTION VISITS:
       3.4.5.5.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The Fire Prevention Section is the agency, which
       manages, enforces and executes the Fire Prevention Program. The Fire Prevention Inspec-
       tor shall conduct a quality inspection that will contribute to the fire safety of the unit being
       inspected in addition to gaining the desired results for the fire protection organization.
       3.4.5.5.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Scheduled visits will be conducted IAW AFI
       32-2001 para 3.4.2. or as determined by the Fire Chief. A pre-inspection checklist will be
       sent to the facility manager approximately 2 weeks prior to the inspection visit. The facil-
       ity manager or designated alternate, will accompany the fire prevention inspector on all
       inspection visits.
       3.4.5.5.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) AF Form 1487 will be issued IAW AFI 32-2001
       para 3.4.4. for all scheduled and unscheduled inspections and will be annotated to show all
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                    13


          fire hazards, fire safety deficiencies, or no hazards noted conditions as they are found. In
          addition, the inspector may make recommendations to stabilize potentially hazardous con-
          ditions that he/she observes, but are not conditions that are in violation of any specific
          code, standard, instruction, etc. Recommendations will not require corrective action
          because they are not regulatory violations. However, recommendations should be
          reviewed by the functional and facility managers for possible implementation to prevent
          injury or loss.
          3.4.5.5.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire prevention reports identifying hazards or
          deficiencies will show justification with references. Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) and
          Fire Safety Deficiencies (FSD) where applicable, will be assigned in accordance with AFI
          91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
          (AFOSH) Program.
          3.4.5.5.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The facility manager must indicate the action
          taken on the reverse side of the AF Form 1487, and the functional manager must sign, date
          and return the form. Corrected reports will be submitted to 355 CES/CEFP within 14 days
          of receipt unless otherwise specified.
          3.4.5.5.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A RAC of 1, 2, or 3 requiring more than 30 days
          for correction will be submitted to Wing Safety for the installation's hazard abatement plan
          in accordance with
          AFI 91-301.
       3.4.5.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FIRE/EMERGENCY REPORTING PROCE-
       DURES:
          3.4.5.6.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Immediate and accurate reporting of a fire or
          emergency is essential to minimize vehicle response time. Any person discovering a fire or
          emergency situation must report it immediately to the Fire Protection Flight. This includes
          any fire that has burnt itself out or has been extinguished without the aid of the Fire Protec-
          tion Flight.
          3.4.5.6.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire/Emergency Reporting numbers. Report all
          fires or emergencies to the Fire Protection Flight by dialing 911.
          3.4.5.6.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire and emergency evacuation procedures will
          be conducted in accordance with the facility's emergency action plan. Personnel who
          intentionally disregard or ignore the sounding fire alarm and refuse to evacuate from a
          facility may be removed or detained by law enforcement personnel at the request of the
          senior fire officer.
          3.4.5.6.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Extinguish the fire if possible, using fire extin-
          guishers or hose stations on fires that are small in size. If the fire is uncontrollable, aban-
          don fire-fighting efforts and evacuate the building. Do not become trapped; always
          maintain a clear path to safety.
       3.4.5.7. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) TRAFFIC AND EMERGENCY VEHICLE OPER-
       ATIONS:
14                     AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       3.4.5.7.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Vehicles will not pass stationary fire vehicles
       with warning lights operating at a fire scene or drive over a fire hose unless directed to do
       so by fire protection or law enforce-ment personnel.
       3.4.5.7.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire lanes are restricted to emergency vehicles
       and will remain unobstructed at all times.
     3.4.5.8. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FIRE HYDRANTS:
       3.4.5.8.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Items such as trees, brush, signs, fences, or any
       other obstacle will not obstruct or conceal a fire hydrant, post indicator valve, sprinkler
       system or standpipe connections.
       3.4.5.8.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire hydrants will not be used by any person
       other than the Fire Protection Flight personnel without the permission of the civil engineer
       water shop. The water shop will advise the agency using the hydrant(s) of what their
       requirements are; i.e., back flow preventers, meters, etc. The Fire Protection Flight will be
       notified prior to any hydrant being utilized by any outside agency. Tampering with fire
       hydrants, such as removing caps or turning them on is strictly prohibited. Fire hydrants
       locations are identified by blue reflective markers located in the street.
       3.4.5.8.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Water mains and fire hydrants will not be shut
       off, nor will maintenance be done that could interfere with water supply without prior noti-
       fication of the Fire Protection Flight (at least 24-hour notice). Exception: Only when emer-
       gency work/repairs are required on those systems.
       3.4.5.8.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The civil engineering plumbing shop will notify
       the Fire Protection Flight of any proposed water curtailments that affect fire hydrants.
       Inactive/defective fire hydrants will be placarded with the appropriate “Out of Service”
       placard on the hydrant by the plumbing shop.
     3.4.5.9. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
       3.4.5.9.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire protection flight personnel will determine
       the type, size, number, distribution and placement of portable fire extinguishers as outlined
       in AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard and
       NFPA Standard 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
       3.4.5.9.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire extinguishers that have been used to extin-
       guish a fire, or accidentally discharged, or have broken tamper seals, missing safety pins,
       or become inoperative, are to be reported to the Fire Prevention Section.
       3.4.5.9.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire extinguishers will not be blocked or
       obstructed from sight.
       3.4.5.9.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire extinguishers will be permanently mounted
       to walls using an approved bracket or placed in a recessed or semi-recessed fire extin-
       guisher cabinet. Fire extinguishers will not be repositioned without the approval of the Fire
       Prevention Section.
       3.4.5.9.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire extinguishers will not be used for any pur-
       pose other than the extinguishment of fires. Personnel who willfully and deliberately dis-
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                  15


          charge any fire extinguishers for any reason other than in an attempt to extinguish a fire
          will be subject to disciplinary action.
          3.4.5.9.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Annual inspections for facility assigned (real
          property) fire extinguishers will be performed by the Fire Prevention Section during the
          scheduled assessments. This will be annotated on the AF Form 1487 or automated product.
          3.4.5.9.7. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Flightline Fire Extinguishers - The number and
          type of wheeled flightline fire extinguishers authorized for Davis-Monthan AFB are estab-
          lished in Table of Allowance 490.
             3.4.5.9.7.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The using organization is responsible for
             moving the extinguisher(s) within their work or ramp area to meet required coverage
             during maintenance and aircraft engine starts, as outlined in TO 00-25-172, Ground
             Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding.
             3.4.5.9.7.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) If an extinguisher is discharged or requires
             servicing, the using organization will notify the Fire Protection Flight. During normal
             duty hours contact the Fire Prevention Office at 228-6895/4333, after normal duty
             hours contact the Fire Alarm Communication Center at 228-4757. Additionally pickup
             and drop-off points will be established with each organization and these areas will be
             checked periodically.
             3.4.5.9.7.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire extinguishers on ground equipment,
             vehicles, and aircraft are equip-ment items, and must be maintained by the using orga-
             nization through local contractors.
       3.4.5.10. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FIRE EVACUATION DRILLS:
          3.4.5.10.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire evacuation drills are the responsibility of
          the facility manager to ensure the safe evacuation of personnel. The intent of the fire drill
          is to expose occupants to the sound of the fire alarm system, test the capacity of the fire
          exits, and to practice organizational procedures as indicated in the Facility Emergency
          Action Plan (FEAP). FEAPs shall be reviewed annually by all personnel and annotated on
          AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record or automated product.
          3.4.5.10.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire evacuation drills will be conducted annu-
          ally in all facilities, unless otherwise indicated.
          3.4.5.10.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The Fire Prevention Section may direct drills in
          any facility where the need exists. Fire alarm systems will not be used to conduct fire evac-
          uation drills without prior coordination of the Fire Protection Flight.
       3.4.5.11. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) SMOKING AND DISPOSAL OF SMOKING
       MATERIAL:
          3.4.5.11.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Smoking is prohibited in DoD facilities in
          accordance with AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force. Smoking is also prohibited:
             3.4.5.11.1.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Within 100 feet of hydrant fueling sys-
             tems, or on an aircraft being refueled or defueled.
16                      AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


          3.4.5.11.1.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft docks,
          paint shops, flammable liquid storage locations, or similar locations where flammable/
          combustible vapor concentrations may be found.
       3.4.5.11.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) An adequate number of ashtrays and metal
       receptacles with self-closing lids will be used for the disposal of smoking materials and
       will be provided for those areas where smoking is permitted. The receptacles will be
       labeled “Smoking Materials Only” and will be emptied weekly or as needed by using
       water to thoroughly wet down contents to ensure they are extinguished before combining
       with other wastes in dumpsters, trash collection barrels, etc. Smoking material receptacles
       will not be used for trash.
     3.4.5.12. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION, APPLIANCES,
     AND HEATING EQUIPMENT:
       3.4.5.12.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) All electrical services and installations will con-
       form to NFPA Standard 70, National Electrical Code. Only qualified civil engineering
       electricians, contract service electricians, or licensed individuals may alter/repair electrical
       wiring, outlets, etc. Unauthorized wiring will be removed at occupant’s expense, as deter-
       mined by the Base Civil Engineer.
       3.4.5.12.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Extension Cords. Extension cords will not be
       used in lieu of permanent wiring. All portable extension cords will be equipped with non-
       conductive plugs and kept in good condition. All electrical outlets will have cover plates in
       place. Extension cords will not be used in excess of a 90-day period.
       3.4.5.12.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Extension cords will not be spliced, taped over,
       draped over nails or metal objects, routed through windows, doors, under rugs, or exposed
       to physical damage.
       3.4.5.12.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Multiple outlet plugs from a single receptacle is
       prohibited; surge protectors may be used provided they do not exceed 80% of rated capac-
       ity.
       3.4.5.12.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) All extension cords must be of sufficient gauge
       to carry the ampere load to prevent overheating the cord, plug or other components. Cords
       will have an Underwriters Laboratory or Factory Mutual seal of approval.
       3.4.5.12.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Cooking with heat producing appliances is pro-
       hibited in all buildings except those having specific areas designated as kitchen facilities.
       Microwave ovens, toasters and coffee makers are permitted in all facilities when approved
       by the organizational commander. All heat producing appliances shall be unplugged when
       not in use.
       3.4.5.12.7. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Space heaters are permitted providing the heater
       has the Underwriters Laboratory or Factory Mutual seal of approval. Extension cords are
       not authorized in conjunction with space heaters.
          3.4.5.12.7.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Open element heaters not equipped with
          an operable shut-off (tip switch) are prohibited for use. Open element electrical or
          gas-fired heaters will be approved by the Fire Prevention Section on a case-by-case
          basis.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                17


             3.4.5.12.7.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be
             maintained between electrical light fixtures (incandescent) and combustible materials.
             3.4.5.12.7.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Space heaters will not exceed 212 degrees
             in both medical or daycare facilities.
       3.4.5.13. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) FLAMMABLE/COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID STOR-
       AGE:
          3.4.5.13.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Positive control measures will be taken to keep
          flammable/combustible liquids and vapors from all sources of ignition. Specific guidance
          on the storage of flammable/combustible liquids is contained in AFOSH Standard 91-501;
          NFPA Standard 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code; and NFPA Standard 99,
          Standard for Health Care Facilities. Requirements for the transportation of flammable/
          combustible liquids are contained in US Department of Transportation regulations and
          NFPA Standard 385, Standard for Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
          3.4.5.13.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Only Underwriters Laboratory or Department of
          Transportation approved containers will be used for the storing or handling of flammable
          liquids. The use of glass or plastic containers is prohibited unless packaged by the manu-
          facturer and labeled accordingly. Compressed gas cylinders will not be stored in flamma-
          ble storage cabinets. Only compatible chemicals will be stored in the same locker.
          3.4.5.13.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Flammable/combustible liquids stored inside
          facilities will be stored in storage cabinets/lockers that meet the requirements of AFOSH
          STD 91-501 and/or NFPA STD 30.
          3.4.5.13.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Letters stating the location of flammable/com-
          bustible storage cabinets and lockers will be forwarded to 355 CES/CEFP for approval.
          3.4.5.13.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) All cleaning tanks and vats will be equipped
          with self-closing metal lids equipped with fusible links. Only approved solvents desig-
          nated for the purpose of cleaning will be used in these tanks or vats.
       3.4.5.14. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) WELDING, CUTTING, AND THE USE OF
       OPEN FLAME COMPONENTS:
          3.4.5.14.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Welding, cutting, and brazing operations will be
          conducted IAW AFOSH Standard 91-5, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing, and NFPA Stan-
          dard 51B, Welding and Cutting. When welding operations are conducted outside of an
          approved welding shop, an AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit,
          will be issued. For extended operations (new construction, facility renovation, etc.) an AF
          Form 592 can be issued by the Fire Prevention Section for a maximum of 30 calendar
          days, after which time the permit will be required to be renewed.
          3.4.5.14.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The supervisor in charge of the operation is
          responsible for obtaining the AF Form 592. Operations will not commence until approval
          has been given. The supervisor in charge of the operation is responsible for compliance
          with the precautions and instructions outlined on the permit and any special instructions
          given at the time the permit is issued.
18                     AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       3.4.5.14.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) When aircraft parts require welding, they will
       be removed from the aircraft if possible and the welding done in an approved shop. When
       this is not possible, an AF Form 592 will be required. In addition, a spot inspection of the
       area and situation will be performed by the Fire Protection Flight. When welding in air-
       craft hangars, the ultra-violet/infra-red (UV/IR) detectors will be deactivated to prevent
       accidental detection or activation of the suppression system. This task will be accom-
       plished by fire system maintenance personnel.
       3.4.5.14.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Designated personnel from the various organi-
       zations that are charged with these types of operations will receive training annually from
       the Fire Prevention Section to issue their own AF Form 592. These personnel will be des-
       ignated and certified in writing and will be required to recertify annually.
     3.4.5.15. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) OPEN BURNING AND FIREWORKS:
       3.4.5.15.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Open burning (campfires, trash/waste burning,
       grass, bonfires, ornamental ovens/stoves etc.) is prohibited without an approved AF Form
       592.
       3.4.5.15.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The individual use of fireworks on DMAFB is
       prohibited. Fireworks used during sponsored activities, such as the Fourth of July celebra-
       tion, will be set up and discharged by personnel from a state licensed commercial firm.
       3.4.5.15.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The launching of model rockets is prohibited
       within the base boundaries.
       3.4.5.15.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Barbeques will be a minimum of ten feet from a
       structure and not used under an overhang/patio.
     3.4.5.16. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) AMMUNITION AND EXPLOSIVES:
       3.4.5.16.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The storage and handling of these materials will
       be in strict compliance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
       3.4.5.16.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Fire symbols will be posted IAW AFMAN
       91-201, para. 2.25.7.1.
          3.4.5.16.2.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Maintenance Operation Center (MOC)
          will advise the Fire Alarm Communications Center (FACC) of munitions status. MOC
          shall report all munitions movements, load status, and fire symbol of affected muni-
          tions. MOC will maintain fire symbol status of each storage facility.
          3.4.5.16.2.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Munitions control personnel shall notify
          the MOC of any changes in aircraft munitions load status and any change for each
          munitions storage facility.
          3.4.5.16.2.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A copy of the AF Form 2047, Explosives
          Facility License, will be forwarded to the Fire Protection Flight, Fire Prevention Sec-
          tion (355 CES/CEFP) and maintained in the facility file.
          3.4.5.1.7.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Good housekeeping, cleanliness, and order-
          liness in day-to-day activities is the basic tenet of fire prevention. In general terms, any
          condition relative to the cleanliness of a building that could compromise fire safety
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                       19


              constitutes poor housekeeping and may be identified as a fire hazard. Commanders,
              facility managers, and supervisors are responsible for maintaining a high state of clean-
              liness and orderliness throughout their buildings.
       3.4.5.17. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) HOUSEKEEPING:
          3.4.5.17.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) All refuse containers located within industrial
          and storage facilities will have lids and be noncombustible or be listed by Underwriters
          Laboratories or Factory Mutual. Trash containers will be emptied daily or more frequently
          when required to prevent overflowing.
          3.4.5.17.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Dumpsters must be kept closed and will not be
          located closer than 15 feet from any portion of a building, or must be separated from adja-
          cent structures by an enclosure or wall.
          3.4.5.17.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Clean rags, dirty rags, speedy dry, absorbents,
          and steel wool will be stored in separate metal containers with tight fitting lids, or
          self-closing lids, and containers will be labeled.
          3.4.5.17.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Storage of extraneous materials in utility,
          mechanical, generator, telephone communication rooms, above ceilings, on top of struc-
          tures within a facility (i.e. modular office,
          3.4.5.17.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Facilities that utilize clothes dryers will ensure
          that lint collection filters are cleaned after each use.
          3.4.5.17.7. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Holes in walls, ceilings, and floors will be
          reported to civil engineering upon detection; an AF Form 332 will be submitted to effect
          repairs.
          3.4.5.17.8. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Utility rooms and linen storage rooms will be
          kept neat, clean, and orderly at all times. Fire alarm and electrical panels will be unob-
          structed at all times. If the facility is equipped with a sprinkler system, the riser for the sys-
          tem will be kept unobstructed to allow access.
          3.4.5.17.9. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A minimum of 18 inches will be maintained
          around furnaces, hot water heater pipes, and hot water heaters.
          3.4.5.17.10. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A minimum clearance of 18 inches will be
          maintained between stored materials and the ceiling lights/fixtures and/or fire detection
          devices (where fire suppression sprinklers have been installed an even plane 18 inches
          below the sprinkler deflector will be maintained).
          3.4.5.17.11. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The following items are prohibited in facilities
          (excluding family housing):
              3.4.5.17.11.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Candles, incense, or any open flame
              device which produces a constant flame.
              3.4.5.17.11.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Firearms and ammunition (Approved
              locations only).
              3.4.5.17.11.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Tires (Approved locations only).
       3.4.5.18. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) ) STORAGE AND WAREHOUSE FACILITIES:
20                     AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       3.4.5.18.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Buildings used for storage will have aisles
       between stacks, racks, and stored materials. Stacks will be properly maintained in such a
       manner to inhibit the spread of fire. The distance from the top of storage to the ceiling
       sprinkler shall not be less than 18 inches (exception: where large drop or Early Suppres-
       sion Fast Response (ESFR) sprinkler protection is used, the distance from the top of stor-
       age to the ceiling sprinkler deflectors shall not be less than 36 inches).
     3.4.5.19. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) DORMITORY, VISITING OFFICERS AND AIR-
     MAN'S QTRS, AND TLF:
       3.4.5.19.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) These facilities pose a high loss-of-life poten-
       tial, where a careless act of one person may jeopardize many people. Therefore, strict com-
       pliance and enforcement of fire prevention and fire safety standards are especially
       important. Personnel will not be quartered in other than designated sleeping facilities
       unless approved by the Fire Chief or his designated representative.
       3.4.5.19.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The following items are prohibited in dormito-
       ries and quarters:
          3.4.5.19.2.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Candles, incense, or any open flame
          device which produces a constant flame
          3.4.5.19.2.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Firearms and ammunition
          3.4.5.19.2.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Tires
          3.4.5.19.2.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Explosives and pyrotechnics, including
          fireworks
          3.4.5.19.2.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Flammable and combustible liquids. This
          does not apply to small amounts of lighter fluid or butane for refilling cigarette lighters
          or model glue or paints
          3.4.5.19.2.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Cooking utensils or appliances other than
          coffee makers, toasters and microwave ovens
       3.4.5.19.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Cooking activities will be restricted to those
       areas equipped with kitchens and will be monitored by the user.
       3.4.5.19.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Appliances such as hair dryers, irons, curling
       irons, and electric blankets will be unplugged from the wall receptacle when not in use.
       Extension cords will not be used with these types of appliances.
     3.4.5.20. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) PUBLIC ASSEMBLY FACILITIES:
       3.4.5.20.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) All public assembly occupancies must establish
       and maintain a certification system and ensure all employees are trained and understand
       their fire prevention and protection responsibilities on a quarterly basis. All documentation
       and lesson plans will be maintained in the 355 CES/CEFP Fire Prevention Section (FPA)
       Public Assembly Certification Guide.
       3.4.5.20.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Managers/supervisors of public assembly facil-
       ities will assign an individual during hours of operation to ensure a complete and orderly
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                      21


          evacuation of the building in an emergency condition. This individual will also promptly
          notify the Fire Protection Flight of any emergency condition.
          3.4.5.20.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Facility personnel will be designated to check
          exit doors daily prior to the entry of patrons to ensure the doors are unlocked and panic
          hardware is operational. Aisles leading to the exits must not be obstructed by tables, deco-
          rations, displays, partitions, portable seating, etc., at any time.
          3.4.5.20.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Closing inspections shall be conducted daily
          and documented on the DMAFB Facility Manager’s Checklist or local product.
          3.4.5.20.5. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The Fire Prevention Section will be notified
          prior to any major social event, activity, or concessionaire setup that involves temporary
          decorations or unusual interior arrangements. After notification, prior to the event, the Fire
          Protection Flight will inspect the facility/area to ensure all fire safety measures have been
          taken.
          3.4.5.20.6. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The maximum occupant load will be posted in
          the manager’s office and main exit of all rooms. Capacity or occupant load is not to exceed
          the standards set forth in NFPA Standard 101, Life Safety Code.
          3.4.5.20.7. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) For those places of public assembly that have
          commercial type cooking facilities, the following requirements apply:
             3.4.5.20.7.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) A minimum of one Class K-rated fire
             extinguisher will be located within 30 feet of deep fat fryers, but not located in such a
             position that it cannot be reached in the event of a fire.
             3.4.5.20.7.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Each deep fat fryer or cooking unit will be
             appropriately located under an exhaust hood protected by a fire suppression extin-
             guishing system.
             3.4.5.20.7.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Thermostats shall be tested annually, or as
             recommended by the manu-facturer, and after repair by civil engineering or contract
             personnel. The results shall be posted on the unit and in the 355 CES/CEFP Fire Pre-
             vention Section (FPA) Public Assembly Certifica-tion Guide.
             3.4.5.20.7.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Deep fat fryer units with either primary or
             secondary thermostatic controls out of service or calibration will not be placed in oper-
             ation until they have been repaired and certified by an electrical technician. Thermo-
             stats will be tested annually by the appropriate civil engineering shop or certified
             contract electrician. A letter or copy of the invoice stating the test results will be sent to
             the Fire Prevention Section and a certification tag will be affixed to the unit.
          3.4.5.20.8. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Cooking operations will cease whenever the
          exhausts fans are out of service or the filters are not in place. A back-up set of filters is
          required for continuous cooking operations.
          3.4.5.20.9. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Any occupancy classification used for the pur-
          pose of gathering or assembly shall be classified as public assembly and will be regulated
          as such.
22                     AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


       3.4.5.20.10. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Curtains and draperies must be flame resistant.
       The activity or individual installing curtains or draperies must be able to provide the Fire
       Protection Flight with a copy of the manufacturer's certification stating the fabric is flame
       resistant.
     3.4.5.21. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) DECORATIONS IN PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND
     RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES:
       3.4.5.21.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Only Underwriters Laboratory or Factory
       Mutual approved flame resistant decorations will be authorized. Hay, straw, cornstalks,
       sawdust, dry vines, celluloid, pine needles, camo netting, or readily combustible materials
       will not be used for decorative purposes unless an effective flame proofing treatment has
       been applied and annotated in the 355 CES/CEFP Fire Prevention Section (FPA) Public
       Assembly Certification Guide. Fire exits, fire doors, fire protection, and/or detection sys-
       tems, or electrical panels will not be obstructed by decorations.
       3.4.5.21.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Christmas lights will be in good condition with
       no splices or unauthorized repairs. Lights should be checked before use. Christmas tree
       lights will be unplugged when facility is vacant. Indoor lights will not be used as outdoor
       lights.
       3.4.5.21.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Lights for outdoor use will be in good condition,
       weatherproof and approved for outdoor use by the manufacturer.
       3.4.5.21.4. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) The use of live Christmas trees will be permitted
       upon approval of the Fire Prevention Section. Noncombustible (artificial) Christmas trees
       are authorized for use in base facilities. Note: This requirement does not apply to military
       family housing.
     3.4.5.22. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) APPOINTMENT AND WAIVER LETTERS :
       3.4.5.22.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Letters identifying blocked doors will be sub-
       mitted to 355 CES/CEFP for approval. Doors that are part of the egress system will not be
       blocked. Each request will be evaluated prior to approval. Each door that is approved to be
       blocked will be signed “DOOR BLOCKED” and visible to emergency responders.
       3.4.5.22.2. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Letters of waiver for hazardous conditions or
       deficiencies will not be approved by the Fire Protection Flight. Depending on the situation
       found, the operation may be suspended for an unspecified period of time and/or until the
       condition can be stabilized by eliminating the hazardous condition. All deficiencies will be
       programmed for correction and prioritized by the commander.
          3.4.5.22.2.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Letters will remain valid indefinitely or
          until the situation or condition changes; at that time these letters will become invalid
          and will need to be resubmitted. In some cases it may be deemed necessary by the fire
          prevention section that certain situations require letters to include an expiration date
          for continuing review.
       3.4.5.22.3. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Letters of appointment of facility managers
       must be sent to 355 CES/CEOEP and 355 CES/CEFP. This letter must include primary and
       alternate facility managers with duty and after duty hour contact numbers.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                    23


          3.4.5.23. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) CONFLICT IN GUIDANCE:
              3.4.5.23.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) When a conflict in guidance occurs, the more
              stringent directive will take precedence.
   3.5. Facility Fire Protection Systems. The appropriate civil engineer shop or contractor equivalent
   must inspect, test, repair, and maintain fire detection, water distribution, and suppression systems.
   3.6. Fire Protection System Impairments. Fire protection system impairments and systems
   out-of-service, to include water distribution systems, must be reported immediately to the Fire Alarm
   Communication Center (FACC). The appropriate civil engineer shop or contractor equivalent repairs
   and maintains fire suppression, fire alarm, fire detection and water distribution systems. The desig-
   nated civil engineer shop records all water distribution tests on AF Form 1027, Water Flow Test
   Record, or automated product, and provides copies of all water distribution tests to the fire chief.
   3.7. Fire Protection Engineering. The engineering flight or maintenance engineering element man-
   ages fire protection engineering requirements as prescribed by the current edition of
   MIL-HDBK-1008, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction. The fire
   chief provides consultation and design recommendations regarding fire fighting operational require-
   ments. The fire chief is not responsible for system design. The fire chief coordinates on design draw-
   ings to signify review and that fire fighting operational recommendations are incorporated. This
   coordination does not indicate fire protection engineering design acceptance.

4. Forms Prescribed . AF Forms 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record; 1027, Water
Flow Test Record; 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan; 1071, Inspection Maintenance Record; 1078, Fire
Truck and Equipment Test and Inspection Record; 1085, Fire Protection Training Report; and
1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report.



                                    JOHN W. HANDY, Lt General, USAF
                                    DCS/Installations & Logistics
24                            AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law
32.CFR Part 339, Medical Qualification Determination
29 CFR Part 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces
29 CFR Part 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response
44 CFR Part 151, Reimbursement for Costs of Firefighting on Federal Property
DoD Publications
DoDI 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
DoDI 6055.6-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program
DoDI 6055.6-M-1, DoD Standardized Emergency Medical Services Program
MIL-HDBK-1008, Fire Protection for Facilities Engineering, Design, and Construction
Air Force Publications
AFPD 32-20, Fire Protection
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities
AFI 21-112, Aircraft Egress and Escape Systems
AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response Compliance
AFI 36-801, Uniforms for Civilian Employees
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Personnel
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health Program
AFMAN 32-2003, Air Force Fire Fighter Certification Program
AFMAN 32-4004, Contingency Response Operations
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards
AFOSH 91-25, Confined Spaces
AFOSH 91-56, Fire Protection and Prevention
T.O. 35E1-2-13-1, Operation and Maintenance Instructions Crash Fire Rescue Training Facility
T.O. 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information
Manpower Standard 44EF, Fire Protection
Allowance Standard 019, Vehicle Fleet (Registered) All MAJCOM Common
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                              25


Allowance Standard 490, Civil Engineer Fire Protection Support and Aircraft Crash Rescue Equipment
Other
NFPA 472, Professional Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials Incidents
NFPA 1001, Standard for Firefighter Professional Qualifications
NFPA 1002, Fire Apparatus Driver/Operator Professional Qualifications
NFPA 1404, Fire Department Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus Program.
NFPA 1500, Fire Department Occupational Safety and Health Program
NFPA 1561, Fire Department Incident Management System
NFPA 1581, Fire Department Infection Control Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCESA—Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency
AFFF—Aqueous Film Forming Foam
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
AICUZ—Airfield Installation Compatibility Use Zone
ANG—Air National Guard
ARFF—Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
DFIRS—Department of Defense Fire Incident Reporting System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EMT-B—Emergency Medical Technician - Basic
EOSH—Environmental, Occupational Safety and Health
FACC—Fire Alarm Communication Center
FAD—Force Activity Designator
26                            AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPO—Fire Protection Office
GS-081—ire Protection and Prevention Series
HAZMAT—hazardous materials
HQ AFCESA/CEXF—Office of the Chief, Air Force Fire Protection
HQ USAF/ILE—The Civil Engineer
HQ USAF/ILEO—Chief, DCS/Installations & Logistics Operations and Maintenance Division
MAJCOM—Major Command (includes representative of the ANG)
MCF—Medical Care Facility
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
TO—Technical Order
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe

Terms
CerTest—CerTest is an interactive computer-based testing program designed to test, evaluate and certify
a student's knowledge of principles and procedures on job-related subjects.
DoD Component—USAF, USA, USN, USMC, and the Defense Logistics Agency
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association. A national organization that publishes national consensus
standards known as National Fire Codes.
Primary Aircraft Fire Fighting Vehicle—P-2, P-4, P-15, P-19, P-23, P-XX
Senior Fire Official—Fire Chief; Assistant Chief for Operations, Readiness and Logistics; Assistant
Chief for Operations; and Assistant Chief for Training.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                              27


                                Attachment 1 (DAVIS MONTHAN)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Publications
DoDI 6055.6, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program
(http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/i60556_101000/i60556p.pdf)
Air Force Publications
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Programs
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afi32-2001/afi32-2001.pdf)
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/32/afi32-9005/afi32-9005.pdf)
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/40/afi40-102/afi40-102.pdf)
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health Program
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/91/afi91-301/afi91-301.pdf)
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/91/afman91-201/afman91-201.pdf)
AFOSHSTD 91-5, Welding, Cutting, and Brazing
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/91/afoshstd91-5/afoshstd91-5.pdf)
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
(http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/91/afoshstd91-501/afoshstd91-501.pdf)
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding
(http://www.robins.af.mil/ti/tilta/documents/TechOrds/00-25-172.pdf)
Other
Note: NFPA Standards and the National Fire Codes are not available electronically; paper copies are
available for viewing at the Fire Prevention Office, bldg 4300, rm 222.
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
NFPA 51B, Welding and Cutting
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code
NFPA 99, Standard for Health Care Facilities
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code
28                           AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


NFPA 385, Standard for Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids
Fire Prevention Program Guide for Contractors
355 CES/CEFP Fire Prevention Section (FPA) Public Assembly Certification Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FACC—Fire Alarm Communication Center
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
TO—Technical Order

Terms
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association. A national organization that publishes national consensus
standards known as National Fire Codes.
Senior Fire Officer—Fire Chief; Assistant Chief for Operations, Readiness and Logistics; Assistant
Chief for Operations; and Assistant Chief for Training.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                    29


                                             Attachment 2

                                       TRAINING PROGRAM

A2.1. Background. The DoD Firefighter Certification System is designed to improve individual knowl-
edge, confidence, and performance reliability. It certifies a person’s competence performing specific
tasks and does not certify an individual's competence working as an integral part of a team. The profi-
ciency training program enhances a firefighter’s ability to work as a team member.

A2.2. Responsibilities. Fire chiefs are responsible for developing a proficiency training program for
each of the following requirements:
   A2.2.1. Firefighter certification program performance testing (see the applicable fire fighter career
   development courses to determine specific performance test requirements).
   A2.2.2. Fire department occupational safety and health program, in accordance with NFPA 1500,
   Chapter 3.
   A2.2.3. Structural fire fighting training evolutions (hands-on training, monthly).
   A2.2.4. Structural fire fighting tactics (classroom training, bimonthly).
   A2.2.5. Infectious disease control (NFPA 1581, Fire Department Infection Control Program).
   A2.2.6. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and emergency medical training. Train and certify all
   firefighters involved in fire ground operations to the first aid first responder level and in American
   Red Cross or American Heart Association CPR. Additionally, firefighters designated by the fire chief
   must be trained to the Emergency Medical Technician-Basic (EMT-B) level as defined in the 1994
   Department of Transportation National Standard Curriculum.
   A2.2.7. Self-contained breathing apparatus (NFPA 1404, Fire Department Self-Contained Breathing
   Apparatus Program). Additionally, every firefighter that performs fire fighting operations must
   watch the Spirolite 9030 Familiarization Videotape (Video # 612530) and take the corresponding
   CerTest computer-based exam (Test # 351) annually.
   A2.2.8. Incident management system (NFPA Standard 1561, the National Fire Academy’s Incident
   Command System, and AFMAN 32-4004).
   A2.2.9. Installation-specific explosive safety (AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards).
   A2.2.10. Confined-space rescue tailored to the installation’s mission requirements. (AFOSH 91-25,
   Confined Spaces and 29 CFR 1910.146, Permit-Required Confined Spaces).
   A2.2.11. Initial certification and annual hazardous materials emergency response refresher training
   (29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response, NFPA Standard 472, Pro-
   fessional Competence of Responders to Hazardous Materials Incidents, AFI 32-4002, and the CerTest
   Computer-Based Testing Procedural Guide).
   A2.2.12. Aircraft familiarization and hands-on egress training for transient and mission assigned air-
   craft:
       A2.2.12.1. Transient aircraft familiarization (frequency and aircraft requiring this training are
       determined by the fire chief).
30                               AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


        A2.2.12.2. Hands-on egress training for all mission assigned aircraft shall be conducted as often
        as necessary to maintain proficiency, but not less than twice each year.
     A2.2.13. Wildland fire fighting (fire chief establishes frequency).
     A2.2.14. Fire Alarm Communication Center operator training program (fire chief establishes fre-
     quency).
     A2.2.15. Aircraft live fire training (Aircraft live fire training shall be provided to all members as
     often as necessary to meet this requirement, but not less than twice each year). The fire chief will
     determine specific scenarios based on the following:
        A2.2.15.1. Engine fires (inboard, outboard, high tail, or running fuel).
        A2.2.15.2. Exterior (pool fires involving fuselage, right or left wing).
        A2.2.15.3. Interior (flight deck, cargo, or passenger compartments).
        A2.2.15.4. Miscellaneous fires (wheel well, battery compartment, or auxiliary power unit).
     A2.2.16. Apparatus driver operator training. Implement a continuous apparatus driver operator train-
     ing program to license all firefighters on assigned fire fighting apparatus. All driver operators must be
     licensed and DoD-certified (NFPA Standard 1002, Fire Apparatus Driver/Operator Professional
     Qualifications).
     A2.2.17. Petroleum, oil, and lubricant (POL) storage tank fire fighting. Include crude oil fire fighting
     tactics if there’s potential to respond to this type of incident both on and off base. (Frequency is
     annual.)
     A2.2.18. Aircraft egress and escape system familiarity (AFI 21-112, Aircraft Egress and Escape Sys-
     tems).
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                   31


                                              Attachment 3

                                 FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSES

A3.1. The fire chief will complete a report on all responses in accordance with the automated DoD Fire
Incident Reporting System requirements.
   A3.1.1. The MAJCOM or FOA Fire Protection Office up-channels information to HQ AFCESA/
   CEXF, DSN 523-6151/6152/6159/6214, using priority precedence, or commercial (850) 283-6151/
   6152/6159/6214, (after normal duty hours, 1600-0700 Central Standard Time (2200-1300 Zulu)), to
   call the 325th Fighter Wing command post, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5000, DSN 523-2155/2023, or
   commercial (850) 283-2155/2023 for fires or other emergency responses resulting in:
       A3.1.1.1. A loss of $25,000 or more to military family housing.
       A3.1.1.2. A loss of $100,000 or more.
       A3.1.1.3. Loss of life or disabling injury.
       A3.1.1.4. Adverse public reaction.
       A3.1.1.5. Mutual aid responses that are major.
   A3.1.2. HQ AFCESA/CEXF notifies HQ USAF/ILEO, DSN 664-3632 or 664-4747, for fire inci-
   dents of major impact. In turn, HQ USAF/ILEO will inform The Civil Engineer of significant fire
   incidents.

A3.2. Fire Incident Message Notification, RCS: HAF-ILE(AR)8102. This report is designated emer-
gency status code C-1. Continue reporting during emergency conditions, priority precedence. Submit
data requirements assigned this category as prescribed or by any means to ensure their arrival on the
established due date. Continue reporting during MINIMIZE.
   A3.2.1. Priority Message. The fire chief will send a priority message to HQ AFCESA/CEXF and the
   MAJCOM FPO within 12 hours after a fire or other emergency responses resulting in:
       A3.2.1.1. A loss of $25,000 or more to military family housing.
       A3.2.1.2. A loss of $100,000 or more.
       A3.2.1.3. An incident otherwise considered major.
       A3.2.1.4. Loss of life or disabling injury.
       A3.2.1.5. Adverse public reaction.
   A3.2.2. When an incident requires reporting by priority message, use the format in Figure A3.1.


Figure A3.1. Format for Fire Department Emergency Response Message Notification.


FROM: Installation or Activity
TO: HQ AFCESA TYNDALL AFB FL//CEXF//
32                        AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


     MAJCOM//FOA//FPO//


UNCLAS


SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE MESSAGE NOTIFICATION,
RCS: HAF-ILE (AR) 8102.


A. DATE, TIME, AND INCIDENT NUMBER.


B. BUILDING NUMBER OR AEROSPACE VEHICLE, TYPE, AND MODEL.


C. LOCATION OF INCIDENT (ON BASE, OFF BASE, DISTANCE).


D. OCCUPANCY OR USE.


E. PROPERTY DAMAGED.


F. NUMBER OF FATALITIES.


G. NUMBER AND EXTENT OF INJURIES (SPECIFY IF FIREFIGHTER OR OTHER
PERSONNEL).


H. PRELIMINARY AIR FORCE LOSS ESTIMATE.


I. PRELIMINARY NON-AIR FORCE LOSS ESTIMATE.


J. CAUSE OR MOST PROBABLE CAUSE.


K. SHORT SUMMARY OF INCIDENT.


L. MISSION IMPACT.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003   33


M. COGNIZANT OFFICIAL AND TELEPHONE NUMBER.
34                              AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                               Attachment 4

AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTIONAND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
                      INCIDENT RESPONSE (US)
This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 19XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD Component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856(a) and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention and hazardous materials incident
response, in the protection of life and property from fire, hazardous materials incident and in fire fighting.
It is agreed that:


   a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a representative
of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which the (insert name of
fire organization) normally provides fire protection or hazardous materials incident response as desig-
nated by the representatives of the (insert name of fire organization).


    b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
(insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment or hazardous materials incident
response and personnel of the (insert name of fire organization) will be dispatched to any point within the
fire fighting or hazardous materials incident response jurisdiction of the (insert name of installation) fire
department as designated by the representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department.


   c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following con-
ditions:


      (1) Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equipment
and personnel requested and shall specify the location to which the equipment and personnel are to be dis-
patched, but the amount and type of equipment and the number of personnel to be furnished shall be deter-
mined by a representative of the responding organization.


       (2) The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting organization
at the location to which the equipment is dispatched, and shall be subject to the orders of that official.


      (3) A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the services of
the responding organization are no longer required or when the responding organization is needed within
the area for which it normally provides fire protection.


      (4) In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military aircraft
of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                             35


fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or his or her representative
may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.


   d. (Insert name of fire service) may claim reimbursement for the direct expenses and losses that are
additional fire fighting or hazardous materials incident costs above the normal operating costs incurred
while fighting a fire or hazardous materials incident response under this agreement as provided in 44 CFR
Part 151, Reimbursement for Costs of Firefighting on Federal Property.


   e. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement. This provision
does not waive any right of reimbursement pursuant to paragraph d above.


    f. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will, at the
time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of fire organization)
under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or volunteer member of (insert name
of fire organization).


For (insert name of fire organization);           For the Secretary of the (insert name of DoD Component)


           (TITLE)                                             (COMMANDER)
36                               AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                                Attachment 5

      SAMPLE FORMAT FOR AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL AID IN FIRE PROTECTION
                               (FOREIGN)
NOTE: In some overseas locations, the requirements listed in this mutual aid agreement may need to be
incorporated in a Memorandum of Understanding in lieu of using this format.


This agreement, entered into this XX day of XXX 19XX, between the Secretary of the (insert name of
DoD component) acting pursuant to the authority of 42 U.S.C. 1856(a) and (insert name of fire organiza-
tion) is for securing to each the benefits of mutual aid in fire prevention, in the protection of life and prop-
erty from fire, and in fire fighting. It is agreed that:
   a. On request to a representative of the (insert name of installation) fire department by a representative
of the (insert name of fire organization), fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
installation) fire department will be dispatched to any point within the area for which the (insert name of
fire organization) normally provides fire protection as designated by the representative of the (insert name
of fire organization).
    b. On request to a representative of the (insert name of fire organization) by a representative of the
(insert name of installation) fire department, fire fighting equipment and personnel of the (insert name of
fire organization) will be dispatched to any point within the fire fighting jurisdiction of the (insert name of
installation) fire department as designated by the representative of the (insert name of installation) fire
department.
   c. Any dispatch of equipment and personnel pursuant to this agreement is subject to the following con-
ditions:
      (1) Any request for aid hereunder shall include a statement of the amount and type of equipment
and personnel requested, and shall specify the location to which the equipment and personnel are to be
dispatched, but the amount and type of equipment and number of personnel to be furnished shall be deter-
mined by a representative of the responding organization.
       (2) The responding organization shall report to the officer in charge of the requesting organization
at the location to which the equipment is dispatched and shall be subject to the orders of that official.
      (3) A responding organization shall be released by the requesting organization when the services of
the responding organization are no longer required, or when the responding organization is needed within
the area for which it normally provides fire protection.
       (4) In the event of a crash of an aircraft owned or operated by the United States or military aircraft
of any foreign nation within the area for which the (insert name of fire organization) normally provides
fire protection, the chief of the (insert name of installation) fire department or his or her representative
may assume full command on arrival at the scene of the crash.
   d. Each party waives all claims against every other party for compensation for any loss, damage, per-
sonal injury, or death occurring as a consequence of the performance of this agreement.
     e. No party shall be reimbursed by any other party for any costs incurred pursuant to this agreement.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                                                      37


    f. All equipment used by (insert name of fire organization) in carrying out this agreement will, at the
time of action hereunder, be owned by it; and all personnel acting for (insert name of fire organization)
under this agreement will, at the time of such action, be an employee or volunteer member of (insert name
of fire organization).


For (insert name of fire organization);        For the Secretary of the (insert name of DoD Component)




          (TITLE)                                                (COMMANDER)
38                              AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                                               Attachment 6

      RELEASE OF CLAIMS AND INDEMNIFICATION CLAUSE FOR CIVIL AIRPORT
                          JOINT-USE AGREEMENTS
(Insert Name of Airport Operator) agrees to release, acquit, and forever discharge the United States, its
officers, agents, and employees, for all liability arising out of or connected with the use of United States
equipment or personnel for fire control, crash, and rescue activities at or in the vicinity of (insert name of
airport), and (insert name of airport operator) further agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
United States, its officers, agents, and employees against any and all claims, of whatever description, aris-
ing out of or connected with such use of United States equipment or personnel. The agreements contained
in the preceding sentence do not extend to claims arising out of or connected with services rendered solely
for the protection of United States property or personnel, or to claims for damages caused solely by the
negligence or willful misconduct of its officers, agents, or employees of the United States, without con-
tributory fault on the part of any person, firm, or corporation; provided, however, that insofar as this para-
graph may be inconsistent with the waiver or claims provisions contained in any reciprocal agreement for
mutual aid in furnishing fire protection heretofore or hereafter entered into by the lessor with any agency
of the United States pursuant to Public Law 84-46 (42 U.S.C. 1856, et seq.), the rights and obligations of
the parties shall be governed by said waiver of claims provision and not by this paragraph.
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003   39


                              Attachment 7

                 SAMPLE CONSOLIDATED MAJCOM METRIC


MAJCOM NFPA 1500 COMPLIANCE SUMMARY BY CHAPTER
40                             AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                             Attachment 8 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)

                    DMAFB FACILITY MANAGER’S CLOSING CHECKLIST

A8.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) ) All Assembly Occupancies
The following is a guide for the proper closing procedures of public assembly facilities and other build-
ings as determined by the Fire Prevention Section. Closing requirements are directed as per AFOSH
91-501 para. 6.2.1.2. and 6.2.1.3. Use this checklist at the end of each duty day to ensure compliance and
track results on attached form. If you have any questions, contact the Fire Prevention Section at 228-6025.
______ All kitchen equipment switches are in the off position.
______ Installed grease filters and range hoods have been cleaned.
______ Non-essential portable electrical devices are in the off position and unplugged.
______ Non-essential heating devices are in the off position.
______ All cushions in chairs and sofas have been inspected for smoking materials. (If
applicable)
______ Smoking materials are disposed of in approved metal containers with self-closing lids.
______ Trash receptacles are emptied into outside dumpsters.
______ Soiled rags are removed from building or kept in a metal container with self-closing
cover.
______ Flammable materials are removed from building or property stored in flammable
cabinets.
______ All unnecessary lighting is turned off.
______ All exit doors are properly secured
______ Ensure Closing Inspection Log is annotated. Fire Prevention will check during
inspections.
Date: ________________ Name: _________________________________
*355 CES/CEFP “Fire Prevention Section” 228-6025
AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003                       41


                           Attachment 9 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)

                       FACILITY MANAGERS CLOSING CHECKLIST

Figure A9.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) Facility Managers Closing Checklist
Tracking Log 2003




*Tracking Log to be maintained in the Facility Manager Binder
*355 CES/CEFP “Fire Prevention Section” 228-6025
42                    AFI32-2001_DAVISMONTHANAFBSUP1_I 22 SEPTEMBER 2003


                    Attachment 10 (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN)

                   DAVIS-MONTHAN FIRE PREVENTION
                MONTHLY FACILITY FIRE EXTINGUISHER LOG

Figure A10.1. (Added-DAVIS MONTHAN) ) DAVIS-MONTHAN FIRE PREVENTION
MONTHLY FACILITY FIRE EXTINGUISHER LOG
