BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-807
HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               HILL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                          Supplement
                                                                                             14 JULY 2009
                                                                                Certified Current, 30 June 2011
                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                   WEEKLY AND DAILY SCHEDULING OF WORK
                                                              AND HOLIDAY OBSERVANCES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: OO-ALC/DPCEE                                      Certified by: OO-ALC/DPC (Daniel K. Robinett)
Supersedes: AFI 36-807, OO-ALC-HAFB                                                        Pages: 5
            Supplement 1, 24 Nov 98


AFI 36-807, 21 June 1999, is supplemented as follows:

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers.
2.15. (Added) Night Work. Work performed between the hours of 1800 and 0600 the following day.
2.16. (Added) Standard Day Shifts for General Schedule (GS) and National Security Personnel System
(NSPS). Standard day shifts begin between 0600 and 0800.
2.17. (Added) Standard Graveyard Shifts. Graveyard shifts commencing at 0000 hours begin the day
for work scheduling purposes and for determining the holiday or the day observed in lieu of the holiday.
2.18. (Added) Irregular Shifts. Exceptions to standard established shifts to provide accomplishment of
unusual workload requirements. Irregular shifts may or may not involve uncommon tours.
2.19. (Added) Intermittent. Work which is done on an irregular basis because it is not feasible to
establish a prearranged (regularly scheduled) tour of duty.
2.20. (Added) Summer Aid. Excepted service employment during the summer season. Normally
accomplished by Wage Grade (WG) employees.
 2                                                          AFI36-807_HILLAFBSUP 14 JULY 2009


2.21. (Added) Sunday Work. All work performed during a regularly scheduled tour of duty within a
basic workweek when any part of that work is performed on Sunday. (This could include 2 tours.)
2.22. (Added) Overtime Work. Hours of work that are officially ordered in advance and in excess of
eight hours in a day or 40 hours in a week. NOTE: Overtime work for compressed work schedules is
all hours in excess of the established compressed work schedule.
3.2.Approving authority for AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
Compensatory Time, is delegated to commanders, directors, and chiefs of staff offices. This approval
may be further delegated in writing to branch/squadron or equivalent management level. Directors,
commanders and chiefs of staff offices are responsible for ensuring the overtime or compensatory time
that an employee works in a pay period does not exceed the maximum salary limitation. NOTE:
Overtime work must be ordered by the appropriate supervisor and approved in writing by the official
designated to authorize overtime payment. Since overtime approval constitutes authority for the
expenditure of funds and certification that overtime funds are available, approval must be obtained
before the work is performed except in an emergency when it must be made a matter of record no later
than the following workday. Work performed by an employee outside his regularly scheduled tour of
duty without official authorization or approval cannot be the basis for overtime pay under provisions of
Title 5 of the US Code.
4.1.Submit requests on Hill AFB Form 397, Request for Rearrangement of Workweek for Educational
Purposes, through Directorate, Wing, or Staff Office to the Civilian Personnel Office (OO-
ALC/DPCEE) for approval. If any level of management does not concur with the employee's request,
document the reasons for the non-concurrence. Do not honor requests if the class is available during
non-duty hours. If the employee begins a course before obtaining approval, annual leave or leave
without pay must be used until the request is approved, or if the request is disapproved, for the
remainder of the course. OO-ALC/DPCEE makes a copy of Hill AFB Form 397 to retain in their files, a
copy is returned to the requesting organization, and the original is forwarded to Customer Support
Branch (OO-ALC/FMFS).
4.3.The aggregate period of rest will not exceed ten minutes during each four hours of continuous work.
Employees not granted a fixed rest period may be authorized to consume refreshments at their desk or
place of work providing the total time used does not exceed that authorized for fixed rest periods.
Supervisors will ensure that all employees are aware of the organizational policy on times for rest
periods and the availability of refreshments, the prime purpose of rest periods and breaks is observed,
and rest periods are not reported as overtime worked.
4.4 All civilian employees will observe a 30-minute, 45-minute, or 60-minute lunch, except those
authorized a 20-minute on-the-job lunch. On a regular workday the lunch period may begin no earlier
than three hours after the start of the shift and no later than six hours after the start of the shift.
4.4.2.Organizations request 20-minute on-the-job lunches using Hill AFB Form 173, Request for
Uncommon Tour of Duty/Irregular or Night Shift, justifying why lunch cannot be scheduled and how
production will increase. If approved, OO-ALC/DPCEE makes a copy of the Hill AFB Form 173 to
retain in their files, a copy is returned to the requesting organization, and the original is forwarded to
OO-ALC/FMFS. Where around-the-clock coverage exists and there are insufficient machines, vehicles,
facilities, or other equipment to allow for an overlap of personnel during the shift change, authorize on-
the-job lunch for only those employees affected. Normally, do not request an on-the-job lunch for
supervisors of such employees.
4.4.3. (Added) Lunch Periods During Overtime Work. Schedule a non-compensable meal period of
30-minutes when more than four overtime hours are approved before or after an employee's basic
AFI36-807_HILLAFBSUP 14 JULY 2009                                                                      3


assigned shift and when more than five overtime hours are approved for a day outside the employee's
basic workweek. Do not report lunch periods as overtime worked. If the supervisor determines that
taking a lunch period is not in the interest of the employee or work production, no lunch period may be
authorized. When the supervisor approves the omission of the lunch period, annotate the time and
attendance report.
4.5.Office and clerical personnel are expected to work until the end of the shift and are not allowed a
cleanup period. Allow employees required to wear special government furnished clothing a reasonable
amount of official time at the end of the shift for the changing of the special clothing. Determine the
amount of official time allowed by the lowest practicable level of supervision based on specific
circumstances. Five minutes official time will usually be sufficient to meet requirements of cleanup or
changing of government furnished clothing. However, additional time may be necessary based on
management requirements.
4.6. (Added) Irregular Shifts. The number of irregular shifts should be held to an absolute minimum
consistent with operating requirements. Operating activities will maintain justification and approval of
irregular shifts for review by local or higher headquarters officials. Destroy documentation according to
applicable publications. Avoid shifts beginning before midnight Saturday or Sunday or shifts extending
just beyond midnight Saturday. These shifts entitle employees to 25 percent Sunday premium pay for
the entire shift although the major portion does not fall on Sunday. Double Sunday premium pay (two
shifts involving Sunday premium pay in the same workweek) may be payable when the employee works
two shifts that fall within the 24-hour period on Sunday.
4.6.1. (Added) Commanders, directors, staff officers, or commanders of tenant organizations (except
419 Fighter Wing (419 FW)) are delegated the authority to approve irregular shifts . This authority
cannot be re-delegated. The approving official will review and document shifts established under this
authority once every two years as a minimum. Supervisors with bargaining unit employees should
check with their Labor Relations Specialist to ensure any bargaining obligations are met before making
changes to shifts.
4.6.2. (Added) Irregular shifts for 419 FW will be processed in accordance with applicable HQ AFRC
publications using Hill AFB Form 173. Forward copy of the approval to OO-ALC/DPCEE.
4.6.3. (Added) Requirements for irregular shifts, exceptions to standard shifts, split hours during one
shift, or two or more shifts within one basic workweek, are requested on Hill AFB Form 173. Requests
are routed through the appropriate commander, director, or staff officers, to OO-ALC/DPCEE before the
requested effective date to ensure proper approval and notice period.
4.7. (Added) Uncommon Tours of Duty. Operating activities will obtain approval and maintain
justification of uncommon tours of duty as outlined for irregular shifts above.
4.8. (Added) Part-time Employment. Changes in part-time tours of duty require coordination with
Civilian Personnel Staffing Office (OO-ALC/DPCF).
4.9. (Added) Summer Aids. Do not schedule these employees to work hours or shifts that involve
uncommon tours, irregular shifts, or shifts that require night differential, holiday premium pay, or
Sunday premium pay. If such tours can be justified and are required for the mission, approval must be
obtained from the director or commander. If approved and otherwise entitled, holiday, overtime, shift
differential, and Sunday premium pay is authorized. Observe the following additional restrictions if the
employee is under 18 years of age:
4.9.1. (Added) Do not permit the minor to work between 2200 and 0600 hours. Arrange for the safety
and welfare of minors working between 1800 and 2200.
 4                                                           AFI36-807_HILLAFBSUP 14 JULY 2009


4.9.2. (Added) Do not permit the minor to work more than six consecutive days in an administrative
workweek or more than eight hours per day.
4.9.3. (Added) Provide adequate rest and free-time meal periods. Twenty-minute on-the-job lunch
periods are not authorized.
4.10. (Added) Standby Duty. Standby duty may be ordered or directed only if it is covered by a
compensation plan or if such duty is scheduled within the employee's regular tour of duty. The duties to
be performed during the standby period must be included in the position description and standby time
must be a condition of employment. Take appropriate disciplinary action in cases of nonperformance.
4.11. (Added) Assignment of Tours of Duty. Supervisors should try to work out satisfactory shift
arrangements within normal assigned tours for employees requesting an exception to the order of
rotation or to their assigned shift who are:
4.11.1 (Added) Members of National Guard or active reserve units of the Armed Forces so that they
can attend National Guard/Armed Forces Reserve meetings. If scheduled tours of duty conflicts with
such meetings, employees will submit a written request to the immediate supervisor stating that they are
members of the National Guard or reserve, provide the schedule of meetings, indicate the shift
adjustment requested, and the period the change is required.
4.11.2. (Added) Attempting to gain further education to improve ability on the job or to advance
themselves through off-the-job training. This does not include training authorized by AFI 36-401,
Employee Training and Development, or rearrangement of workweek for educational purposes.
Employees desiring shift adjustment within normal established tours will submit a written request to
their immediate supervisor stating that they are enrolled in school, provide the schedule of classes, total
hours to be taken, and the shift adjustment requested to meet the schedule. To avoid possible adverse
impact upon the performance of duties, the school schedule should not exceed one-half of a normal full-
time student load.
6. (Added) Time on Official Travel. To the maximum extent possible, supervisors should schedule
travel within an employee's regularly scheduled workweek. (See HILLAFBPAM 36-1, Rates of Special
Pay, for clarification of overtime payment in travel status).
7. (Added) Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
7.1. (Added) Prescribed Forms.
HAFB Form 173, Request for Uncommon Tour of Duty/Irregular or Night Shift
HAFB Form 397, Request for Rearrangement of Workweek for Education Purposes
7.2. (Added) Adopted Forms.
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time



       KATHLEEN D. CLOSE, MajGen, USAF
       Commander, OO-ALC
AFI36-807_HILLAFBSUP 14 JULY 2009                                5


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
HILLAFBPAM 36-1, Rates of Special Pay, 12 November 1998
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DPCEE—Labor & Employee Relations Office
DPCF—Civilian Personnel Staffing Office
FMFS—Customer Support Branch
GS—General Schedule
HQ AFRC—Head Quarters Air Force Reserve Center
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OO—ALC – Ogden Air Logistics Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WG—Wage Grade
FW—419th Fighter Wing
