BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-204
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                               RANDOLPH AFB SUPPLEMENT

                                                                             5 NOVEMBER 2008

                                                                                           Security

                                  AIR FORCE MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 SFS/S5R                            Certified by: 12 MSG/CD (Mr. Parkinson)
Supersedes AFI31-204_RANDOLPHAFB SUP, 1 February 2006                   Pages: 23

This publication implements and extends the guidance in AFI 31-204, 14 July 2000, and AETC
Supplement 1, 1 May 2003. This supplement assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures
for motor vehicle traffic supervision and parking for Randolph AFB. This includes, but is not
limited to, granting, suspending, or revoking the privilege to operate a privately owned vehicle
(POV), registration of POVs, administration of vehicle registration, registration of carryall
vehicles, and police traffic supervision. It is applicable to all personnel assigned and/or attached
to Randolph AFB, including US Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard members while on
extended duty, and all persons who operate motor vehicles on Randolph AFB. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61/afrims/afrims.

This publication is issued as directed by the installation commander IAW the Internal Security
Act, 1950, (50. (50 United States Code [U.S.C.] 797). This instruction requires the collection
and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by title 10,
U.S.C., Section 8013. System of records notices F031 AF SP C, Complaint/Incident Reports;
F031 AF SP K, Vehicle Administration Records; F031 AF SP L, Traffic Accident and Violation
Reports; and F031 AF SP O, Documentation for Identification and Entry Authority, apply. The
authority to collect social security numbers (SSAN) is title 5, U.S.C., section 552a, and
Executive Order 9397.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The following changes have been made: requirement for motorcycle operators to register their
motorcycles no longer needed (paragraph 3.1.5.); personal protective equipment for motorcycles
and ATV operators clarified (paragraph A3.10.8.); the use of retro-reflective vests/jackets by
individuals who are exposed to traffic hazards are explained (paragraph A3.19.17.); the
2                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                       5 NOVEMBER 2008

requirement for jogger/pedestrians to remove headsets while traversing the South Cross is added
(paragraph A3.19.9.); and added the following: vehicle operators on Randolph AFB, POV or
GOV, cannot use a cell phone unless the vehicle is safely parked or they use a hands-free device
(paragraph A3.18.).

1.2.4. For the purpose of this regulation, “installation commander” is the 12th Flying Training
Wing Commander (12 FTW/CC).

1.3. Delegation of Authority. The 12th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander
(12 MSG/CD) is designated to handle all matters pertaining to traffic on behalf of the
12 FTW/CC. Unit commanders may sign suspension or revocation letters that outline a
suspension or revocation dictated by 12 MSG/CD if the letter is addressed to members assigned
to their unit. Unit commanders are delegated the authority to suspend or revoke government
driving privileges for intoxicated offenses and other driver behavior. The 12th Security Forces
Squadron Reports and Analysis Section (12 SFS/S5R) must be notified, in writing, of any
suspension or revocation action taken by a unit commander as soon as the action is completed so
driving records can be updated as applicable.

2.1.1.2. A person on active duty in the United States Armed Forces who is in possession of a
license issued in a foreign country by the United States Armed Forces (international drivers
license) may operate a motor vehicle using that license for a period of no more than 90 days from
the date that person returns to the United States. Civilians are only authorized use of an
international drivers license for a period of 30 days after that person returns to the United States.

2.3. Implied Consent. 12 SFS personnel will obtain driver's consent for evidential tests via
Randolph AFB Form 23, Implied Consent Policy Briefing.

2.4.1. All POVs on Randolph AFB are subject to removal and temporary impoundment if they
are parked illegally for an unreasonable amount of time (over 3 consecutive days), disabled by an
accident, left unattended in a restricted or controlled area, or abandoned (see Attachment 4, Base
Traffic Code, paragraph A4.9.). The registrant agrees to reimburse the United States
Government for the cost of towing and storage should the vehicle(s), because of such
circumstances, be removed or impounded.

2.5.1.3. Preliminary suspension letters pre-signed by the 12 MSG/CD for intoxicated driving
offenses will be prepared and issued to the violator by an on-duty security forces member at the
time of the apprehension/detention.

2.5.2.2. For any individual departing Randolph AFB regardless of service component, all
revocation, suspension, and driving records will be forwarded by 12 SFS/S5R to the gaining
security forces reports and analysis section on reassignment.

2.6.1. For individuals reassigned to Randolph AFB with preexisting driving records from the
losing installation regardless of service component, a copy of each suspension or revocation letter
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008                            3

will be sent to the individual’s unit commander, and any driving record will be entered into
Security Forces Management Information System by 12 SFS/S5R.

2.7.1. For the offense of intoxicated driving, there will be an immediate suspension or
revocation of driving privileges. For other offenses, suspension or revocation of driving
privileges will not become effective until the individual being suspended or revoked is notified or
10 days after the date of the notification letter. A written request for an administrative hearing
must be received within 10 calendar days after the written notice of suspension or revocation is
received. Hearing requests will be addressed, in writing, to the 12 MSG/CD. Failure to submit a
written request for a hearing within the prescribed 10 calendar days waives the right to a hearing.
All hearing requests will be coordinated with and reviewed by 12 FTW/JA. An appeal or request
for reconsideration can be made within 10 duty calendar days after the results of the initial
hearing are given to the individual concerned.

2.7.2.1. The appointed traffic magistrate (12 MSG/CD) or designated official acting in the
capacity of the traffic magistrate in the absence of the 12 MSG/CD will conduct evidence
reviews no later than 3 days following the final assembly of evidence.

2.7.2.2. All preliminary suspensions of driving privileges for intoxicated driving are issued to
the offender at the time of detainment/apprehension by security forces. If the individual is active
duty or base affiliated, a copy of the preliminary suspension of driving privileges will be
forwarded to the individual’s commander by 12 SFS/S5R.

2.8.1. Individuals who have driving privileges revoked for intoxicated driving or refusal to
submit to a test to measure blood/breath-alcohol content or determine the presence of drugs must
undergo mandatory training from the life skills flight. For civilians, there are two options;
training is provided by 12 MDOS/SGOH or off-base organizations. The driving privileges for
personnel will remain revoked until the training has been completed. The unit commander or the
12 MDOS/SGOH will notify 12 SFS/S5R when the training has been completed. The
12 MDOS/SGOH will be provided a copy of all reports on request that reflect drug/alcohol
involvement. This serves to ensure coordination of appropriate action with unit commanders.

2.10.2. The traffic magistrate will consider requests for restricted driving privileges. Requests
may be made at any time. Requests will be submitted, in writing, to 12 MSG/CD through the
individual's unit commander and 12 SFS/S5R. The individual's request must include specific
reasons for restricted privileges that would justify modification of the suspension or revocation.
The request must also include endorsements from the requester’s commander. The 12 FTW/JA
will review all requests and provide a recommendation to the traffic magistrate for or against
modifications to a suspension or revocation of driving privileges. The 12 SFS/S5R will notify
the individual’s first sergeant or commander of the decision. The individual's first sergeant or a
member of the unit designated by the first sergeant or commander will accompany the individual
to 12 SFS/S5R to acknowledge receipt of the action prior to any modifications becoming valid.
The original suspension or revocation remains in effect until the updated letter is signed by the
individual and on file with 12 SFS/S5R.
4                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      5 NOVEMBER 2008

2.12.1. The 12 SFS/S5R will act on all written reports or Texas Law Enforcement Terminal
System printouts of suspensions or revocations imposed by the state. Suspensions or revocations
will be the same effective date as the off-base offense.

2.12.1.1.2. For intoxicated driving offenses, refusal to submit to a blood alcohol content (BAC)
test will result in the revocation of an individual’s driving privileges for 1 year or more. A state
notification letter will be sent to the licensing authority of the state where the individual is
licensed. This notification will include the individual’s BAC if applicable/ available.

2.13. (Added-Randolph AFB) Reinstatement of Driving Privileges. Unit commanders must
ensure all prerequisites for driving on Randolph AFB have been met prior to reinstatement of
driving privileges and contact 12 SFS/S5R on completion. These prerequisites may include, but
are not limited to:

2.13.1. (Added-Randolph AFB)          Proof of current insurance or financial responsibility as
required by the Texas Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act.

2.13.2. (Added-Randolph AFB)         Current registration and safety inspection sticker.

2.13.3. (Added-Randolph AFB)           Completion of a driver’s improvement program and/or
alcohol/drug counseling program if applicable.

2.13.4. (Added-Randolph AFB)         A valid driver’s license

2.14. (Added-Randolph AFB) Driver Improvement and Rehabilitation Course. This course
is intended as a driver’s skill improvement and traffic offender rehabilitation course.
Commanders are encouraged, as a minimum, to make this course mandatory for personnel
(military or base civilian employees) convicted of serious moving traffic violations or who have
been determined to be at fault in a traffic accident involving a government motor vehicle.
Commanders are strongly encouraged to refer personnel if identified, by whatever means, as
exercising poor judgment in driving, or failing to apply lessons learned from other traffic safety
courses.

3.1.1.1. Family members of legal age may register a motor vehicle they own or have in their
custody; however, the sponsor’s address and SSAN will be annotated on AF Form 533,
Certificate of Compliance-Private Motor Vehicle Registration.

3.1.4. Newly assigned personnel inprocessing with a DD Form 2220, Vehicle Decal, DoD
Registered, from another installation must register their motor vehicle at the Visitor Reception
Center (VRC), Building 1021, within 10 working days of arrival on Randolph AFB.

3.1.5. AF Form 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass, serve as an identification and registration means to
control personnel and vehicles in a temporary status.         During duty hours, refer all
visitors/vehicles requiring an AF Form 75 to the VRC from 0700-1600 hours. After VRC duty
hours, the main gate will issue AF Form 75 for a maximum of 72 hours unless otherwise directed
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008                             5

by 12 SFS/S3. The main gate is the only gate that will issue AF Form 75 unless otherwise
directed by 12 SFS/S3. Vehicle registration is no longer required on AF installations.
Motorcycle operators who would like to be issued a base decal for their motorcycle, need to go to
Wing Safety (12 FTW/SEG) between the hours of 0730-1630 hours.

3.1.5.1.4. AF Form 75 is not required to be turned in after visit completion on Randolph AFB.

3.1.7. (Added-Randolph AFB)               Organizations with 250 or more personnel assigned are
authorized to register their employees’ motor vehicles. The retiree affairs office is authorized to
register vehicles of retirees and their family members. The VRC (12 SFS/S5B) is the registration
agent for all other installation activities. AF Form 533 is accomplished by registration
coordinators and forwarded to 12 SFS/S5B within 3 working days.

3.3.1. Designated official will be a senior Airman to chief master sergeant. For civilians, it will
be a GS-4 or above. Furthermore, the installation CSF may appoint, in writing, other military
personnel and civilian employees in a unit regardless of grade or rank for mission completion.

3.3.2. Issuing officials will be trained by 12 SFS/S5B and be the only individuals authorized
access to the decals and registrants information. Issuing officials are responsible for:

3.3.2.1. Receipt and accountability for DD Forms 2220.

3.3.2.2. Receipt and accountability for AF Forms 2219, Registered Vehicle Expiration.

3.3.2.3. Ensuring AF Form 533 is filled out correctly whenever a decal is issued.

3.3.2.4. Ensuring a tracking form is maintained in the unit to account for decals.

3.3.2.5. Ensuring AF Forms 533 are sent to 12 SFS/S5B within 3 days of completion.

3.3.3. A unit commander may submit a written request to establish a vehicle registration account
to 12 SFS/CSF through 12 SFS/S5B. The requesting commander will include in their request:

3.3.3.1. A primary and alternate registration coordinator.

3.3.3.2. DD Form 577, Signature Card, or a signature sample letter for each appointed official.

3.4.2.6. (Added-Randolph AFB) Immediate family members of deceased military members
are issued the color-coded installation tab that corresponds with the sponsor’s rank at the time of
death or retirement.

3.4.2.7. (Added-Randolph AFB) Divorced family members who were married for 20 years or
more may have installation privileges, and be issued the color-coded installation tab that
correlates with their ex-sponsor's rank at the time of the divorce.
6                      AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      5 NOVEMBER 2008

3.4.4. For motor vehicles registered at Randolph AFB, DD Form 2220, AF Form 2219, and the
installation tab are placed on the outside at the top center of the windshield above the rearview
mirror. Decals will not be affixed to removable devices like mounting plates or magnetic strips.
The exception is general officers are authorized a non-affixed decal.

3.5.7. Prior to departing PCS, registrants will deregister their vehicle(s) through the VRC.

3.5.8. (Added-Randolph AFB) To relieve the registrant of responsibility in the event of theft
of the vehicle or destruction of DD Form 2220, the registrant must notify the VRC
(12 SFS/S5B), in person, in writing, or by telephone, and furnish the registration number on the
decal.

4.2.5.1. The Texas Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, T.C. section 47021-7241064;
and V.C.S. 6701d, section 105-187, relating to motor vehicles applies to Randolph AFB when it
does not conflict with this or other directives. It will be assimilated in any situation, incident, or
violation not specifically covered under existing policy. Attachment 4 to this supplement
outlines the base traffic code, and is applicable to all motor vehicles, nonmotorized vehicles, and
pedestrian traffic on Randolph AFB.

4.2.6. Privately owned off-road vehicles are not authorized on Randolph AFB.

4.2.6.1. Government Owned Recreational Motor Vehicles (RMV). Also known as Other
Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVC). These are vehicles that do not meet the
definition of GMV, GVOS, ATVs, Motorcycles, or Low –speed Vehicles, and are not in full
compliance with FMVSS for highway use vehicles. Typically, but not exclusively, these are
utility carts, agricultural carts, golf carts, fleet golf cars, Gators, speed modified golf carts, and
self-balancing or similar standing human transportation devices. These vehicles are prohibited
on installation public access roadways unless authorized by the installation commanders by type,
safety design requirements, and authorized operating areas. Additional related requirements are
located in AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. Using organizations will complete an ORM
evaluation to authorize use of these vehicles in traffic, industrial, or pedestrian environment. The
approving official is 12 MSG/CD

4.4.2.2. Security forces personnel will be certified as radar operators. The training will be
annotated in the trainee’s AF Form 623, Individual Training Record. Personnel will be trained
IAW state requirements. In the absence of any state requirements, 12 SFS personnel can be
trained and certified by an approved local radar program IAW AFI 31-204. Recertification of
operators will occur every 3 years or when otherwise deemed necessary.

4.5.2. Notify 12 SFS, 12 FTW/SEG, and the base motor pool immediately of all accidents
involving government-owned or leased vehicles (on or off base). Military personnel involved in
an accident off base that results in injury or damage to government property will report the
accident to 12 SFS immediately. All accidents occurring off base fitting the above criteria will
also be immediately reported to the local police.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008                             7

4.6.1. 12 MSG/CC, 12 MSG/CD, 12 SFS/CC, 12 SFS/SFM, 12 SFS/S3O, squadron CC and
CCF, alert photo, 12 FTW/SE, and WCP will be notified of all major accidents. All notifications
are made IAW 12 SFS incident reporting and notification matrix, or as directed by 12 SFS/S3O.

4.6.3.6. Randolph Form 35, Minor Accident Worksheet; SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report;
and DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, will be used to document minor government
motor vehicle accidents. 12 SFS does not investigate minor motor vehicle accidents or offer
opinions as to fault, but will respond to assist involved parties in exchanging information. Minor
accidents involving POVs are reported by utilizing the 12 SFS E-Cop online reporting system.
Online reporting may be accomplished at the law enforcement desk or through the Randolph
intranet.

4.6.4. Property damage up to $9,999.99 will be classified as a minor vehicle accident. Property
damage of $10,000.00 or more will be classified as a major vehicle accident. A detailed major
accident investigation will be conducted at the direction of the on-duty security forces flight
sergeant if the accident is classified as a major vehicle accident. Major vehicle accidents are
accidents involving disabling damage, damage exceeding set property values, fatality, injury, or
circumstances of the accident are unusual or difficult to explain.

4.7.1. Trend analysis of criminal activity and accidents will be conducted quarterly or as needed.
This information is distributed as widely as possible. The Resource Protection Program manager
utilizes this data at Force Protection Council meetings (second/fourth quarters of calendar year).

4.7.2. Security forces responding to vehicle accidents (minor or major) will annotate whether or
not vehicle occupants utilized safety restraints; or, if applicable, whether or not air bags were
deployed. If accident report forms do not have standard entries for this information, responding
security forces will ensure this information is annotated in the narrative portion of the report
(i.e., AF Form 1315, Accident Report, does not specifically require information concerning air
bags--security forces must include this information in the narrative portion).

4.8.2. Allocations for reserved parking slots are limited to 10% of a facility’s total parking area.
Requests for reserved parking slots must be made via AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
Request, and 12 MSG/CECB for approval or denial. If a reserved parking space is requested in
the vicinity of a hangar, coordination with 12 MSG/CEF is also required. If approval is granted
for the requested reserved parking space, AF Form 332 will be forwarded to 12 MSG/CES for
final approval. Approved reserved parking signs are in effect Monday-Friday from 0600-1800
hours unless the facility supports 24-hour operations or located at a facility designated group
level or higher. These reserved parking slots remain reserved continuously. Facilities that have
reserved slots that operate after 1800 and weekends (i.e., Shoppette/BXtra) maintain their
reserved parking status until the facility closes.

4.8.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Facility managers are required to provide master parking
plans of their parking lots of responsibility to 12 MSG/CES. These master parking plans must
include a diagram of the parking lot and all parking spaces. It must also clearly depict any
8                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008

existing approved reserved parking spaces. These plans must be forwarded to 12 MSG/CES as
necessary to ensure an up-to-date copy is on file.

4.8.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB)             Organizations will not use signs made with self-help
materials, or tent or computer-generated signs to designate reserved parking spaces. If special
functions like change of command ceremonies require temporary reserved parking spaces, signs
may be obtained from 12 MSG/CEOBV for the duration of the special event. Reserved parking
Z-signs are subject to confiscation if improperly utilized by a unit. Improper use is defined as
using the sign for any purpose other than why it was issued. Examples of improper use are, but
not limited to, putting computer-generated signs over its original reserved designation,
transporting the sign to another area other than where it was designated, and exceeding allowable
reserved parking allocations for an extended period of time.

4.8.2.2.1. (Added-Randolph AFB) Temporary Z-signs may be placed 15 minutes prior to the
start of the duty day and must be removed no more than 30 minutes after the duty day ends. They
will not be used or in place for 24 hours a day unless a special event like a selection board is in
commencement continuously.

4.8.2.2.2. (Added-Randolph AFB)            Facility managers may only place the amount of signs
required to accommodate the special event and number of Z-signs setup will not exceed number
of spaces needed (i.e., if the selection board has five individuals convening, five Z signs would
be authorized for placement).

4.8.4. This section prescribes the procedures for controlling, issuing, maintaining, and
accounting of tickets provided by 12 SFS/S5R; and specifies responsibilities for parking
monitors assigned to units on Randolph AFB. Parking monitors will monitor parking areas in
their commander’s area of responsibility and only during normal base duty hours. (Exception:
Parking monitors that monitor areas around facilities that conduct 24-hour operations may issue
citations any time a violation occurs). Unit commanders who opt to participate in the program
will delegate, in writing, a minimum of two individuals in the grade of E-5/GS-5 (or higher) in
their unit to become primary and alternate parking monitors. Appointed monitors will receive
security forces training on proper completion of tickets from 12 SFS/S5R prior to performing
duties. Appointment letters and training documentation will be maintained by 12 SFS/S5R.

4.8.5. The 12 MSG/SVS is responsible for maintaining recreational vehicle parking areas and
resale lots.

4.9.2.2. All civilians 18 years or older (including DAF employees, contractors, and dependents)
may be issued DD Form 1805, Violation Notice, United States District Court, for moving
violations. All violators under the age of 18 may be issued DD Form 1408, Traffic Ticket, Armed
Forces.

4.9.3. Parking monitors trained IAW paragraph 4.8.4. of this supplement are authorized to issue
DD Form 1408. Security forces that received on-the-job training and determined capable by their
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008                             9

security forces flight chief are authorized to issue DD Forms 1805 and 1408. Traffic violations
are processed IAW AFMAN 31-201, Security Forces Administration and Reports, Volume 7.

4.9.3.1. (Added-Randolph AFB)             Unit commanders must take command action against a
violator IAW AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7. If the commander believes the individual is not guilty
and requests removal of the citation from the individual’s driving record, the request will be
resolved through rebuttal system.
4.9.5.5.4. (Added-Randolph AFB)            Individuals rebutting a DD Form 1408 must submit a
letter articulating his/her position to the 12 SFS/CSF through 12 SFS/S5R within 10 days of
receipt of the ticket. Rebuttal letters must be in writing and routed through the unit commander.
The unit commander may add comments on behalf of the violator. If the unit commander
disagrees with the request, the rebuttal ends. If the unit commander agrees with the rebuttal, it
will be forwarded to the acting traffic magistrate for determination with the CSF
recommendation through S5R.

4.10.4. Security forces will, at a minimum, complete annual refresher training as required to
maintain proficiency mandated by the state of Texas for peace officers.

4.11.2. Randolph AFB has assimilated the standard of .08% BAC utilized by the state of Texas
when determining if a violator is driving under the influence of an intoxicant.

4.14.3. The method of determining a blood-alcohol concentration for drivers suspected of
driving under the influence is the Intoxilyzer 5000 instrument. The Intoxilyzer 5000 will only be
utilized by a certified operator with a current certification. If an alternate method of testing BAC
is necessary or drug use is suspected, coordinate with 12 MDG, Brooke Army Medical Center, or
Wilford Hall Medical Center. A copy of BAC results will be sent to 12 SFS/CSF.

6.7. Forms Prescribed. Randolph AFB Form 23, Implied Consent Policy Briefing.

6.8. (Added-Randolph AFB)          Forms Adopted. DD Forms 577, Signature Card, 1408,
Traffic Ticket, Armed Forces, 1805, Violation Notice, United States District Court, and 2220,
Vehicle Decal, DoD Registered; AF Forms 75, Visitor/Vehicle Pass, 332, Base Civil Engineer
Work Request, 533, Certificate of Compliance-Private Motor Vehicle Registration, 623,
Individual Training Record, 1315, Accident Report, and 2219, Registered Vehicle Expiration.




                                              JACQUELINE D. VAN OVOST, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing


2 Attachments: (Added-Randolph AFB)
4. Base Traffic Code
5. Traffic Flow/Circulation Plan
10                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008

                             Attachment 4 (Added-Randolph AFB)

                                     BASE TRAFFIC CODE

A4.1. General. The Randolph AFB vehicle and traffic code incorporates the Texas Uniform
Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, V.C.S. 6701d, section 105-187; and T.C. section 47021-
7241064. These laws apply to Randolph AFB when it does not conflict with this or other
directives. Only those traffic laws that are unique to Randolph AFB will be published in this
traffic code. All standard Texas state traffic laws will be enforced. When feasible, separate
pedestrian and motor vehicle traffic; and provide adequate sidewalks, jogging/skating routes,
pedestrian crossings, and bicycle paths. Individuals are not authorized to jog, run, roller blade,
skateboard, or walk on roadways during high-density/peak traffic periods. The installation
commander has designated Harmon Drive, 5th Street East, and 5th Street West between 0630-
0800 and 1530-1700 as high-density/peak traffic periods. The installation commander has
deemed the following suspensions or revocations necessary for the general safety of the
installation, in addition to those suspensions or revocations identified in AFI 31-204, Table 5.1.,
and its AETC supplement:

     A4.1.1. 30-day Suspension or Revocation. Individuals who receive three tickets for parking
     violations or excessive noise emanating from vehicle violations within a 6-month period will
     have base driving privileges suspended or revoked for 30 days (POV only). Thirty days will
     be added for each subsequent violation committed within 6 months of the last ticket issued.
     Excessive noise is defined as sound that can be heard more than 10 feet from the vehicle.
     This includes car stereos, but engine noise is exempt. One citation received for the following
     nonmoving violations may result in the loss of driving privileges for a period of up to 30 days
     unless stated otherwise:

        A4.1.1.1. Unauthorized parking in a designated handicap slot.

        A4.1.1.2. Possession of an open alcoholic container in the passenger-carrying
        compartment of a motor vehicle by any vehicle occupant (to include passengers).

        A4.1.1.3. Leaving the scene of a vehicle accident or failure to report involvement in a
        motor vehicle accident within 72 hours of occurrence, even if fault/negligence was not a
        factor.

     A4.1.2. Registration and Safety Inspections. The following conditions apply to suspensions
     and revocations in regard to expired registration and safety inspection stickers:

        A4.1.2.1. Allow 5 business day grace period.

        A4.1.2.2. If 6-30 days expired, four points will be assessed.

        A4.1.2.3. If 30-60 days expired, a 30-day suspension.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      5 NOVEMBER 2008                          11

      A4.1.2.4. If over 60 days expired, a 6-month suspension.
   A4.1.3. Six-month Suspension or Revocation. Base driving privileges may be suspended or
   revoked for up to 6 months for the following violations:

      A4.1.3.1. Altered registration or base decals.

      A4.1.3.2. Driving without a valid driver’s license.

      A4.1.3.3. Knowingly allowing your vehicle to be operated by an intoxicated, suspended,
      revoked, or unlicensed individual.

      A4.1.3.4. Displaying fictitious license plates on a vehicle.

   A4.1.4. One-year Suspension or Revocation. Base driving privileges may be suspended or
   revoked for up to 1 year for the following violations:

      A4.1.4.1. Operating a motor vehicle without proper insurance.

      A4.1.4.2. An accumulation of 12 points within 12 months and 18 points in 24 months
      against a person’s base driving record.

      Note: DD Form 1408 citations for some violations may be downgraded to warnings
      provided individuals who receive citations, promptly correct deficiencies, or provide
      necessary documentation. Some examples of these citations are safety defects (i.e.,
      inoperative headlights) and failure to possess required documentation (i.e., inability to
      produce a valid driver's license at the time of the traffic stop). In order to have citations
      in these categories reduced to warnings, recipients must report to the security forces
      control center within 72 hours with the infraction corrected or proof of the necessary
      documentation. Personnel who fail to do so are subject to any suspension, revocation
      action, and/or point assessment applicable for the offense. If drivers show proof of
      correct documentation after receiving a revocation or suspension for a violation, two
      points will be assessed to the violator's driving record for failing to follow the oral or
      written instructions to report within 72 hours given at the time the ticket was issued, and
      the suspension or revocation will be removed. This does not apply if a revocation or
      suspension is imposed for an offense and the proof presented by the violator does not
      justify the removal of the suspension or revocation. The violator must prove the
      documentation presented was valid at the time the citation was issued. If the minor
      vehicle defects are not corrected within the 72-hour grace period, points will be assessed
      IAW AFI 31-204, Table 5.2., Point Assessment for Moving Violations.

A4.2. Speed Limits. The speed limit on Randolph AFB is 25 miles per hour (MPH) unless
otherwise posted. Exceptions are housing areas (15 MPH), service drives and parking lots (5
MPH), marked roadways on the flightline (15 MPH), Base Exchange and Commissary access
roads (10 MPH), and Perimeter Road (35 MPH). Note: The speed limit on main circle is 25
MPH even though the road is adjacent to a housing area).
12                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008




A.4.3. Parking.

     A4.3.1. Parking Space Defined. The area allocated in or around any facility designated by
     two vertical, horizontal, or diagonal white lines for the temporary storage of a passenger-
     carrying motor vehicle.

     A4.3.2. Prohibited Parking. Vehicles will not be parked in the following places:

        A4.3.2.1. Parked within 20 feet of a crosswalk.

        A4.3.2.2. Parked within 20 feet of an intersection unless designated as a parking slot.

        A4.3.2.3. Parked between hangars, except in marked parking spaces.

        A4.3.2.4. Parked against the flow of traffic, except in the housing area.

        A4.3.2.5. Parked between two vertical, horizontal, or diagonal yellow lines.

        A4.3.2.6. Parked alongside curbs with wheels farther than 12 inches from the curb or
        anywhere alongside yellow curbs.

        A4.3.2.7. Parked in any area, except marked parking spaces as defined in paragraph
        A4.3.1. above.

        A4.3.2.8. Parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.

        A4.3.2.9. Parked where spaces are marked “reserved.” Reserved parking restrictions
        apply from 0600-1800 hours, Monday-Friday, except in base housing areas or parking
        lots adjacent to buildings with 24-hour operations. In these cases, these restrictions
        always apply. Additionally, spaces reserved at group command level or higher remain
        reserved 24 hours a day.

        A4.3.2.10. Parked on the shoulder of any roadway or grassed or seeded area, except
        during special functions.

        A4.3.2.11. Parked in any service drive, except vehicles making deliveries on official
        business.

        A4.3.2.12. Parked in any diagonal parking space that the individual would be traveling
        against the flow of traffic when leaving the parking lot.

        A4.3.2.13. Recreational vehicles (RV), boats, trailers, campers, utility trailers, and
        pickup trucks with campers wider than 7 feet or longer than 20 feet may only be parked in
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008                            13

      the designated RV parking area provided on southwest Perimeter Road, except for the
      following:
          A4.3.2.13.1. RVs may be placed on base property for up to 24 hours for loading and
          unloading.

          A4.3.2.13.2. RVs used as primary transportation may be parked in the occupant’s
          assigned carport/parking spot provided it does not exceed the designated assigned
          area.

          A4.3.2.13.3. Violators will be contacted by the 12 SFS.

      A4.3.2.14. Parked within 25 feet of a bus stop.

      Note: Government vehicles used for official duties may park in “no parking zones”
      provided the driver’s seat is occupied at all times (i.e., mail trucks) or a traffic cone is
      placed on the street-side behind the vehicle (i.e., maintenance vehicles, etc.).

   A4.3.3. Handicapped Parking. Parking spaces marked and reserved for personnel who have
   severe, permanent, or temporary medical impairments. Motor vehicles must display
   authorized insignias that consist of:

      A4.3.3.1 Permanent or temporary license plate, card, sticker, registration tab, or AF Form
      75 properly displayed on or in the vehicle.

      A4.3.3.2. Persons having temporary handicaps may obtain an AF Form 75 overstamped
      with the “wheel chair” symbol in red ink from the VRC. Proof of being temporarily
      handicapped requires written verification by competent medical authority and must be
      revalidated the first month for each new calendar year. AF Forms 75 are issued for the
      duration of the handicap for which they were issued.

   A4.3.4. For Sale Parking. A person desiring to display a vehicle “for sale” on
   Randolph AFB must do so through the 12 MSG/SVS’s used car lot. The person may display
   a “for sale” sign on the vehicle while parked at their duty section during their duty hours, on-
   base residence, or other base facilities as long as they are conducting business at that facility
   (i.e., shopping at the Commissary or Base Exchange). However, a person displaying a motor
   vehicle at an on-base parking area for the purpose of advertising the vehicle “for sale” will be
   ticketed by security forces for a parking violation. Violators are subject to driver’s
   suspension action as directed in paragraph A4.1. of this base traffic code.

A4.4. Vehicle Accidents. In case of an accident occurring on base involving POVs and
government vehicles, drivers will take the following actions:

   A4.4.1. Immediately stop their vehicle at the scene of the accident.
14                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      5 NOVEMBER 2008

     A4.4.2. Render help to the injured and, if necessary, call an ambulance or fire department
     rescue unit.

     A4.4.3. Notify security forces immediately.
     A4.4.4. Notify the base motor pool operations branch if a government vehicle is involved.

A4.5. Vehicle Passengers. Drivers will ensure passengers observe the following rules:

     A4.5.1. Except for fire and crash trucks, passengers will not be allowed to ride in motor
     vehicles unless seated.

     A4.5.2. Personnel (military, civilian, retirees, dependents, and contractors) are prohibited
     from transporting personnel in the bed of POV pickup trucks or an open bed/flatbed truck
     where no fixed seats are installed. Passengers will not ride on any part of a motor vehicle not
     made for the use of passengers.

     A4.5.3. When exigent circumstances or contingency requirements exceed the availability of
     passenger-carrying vehicles, personnel may be transported in the beds of pickups with the
     installation commander’s approval provided the vehicle is equipped with a working tailgate,
     there are no unsecured equipment or supplies, and personnel are seated on the cargo deck
     with no portion of the body overhanging the vehicle sides or rear.

     A4.5.4. Passengers will neither sit on the tailgate or side panels of a truck or any other motor
     vehicle, nor extend any part of the body beyond the edge/end of any vehicle while in motion.

A4.6. Seatbelts. Proper use of seatbelts on the installation will be enforced. Operators/
passengers who ride in vehicles equipped with shoulder harnesses/restraints in addition to lap
restraint belts must utilize both systems while on the installation. The shoulder harness must be
worn across the chest and the lap belt fastened across the lap. Personnel who fail to properly
wear seatbelts will receive a citation for an improperly worn seatbelt and have three traffic points
assessed on their installation traffic record.

A4.7. Open Containers. Open containers of alcoholic beverages are prohibited in the
passenger-carrying compartment of any motor vehicle.

A4.8. Emergency Vehicles. All vehicle operators must yield to emergency vehicles (i.e., fire,
security forces, ambulance, or crash vehicles) when emergency lights are flashing and/or siren
sounding. When yielding to emergency vehicles, operators will drive to the righthand side of the
road as quickly and safely as possible (clearing of any intersection), stop, and remain there until
the emergency vehicle(s) pass. Following emergency vehicles to the scene of an emergency is
prohibited unless required in the performance of official duties.

A4.9. Abandoned/Impounded Vehicle Procedures. All POVs registered on Randolph AFB
are subject to removal and temporary impoundment if they are parked illegally for unreasonable
periods (over 3 days), disabled by accident, left unattended in a restricted or controlled area, or
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                    5 NOVEMBER 2008                          15

believed abandoned. Abandoned includes, but not limited to, vehicles that security forces
reasonably believes have been obviously left on Randolph AFB by its owner with little or no
intention of retrieving it. If the vehicle has not been moved 72 hours after identified as
abandoned, the vehicle will be towed and impounded by 12 LGR or a designated private
company, and inventoried by 12 SFS/S3I or a delegated security forces member. The vehicle
will be assigned a fair market value by the property disposal board. Paragraph 2.4.1. of this
instruction details the procedures for the proper and timely removal of vehicles.

A4.10. Electric/gas Motorized Scooters or Electric/gas Motorized Bicycles. Drivers of these
vehicles must obey all traffic regulations and customs to include parking rules and regulations
that apply to four-wheel vehicles. Unit commanders, staff agency directors, supervisors, and
security forces will enforce the high-risk motorcycle operator program.

   A4.10.1. No person may ride as a passenger on two-wheel vehicles unless equipped with a
   buddy seat/foot rest. At no time, will more than one person ride as a passenger on these
   vehicles.

   A4.10.2. Headlights and taillights must be turned on at all times.

   A4.10.3. No two-wheel vehicles will be ridden off the road as “dirt bikes” on this
   installation.

   A4.10.4. Motorized bicycles may park in designated motorcycle parking places.

   A4.10.5. Vehicle must have rearview mirrors. Motorcycles will have both left and right rear
   view mirrors mounted on the handlebar or fairing (not required for tactical or off-road
   motorcycles not operated in a traffic environment).

   A4.10.6. It is mandatory for operators and passengers to wear a protective helmet. Note:
   Helmets must meet, as a minimum, Department of Transportation standards and properly
   worn/ fastened.

   A4.10.7. To increase visibility of riders, they are encouraged to affix reflective material to
   their helmets.

   A4.10.8. Required personal protective equipment of motorcycle and ATV operators.

       A4.10.8.1. Head Protection. A helmet designed to meet or exceed Department of
       Transportation (DOT) standards shall be worn and properly fastened under the chin.
       Commanders may authorize use of tactical helmets in appropriate off-road training or
       operating environments after completing an ORM evaluation.

       A4.10.8.2. Eye Protection. Goggles, wrap around glasses, or a full-face shield (properly
       attached to helmet) designed to meet or exceed the American National Standards Institute
16                     AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                    5 NOVEMBER 2008

        (ANSI) Standard Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance will be worn. A windshield
        does not constitute proper eye protection.

        A4.10.8.3. Protective Clothing. Wear of long sleeved shirt or jacket, long trousers, and
        full- fingered gloves are required. Gloves should be sturdy, non-slip type to permit a
        firm grip on the controls. Wear of a motorcycle jacket and pants constructed of abrasion
        resistant materials such as leather, Kevlar, and/or Cordura containing impact absorbing
        padding are strongly encouraged.

        A4.10.8.4. Foot Protection. Riders will wear sturdy over the ankle footwear that affords
        protection for the feet and ankles (durable athletic shoes that cover the ankles may be
        worn).     Sandals, low quarter sneakers, and similar footwear will not be used.

        A4.10.8.5. Garment and Motorcycle Visibility. Motorcycle riders will wear a brightly
        colored outer upper garment during the day and a reflective upper garment during the
        night. Outer upper garment shall be visible and not covered. Wearing a backpack is
        authorized if it has brightly colored/reflective properties.

        A4.10.8.6. All on-duty riders of motorcycles and ATVs during off-road operations
        should also wear knee, shin guards, and padded full-fingered gloves. Security patrol
        requirements may dictate limited compliance.

     A4.10.9. It is mandatory for operators and passengers to wear a brightly colored or
     contrasting vest/jacket as an outer upper garment during the day and reflective during the
     hours of limited visibility. The outer upper garment will be clearly visible and not covered.

     A4.10.10. It is mandatory for operators and passengers to wear long-sleeved shirts or jackets,
     full-fingered motorcycle gloves or mittens, and long trousers.

     A4.10.11. It is mandatory for operators and passengers to wear sturdy footwear. Leather
     boots or over-the-ankle shoes are strongly encouraged.

     A4.10.12. Military motorcycle riders who operate a motorcycle on- or off-base, and civilian
     employees who operate a motorcycle while in an on-duty status are required to completed
     motorcycle safety training prior to operating a motorcycle. Contact your unit motorcycle
     representative or 12 FTW/SEG for information on training requirements. All riders must
     have a valid motorcycle endorsement on their driver’s license to operate a motorcycle.

     A4.10.13. Cannot exceed 40cc engine capacity.

     A4.10.14. Cannot exceed 25 MPH.

     A4.10.15. Must have two wheels in contact with the ground.

     A4.10.16. Must allow the driver to sit or stand.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                    5 NOVEMBER 2008                           17



   A4.10.17. Must have the ability to be propelled by human power alone in the same manner
   as a skateboard.

   A4.10.18. Only authorized on Randolph AFB in residential areas where the speed limit does
   not exceed 15 MPH.

   A4.10.19. Operator must wear approved bicycle helmet.

   A4.10.20. When operating at night, it must be equipped with a lamp that emits a white light
   visible from a distance of 500 feet and a red reflector on the rear visible from a distance of
   50-300 feet. A red light on the rear visible from a distance of 500 feet in addition to the red
   reflector may also be used. Reflectors will be uncovered at all times.

   A4.10.21. Passengers are not authorized on government owned motorcycles and ATVs
   unless they are specifically designed (as determined by the manufacturer) to carry a passenger
   and there is a valid operational need for the passenger to ride with the operator.

A4.11. Electric/Gas Motorized Mopeds.

   A4.11.1. Cannot exceed 50cc engine capacity.

   A4.11.2. Must have the ability to be propelled by human power alone in the same manner as
   a bicycle.

   A4.11.3. Cannot be more than two-brake horsepower.

   A4.11.4. Must have the required equipment--brake, reflector, and head and rear lamps.

   A4.11.5. Driver must be at least 15 years old and hold a valid moped license.

   A4.11.6. Driver must wear a helmet meeting Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
   (FMVSS-218).

A4.12.   Pocket Bikes. Miniature motorcycles are not authorized to be operated on
Randolph AFB. These bikes are not street legal according to Texas traffic laws.

A4.13. Racing and go carts are not authorized to be operated on Randolph AFB

A4.14. ATVs are not authorized to be operated on Randolph AFB, except for on-duty security
forces personnel.

A4.15. Bicycles. Parents, guardians, and/or sponsors will not knowingly permit their children
to violate the following rules pertaining to riding bicycles and take every reasonable step to
ensure adherence to these rules:
18                      AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                      5 NOVEMBER 2008



     A4.15.1. Bicycles will be ridden as near to the right side of the roadway as possible. They
     will not be ridden against the flow of traffic or the wrong way on a one-way street.

     A4.15.2. Bicycles will not be ridden more than two (side by side) on a roadway.

     A4.15.3. Bicycles will not be used to carry more people than the number for which they are
     designated. All riders must sit with one leg on each side of a permanently attached seat.
     A4.15.4. Bicycles will be equipped with brakes capable of making braked wheel skid on dry
     pavement. Bicycles operated in traffic during hours of darkness will be equipped with lamp
     that emits white light visible from a distance of 500 feet and a red reflector on the rear visible
     from a distance of 50-300 feet. A red light on the rear visible from a distance of 500 feet in
     addition to the red reflector may also be used. Reflectors will be uncovered at all times.

     A4.15.5. Bicycle riders will wear reflective or high-visibility outer garment when riding
     during periods of reduced visibility.

     A4.15.6. Bicycle riders will obey all traffic-control devices.

     A4.15.7. Street parking of bicycles will be along curbs and roadways as not to block traffic.

     A4.15.8. Bicycle riders will not carry packages, bundles, or articles that prevent them from
     keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.

     A4.15.9. Bicycle riders will always yield the right of way to pedestrians.

     A4.15.10. Individuals riding will not grab onto or tie their bicycles to other moving vehicles.

     A4.15.11. Bicycles will not be ridden on the roadway of Harmon Drive or Washington
     Circle.

     A4.15.12. Wild/show-off type or reckless riding is not allowed.

     A4.15.13. All personnel (including dependents, contractors, retirees, etc.) who ride bicycles
     on an installation must wear an approved bicycle helmet that meets American National
     Standards Institute (ANSI) or Snell Memorial Foundation standards. Workers operating
     bicycles in areas that require the use of ANSI-approved helmets (hard hats) for protection
     from falling and flying objects are allowed to use those helmets instead of approved bicycle
     helmets. Failure to comply will result in the following action:

        A4.15.13.1. First Offense. Two points assessed against the violator or a letter of warning
        to the sponsor if the violator is a child.

        A4.15.13.2. Second and Subsequent Offenses.             The 12 MSG/CD or designee will
        determine action taken.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                    5 NOVEMBER 2008                            19



A4.16. Skateboarding (manual, electric, or gas powered) or Roller Blading or Skating.

   A4.16.1. Will not be operated in vehicular/high-pedestrian traffic areas (i.e., streets, service
   drives, parking lots, Bowling Alley, base clubs, Base Exchange, Commissary, dormitory
   areas, etc.) that are located outside of established housing areas, except in the approved
   skateboard park. The skateboard park is located at C Street and 5th Street East.

   A4.16.2. Will yield to all pedestrian traffic.
   A4.16.3. Must wear or display reflective devices that can be seen by traffic flowing in either
   direction.

   A4.16.4. Will not be operated in any manner to cause damage to government property (i.e.
   handrails or walls).

   A4.16.5. Safety helmets are required and individuals are strongly encouraged to wear elbow
   and knee pads and wrist guards while on Randolph AFB.

A4.17. Marching Troops.

   A4.17.1. All drivers will yield the right of way to troop formations marching on any street or
   roadway.

   A4.17.2. When passing a troop formation going in the same direction of travel, the driver
   will not pass the formation until signaled to do so by the troop leader. The passing speed will
   not exceed 10 MPH.

   A4.17.3. When meeting a troop formation, the operator of a motor vehicle will slow to 10
   MPH or less, and pass the formation with extreme caution.

A4.18. Cell Phone Use.

    A4.18.1. Vehicle operators on Randolph AFB, POV or GOV, shall not use cell phones
unless the vehicle is parked or they are using a hands-free device.

A4.19. Miscellaneous.

   A4.19.1. No person will tamper with or disregard barricades/warning signs on the roadway.

   A4.19.2. Brick cobblestone walkways between the Commissary and Base Exchange are
   crosswalks.

   A4.19.3. Windshields and all other windows will be kept clear of obstructions, including
   snow, ice, dirt, or frost.
20                      AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                       5 NOVEMBER 2008

     A4.19.4. All motor vehicles will be equipped with correct bumpers, fenders, and hood if
     equipped originally. Security forces may grant exceptions for short-term repairs by
     presentation of documentation that parts for the repair are on order. Operation of a vehicle
     with shortened, torn, or otherwise unsafe fenders and bumpers is prohibited.

     A4.19.5. Motor vehicles will not be left in a broken down or unsightly condition on any
     street, roadway, or parking area for more than 48 hours.

     A4.19.6. Any vehicle found on base by security forces that is mechanically unsafe for
     driving will not be operated on base until corrective action is completed.
     A4.19.7. Auto Skills Center and Base Exchange Service Station are the only approved areas
     for performing major vehicle maintenance. Minor repairs, like flat tires, broken fan belts,
     etc., may be accomplished in dormitory and/or family housing areas.

     A4.19.8. Throwing objects from any vehicle is prohibited, except when necessary for official
     duties and delivering newspapers by authorized individuals.

     A4.19.9. Use of headphones/earphones while bicycling, skateboarding, roller blading/
     skating, operating a motor vehicle, and jogging (except on the jogging path) is prohibited.
     (Exception: All joggers/pedestrians must remove headsets while crossing the South
     Crossover.)

     A4.19.10. Children under 10 years of age will not be left unattended in a POV.

     A4.19.11. Use of Headlights. Drivers of all government vehicles and POVs are required to
     operate their vehicles with headlights under the following guidelines:

        A4.19.11.1. Turn headlights “on” to low beam during inclement weather (reduced
        visibility), including, but not limited to, fog, snow, rain, etc.

        A4.19.11.2. Turn headlights “off” and use only parking lights when approaching
        Randolph AFB gates for entry during hours of darkness. The only exception is if the
        vehicle is equipped with daytime running lights that cannot be turned off.

     A4.19.12. Drivers of government vehicles will not backup unless they can do so with
     reasonable safety and without disrupting traffic. A spotter will be used at all times when
     backing up restricted-vision vehicles like buses, tractor-trailers, van-type vehicles, fire trucks;
     or when the view is obstructed by passengers or cargo.

     A4.19.13. Except as necessary in the performance of official duties or actual emergencies,
     motor vehicles will not be driven “off the road” outside the established limits of Randolph
     AFB roads, streets, service drives, or parking areas.

     A4.19.14. Safety belt enforcement methods apply to Cushman-/Mitsubishi-type motorized
     carts.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                   5 NOVEMBER 2008                           21



  A4.19.15. As a general rule, restrict the number of people in Air Force passenger-carrying
  vehicles to the designed seating capacity. This includes not only sedans, station wagons, or
  buses, but trucks and cargo vans with passenger seats. When exigent circumstances or
  contingency requirements exceed availability of such vehicles, commanders through the risk-
  management decision process will determine the appropriate mode of transportation or
  operating procedures for such existing vehicles.

  A4.19.16. South Crossover. The South Crossover is an active taxiway. Motorists, joggers
  and pedestrians must yield to all traffic, aircraft and ground vehicles at the South Crossover.

  A4.19.17. All individuals who are exposed to traffic hazards as part of their assigned duties
  shall wear a highly visible vest/jacket during the day and fluorescent or retro-reflective
  vest/jackets during hours of darkness and limited visibility. This guidance applies to troop
  formation only to the degree determined necessary to maintain formation visibility to traffic.
  This is directly applicable to traffic control, road construction, pavement markings, utility
  maintenance, road clean-up, and any other crew or individual required to work as a pedestrian
  on a roadway while the roadway remains open to traffic.

  A4.19.18. When a traffic violation, incident, or situation occurs on Randolph AFB and is not
  specifically covered by AFI 31-204 or its supplements, applicable Texas laws will be
  assimilated and enforced.
22                    AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                     5 NOVEMBER 2008

                              Attachment 5 (Added-Randolph AFB)

                          TRAFFIC FLOW/CIRCULATION PLAN

A5.1. General. The traffic flow/circulation plan was developed to ensure safe and efficient
movement of vehicles, material, and personnel to destinations with the use of the base roadways.
The goal of motor vehicle traffic supervision is to reduce traffic accidents, deaths, injuries, and
property damage. The enforcement of regulations through issuing traffic citations and
suspension or revocation actions serves to educate vehicle operators, provide management
officials an effective tool for identifying those violators who fail to conform to established
rules/regulations, and taking appropriate action to correct bad driving habits.

A5.2. Responsibilities. The chief of security forces is responsible for monitoring the traffic
flow/circulation plan on Randolph AFB. Unless an emergency exists, all required changes will
be submitted to 12 MSG/CC and 12 MSG/CEDE for approval prior to implementation.

A5.3. Procedures.

     A5.3.1. Normal and peak traffic periods.

        A5.3.1.1. The main gate will remain open 24 hours each day.

        A5.3.1.2. The west gate will remain open from 0600-2200 on normal duty days, 0900-
        2200 on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.

        A5.3.1.3. The east gate will be open from 0600-0800 on Monday-Friday. The east gate
        is closed on weekends and holidays.

        A5.3.1.4. The high school gate will only be opened during special events or when
        directed by 12 SFS/S3O.

        A5.3.1.5. The south gate will open from 0600-1800 on Monday-Friday during duty days.
        All commercial vehicle traffic will enter through the south gate. This gate is closed on
        weekends and holidays for normal traffic, but will open on request for commercial
        vehicles during nonduty hours.

        A5.3.1.6. All traffic will enter and depart Randolph AFB through the main, west, east,
        south, and high school gates unless otherwise directed by a competent authority.

        A5.3.1.7. POVs on Randolph AFB will park in designated parking areas or other spaces
        marked as defined in the base traffic code, Attachment 4, of this supplement.

        A5.3.1.8. Traffic control measures other than gate and trained adult school crossing
        guards, and routine enforcement are not required during morning/afternoon peak traffic
        periods.
AFI 31-204_AETCSUP_RANDOLPHAFBSUP                 5 NOVEMBER 2008                         23



  A5.3.2. Emergency Traffic Flow.

     A5.3.2.1. In the event of emergency convoys entering the base, additional gates may be
     opened to eliminate heavy traffic flow on and off the base.

     A5.3.2.2. Should the base require evacuation, the evacuating traffic will be routed
     through main, high school, and south gates. Additional perimeter gates will be opened if
     needed.

     A5.3.2.3. The Bexar County Sheriff’s Department and Universal City Police Department
     will be requested to provide assistance in expediting traffic going off base during
     emergency situations if necessary.

  A5.3.3. Flightline Traffic. Vehicle traffic on the flightline will be limited to authorized
  vehicles in the performance of official duties.
