BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 35-113
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                11 MARCH 2010
                                                                              AIR UNIVERSITY
                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                   26 MAY 2011
                                                               Certified Current 26 October 2011
                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                                   INTERNAL INFORMATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPAA                                                                Certified by: SAF/PAO
                                                                       (Colonel Marcella Adams)
                                                                                        Pages: 13
                                              (AU)
OPR: HQ AU/PAO                                                           Certified by: HQ AU/PA
                                                                              (Maj John Redfield)
Supersedes:    AUI 35-101, 30 March 2007                                                  Pages:3


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 35-1, Public Affairs
Management. It provides guidance pertaining to Internal Information used to communicate with
Airmen and their families. It also implements Department of Defense Instruction (DODI)
5120.4, Department of Defense Newspapers, Magazines, and Civilian Enterprise Publications;
Department of Defense Directive (DODD) 5120.20, Armed Forces Radio and Television Service
(AFRTS); DOD Regulation 5120.20-R, Management and Operation of American Forces Radio
and Television Services; DODD 5160.48, DOD Public Affairs and Visual Information (PA & VI)
Education and Training (E&T); DODI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations;
and DODD 5410.1, Release of Information Concerning Accidental Casualties Involving Military
Personnel or Equipment. Read this instruction with Joint Publication 3-61, Doctrine for Public
Affairs in Joint Operations, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-2501, Air Force Emergency
Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations. This publication requires the collection
and/or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to
collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are referenced in the following
Privacy         Act          System          Notices,          available         online          at
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf: F035 AF SAFPA B (Hometown News
Release Background Data File), F035 AF SAFPA C (Official Biographies), and F035 SAFPA A
 2                                                       AFI35-113_AUSUP_I        26 MAY 2011


(Mobilization Augmentee Training Folders). Records Disposition. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route AF Form 847s
from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This instruction applies to
the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG) unless otherwise noted.

(AU) This supplement implements AFI 35-113. It outlines the responsibilies for producing the
Leader online publication (www.leaderonline.af.mil) for the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer
Accessions and Citizen Development (Holm Center). It also establishes the procedures for
submitting an electronic Joint Hometown News Release form, accessible at the Maxwell-Gunter
AFB public website (www.maxwell.af.mil). Refer recommended changes and/or corrections to
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through your chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This supplement applies to the Headquarters Air University Public Affairs Office, Headquarters
Air Force ROTC, its regions and detachments, Officer Training School, and Headquarters Air
Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFJROTC) and its units; it does not apply to the
AFRC or ANG. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(AU) This supplement supersedes AUI 35-101 that has been replaced by supplements to the
appropriate Air Force Instructions based on content.
1. Purpose of Internal Information. Conducting internal information programs is the primary
means Air Force leaders use to communicate with Airmen and their families. As used in this
instruction, Airmen are active duty and retired, officer and enlisted, Air National Guard and Air
Force Reserve, civilian, and contract employees. The main purpose of conducting internal
information programs is to link Airmen and their leaders. Timely, accurate, and relevant
information is a force multiplier that enhances Airman morale and readiness. Public Affairs
(PA) must have the knowledge and skills to conduct internal information programs at home and
while deployed as an expeditionary PA force.
2. Objectives of the Internal Information Program.
     2.1. Link Airmen and their leaders through a free flow of news and information.
     2.2. Help Airmen understand their roles in the Air Force.
     2.3. Explain how policies, programs, and operations affect Airmen.
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                                                                       3


   2.4. Promote good citizenship and build pride as members of the civilian community at
   home and in foreign countries.
   2.5. Recognize individual and team achievements.
   2.6. Provide avenues for feedback.
3. HQ USAF Responsibilities. At HQ USAF level, the Director of the Secretary of the Air
Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) is the functional manager of the internal information
program, who has delegated the responsibility for executing the program to the Air Force Public
Affairs Agency (AFPAA.)
4. Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agency (FOA) and Direct Reporting
Unit (DRU) Responsibilities. Directors and chiefs of PA conduct internal information
programs to help their commanders keep Airmen informed about missions and issues. They
provide command-specific communication guidance and products.
5. Unit Commander Responsibilities. The installation commander's internal information
program serves the entire Air Force base audience, including tenant units and Air Force retirees
and their families. PA provides leaders with an arsenal of effective and efficient communication
tools to build, maintain, and strengthen morale and readiness.
6. Courtesy Titles. Courtesy titles or conversational ranks, as appropriate, will be used in
second and later references to people in all internal information products. For example, Lt. Gen.
William J. Johnson on first reference would be referred to as General Johnson throughout the
remainder of the product or, in subsequent references, individuals can be referred to by their job
title (e.g. the maintainer) or by generic rank alone: the general, the sergeant, the senior airman,
the colonel, etc. For Airmen with specialized titles, the specialized titles will be used in
subsequent references. For example, Maj. (Dr.) John Smith will be referred to as Dr. Smith in
second and later references, and Chaplain (Maj.) Jim Smith will be referred to as Chaplain Smith
in second and later references. For civilian men, use Mr. with their last name in second and
subsequent references. For civilian women, later references are to Ms. Jones, unless the woman
asks to be known as Miss or Mrs. -- the choice is hers, interviewers should seek her preference.
First names are acceptable on second and subsequent references for children (ages 17 and
younger). Courtesy titles will be omitted in sports articles, unless the individual is acting in an
official capacity in the story and in all headlines. This policy applies to references to all military
and civilian personnel, in all internal information products, including biographies, broadcast
products and web sites. The Associated Press (AP) Stylebook and Briefing on Media Law and
the Air Force Style Guide remain the standard references for maintaining consistency and quality
in Air Force newspaper and print news production and broadcast products. Some publications
may choose to abbreviate ranks, rather than spelling them out, on second and subsequent
references. Local style is permissible as long it meets the intent of using courtesy titles and ranks
on second and subsequent references. See Figure 1 for suggested courtesy title use with last
names on second and later references. The Air Force Style Guide is available for download on
the PA Community of Practice (CoP).
 4                                                       AFI35-113_AUSUP_I         26 MAY 2011




Figure 1. Sample Courtesy Title Style
Rank/Courtesy or Specialized Title        Use on subsequent reference with last name
Secretary of Defense                      Secretary*
Secretary of the Air Force                Secretary*
General                                   General
Lieutenant general                        General
Major general                             General
Brigadier general                         General
Colonel                                   Colonel
Lieutenant colonel                        Colonel
Major                                     Major
Captain                                   Captain
First lieutenant                          Lieutenant
Second lieutenant                         Lieutenant
Chief master sergeant of the Air Force    Chief
Chief master sergeant                     Chief
Senior master sergeant                    Sergeant
Master sergeant                           Sergeant
Technical sergeant                        Sergeant
Staff sergeant                            Sergeant
Senior airman                             Airman
Airman first class                        Airman
Airman basic                              Airman
Mr.                                       Mr.**
Miss, Ms. or Mrs.                         Miss, Ms. or Mrs.**
Doctor                                    Dr. or rank as above
Chaplain                                  Chaplain

* For under- and assistant-secretaries, use Mr., Mrs., Ms., Miss, or Dr., as appropriate
with last name
** Do not use civilian pay grades (i.e., SES-1 or GS-12)

7. Capitalization of Airman. Capitalize Airman and Airmen when referring to individuals in
the Air Force: He is an Airman. If a generic term is needed, use the term Airmen: The Airmen
returned to their base. This applies to all Public Affairs communication products. An exception
is when "airman" is part of a compound lower-case noun: A staff sergeant and a senior airman
received awards.
8. Assistance to Public Affairs specialists. Air Force Public Affairs specialists have many
resources outside their office to turn to for help. Air Force Print News Service (AFPN),
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                                                                     5


MAJCOMs, and the Defense Information School (DINFOS) offer guidance and assistance. To
aid in the gathering of news, Air Force Public Affairs specialists should, as needed, use the unit
Public Affairs representative (UPAR) program.
   8.1. MAJCOMs should consider scheduling annual Public Affairs communicator workshops
   or conferences to assist editors in communicating commanders' messages. AFPAA is
   available to assist MAJCOMs upon request.
   8.2. Public Affairs specialists are encouraged to network with fellow editors for ideas,
   suggestions, and recommendations to improve story quality, photography, production
   schedule, and commander’s involvement.
   8.3. Public Affairs specialists are encouraged to attend the annual Air Force PA
   Communicator Workshop, formerly known as the Air Force Journalists’ Workshop.
9. Public Affairs Specialist Responsibilities.
   9.1. Content of Electronic and Printed Publications. For the purposes of this instruction,
   publications refer to all types of communications provided by a public affairs office for the
   dissemination of information to the internal audiences and not the official definition of
   publications as described in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
       9.1.1. News, feature, and editorial material will conform to the Associated Press
       Stylebook and Briefing on Media Law and the supplemental Air Force Style Guide.
       Courtesy titles will be used in accordance with paragraph 6. Creation of a local
       stylebook, which may contain entries that vary from the AP Stylebook, is warranted based
       upon local conditions.
       9.1.2. News content is based on local articles developed by the Public Affairs staff and
       releases by AFPN, MAJCOM news services, American Forces Press Service, and other
       agencies of the DOD and federal government. For guidance on printed publications,
       refer to DOD Instruction 5120.4, Department of Defense Newspapers, Magazines and
       Civilian Enterprise Publications.
           9.1.2.1. (Added-AU) The Leader magazine is the official online publication for the
           Holm Center. Air University Public Affairs (AU/PA) produces the publication.
           Magazine articles and photos are submitted by Air Force Junior Reserve Officer
           Training Corps (JROTC) units and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
           (ROTC) detachments or internally generated by AU/PA or Holm Center staff.
           Leader magazine editorial staff reserves the right to edit all submitted material for
           security, accuracy, propriety and policy, or SAPP, and to conform to journalistic
           standards and the Associated Press Stylebook. Submissions are sent to
           leader@maxwell.af.mil, and the magazine’s website is www.leaderonline.af.mil.
       9.1.3. Articles of local interest to base people produced outside official channels (e.g.
       stringers, local organizations) may be used provided permission has been obtained, the
       source is credited, and they do not otherwise violate this instruction. Articles for off-
       base, non-profit organizations, including non-profit military-affiliated organizations (e.g.,
       Air Force Association, Air Force Sergeants Association, NCO Association, etc.) must be
       consistent in length and placement to avoid the appearance of favoritism or implied
       endorsement.
6                                                        AFI35-113_AUSUP_I         26 MAY 2011


       9.1.4. News, feature, and editorial material will conform to policies of the Air Force and
       the installation commander. Coverage will be factual and objective and avoid morbid,
       sensational, or alarming details not essential to factual reporting. Accuracy is paramount.
       9.1.5. Air Force products will distinguish between facts and opinion, both of which may
       be part of a news, feature, or sports story. When an opinion is expressed, identify the
       person or source.
       9.1.6. Locally originated editorials (command position) and commentaries (personal
       opinions) will reflect the policies of the commander and will be in the interest of the Air
       Force. Editorials should help readers understand Air Force policies and programs. They
       must not imply criticism of other governmental agencies, nor advocate or dispute specific
       political, diplomatic, or legislative matters.
       9.1.7. Credit sources of all material. This includes, but is not limited to, installation
       Airmen, civilians, and their families, AFPN, American Forces Press Service, and other
       DOD component and MAJCOM news services.
       9.1.8. Individuals to be interviewed and photographed must meet all requirements of AFI
       36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, and must comply with
       current safety, security, and technical order requirements.
       9.1.9. Adhere to guidelines in AFI 35-104, Media Operations, on release of information
       and photography.
       9.1.10. Conform to applicable policies, regulations, and laws involving the collection,
       processing, storage, use, publication, and distribution of information by DOD
       components (e.g., libel, photographic imaging alteration, copyright, sexually explicit
       materials, classified information) and U.S. Government postal and printing regulations.
    9.2. Inspection ratings.
       9.2.1. Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI). ORIs are conducted to evaluate the
       ability of units with a wartime or contingency mission to perform assigned operational
       missions. A five-tier rating system (consisting of outstanding, excellent, satisfactory,
       marginal, and unsatisfactory) is used for major graded areas (consisting of initial
       response, employment, mission support, and ability to survive and operate), and overall
       wing performance. Summary inspection results may be published on the base’s Web site
       and released to external media. Installation-level PA offices must consult with their
       respective MAJCOM PA for specific publication criteria as release of ORI reports is at
       the discretion of the respective MAJCOM/IG. When in doubt, AFI 90-201, Inspector
       General Activities, takes precedence. Commanders will ensure all personnel safeguard
       the privileged nature of inspection reports.
       9.2.2. Compliance Inspection (CI). CIs are conducted to assess areas mandated by law
       as well as mission areas identified by senior Air Force and MAJCOM leadership as
       critical or important to assess the health and performance of the organization. A three-
       tier grading system (consisting of in compliance, in compliance with comments, and not
       in compliance) is typically used. Installation-level PA offices must consult with their
       respective MAJCOM PA office for release guidelines of CI reports which is at the
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                                                                     7


       discretion of the respective MAJCOM/IG. Commanders will ensure all personnel
       safeguard the privileged nature of inspection reports.
       9.2.3. Nuclear Inspections. For Nuclear Surety Inspections and Defense Agency
       Inspections, no public or non-public release of scores or data is authorized beyond that
       required in AFI 90-201.
10. Base Guides or Maps. These are optional authorized publications containing advertising
prepared and published under contract with civilian publishers. PA should consider the
availability of information on web sites and other sources when considering the necessity of
producing an optional publication. As with civilian enterprise (CE) newspapers, the right to
circulate this advertising to the Air Force readership constitutes contractual consideration instead
of money to pay for the publications. They become the property of the command, installation or
intended recipient upon delivery according to contract terms. (The Air Force Public Affairs
Community of Practice has a sample Statement of Work for a Guide or Map contract.) These
publications are limited to:
   10.1. Installation guides, which provide Air Force people with information about the mission
   of their command; command, installation, or community services available; local geography
   and history; and related information.
   10.2. Installation maps, which are designed to help orient new arrivals or visitors. As a force
   protection measure, specific addresses should not be included.
   10.3. Required Statements. Each installation guide or map will carry a masthead. The
   masthead should not be placed on the front cover of the publication.
11. Air Force Products. Defense Media Activity (DMA)-San Antonio produces a variety of
internal products and services that commanders and Public Affairs offices at all levels may use to
establish and implement a comprehensive internal information program.
   11.1. DMA-San Antonio provides guidance on the following products’ distribution methods,
   production cycles, submission requirements, and subscription information: AFPN, electronic
   and print newspapers, other news services, Airman magazine, television and radio products,
   senior PA staff directory, biography program, fact sheet program, commander’s call topics,
   speech packages, town hall meetings, lithographs, graphics/art, and the Army and Air Force
   Hometown News Service. AFPAA provides guidance on emerging technology use.
       11.1.1. (Added-AU) Joint Hometown News Program. The six qualifying events for Air
       Force ROTC cadet submissions of a DD Form 2266, Hometown News Release
       Information, are: completion of field training; receipt of a scholarship; entry into the
       Professional Officer Course; early commissioning; commissioning; and awards and
       decorations or other recognition events of cadet achievements. The qualifying event for
       Air Force Officer Training School (OTS) Basic Officer Training is commissioning. The
       qualifying event for OTS Commissioned Officer Training is graduation. The qualifying
       events for Air Force JROTC are: receipt of a scholarship; service academy appointment;
       and selection and attendance at Air Force JROTC Aerospace and Technology Honors
       Camps. The electronic copy of the form can be found at www.maxwell.af.mil, click on
       the “Hometown News Releases” link.
 8                                                       AFI35-113_AUSUP_I         26 MAY 2011


12. Commander's Call Program. The Air Force considers no leadership function more
important than keeping people informed through direct personal contact. A commander's call--a
meeting of unit personnel with their commander--provides this contact in a face-to-face forum.
     12.1. Conducting Commander’s Call Programs. Sound leadership, morale, and retention all
     require consistent communication between leaders and their subordinates. Commanders
     must help “carry the mail to the lowest levels of the Air Force” on a regular basis. The
     commander of every unit will personally conduct commander's calls at least quarterly. PA
     representatives will help commanders develop effective programs and topics of general
     interest to unit personnel. Overall program content and format will vary according to unit
     requirements.
        12.1.1. Suitable areas to cover in commander's call include unit activities, achievements,
        and goals; recognition of newcomers and persons receiving awards or other honors; and
        discussion of current issues affecting the Air Force and the unit.
        12.1.2. The program should be used for two-way communication between commanders
        and their people. Question-and-answer sessions, group discussions, and other similar
        methods help establish two-way communication.
        12.1.3. Attendance is highly recommended for all military personnel assigned to the unit
        and present for duty. Members should not be required to attend during their off-duty
        hours, and programs should be tailored to accommodate personnel schedules. Encourage
        civilian employees to attend. Attendance by family members is at the commander’s
        discretion for parts or all of some commander’s calls but can be especially effective
        during individual or unit award presentations.
        12.1.4. Commander’s Call Topics. Commander’s Call Topics is produced by DMA-San
        Antonio, for use in commander’s call. The publication provides current information on
        key Air Force-wide items of interest or importance to Air Force military personnel,
        civilian employees, and their family members. The product is available electronically.
        To subscribe to the service, visit Air Force Link at http://www.af.mil and click on
        “subscribe.”
13. Commander’s Access Channel (CAC). Public Affairs offices are discouraged from using
CAC as an avenue to reach internal information audiences. Surveys of Airmen continually
indicate that CAC is not a useful tool to reach the intended internal audiences.
14. Air Force Link. AF Link, www.af.mil, is the Air Force’s official Web site. It is one of the
primary distribution channels for Air Force print, radio, and television news. The site is updated
daily and features news, fact sheets, biographies, images and artwork, and contains a listing of
official resources that give information about Air Force sites and missions around the world.
The Director of SAF/PA maintains editorial control of Air Force Link and may delegate that
control to the Director of the AFPAA, but no lower. The Director of AFPAA is responsible for
the day-to-day operation of the Web site.
15. Social Media. Includes, but is not limited to, webblogs, message boards, video sharing, and
other media sharing websites.
     15.1. In general, the Air Force views personal Web sites and weblogs positively, and it
     respects the right of Airmen to use them as a medium of self-expression. However, as
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                                                                  9


  members of the Air Force, Airmen must abide by certain restrictions to ensure good order
  and discipline. All Airmen are on duty 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and their actions on
  and off duty are subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
  15.2. When Airmen, including PA specialists and officers, see misrepresentations made
  about the Air Force in the media, by analysts or by other bloggers, they may use their blogs
  or someone else’s to point out the error. Always do so with respect and with the facts. When
  speaking to someone with an adversarial position, they should make sure that what is said is
  factual and is not disparaging. Avoid arguments.
  15.3. Airmen should be the first to respond to their mistakes. If someone makes an error,
  they should be up front about the mistake and correct it quickly. If choosing to modify an
  earlier post, they should make it clear that they have done so.
  15.4. Airmen should use their best judgment, remembering that there are always
  consequences to what is written. If they’re about to post something that is questionable and
  may reflect negatively on the Air Force, they should review this and other relevant guidance
  thoroughly. If still unsure, and the post is about the Air Force, they should discuss the
  proposed post with their supervisor or the PA office. Ultimately, however, Airmen have the
  sole responsibility for what they post.
  15.5. Do not post any defamatory, libelous, vulgar, obscene, abusive, profane, threatening,
  hateful, racially, ethnically, or otherwise offensive or illegal information or material.
  15.6. Do not post any information or other material protected by copyright without the
  permission of the copyright owner.
  15.7. Do not use any words, logos or other marks that would infringe upon the trademark,
  service mark, certification mark, or other intellectual property rights of the owners of such
  marks without the permission of such owners.
  15.8. Do not post classified or sensitive information.
  15.9. Do not post any information that would infringe upon the proprietary, privacy, or
  personal rights of others.
  15.10. Do not forge or otherwise manipulate identifiers in posts in an attempt to disguise,
  impersonate, or otherwise misrepresent their identity or affiliation with any other person or
  entity.
  15.11. Identify to readers of a personal social media site or post that the views expressed are
  yours alone and that they do not necessarily reflect the views of the Air Force. Use a
  disclaimer such as: “The postings on this site are my own and don’t necessarily represent Air
  Force positions, strategies, or opinions.”
  15.12. Airmen discussing issues related to their career field or personal experiences is
  acceptable, but they should not discuss areas of expertise for which they have no first-hand,
  direct background or knowledge.
  15.13. A link from an Airman’s personal/social site to an Air Force website such as Air
  Force Link at http://www.af.mil is acceptable.
 10                                                     AFI35-113_AUSUP_I        26 MAY 2011



16. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
   16.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   16.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in
   accordance with the AFRIMS RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

16.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).

16.3.1. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
(Added-AU) DD Form 2266, Hometown News Release Information

16.3.2. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed by this publication




                                              LES A KODLICK, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director of Public Affairs

                                              (AU)

                                              ALLEN G. PECK, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                              Commander
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                                                               11


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code - Armed Forces
DOD Regulation 5120.20-R, Management and Operation of American Forces Radio and
Television Services, 9 Nov 1998
DOD 1348.33-M, Manual of Military Decorations and Awards, 12 Sep 1996, change 1, 18 Sep
2006
DODD 5120.20, Armed Forces Radio and Television Service (AFRTS), 12 Dec 1991
DODD 5160.48, DOD Public Affairs and Visual Information (PA & VI) Education and Training
(E&T), 2 Jul 2004
DODD 5410.01, Release of Information Concerning Accidental Casualties Involving Military
Personnel Equipment, 14 May 2004
DODI 5120.04, Department of Defense Newspapers, Magazines and Civilian Enterprise
Publications, 16 Jun 97
DODI 5400.14, Procedures for Joint Public Affairs Operations, 22 Jan 1996
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12
Apr 2001, as amended through 17 Oct 2008
Joint Publication 3-61, Doctrine for Joint Public Affairs, 9 May 2005AFDD 1-2, Air Force
Glossary, 11 Jan 2007
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
Jan 1997
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 Jan 2004
AFI 35-104, Media Operations, 22 Jan 2010
AFI 35-109, Visual Information, 12 Mar 2010
AFI 36-2632, Official Photographs of Air Force General Officers, 1 Aug 1995
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 Jun 2001
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 Aug 2006
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 22 Nov 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 17 Sep 1999
Associated Press Stylebook and Briefing for Media Law, June 2008
Uniform Code of Military Justice, latest edition, 2008
 12                                                  AFI35-113_AUSUP_I   26 MAY 2011


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFPAA—Air Force Public Affairs Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFPN—Air Force Print News
AFPS—American Forces Press Service
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AP—Associated Press
(Added-AU) AU/PA—Air University Public Affairs
CAC—Commander’s Access Channel
CE—civilian enterprise
CI—Compliance Inspection
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
CoP—Community of Practice
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force
DINFOS—Defense Information School
DMA—Defense Media Activity
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—direct reporting unit
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FOA—field operating agency
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HQ—Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
JPEG—Joint Photographic Experts Group
(Added-AU) JROTC—Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps
MAJCOM—major command
AFI35-113_AUSUP_I 26 MAY 2011                    13


NCO—non-commissioned officer
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
(Added-AU) OTS—Officer Training School
PA—Public Affairs
PAO—Public Affairs officer
(Added-AU) ROTC—Reserve Officer Training Corps
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
UPAR—unit Public Affairs representative
USAF—United States Air Force
VI—Visual Information
