BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-801
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              17 MARCH 2014

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                 UNIFORMS FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1P                                          Certified by: AF/A1 (Mr. Robert E. Corsi)
                                                                                     Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFI 36-801, 29 April 1994


This publication implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life
Programs, and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 1400.25, Volume 591, DoD Civilian
Personnel Management System: Uniform Allowance Rates for DoD Civilian employees, 12
March 2009. It establishes standards and conditions for furnishing uniforms or paying uniform
allowances to direct hire Air Force employees paid from appropriated funds, including Title 5
USC employees of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. It does not apply to Title 32
employees of the Air National Guard. It does not apply to employees furnished uniforms or paid
uniform allowances under other laws or regulations, such as medical and food service personnel
furnished uniforms under Table of Allowance (TA) 016, non-US citizen employees furnished
uniforms or paid uniform allowances under labor agreements concluded with another
government, and persons furnished special clothing under AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply
Manual, 01 April 2009 or it’s implementing instructions.

In collaboration with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air
National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services
(HQ USAF/A1) develops policy for the Air Force Employee Benefits and Entitlements and
Work/Life Programs . This Air Force Instruction (AFI) may be supplemented at any level; all
MAJCOM level supplements must be approved by the Human Resource Management Strategic
Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS).
 2                                                                 AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This AFI has been completely revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. All functional
uniform wear and grooming requirements have been removed for inclusion in appropriate
directives within the respective functional activity, i.e., firefighter, security, etc. Therefore,
Chapters 2 through 5; Chapter 6 Sections 6.6-6.7; and Chapters 7 through 10 have been removed.
Tier waiver authorities as approved by the Inspector General Advisory Board have been included
per AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Refer to AFI 33-360 for tier waiver
authority definitions and procedures

Civilian Uniforms
1. Wearing of Uniforms.
     1.1. US citizen employees of the Air Force must wear uniforms when management officials
     determine that the nature of their work makes the wearing of a uniform necessary for the
     position, and thus makes the wear of a uniform a pre-established condition of employment.
     1.2. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Air Reserve Technicians (ART) must wear the
     military uniform while performing civilian duties as an ART.
     1.3. US citizen employees of the Air Force in overseas areas (or employees being deployed
     to overseas areas) may be required to wear uniforms if the theater or air component
     commanders determine it is in the best interest of the Air Force because there is an actual or
     threatened outbreak of hostilities involving war, major civil disturbance (or other equally
     grave situations), or where the deployment of employees necessitates the wearing of
     uniforms in specifically defined geographic areas (See paragraph 6).
     1.4. Direct hire employees of the Air Force who are not US citizens must wear uniforms
     when the overseas commander determines the mission necessitates the wearing of a uniform.
     1.5. Regardless of the length of appointment, employees do not normally wear uniforms.
     However, when specific work environments, as determined by the Commander, require the
     wear of a uniform for safety or a need to readily identify the employee with the work
     environment, wear of a prescribed uniform may be necessary (such as police officers or
     firefighters).
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. The HQ USAF Director of Force Management Policy (A1P) through the Civilian Policy
     Division (A1PC):
        2.1.1. Establishes basic standards for furnishing uniforms or for paying uniform
        allowances.
        2.1.2. Ensures all uniform regulations comply with legal requirements and DoD policy.
        2.1.3. Approves MAJCOM requests for exception to the stated policy for civilian
        uniform wear.
        2.1.4. Gathers MAJCOM requests for uniform wear/adoption and distributes to
        functional communities for review and recommendations for approval/disapproval.
     2.2. HAF Functional Authority (FA):
AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014                                                                       3


     2.2.1. Develops specific uniform design based on functional duty requirements,
     environmental factors and safety and health considerations.
     2.2.2. Publishes uniform description and wear requirements in functional community Air
     Force guidance (instruction or manual).
     2.2.3. Programs and budgets for funding of functional civilian employee uniforms.
         2.2.3.1. Conducts annual reviews of uniform allowance for revisions or updates.
         2.2.3.2. Estimates line item costs when establishing the maximum amount of the
         initial and replacement allowance (See paragraph 4.1. below). Provides the
         allowance rates with documentation to AF/A1PC.
  2.3. MAJCOM Commanders: Review requests for civilian uniform wear and forward them
  to AF/A1PC for approval.
  2.4. Unit commanders and supervisors:
     2.4.1. Identify positions requiring the wear of a uniform and initiate uniform
     authorization requests. (T-1)
     2.4.2. Instruct employees when and how to wear their designated uniform. (T-1)
     2.4.3. Determine the amount and type of allowance (initial or replacement) and inform
     the accounting and finance officer. (T-3)
     2.4.4. Inform employees about the Air Force uniform allowance (if applicable).
     2.4.5. Verify whether employees entering on duty in positions subject to uniform wear
     have been employed in DoD during the past year. (T-3)
     2.4.6. Prepare a Standard Form (SF) 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services
     Other Than Personal, and forward it to the Financial Services Office to obtain a uniform
     allowance for an employee. (T-3)
     2.4.7. Coordinate with Labor Relations Officer to ensure that all bargaining obligations
     are completed prior to implementation of uniform wear. (T-3)
     2.4.8. When giving an employee a rented or purchased uniform, be sure that the cost
     doesn't exceed the actual cost of the uniform or the maximum uniform allowance,
     whichever is less. (T-3)
  2.5. Financial Services Office:
     2.5.1. Determines the amount of uniform allowance the employee is authorized. (T-3)
     2.5.2. Maintains a record of all uniform allowance payments to an employee. (T-3)
     2.5.3. Furnishes information about established uniform allowances when the Air Force
     transfers employees within the DoD or rehires employees in the same type of position.
     (T-3)
  2.6. Civilian Personnel Elements/Sections:
     2.6.1. Inform operating officials and supervisors about the provisions of this instruction.
     (T-3)
 4                                                                AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014


        2.6.2. Verify whether employees who, within 1 year of previous employment in DoD,
        entered positions that have a uniform requirement. Verification may be via a review of
        the employee’s SF 66, Official Personnel Folder, or of other available pertinent
        documents indicating whether an employee has received payment of a uniform
        allowance. (T-3)
        2.6.3. Verify an eligible employee's voucher for allowance and forwards the voucher to
        the Financial Services Office with the request for payment. (T-3)
        2.6.4. Request further verification of uniform allowance payment from the employee's
        former employing agency when a significant discrepancy exists between the information
        contained in the previous employment records and information reflected on the SF 50,
        Notification of Personnel Action, in the official personnel folder. (T-3)
3. Furnishing Uniforms
     3.1. The Air Force must either furnish a uniform or provide a uniform allowance to all
     civilian employees required to wear a uniform.
     3.2. Civilian employees are responsible for cleaning or laundering their uniforms at their
     own expense.
     3.3. Procure uniforms locally in accordance with established AF supply procedures.
     3.4. When renting uniforms, account for and process the rental in the same manner as other
     contractual services.
4. Establishing Uniform Allowances: Air Force functional authorities may develop specific
functional guidance to establish uniform allowances, appearance and wear guidelines using the
following criteria.
     4.1. A uniform allowance helps the employee pay for the uniform. It must not exceed the
     maximum authorized under DoDI 1400.25. The Air Force does not categorize uniform
     allowances paid under this instruction as pay, salary, or compensation.
     4.2. To establish an allowance, consider the quality of each uniform item that the employee
     needs to maintain a satisfactory standard of appearance. Base the initial allowance on the
     costs of the items that make up the required uniform, but be sure you don't exceed the
     maximum allowance limitation.
        4.2.1. The initial allowance is effective as of the date an employee must first wear a
        uniform and covers a 1-year period from that date. Do not authorize the initial allowance
        to any employee or former employee who leaves a position before getting an authorized
        uniform allowance.
        4.2.2. A replacement allowance reimburses employees for those uniform items that need
        replacement because of damage or wear. Local activities establish wear out periods for
        replacing uniforms, but the minimum period is 1 year.
EXCEPTION: Damage to clothing items beyond acceptable appearance standards qualifies for a
replacement allowance. Damage may include soiling not removable by commercial dry cleaning
or soiling by flammable, toxic or other hazardous substances otherwise rendering the uniform
item(s) unserviceable.
AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014                                                                       5


          4.2.2.1. When establishing wear out periods, consider such factors as: environment
          (heat and cold); the likelihood that some items wear out sooner (for example, coat,
          hat, trousers); seasons (winter, summer); etc.
          4.2.2.2. Set the replacement allowance to take into account locality, environment,
          amount of expense and frequency of replacement.
          4.2.2.3. Provide the replacement allowance on an annual or quarterly basis. Be sure
          to pay it in full before the wear out period.
   4.3. Authorize an annual allowance only for an employee who has the same uniform
   requirements throughout the year. If an activity has provided an annual allowance and the
   employee leaves a job requiring the wearing of the same uniform, the employee may keep
   one-fourth of the payment for each quarter or portion of a quarter the employee held the job.
   The employee must return the balance of the annual payment.
      4.3.1. When employees are on extended leave, with or without pay, at the time a
      replacement allowance is due (quarterly or annually), and the supervisor has good reason
      to expect the employee will not return to work for at least 30 calendar days into the
      period, withhold the replacement allowance.
      4.3.2. An employee who resumes their position before the end of the quarter is entitled to
      the replacement allowance for the quarter.
      4.3.3. Employees who receive a replacement allowance on an annual basis do not receive
      payments until they return to work. Their new annual payment cycle begins on the date
      they return to work.
      4.3.4. Employees authorized quarterly replacement allowances, and who leave before the
      period of service expires, do not have to pay back the uniform allowance.
   4.4. Commanders determine the amounts of uniform allowances for eligible temporary
   employees. The commander's principle criteria are the employee's job requirements and the
   nature and length of the temporary employment. Allowances for temporary employees
   should be kept to a minimum.
   4.5. Uniform Allowances for Reemployed or Transferred Employees
      4.5.1. Transferred or reemployed employees do not receive a new allowance for identical
      uniform requirements if the allowance overlaps a period for which the employee was
      previously paid an initial or replacement allowance.
      4.5.2. Employees transferred to or reemployed in a position different from the one they
      left may receive an initial uniform allowance. Employees who leave a position and are
      later reemployed or transferred to a position with identical or similar uniform
      requirements may receive an initial uniform allowance if at least 1 full year has passed
      since the end of the period covered by the last allowance payment.
5. Uniforms for US Citizens in Overseas Areas
   5.1. Covered Employees. This chapter's requirements apply to all employees of US
   citizenship of the Air Force in overseas areas including those employees being deployed to
   an overseas area who are paid from appropriated funds.
6                                                                AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014


    5.2. Purpose of the Uniform. The purpose of the uniform is to readily identify Air Force
    employees as members of the civilian component of the US Forces.
    5.3. When to Wear the Uniform:
       5.3.1. Employees wear uniforms in specially designated areas when prescribed by theater
       or air component commanders in the best interest of the Air Force and as a precautionary
       response to actual or potential hostilities or as a necessary part of a deployment.
       5.3.2. Employees assigned to overseas areas normally do not have to wear a uniform
       before reporting to the overseas duty location.
       5.3.3. MAJCOM Commanders or their designees may authorize uniforms for US citizen
       employees whose assigned duties require participation in exercises in supporting overseas
       deployments.
       5.3.4. Unless otherwise approved, US citizen employees may not wear uniforms outside
       of an overseas area.
       5.3.5. Theater or air component commander may authorize uniforms for employees of
       citizenship in a specific overseas area to ensure that the personnel of all military
       departments in the area receive equitable treatment.
       5.3.6. Employees must wear the uniform according to administrative instructions. Local
       instructions that direct Air Force military personnel on the wearing of a uniform will
       apply equally to civilian employees when the local commander so instructs.
    5.4. Allowances for Uniforms. MAJCOM Commanders or their designees and theater or air
    component commanders may authorize the appropriate installation officials to furnish
    uniforms or pay a uniform allowance to civilian employees.
    5.5. Purchasing the Uniform. Commanders who prescribe a specific uniform or uniform item
    must ensure civilian employees can purchase the required uniform items. Employees are
    authorized to purchase available uniform items through the Army and Air Force Exchange
    Service (AAFES).
    5.6. Issue Items. Employees may be issued organizational and field clothing and equipment
    on a loan basis.
    5.7. Exceptions. Send requests for exceptions through the MAJCOM/A1 to AF/A1PC.




                                            GORDON O. TANNER, SES
                                            Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
                                            (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
AFI36-801 17 MARCH 2014                                                                    7


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction 1400.25, Volume 591, DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Uniform
Allowance Rates for DoD Civilian Employees, 12 March 2009
DoD 5400.11R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Work/Life programs, 10 February 2009
AFI 31-122, Department of the Air Force Civilian Police/Security Guard (DAF CP/SG)
Program, 22 December 2010
AFI 32-2006, Uniform and Grooming Standards for Civilian Fire Emergency Services
Personnel, 29 August 2013
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
Adopted Forms
Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Standard Form (SF) 50, Notification of Personnel Action
Standard Form (SF) 66, Official Personnel Folder
Standard Form (SF) 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
FA—Functional Authority
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
USC—United States Code

Terms
Uniform— a prescribed identifying set of clothing for the members of an organization, such as
soldiers or workers.
