BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 31-501
HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                              HOLLOMAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                             25 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                         Security

                                                         PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM
                                                                       MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 49 WG/IP                                                             Certified by: 49 WG/IP
                                                                          (Mr. Teddy E. Beldad)
Supersedes:    AFI 31-                                                                   Pages: 9
               501_HOLLOMANAFBSUP,
               27 January 2005


AFI 31-501, 27 January 2005, and AFI 31-501_ACCSUP1, 18 November 2005, Personnel
Security Program Management is supplemented. This supplement applies to all personnel
(military, civilians, and contractors) assigned to Holloman Air Force Base (HAFB), New
Mexico. It also applies to all units and members that are tenant on HAFB, except for the 46th
Test Group, German Air Force and Air Force Office Special Investigations (AFOSI). Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.myaf.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to 49th Wing Information Protection (49 WG/IP), Attention: Personnel Security,
490 First Street, HAFB, NM 88330.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Revisions include
deleting the use of the fillable Standard Form (SF) 85, Questionnaire for Non- Sensitive
Positions; SF 85P, Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions (SF 85/85P) and adding utilizing the
Electronic Questionnaire for Investigation Processing (e-Qip) for all investigation requests;
 2                       AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011


deleting monthly requirement of verifying and updating Joint Personnel Adjudicative System
(JPAS) Person Summaries; deleting JPAS website address; deleting the requirement for
receiving a weekly summary of disciplinary actions from the Judge Advocate; deleting the
requirement for receiving Notifications of Investigation from Air Force Office of Special
Investigations; adding procedures for verifying completed Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
fingerprint results in the Central Adjudication Security Personnel Repository (CASPR) for
interim Common Access Card (CAC) issuance; adding level of access to classified information
indoctrination procedures in JPAS; adding protection and distribution of information retrieved
from JPAS.
3. 11. 5. Unit Security Manager (USM) shall maintain the signed SF 86, Questionnaire for
National Security Positions, with the AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, in
the individual's security folder. The USM shall process the SF 312, Classified Information
Nondisclosure Agreement, and annotate the information in Joint Clearance and Access
Verification System (JCAVS) when an interim security clearance is granted by the commander.
The USM shall forward the SF 312 to appropriate agency.
3.11.6.1. USM shall submit a Periodic Reinvestigations (PR), through 49th Wing Information
Protection (49 WG/IP), for civilians occupying a critical sensitive position when the Single
Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) is 4 years and 10 months old. The USM shall submit a
PR, through 49 WG/IP, for civilians occupying non-critical sensitive positions when the Access
National Agency with Inquires (ANACI) is 9 years and 10 months old.
           3.11.6.2. USM shall maintain a copy of the waiver signed by the unit commander,
           along with pertinent interim clearance documentation, in the individual's security
           folder.
3.24.10. Requests for contractor background investigations for restricted area access shall be
submitted to 49 WG/IP utilizing the e-Qip Direct Initiation Request (see Attachment 27). When
the completed background investigation results require an employment suitability determination
by the sponsoring Air Force activity commander, the sponsoring Air Force activity USM shall
immediately annotate, in JPAS, the results of the sponsoring Air Force activity commander’s
employment suitability determination, as noted on the INV Form 79A, Report of Agency
Adjudication Action. The INV Form 79A shall be forwarded through 49 WG/IP to the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM). The sponsoring Air Force activity USM shall obtain the signed
Certification of Investigation from the sponsoring Air Force activity commander and maintain
the certification in the member's security folder. Upon termination of the contractor’s
employment, the sponsoring Air Force activity USM shall input a final determination date in
JPAS.
3.27.3.7.2. Requests for contractor background investigations for Automated Information
System (AIS) access shall be submitted to 49 WG/IP using the e-Qip Direct Initiation Request.
When the completed background investigation results require an employment suitability
determination by the sponsoring activity commander, the sponsoring Air Force activity USM
shall immediately annotate, in JPAS, the results of the sponsoring Air Force activity
commander’s employment suitability determinations as noted on the INV Form 79A. The INV
Form 79A shall be forwarded through 49 WG/IP to OPM. The sponsoring Air Force activity
USM shall obtain the signed Certification of Investigation from the sponsoring Air Force activity
commander and maintain the certification in the member's security folder. Upon termination of
AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011                                                3


the contractor’s employment, the sponsoring Air Force activity USM shall input a final
determination date in JPAS.
3.27.3.7.3. (Added) When processing for an interim CAC for contractor personnel, the
sponsoring Air Force activity USM shall contact 49 WG/IP to confirm results of the FBI
fingerprint check. The sponsoring Air Force activity USM will maintain a copy of the results in
the individual’s security folder until the results of the National Agency Check with Written
Inquiries (NACI) is complete.
5.1.1.1.1. (Added) USM shall maintain a separate security folder for each individual assigned
to the unit if the individual requires a security clearance eligibility and/or background
investigation for employment and/or volunteer work. The USM shall maintain all security
documentation, (i.e., advanced fingerprint results for CAC issuance, JPAS Person Summary,
interim clearance documentation, certification of employment suitability determinations for
civilian and/or contractor employees in non sensitive positions, etc.) in the folder.
5.1.1.1.2. (Added) USM shall process all investigation requests, SF 85 or SF 86, utilizing e-
Qip.
5.1.1.1.3. (Added) Requests for e-Qip accounts will be accomplished utilizing the e-Qip Direct
Initiation Request. USM shall report the unit’s PRs to 49 WG/IP by the first duty day of the
month in which the last investigation will be sixty days from the out-of-scope date. USM shall
identify and annotate availability of individuals on the request. USM, Appropriated Funds
(APF) and Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) personnel shall ensure all items on the e-Qip Direct
Initiation Request and required supporting documents (i.e. AF Form 2583, Optional Form 306,
Declaration for Federal Employment, and resume) are completed prior to submitting the request.
Local Files Check (LFC) will be completed through the unit and 49th Medical Group. AF Forms
2583 shall be hand carried by the USM to and from the 49th Medical Group and 49 WG/IP. The
AF Form 2583 must be typed. AF Forms 2583 are not required for newly hired APF or NAF
employees. Individuals will have five calendar days to initiate the e-Qip account (simply typing
in the individual’s name and personal information does not constitute initiation; data beyond
personal information must be input into e-Qip). The individual will have a total of 14 calendar
days (this includes the five calendar days to initiate) to complete and transmit to 49 WG/IP. The
USM shall review all e-Qip questionnaires for errors prior to releasing to 49 WG/IP. Individuals
will have seven calendar days to make corrections identified by 49 WG/IP and retransmit. USM
shall ensure signature pages forwarded for processing are completed and forwarded back to
49 WG/IP within two duty days. E-Qip accounts not submitted within the above established
timelines will be terminated. USM will provide a completed e-Qip Reactivation memorandum
(see Attachment 28), signed by the commander, to 49 WG/IP for reactivation of the individual’s
e-Qip account. The request shall include a valid reason why the individual failed to meet the
established timelines (please note e-Qip is accessible from any computer; therefore, snow days,
down days, or exercises are not a valid reason). E-Qip accounts terminated for the second time
will be reviewed by the Chief, 49 WG/IP, to determine the validity of the reason and will
recommend to the unit commander, in writing, a Security Information File (SIF) be established
when the reason is not valid. Upon receipt of the unit commander’s SIF response and e-Qip
Reactivation memorandum, the e-Qip account will be reactivated.
5.1.1.1.4. (Added) 49 WG/IP provides fingerprinting services to HAFB-assigned contractor
personnel for clearance submissions. Fingerprinting is by appointment only and will be
 4                        AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011


scheduled by the AF Activity USM.
5.7.4.1. USM shall use the Naturalization Memorandum (see Attachment 29) when processing
renouncements of foreign citizenship. USM shall ensure that upgrade requests from "favorable"
determinations to security clearance eligibility are processed upon citizenship change. Passports
may only be destroyed by the USM and must be witnessed by an individual other than the USM.
7.4.2.2. USM shall indoctrinate all unit personnel in JPAS, with the exception of contractor
personnel, to reflect the level of access authorized by the commander as indicated by the
position’s Security Access Requirement (SAR) Code on the Unit Manning Document (UMD).
USM shall verify the individual’s security clearance eligibility is equivalent to the position SAR
Code and position sensitivity prior to indoctrination. Individuals shall not have access to
classified information when their JPAS record does not reflect indoctrination to the level of
access authorized by the commander on the UMD. USM shall remove the access when the
individual’s access has been suspended by the commander or in conjunction with a suitability or
Statement of Reason package from the Air Force Central Adjudication Facility (AFCAF).
7.9.1. USM are responsible for protecting information retrieved from JPAS. USM shall ensure
JPAS Person Summaries and the JCAVS Eligibility and Access Report are protected with a
Privacy Act (PA) cover sheet and are secured at the end of the duty day. USM shall not make
copies of and/or distribute JPAS Person Summaries to outside agencies. USM may provide an
individual with their JPAS Person Summary. However, a PA cover sheet shall be used.
7.9.3.1. Upon completion of training, USM shall complete and provide a JPAS Access Request
to 49 WG/IP.
7.9.6.5. USM shall check their notifications in JPAS on a daily basis. USM shall print out new
Person Summaries when updated information is identified and replace the old printout with the
updated printout in the individual's security folder. USM shall notify the unit commander when
an eligibility change results in an "Action Pending" or "No Determination Made" notification.
7.9.6.6.1. (Added) USM shall use the JCAVS Eligibility and Access Report and Person
Summaries to identify personnel requiring a Periodic Reinvestigation (PR).
8.2.1.3. (Added) Should the unit commander and Chief, 49 WG/IP, disagree on SIF
establishment, Chief, 49 WG/IP, will elevate the issue to the installation commander (49
WG/CC) for resolution.
8.2.1.7. USM shall contact 49 WG/IP to schedule a courtesy review of documentation associated
with a SIF. The unit is responsible to ensure any and all memorandums and supporting
documentation are complete and accurate. Results of the review shall be annotated in the
49 WG/IP and USM Review Log and initialed by the USM and 49 WG/IP representatives. The
unit is responsible for correcting any discrepancies identified during the review.
8.2.1.8. Requests for SIF closure shall be sent to the AFCAF through 49 WG/IP. USM shall
contact 49 WG/IP for review of the documentation. The unit is responsible to ensure any and all
memorandums and supporting documentation are complete and accurate. Results of the review
shall be annotated in the 49 WG/IP and USM Review Log and initialed by the USM and 49
WG/IP. The unit is responsible for correcting any discrepancies identified during the review.
8.2.2.2.1. (Added) The installation custodian for SIFs is 49 WG/IP.
8.2.2.2.2. (Added) Commander's SIF updates shall be provided through the USM to 49 WG/IP
AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011                                                 5


by the last duty day of each month.
8.2.2.11. Individuals delegated to access the unit's SIF files shall be authorized, in writing, by
the unit commander and forwarded to 49 WG/IP. Memorandums shall be updated when there is
a change in personnel authorized to access the unit’s SIF.
8.5.1. General. USM and commanders will be notified, via e-mail, to schedule an appointment
for 49 WG/IP to brief the suitability package. The unit commander (or his/her designee on
G-Series orders), the individual’s immediate supervisor, and USM shall be present during the
briefing. USM shall initial the Suitability/SOR/LOD/Conditional briefing checklist. When the
AFCAF has suspended the individual’s access to classified information, the USM shall
immediately remove the U.S. Access in JPAS to provide a record of the suspension. USM shall
contact 49 WG/IP to schedule a courtesy review of the response documentation. The unit is
responsible to ensure any and all memorandums and supporting documentation are complete and
accurate.
8.6.1. Denial Authority. USM and commanders will be notified, via e-mail, to schedule an
appointment to brief the package (i.e. SOR, LOD, conditional). The unit commander (or his/her
designee on G-Series orders) on orders), the individual’s immediate supervisor, and USM shall
be present during the briefing. USM shall initial the Suitability/SOR/LOD/Conditional briefing
checklist. When the AFCAF has suspended the individual’s access to classified information, the
USM shall immediately remove the U.S. Access in JPAS to provide a record of the suspension.
USM shall contact 49 WG/IP to schedule a courtesy review of the response documentation. The
unit is responsible to ensure any and all memorandums and supporting documentation are
complete and accurate.
8.7. Security Clearance Reinstatement. Requests to reinstate an individual's security
clearance eligibility shall be submitted to the AFCAF through 49 WG/IP. USM shall schedule
an appointment with 49 WG/IP for review of the documentation. The results of the review shall
be annotated in the 49 WG/IP and USM Review Log and initialed by the USM and 49 WG/IP
representatives. The unit is responsible to ensure any and all memorandums and supporting
documentation are completed and accurate. The unit is responsible for correcting any
discrepancies identified during the review.
9.1.1.1. USM shall ensure that initial and annual Continuous Evaluation Program (CEP) training
is provided to all unit personnel. Annual training shall not exceed 12 calendar months. The unit
shall utilize the CEP slides provided by 49 WG/IP to conduct the training. Training shall be
documented and maintained on file.




                                             DAVID A. KRUMM, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 6                      AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI31-501_ACCSUP, Personnel Security Program Management, 18 November 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
49 WG/IP—-49th Wing Information Protection
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
APF—-Appropriated Funds
CaC—-Common Access Card
CASPR—-Central Adjudication Security Personnel Repository
CEP—-Continuous Evaluation Program
e-QIP—-Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing
HAFB—-Holloman Air Force Base
LOD—-Letter of Denial
NAF—-Non-appropriated Funds
NDA—-Nondisclosure Agreement
PA—-Privacy Act
SF—-Standard Form
SOR—-Statement of Reason
USM—-Unit Security Manager
AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011         7




                     (ADDED) ATTACHMENT 27

             49 WG/IP e-QIP DIRECT INITIATION REQUEST
             (E-QIP ACCOUNTS ACTIVATED M-F 0700-1000)
8          AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011




               (ADDED) ATTACHMENT 28

    SAMPLE MEMORANDUM TO REACTIVE e-QIP ACCOUNT
AFI31-501_ACCSUP_HOLLOMANAFBSUP 25 OCTOBER 2011   9




                     (ADDED) ATTACHMENT 29

             SAMPLE NATURALIZATION MEMOMORANDUM
