BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2135
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            10 JANUARY 2014

                                                                                  PERSONNEL

                                                           JOINT OFFICER MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Air Force forms are available for downloading or
               ordering on the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.
               National Guard Bureau forms are available for downloading or ordering
               on the NGB Publications & Forms Library website at
               http://www.ngbpdc.ngb.army.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MR                                                               Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                          (Ms. Sheila M. Earle)
                                                                                       Pages: 13


This publication implements Title 10 U.S.C. guidance and articulates Air Force policy regarding
Joint Officer Management (JOM) and execution of the Joint Qualification System (JQS) in
accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C., Sections 152, 154, 155, 164, 619a, 661-668, 2151-
2155, 3033, 5033, 5043, 8033, DoDI 1300.19, DoD Joint Officer Management Program, 31 Oct
07 and CJCSI 1330.05, Joint Officer Management Program Procedures, 1 May 08, AFPD 36-21,
CJCSI 1331.01D, Manpower and Personnel Actions Involving General and Flag Officers, 1 Aug
10, Assignments, AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force
Development, AFI 36-2611 Officer Professional Development, and AFI 36-2501, Officer
Promotions and Selective Continuation. This AFI provides JOM policy for all Regular Air Force
(RegAF), Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFR) officers. In collaboration
with the Chief of Air Force Reserve (HQ USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard
(NGB/CF), the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ USAF/A1)
develops personnel policy for Joint Officer Management. This publication may be supplemented
at any level; all MAJCOM level supplements must be approved by the Human Resource
Management Strategic Board (HSB) prior to certification and approval. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management and AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the US Air Force (USAF) Records
Disposition Schedule. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
 2                                                       AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


Publication; route AF Form 847 to the AFPC Publishing Office, 550 C Street West Suite 48,
Randolph AFB Texas 78150-4750, or email afpc.publications@us.af.mil.
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                         3



                                            Chapter 1

                              JOINT OFFICER MANAGEMENT

1.1. Overview. The fundamental purpose of the joint officer management program is to ensure
a significant number of officers are educated, trained, and experienced in joint matters. Their
expertise enhances the joint war fighting capability of the United States through a heightened
awareness of joint operational environments, including multi-service, interagency, international,
and non-governmental perspectives. It is also necessary to record and highlight joint matters
education, training, and experiences of officers in advancement to joint qualified officer (JQO)
status and throughout their careers. To the extent practicable, this applies to Air Force Reserve
(AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) Officers.
1.2. Joint Officer Designation. Designate officers as joint qualified based on their achievement
and/or completion of education, training, and experience that develop and utilize knowledge,
skills, and abilities relevant to the definition of joint matters in accordance with Title 10, United
States Code (10 U.S.C.)- Armed Forces, Chapter 38- Joint Officer Management, Section 668-
Definitions. Such progressive levels of joint qualification shall be known as: Level I, Level II,
Level III (Joint Qualified Officer [JQO]), and Level IV.
   1.2.1. Officers nominated for JQO status must have no Quality Force (QF) indicators to
   include Unfavorable Information Files (UIF), Control Roster, Referral OPR, Article 15,
   and/or Courts Martial action reflected in their records.
   1.2.2. Prior to nomination to JQO officers must have completed Level III requirements, as
   well as a Master’s degree and requisite Professional Military Education (PME). (RegAF and
   AFR Only)
   1.2.3. To designate a sufficient number of quality officers to JQO status who have completed
   Joint Professional Military Education (JPME) Phase I and II (or in the case of AFR and ANG
   officers, Advanced Joint Professional Military Education [AJPME]) and have received full
   joint duty credit, as defined in the “terms” section.
   1.2.4. Only officers in the grade of O-4 or above will be designated as a JQO.
   1.2.5. Officers on the Active Duty List must meet prerequisites and have been designated a
   JQO, before appointment to brigadier general, unless waived.
1.3. Joint Assignment Policy. Assign officers to standard joint duty assignments (S-JDAs) for
a length of time that provides stability to the joint organization. RegAF, full-time AFR and ANG
general officers will be assigned for not less than 2 years; all others will be assigned for not less
than 3 years.
   1.3.1. Fill critical S-JDAs with JQOs, and fill S-JDA positions designated as O-5 or above
   billets with officers who have the appropriate level of joint qualification.
   1.3.2. To appropriately assign all graduates of National Defense University JPME Phase II-
   awarding schools in accordance with requirements for individual schools and JQO status.
   This policy applies only to officers on the Active Duty List however; to the extent
   practicable, officers on the Reserve Active Status List (RASL) should also be assigned.
 4                                                              AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


1.4. Joint Promotion Objectives. (RegAF Only) Assign quality officers to S-JDAs such that
the promotion rates of those officers meet the objectives of 10 U.S.C., Chapter 38, Section 662
(a) (1) and (2), Promotion Policy Objectives for Joint Officers.
     1.4.1. Officers who are serving on, or have served on, the Joint Staff and on the staff of the
     Secretary of Defense are expected, as a group, to be promoted to the next higher grade at a
     rate not less than the rate for officers of the same grade and competitive category who are
     serving on, or have served on, the Air Staff.
     1.4.2. Officers in the grade of major or above who have been designated as a joint qualified
     officer are expected, as a group, to be promoted to the next higher grade at a rate not less
     than the rate for all officers in the same grade and competitive category.
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                     5


                                          Chapter 2

                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1).
   2.1.1. Develop and maintain procedures to ensure the Air Force complies with statutory and
   DoD policy standards for the Joint Qualification System (JQS).
   2.1.2. Support boards convened by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness and
   Force Management (ASD (R&FM)) on the management of officers under the DoD Joint
   Officer Management Program.
   2.1.3. Ensure the Air Force fulfills statutory and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
   Instruction (CJCSI) guidance governing joint representation to, and analytical review of, O-4
   through O-6 promotion selection boards by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS).
   2.1.4. Develop and implement procedures to comply with DoD and CJCS policy for Joint
   Officer Management (JOM) and the JQS for officers in grades O-1 through O-6.
   2.1.5. Manage the joint qualification designation process, including the designation of joint
   qualification Level I, II, III and IV.
   2.1.6. Monitor the promotions of JQOs and officers who are serving, or have served, in the
   Joint Staff to ensure appropriate consideration is given to their performance.
   2.1.7. Review requests for DoD JOM program waivers and make recommendations on such
   requests to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)).
   2.1.8. Develop procedures to screen, endorse, and submit officer experience requests to the
   Joint Staff for evaluation for award of joint duty credit.
2.2. Directorate of Force Development (AF/A1D).
   2.2.1. Charge Developmental Teams (DTs) with vectoring quality officers to fill S-JDA
   positions, such that promotion objectives and required tour lengths are attained in accordance
   with item 1.4 of this instruction, and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 1330.19,
   E7.1., Tour Length Requirements and Early Releases.
      2.2.1.1. DT vectoring practices will support the Air Force in meeting joint tour length
      requirements.
      2.2.1.2. DTs will vector quality officers to S-JDAs such that their promotion rates are not
      less than the rate for officers in the same grade and competitive category.
      2.2.1.3. DTs will vector quality officers to S-JDAs by following joint tour requirements,
      while considering career milestones that may prevent the officer from completing a full
      joint tour.
      2.2.1.4. DTs will only vector IDE/SDE selects to S-JDA positions when the officer can
      complete the minimum joint tour prior to their last year of eligibility.
      2.2.1.5. DTs will vector a sufficient number of JQOs to joint duty to ensure an
      appropriate number of critical JDA positions are filled.
 6                                                               AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


     2.2.2. Develop policies to ensure appropriately qualified officers are designated in sufficient
     numbers to attend the Joint and Combined Warfighting Schools (JCWS).
     2.2.3. Ensure the JPME Phase I and Phase II curriculum of Air Force schools meets the
     criteria established in CJCSI 1800.01D, Officer Professional Military Education Policy
     (OPMEP), 5 September 2012.
2.3. Directorate of Military Force Management Policy (AF/A1P).
     2.3.1. Develop Air Force policy to ensure compliance with 10 U.S.C., DoD and CJCS
     Instructions.
     2.3.2. Provide JOM reports, as required, through the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
     (CJCS) to the Secretary of Defense (SecDef).
     2.3.3. Award Level I joint qualified status upon successful completion of a pre-
     commissioning program whose curriculum includes an introduction to joint concepts and an
     officer basic course whose curriculum includes lessons on joint awareness. Nominate
     officers meeting the joint qualification criteria to the CJCS and the SecDef, as appropriate,
     for designation as Level II and III joint qualified officers.
     2.3.4. Validate O-1 through O-6 Air Force submissions for Experience-based Joint Duty
     Assignment (E-JDA) credit prior to submission to Joint Chiefs of Staff, Manpower and
     Personnel (JCS/J1) to ensure experiences meet the criteria to provide the officer with
     knowledge, skills and abilities in joint matters.
2.4. Air Force General Officer Management (AF/DPG).
     2.4.1. Ensure joint provisions applying to general officers are met.
2.5. Air Force Colonel Group (AF/DPO).
     2.5.1. Ensure qualified colonels and/or colonel selects are assigned to O-6 JDA billets.
     2.5.2. Ensure brigadier general selects served in a JDA position and received JQO
     designation prior to being appointed to the grade of O-7. (Exempt: Judge Advocate General
     Corps, Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Bio-medical Science Corps, Medical Service Corps,
     Nurse Corps, Chaplain Corps, and Line of the Air Force officers who qualify for a Scientific-
     Technical Waiver)
     2.5.3. Ensure any necessary waivers for colonel selects, colonels, and brigadier general
     selects serving in S-JDA positions are processed before the officer changes duty positions.
2.6. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
     2.6.1. Publish guidance and procedures to ensure compliance with the statutes, DoD
     Policies, and this instruction regarding JOM and the JQS.
     2.6.2. Monitor the careers of JQOs and officers who are serving on, or have served on, S-
     JDAs to ensure the promotion objectives and required tour lengths are attained in accordance
     with item 1.4. of this instruction, and DoDI 1330.19, E7.1.
     2.6.3. Ensure all JDAL assignments are made in accordance with the below criteria:
        2.6.3.1. Joint assignment practices result in the Air Force meeting the tour length
        requirements.
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                       7


          2.6.3.1.1. Assign quality officers by informed DT vectors for S-JDA positions.
          2.6.3.1.2. Assign quality officers to S-JDAs by following joint tour requirements,
          while considering career milestones that may prevent the officer from completing a
          full joint tour.
          2.6.3.1.3. Assign officers to S-JDAs for a length of time that provides stability to the
          joint organization. Officers shall be assigned for not less than 3 years or DoD
          prescribed tour length, unless released earlier.
          2.6.3.1.4. Assign IDE/SDE selects to S-JDA positions only when the officer can
          complete the full joint tour prior to their last year of eligibility.
      2.6.3.2. Assign a sufficient number of JQOs to joint duty to ensure an appropriate
      number of critical JDA positions are filled.
      2.6.3.3. Assign appropriately qualified officers, in sufficient numbers, to attend the Joint
      and Combined Warfighting Schools (JCWS).
      2.6.3.4. Assign quality officers to S-JDAs so the promotion rates of those officers meet
      promotion objectives as outlined in item 1.4. of this instruction.
   2.6.4. Route all S-JDA requisitions through Joint Officer Management (AFPC/DPAPPO) for
   validation/approval.
2.7. Air Force Personnel Center Joint Officer Management (AFPC/DPAPPO).
   2.7.1. Ensure all S-JDA assignment actions are validated for joint duty credit.
   2.7.2. Ensure only officers (O-4s and O-5s) that meet the joint qualification criteria for Level
   III are nominated for JQO designation.
   2.7.3. Ensure in coordination with AF/DPO, during the summer move cycle that more than
   50% of all non-JQO graduates, and 100% of JQO graduates, of National Defense University
   JPME Phase II-awarding schools be assigned to an S-JDA as their next assignment following
   graduation. For officers graduating from the Joint Advanced Warfighting School (JAWS),
   100% must be out-placed to Joint Staff designated planner positions. Half of the officers
   subject to that requirement, for each school, may be assigned to an S-JDA as their second
   assignment (rather than first) following graduation. To the extent practicable, this policy
   shall also apply to the AFR.
   2.7.4. Ensure requests for joint tour length waivers (JTLW) are prepared and processed for
   submission to the CJCS at least 60 days prior to officers desired departure date.
      2.7.4.1. Bulk JTLW requests are authorized for officers leaving a JDA position to go to
      boarded command positions (G-series orders), or officers leaving to attend Intermediate
      or Senior Developmental Education (IDE/SDE).
      2.7.4.2. JTLWs for other than boarded command positions or IDE/SDE will be by
      exception only. Justification must demonstrate how the officer is uniquely qualified for
      the proposed assignment, (stating an officer is “the best or only” qualified is not
      sufficient), and the mission impact if the JTLW is disapproved.
   2.7.5. Screen experience-based joint duty assignment (E-JDA) requests prior to forwarding
   to Headquarters Air Force, Military Force Policy Division (AF/A1PP) for JCS/J1 validation.
 8                                                              AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


     2.7.6. Validate officer’s discretionary point requests and staff approval to Defense
     Manpower Data Center (DMDC). Point requests are batch processed on a quarterly basis to
     DMDC for update into the Joint Management Information System (JMIS).
2.8. Air Force Reserve Senior Leader Management (AF/REG).
     2.8.1. Act as the E-JDA/S-JDA service manager for all Air Force Reserve general officers.
     2.8.2. Ensure joint provisions applying to Reserve general officers are met.
2.9. Air Reserve Personnel Center JOM (ARPC/JOM).
     2.9.1. Publish guidance and procedures to ensure compliance with the statutes, DoD
     Policies, and AF policy directive regarding JOM and the JQS for AFR officers.
     2.9.2. Ensure S-JDA assignment actions are validated as designated reserve billets for joint
     duty credit.
     2.9.3. Act as the E-JDA/S-JDA service manager for AFR officers in the grade of O-6 and
     below.
     2.9.4. Prepare, quality check and counsel Citizen Airmen on E-JDA package submission to
     the Joint Experience Review Panel requesting experienced based joint credit in accordance
     with DoD and CJCS policy.
     2.9.5. Manage and execute all Joint Officer Personnel Data Systems (service and DoD)
     requirements related to E-JDA/S-JDA.
     2.9.6. Nominate, on a monthly basis, appropriate officers who qualify as Level II/III JQOs
     through the Joint Staff. Nominees must not have an established UIF or any other pending
     derogatory action. Nominee must have Master’s Degree to become a JQO.
     2.9.7. Validate officer’s discretionary point requests and staff approval to AF/A1P. Point
     requests are batch processed on a monthly basis for update into JMIS.
     2.9.8. Ensure requests for JTLW are prepared and processed for submission to the CJCS at
     least 60 days prior to officers desired departure date. JTLWs must be submitted to
     Assignments Directorate, Force Development Branch (ARPC/DPAFJ) 90 days prior to
     requested departure date.
2.10. Air Reserve Personnel Center Assignments (ARPC/DPAA).
     2.10.1. Ensure joint assignment practices result in the AFR meeting joint tour length
     requirements.
2.11. Air Reserve Personnel Center Force Development (ARPC/DPAF).
     2.11.1. Ensure DTs will vector quality officers to S-JDAs by following joint tour
     requirements, while considering career milestones that may prevent the officer from
     completing a full joint tour.
     2.11.2. Ensure assignment officers (AOs) assign quality officers to S-JDAs so the promotion
     rates of those officers meet promotion objectives in 10 U.S.C.
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                   9


2.12. National Guard Bureau Joint Officer Management (NGB/JOM).
   2.12.1. Publish guidance and procedures to ensure compliance with the statutes, DoD
   Policies, and AF policy directives and instructions regarding JOM and the JQS for ANG
   officers.
   2.12.2. Ensure S-JDA assignment actions are validated as designated ANG billets for joint
   duty credit.
   2.12.3. Act as the E-JDA/S-JDA service manager for the ANG officers O-6 and below.
   2.12.4. Prepare, quality check and counsel ANG officers on E-JDA package submission to
   the Joint Experience Review Panel requesting experienced based joint credit in accordance
   with DoD and CJCS policy.
   2.12.5. Manage and execute all Joint Officer Personnel Data Systems (service and DoD)
   requirements related to E-JDA/S-JDA.
   2.12.6. Nominate, on a monthly basis, appropriate officers who qualify as Level II/III JQOs,
   through the Joint Staff.
   2.12.7. Validate officer's discretionary point requests and staff approval to AF/A1P. Point
   requests are batch processed on a monthly basis for update into Joint Duty Assignment
   Management Information System (JDAMIS).
   2.12.8. Ensure requests for JTLW are prepared and processed so that the requests are
   submitted to the CJCS at least 60 days prior to officers desired departure date. JTLWs must
   be submitted to JCS/J1 60 days prior to requested departure date.




                                           DANIEL B. GINSBERG, HON, USAF
                                           Asst Secretary of the Air Force
                                           (Manpower and Reserve Affairs)
 10                                                          AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 U.S.C., Sections 152, 154, 155, 164, 619a, 661-668, 2151-2155, 3033, 5033, 5043, 8033
CJCSI 1330.05, Joint Officer Management Program Procedures, 1 May 2008
CJCSI 1331.01D, Manpower and Personnel Actions Involving General and Flag Officers,
1 August 2010
CJCSI 1800.01C, Officer Professional Military Education Policy, 22 December 2005
CJCSI 1801.01A, National Defense University Education Policy, 1 January 2008
DoDD 8910.1-M, Department of Defense Procedures for Management of Information
Requirements, 1 June 1998
DoDI 1300.19, DoD Joint Officer Management Program, 31 October 2007
DoDI 1315.18, Procedures for Military Personnel Assignments, 12 January 2005
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 Sep 09, Change 2, 8 June 2012
AFI 36-2301, Developmental Education, 9 July 2013
AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective Continuation, Change 3, 17 August 2009
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 29 December 2011
AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel, 1 April 1998
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AJPME—Advanced Joint Professional Military Education
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Assignment Officer
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
DT—Development Team
E-JDA—Experience-based Joint Duty Assignment
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
JCWS—Joint and Combined Warfighting Schools
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                         11


JDA—Joint Duty Assignment
JDAL—Joint Duty Assignment Listing
JDAMIS—Joint Duty Assignment Management Information System
JOM—Joint Officer Management
JPME—Joint Professional Military Education
JQO—Joint Qualified Officer
JQS—Joint Qualification System
RegAF—Regular Air Force
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
S-JDA—Standard Joint Duty Assignment
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Assignment — The position in an organization to which an officer permanently belongs for
manpower accounting purposes. Temporary duty (TDY) with other organizations does not alter
the officer’s permanent assignment status.
Critical Standard —Joint Duty Assignment (Critical S-JDA) - Designation of an S-JDA
position for which, considering the duties and responsibilities of the position, the incumbent
should be previously experienced and educated in joint matters, or at a minimum, the position
would be greatly enhanced by such an incumbent. Critical positions are not necessarily the most
key and essential billets in an activity. Critical positions are proposed by heads of joint activities
and approved by the USD(P&R) with the recommendation of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and documented in the Joint Duty Assignment List (JDAL). Critical
S—JDA — positions are filled by Level III or IV Joint Qualified Officers unless waived by the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) —The office responsible for maintenance of the
joint information system JDAMIS.
Developmental Team (DT) — DTs are the responsibility of individual career field Functional
Authorities, Functional Managers and the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
Services (AF/A1). DTs identify and provide vectors for education, training, and experiences
appropriate for personnel within each functional community based on current and future
requirements.
Discretionary Points — Points earned in excess of the minimum education and experience
requirement through exercises, education other than JPME, collective joint training, or individual
joint training.
Experience-based Joint Duty Assignment (E-JDA)— Assignments and experiences that
demonstrate an officer’s mastery of knowledge, skills, and abilities in joint matters, as
determined under such regulations and policy as prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
 12                                                            AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014


E-JDAs may be shorter in duration; therefore, they may be aggregated to achieve the equivalent
of a full tour of duty in an S-JDA.
Full Joint Duty Credit— The joint credit designation granted for completion of a tour of duty in
an S-JDA that meets all statutory requirements or the accumulation of 36 joint experience points
accrued from E-JDAs and discretionary points from joint training/exercises.
Functional Authority (FA)— Senior leadership, to include Assistant Secretaries (SES), Deputy
Chiefs of Staff (three-star), and other selected HAF two-letter General Officer or SES-level
leaders that provide corporate perspective of institutional requirements and force management
and development. The FA serves as a final authority to ensure all policies, established in
accordance with this document, are implemented within their functional community. Functional
Authorities are supported by Functional Managers who are supported by Careerfield Managers.
Functional Manager (FM)— Senior leaders, designated by the appropriate FAs, who provide
day-to-day management responsibility over specific functional communities. While they should
maintain an institutional focus with regard to resource development and distribution, FMs are
responsible for ensuring their specialties are equipped, developed, and sustained to provide AF
capabilities.
Joint Duty Assignment (JDA)— An assignment which provides significant experience in joint
matters. The two types of JDAs; are E-JDA and S-JDA.
Joint Duty Assignment List (JDAL)— A consolidated list of S-JDAs approved by the USD
(P&R). Positions held by G/FOs and critical S-JDAs are shown separately. The JDAL is
maintained by the Joint Staff, J-1. The Joint Staff Special Assistant for General and Flag Officer
Matters is responsible for processing general and flag officer JDAL actions.
Joint Duty Assignment Management Information System (JDAMIS)— The automated
management information system data base managed by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
maintained by the DMDC, and updated by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the
Military Services. JDAMIS supplements existing Military Service manpower and personnel
information systems by providing automated files reflecting the approved JDAL and personnel
data on officers who are JQOs, and other officers who have served or are serving in S-JDA
positions or have completed E-JDA duties, or are attending JPME. Current and historical data
files in JDAMIS are used to manage, analyze, and oversee the Joint Officer Management
Program, and are used to prepare the “Goldwater-Nichols Act Implementation Report Annex to
the Secretary of Defense Annual Report to the President and Congress”.
Joint Matters— Matters related to the achievement of unified action by integrated military
forces in operations conducted across domains such as land, sea, or air, in space, or in the
information environment, including matters relating to national military strategy; strategic and
contingency planning; command and control of operations under unified command; national
security planning with other departments and agencies of the United States; and combined
operations with military forces of allied nations.
Joint Qualification Level I— Approval Authority – AF/A1P. An officer must successfully
complete a pre-commissioning program and an officer basic course whose curriculum includes
lessons on joint awareness.
AFI36-2135 10 JANUARY 2014                                                                        13


Joint Qualification Level II— Approval Authority – CJCS. Officers must accrue 18 joint
qualification points or be awarded full joint duty credit and complete JPME Phase I (resident or
non-resident).
Joint Qualification Level III— Approval Authority – USD(P&R). Officers must accrue 36
joint qualification points or be awarded full joint duty credit, and complete JPME Phase II
(residence only), a masters degree and requisite PME. Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard officers may complete AJPME in lieu of JPME Phase II. Officers approved for Level III
shall be designated as a JQO.
Joint Qualification Level IV— Approval Authority – USD(P&R). General officers must
accrue 24 joint qualification points or be awarded full joint duty credit in a general officer billet
in OSD/Defense Agency/Joint Staff/COCOM HQ/Joint Task Force HQ, hold the JQO
designation and successfully complete CAPSTONE (CAPSTONE applies RegAF only).
Standard Joint Duty Assignment (S-JDA)— An assignment to an approved JDAL position in
a multi-Service, joint, or multinational command, or activity that is involved in the integrated
employment or support of the land, sea, and air forces.
Vector— The DT’s collective recommendation for an assignment level (e.g., Joint Staff, Air
Staff, MAJCOM, base-level, etc.). Training or education opportunity (e.g., resident DE,
advanced functional training), or position type (e.g., flight commander, division chief, instructor,
special duty, etc.) a member should be considered for in his or her next or subsequent
assignments.
