BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2805
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                      AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                      SUPPLEMENT

                                                   KIRTLAND AIR FORCE SUPPLEMENT
                                                                           36-2805

                                                                         8 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 7 February 2014

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                      SPECIAL TROPHIES AND AWARDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 377 ABW/CCCE                                                 Certified by: 377 ABW/CCC
                                                                (CMSgt Vernon L. Thompson)
                                                                                     Pages: 12


AFI 36-2805_AFMCSUP, Special Trophies and Awards is supplemented as follows. It also
implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-10, Civilian Performance and Recognition. It
establishes the general policies and procedures for the Team Kirtland Quarterly and the Air
Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) Quarterly and Annual Awards program. This
supplement applies to all military personnel assigned to the AFNWC or attached to units
serviced by the 377th Force Support Squadron (FSS). It also applies to civilian (appropriated
and non-appropriated) personnel assigned or attached to units serviced by the 377 FSS Civilian
Personnel Section. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This supplement requires
maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by Title 10 U.S.C.,
 2                   AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012


Section 857. System of Records Notice F900 AF MP A, Awards and Decorations, applies. See
Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP by adding the Air
Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) Order of the Nucleus Recognition Program.
AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                            3



                                     Chapter 5 (Added)

                      KIRTLAND AFB RECOGNITION PROGRAM

5.1. (Added) Programs and Participation. This supplement addresses three major
recognition programs: the AFNWC military and civilian quarterly and annual awards (12
Outstanding Airmen of the Year or 12 OAY) programs, the 377th Air Base Wing (377 ABW)
and Nuclear Capabilities Directorate (NC) military and civilian quarterly and annual awards
programs, and the Team Kirtland military and civilian quarterly awards program. The AFNWC
annual awards (12 OAY) is the center-level competition to select nominees for the AFMC annual
awards, which in turn lead to the United States Air Force (USAF)12 OAY and First Sergeant of
the Year programs and, as such, are limited to AFNWC civilian and military personnel only.
The Team Kirtland quarterly awards program includes all organizations assigned to KAFB,
except Geographically Separated Units (GSU) and honors both military and civilian personnel.
Participation in these programs by organizations and personnel assigned or attached to KAFB is
highly encouraged but strictly voluntary. The Team Kirtland quarterly awards program is a 377
ABW Commander’s recognition initiative.
5.1.1. (Added) The AFNWC special trophies and awards program (functional awards) is
managed by the AFNWC Directorate of Personnel office (AFNWC/DP), please direct all
questions and submissions to that office.
5.2. (Added) Program Objectives. These award programs are used to recognize outstanding
company grade officers, enlisted personnel, and civilian employees for superior job performance
and other accomplishments in an effort to inspire and reward excellence. Program objectives are
as follows:
5.2.1. (Added) Provide a base-level program to recognize outstanding achievement and
performance for both AFNWC and Team Kirtland members.
5.2.2. (Added) Identify personnel who strive for greater responsibility and continuous self
improvement.
5.2.3. (Added) Recognize outstanding volunteer community service on our base and in the
local community.
5.2.4. (Added) Recognize outstanding Honor Guardsman contributions.
5.3. (Added) Responsibilities.
5.3.1. (Added) The 377 ABW Command Chief’s Office (377 ABW/CCC) will:
5.3.1.1. (Added) Administer the AFNWC, 377 ABW, NC, Team Kirtland quarterly awards,
and the AFNWC (12 OAY) annual awards programs. Submit AFNWC enlisted nominations to
AFMC Headquarters (HQ) for all applicable categories.
5.3.1.2. (Added) Contact the Honor Guard Non-Commissioned Officer (NCOIC) for nominee
and winner information. Establish appropriate suspense and selection processes for the Team
Kirtland Honor Guard Member of the Quarter. If the Honor Guard Member of the Year is
assigned to the AFNWC, this office will coordinate with the Honor Guard NCOIC to ensure the
recipient is recognized at the AFNWC annual awards ceremony.
 4                     AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012


5.3.1.3. (Added) The 377 ABW/CCC’s office or designee will facilitate, coordinate and plan
appropriate quarterly AFNWC, 377 ABW, NC, 377 ABW Staff and Team Kirtland award
recognition ceremonies to honor nominees and winners. Coordinate an event photographer,
masters of ceremony, national anthem singer, proffer, and other detail personnel as necessary.
Appoint a committee chair person for the AFNWC annual awards ceremonial banquet and the
377 ABW/CCC’s executive assistant serves as an advisor to the committee.
5.3.1.4. (Added) Provide the Public Affairs Office (377 ABW/PA) with information and
photographs of the winners as necessary for recognition in the base newspaper.
5.3.1.5. (Added) The 377 ABW/CCC’s office will publish the awards schedule annually. The
377 ABW/CCC’s office or designee will schedule selection boards and notify appropriate
personnel to serve as board members as detailed in paragraph 5.3. of this supplement. Appoint a
board president for each board to serve as mediator, who will vote as necessary.
5.3.1.5.1. (Added) The 377 FSS Civilian Personnel Section is the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) and provides overall administratiion oversight of the 377 ABW civilian
awards program. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to selection of board members
from the 377 ABW and mission partners.
5.3.1.5.2. (Added) The AFNWC/DP is the OPR and provides overall administration oversight
of the AFNWC/Team Kirtland civilian awards program. Responsibilities include but are not
limited to selection of board members from the AFNWC and mission partners. Board dates may
vary from 377 ABW/CCC’s office schedule.
5.3.1.6. (Added) Ensure board members receive complete nomination packages, score sheets,
and briefings on procedures and guidelines.
5.3.1.7. (Added) Upon completion of the boards, collect completed board score sheets and
nomination packages; compose list of category winners on an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary
Sheet for the 377 ABW/CCC’s review/coordination and the appropriate commander’s review
(AFNWC/CC, 377 ABW/CC and AFNWC/NC.)
5.3.1.8. (Added) Coordinate the appropriate funds and purchase award hardware for
presentation at the corresponding annual and quarterly awards ceremonies.
5.3.1.9. (Added)   Maintain photographic display of wing level Quarterly/Annual Awards
winners.
5.3.2. (Added) 377 ABW Protocol (377 ABW/CCP) will:
5.3.2.1. (Added) Coordinate with ceremony OPR to ensure ceremony invitations are sent to
local civic leaders, wing, group commanders and staff agency chiefs. Coordinate with ceremony
OPR to compile a pro rata sheet for these attendees and provide an accurate list of names to the
377 ABW/CCC’s office by the required suspense.
5.3.2.2. (Added) Coordinate with ceremony OPR for all senior leaders and distinguished
visitor seating plans, and any other protocol-related support. For all Protocol issues, please
contact their office via e-mail at 377ABW.CCP@kirtland.af.mil.
5.3.3. (Added) The Nominee’s Unit of Assignment will:
AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                            5


5.3.3.1. (Added) Nominate personnel appropriate to compete in the AFNWC quarterly and
annual awards (12 OAY) and the Team Kirtland quarterly awards programs in accordance with
(IAW) this supplement.
5.3.3.2. (Added) Ensure nominees meet all eligibility requirements IAW paragraph 5.6. of this
supplement.
5.3.3.3. (Added) Prepare nomination packages on military and civilian nominees IAW
paragraph 5.6. of this supplement. Designate a unit Point of Contact (POC) (typically the First
Sergeant) to orchestrate electronic delivery of nominee packages to the “377ABW/CCCE
Administrative mailbox”.
5.4. (Added) Award Eligibility.
5.4.1. (Added) All nominees must compete in the category commensurate with the rank/grade
they held for the majority (half) of the award period (quarter or year). In cases where members
have been promoted out of their competing category during the award period, please add the new
date of rank/rating in the “RANK/NAME OF NOMINEE” block on the top of AF Form 1206,
Nomination for Award. For example, if a member has held the grade of TSgt for seven months
of the award period and is then promoted to MSgt, nominate the member in the Non-
Commissioned Officer (NCO) category, not the Senior Non-Commissioned Officer (SNCO)
category. If the member is promoted at the six-month point of the award cycle, the unit
determines which category to nominate the member.

Table 5.1. (Added) Periods of Competition (By Calendar Year)

 1st Quarter     1 January through 31 March
 2nd Quarter     1 April through 30 June
 3rd Quarter     1 July through 30 September
 4th Quarter     1 October through 31 December
 Annual          1 January through 31 December
5.4.2. (Added) AFNWC quarterly/annual award nominees, military or civilian, must be
assigned or attached to an AFNWC unit for the majority (half) of the award period (quarter or
year). Nominees in all enlisted categories must meet the submission requirements for the 12
OAY program IAW AFI 36-2805_AFMCSUP Special Trophies and Awards as potential
ambassadors for Air Force enlisted corps. First Sergeant Nominees must have held the 8F000
Special Duty Identifier for a minimum of 6 months.
5.4.3. (Added) All Team Kirtland quarterly award nominees must be assigned or attached to a
unit on KAFB and serviced by the 377 FSS Civilian Personnel Section for the majority (half) of
the quarter being considered. Personnel who are not physically stationed at KAFB are not
eligible for the Team Kirtland quarterly awards.
5.4.4. (Added) Military nominees must not have an Unfavorable Information File, be on a
Control Roster or any other incidents of a discreditable nature during the award period.
5.4.4.1. (Added) Military nominees must show proof of a current passing physical training
score. All SNCO nominees must show completion of their Community College of the Air Force
Degree, and required Professional Military Education.
 6                      AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012


5.4.5. (Added) The Team Kirtland Dormitory Room of the Quarter candidates must meet
award eligibility criteria and be nominated to the 377 ABW/CCC’s office by their unit First
Sergeant.
5.4.6. (Added) Civilian nominees must not have any disciplinary action, unsatisfactory
performance appraisals, or incidents of a discreditable nature during the award period.
5.4.7. (Added) Unless unusual circumstances apply (contact the 377 ABW/CCC for case-by-
case guidance) do not resubmit a quarterly award winner in consecutive quarters. Annual award
nominees will not be limited to that calendar year’s quarterly award winners only; some
accomplishments are captured better over the span of an entire year than within a single quarter.

Table 5.2. (Added) Award Categories

      Category                                     Rank/Pay Grade
Airman (AMN)           Airman Basic – Senior Airman
NCO                    Staff Sergeant – Technical Sergeant
SNCO                   Master Sergeant – Senior Master Sergeant
Company Grade          2nd Lieutenant - Captain
Officer (CGO)
Civilian I             GS/GG: 1 – 8; WG: 1 – 7; WL: 1 – 5; Lab Demo: DX I-II, DU I-III;
                       NAF: NF I & II; CY I - III; NA 1-8; NL 1-5 and NS 1-8 Serving in a
                       Permanent Appointment
Civilian II            GS/GG: 9-11; WG: 8 – 15; WL: 6 – 15; Lab Demo: DR/DO I; DX III;
                       DU IV; and NAF: NF III Serving in a Permanent Appointment
Civilian III           GS/GG: 12-13; WS: 1 – 10; Lab Demo: DR/DO II; DX IV; and NAF: NF
                       IV Serving in a Permanent Appointment
Civilian IV            GS:14; WS: 11 – 14; Lab Demo: and DR/DO III Serving in a Permanent
                       Appointment
Honor Guard            Active Honor Guard Member
First Sergeant of      Only assigned to the AFNWC. (see paragraph 5.4.2.)
the Year (Annual
Only)
Standard Career Group: YA, YB, YC
Medical Career Group: YG, YH, YJ
5.5. (Added) Nomination Procedures.
5.5.1. (Added) The AFNWC Quarterly Awards program: Only AFNWC, 377 ABW, NC,
ICBMSD are eligible to submit one nominee in each of the following categories: Amn, NCO,
SNCO, CGO, and civilian categories I through IV.
5.5.2. (Added) The AFNWC Annual Awards program: Only AFNWC, 377 ABW, NC,
associated groups, divisions and staff agencies are eligible to submit one nominee in each
category. The AFNWC annual award enlisted winners are automatic nominees to AFMC for the
Air Force 12 OAY to include the First Sergeant of the Year nominee. The AFNWC CGO of the
AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                             7


year will be submitted for the AFMC annual award. Category I through IV civilian nominees of
the year are not submitted beyond the AFNWC level.
5.5.2.1. (Added) The Kirtland Honor Guard Member of the Year Award: The Kirtland
Honor Guard NCOIC will determine the member of the year award and submit nomination on
the latest version of AF Form 1206, to the appropriate organization for recognition; AFNWC or
58 Special Operations Wing (SOW). Furthermore the winner’s organization will determine
which Major Command the nomination for the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force (CMSAF)
Base Honor Guard Member of the Year award will be submitted to; either AFMC or Air
Education and Training Command (AETC). The nomination package will be completed and
submitted by the owning organization. The Kirtland Honor Guard Member of the Year award
will be the same individual submitted for the CMSAF Base Honor Guard Member of the Year
award. Only one member from KAFB will be recognized for the annual award.
5.5.3. (Added) The Team Kirtland Quarterly Awards Program: Participating units include
all organizations assigned to KAFB, and/or serviced by the 377 FSS Civilian Personnel Section.
They may submit one nominee in each of the following categories: Amn, NCO, SNCO, CGO,
and civilian categories I through IV. GSUs not assigned to KAFB, and/or serviced by the 377
FSS Civilian Personnel Section are not eligible for this award.
5.5.3.1. (Added) Team Kirtland Honor Guard Member of the Quarter Award: The
Kirtland Honor Guard NCOIC will submit the names of the four nominees and the overall
winner’s name along with two accomplishment bullets achieved during that quarter’s award
period, to the “377ABW/CCCE Administrative mailbox”. An AF Form 1206 is not required.
For annual Honor Guard member awards, see paragraph 5.6.2.1.
5.5.3.2. (Added) Team Kirtland Dormitory Room of the Quarter award; the Kirtland First
Sergeants’ Council will submit nominee names, room number, and unit of assignment to the
“377ABW/CCCE Administrative mailbox”. An AF Form 1206 is not required. NOTE: There
are no annual submissions for the Dormitory Room Awards—this program is done quarterly
only.
5.5.4. (Added) Submit nominations on latest version of AF Form 1206. Limit quarterly
nominations to 15 lines, including headings, and annual award nominations to 30 lines, including
headings. Include only accomplishments for the applicable award period (see Attachment 9). An
eight line acronyms list is permissible for the AFNWC quarterly, annual awards, and for the
Team Kirtland quarterly awards.
5.5.4.1. (Added) AF Form 1206 headings are mandatory for all quarterly/annual award
nominations (Table 5.4.). Do not add any additional information after the headings. Use bullet
format highlighting the nominee’s efforts toward the event (accomplishment) and its outcome.
5.5.4.2. (Added) Submit an electronic AF Form 1206 to the 377 ABW/CCC Executive
Assistant’s office “377ABW/CCCE Administrative mailbox.” See the bottom of Figure A9.1.
for instructions on labeling electronic AF Form 1206.
5.5.5. (Added) The AFNWC Order of the Nucleus Recognition Program. The AFNWC
Commander established this program to honor those persons or teams that have, through
sustained efforts or a single act, contributed to the strengthening of the Nation’s nuclear
deterrent. The recognition is presented to those who are supporting or have supported the
nuclear enterprise with great distinction.
 8                      AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012



5.5.5.1. (Added) Program and Participation. The AFNWC Commander is the selecting
authority for recipients of the AFNWC Order of the Nucleus recognition. The recognition may
be awarded to members of the Armed Forces of any service, (active, retired, guard, or reserve),
Federal Civilians, or members of the community not affiliated with the military or government.
The number of persons, teams, and frequency of those selected for recognition is at the discretion
of the AFNWC Commander.
5.5.5.2. (Added) Recognition consists of an induction ceremony, distinctive certificate,
medallion, coin, and the recipient’s name placed on a plaque with all previous honorees that is
displayed in the AFNWC Headquarters building.
5.5.5.3. (Added) AFNWC/CCP will serve as ceremony project officer.
5.6. (Added) Selection Board Composition and Responsibilities.
5.6.1. (Added) All military selection boards are scheduled and coordinated by the 377
ABW/CCC’s office or designee (see Table 5.3. for board composition.) Selection boards must
objectively and impartially evaluate all nominees to select the most deserving member in each
category. Each board will tabulate the scores and list every nominee in merit order for the 377
ABW/CCC’s review. The 377 ABW/CCCE office or designee will coordinate with appropriate
units and offices to solicit and select board presidents/members. Boards will be comprised being
mindful of fair representation from all units eligible for awards.
Table 5.3. (Added) Board Composition


Amn Board
President                                        TSgt
Board Members (3)                                TSgt or (T)Sgt
NCO Board
President                                        MSgt-SMSgt
Board Members (3)                                MSgt-SMSgt
SNCO Board
President                                        CMSgt
Board Members (3)                                (C)MSgt-CMSgt (Note Below)
CGO Board
President                                        Lt Col and above (senior ranking officer)
Board Members (3)                                Major and above
Honor Guard Board
President                                        NCOIC of the Honor Guard
Board Members                                    Members designated by NCOIC of the Honor
                                                 Guard
Civilian Category I and II Boards
President                                        GS-11 equivalent or above (senior ranking
                                                 member)
Board Members (3)                                GS-11 equivalent or above
Civilian Category III and IV Boards
AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012                                             9


President                                     GS-14 equivalent or above (senior ranking
                                              member)
Board Members (3)                             GS-14 equivalent or above
First Sergeant of the Year Board (only for annual awards)
President                                     CMSgt
Board Members (3)                             (C)MSgt-CMSgt (Note Below)
NOTE: If there are no CMSgt assigned to an organization a SMSgt may be used.


5.6.2. (Added) Military quarterly and annual award boards: The AFNWC quarterly/annual
and Team Kirtland quarterly boards are package review only and will consist of a board
president with three voting board members; grade requirements are relative to the level of award
category (See Table 5.3.). The uniform requirement for board members is uniform of the day.
5.6.3. (Added) Civilian category boards: The AFNWC quarterly/annual and Team Kirtland
quarterly boards are package review only. Categories I and II will meet as one board, and
Categories III and IV will meet as the second civilian board. The board will consist of a board
president and three voting members, and grade requirements are relative to the level of award
category (See Table 5.3.). Note: For civilian awards there are no higher level (MAJCOM)
awards.
5.6.4. (Added) The 377 ABW/CCC will appoint a team of Chief Master Sergeants, First
Sergeants, and Dorm Managers to conduct room inspections to determine the Team Kirtland
Dormitory Room of the Quarter award winner.
5.6.5. (Added) Board Scoring Procedures:
5.6.5.1. (Added) Board members will use KAFB Form 608, Board Member Score Sheet,
available at www.e-publishing.af.mil to assess each award package. Board members will
follow the board member score sheet instructions, review each AF Form 1206 submission, assign
a score, review results and break any ties on their individual scoring sheet. Each board member
will sign (electronically or wet) and hand carry or scan and e-mail their KAFB Form 608 to the
board president. The point breakdown for each subheading on the AF Form 1206 is as follows:

Table 5.4. (Added) Assignment of Board Score Points

  Nomination for Award Subheadings                  Entire Package: Maximum of 12/27
                                                    points
  Leadership and Job Performance in Primary         (8/17 Quarter/Annual max points)
  Duty
  Significant Self-Improvement                 (2/5 Quarter/Annual max points)
  Base or Community Involvement                (2/5 Quarter/Annual Max points)
  *NOTE: Additional information after the Headings is prohibited.
5.6.5.2. (Added) Packages that do not contain all three categories will not be accepted.
5.6.5.3. (Added) Board presidents will consolidate and transcribe all board members scores
onto a KAFB Form 609, Board President Score Sheet. The board president will review each
nominee’s total score from each board member; when a difference more than two points exist
between total scores of any one nominee, a scoring mitigation with the board members must be
 10                     AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012


completed. This mitigation will result in all board members scoring within a two-point range on
each nominee. The board president will then add up the total scores on the KAFB Form 609.
Scores will be adjusted so no splits exist. For example, if there are seven nominees, then the
results will list rankings 1 through 7. The board president’s score will only be factored-in when
mitigation can’t be reached between board members. The board president will have the final say
on all mitigation issues. The nominee with the highest overall total score will be selected as the
board's recommendation. The board president will sign (electronically or wet) and hand carry or
scan and e-mail their KAFB Form 609 to the 377 ABW/CCCE office or designee for email use”
377ABW/CCCE Administrative mailbox.”




                                             JOHN C. KUBINEC, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 377th Air Base Wing
AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012                   11


                                      Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2805 AFMCSUP, Special Trophies and Award, 19 November 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
Prescribed Forms
KIRTLANDAFB Form 608, Board Member Score Sheet
KIRTLANDAFB Form 609, Board Presidents Score Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer-in-Charge
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
DR—Lab Demo
WG—Wage Grade
WL—Wage Leader
WS—Wage Supervisor
NF—Non-appropriated Funds
CY—Child & Youth
NA—Non-Appropriated non-supervisory
NL—Non-Appropriated Leader
NS—Non-Appropriated Supervisor
12               AFI36-2805_AFMCSUP_KIRTLANDAFBSUP 8 FEBRUARY 2012


                         Attachment 9 (Added)
              INSTRUCTIONS TO COMPLETE AF FORM 1206

Figure A9.1. HOW TO COMPLETE AF FORM 1206
