BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2109
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                13 AUGUST 2007

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                            CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT OF THE AIR
                                                            FORCE AND COMMAND CHIEF MASTER
                                                                         SERGEANT PROGRAMS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/CCC                                                               Certified by: HQ USAF/DP
                                                                         (Lieutenant General Roger Brady)
Supersedes AFI 36-2109, 15 January 2002                                                         Pages: 13

This instruction establishes the selection and approval authority for the position of Chief Master Sergeant
of the Air Force (CMSAF) and Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCM) positions. This instruction car-
ries out Air Force Policy Directive 36-21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel.
(Process supplements that affect any military personnel function as shown in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
33-360, Volume 1, Publications Management Program, and in coordination with AFCMSMO).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction substantially revises AFI 36-2109, 15 Jan 02. It significantly adds to the position, respon-
sibilities, and selection process for Command Chief Master Sergeants.
THE CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT OF THE AIR FORCE
AND COMMAND CHIEF MASTER SERGEANTS
The CMSAF and CCM positions are reserved exclusively for chief master sergeants with a broad breath
of experience and are aligned with senior levels of command. These positions carry a broad scope of
responsibility and influence over the Air Force enlisted corps. The office of the Chief Master Sergeant of
the Air Force represents the highest level of enlisted leadership, and as such, provides the direction for the
enlisted corps and represents their interests, as appropriate, to the American public and to those in all lev-
els of government. Chief master sergeants selected to serve in a Command Chief Master Sergeant position
become the senior enlisted leader for their respective commander, chain of command and NCO support
structure. They are their commander’s enlisted expert and an integral member of the organization’s lead-
ership team and are responsible for the channel of communication from the commander to all enlisted
members.
2                                                                        AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


                                                Chapter 1

                  CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT OF THE AIR FORCE (CMSAF)

1.1. Position. The CMSAF is the senior enlisted member in the United States Air Force.
    1.1.1. The Chief of Staff, USAF, will select a chief master sergeant to perform duties as the CMSAF.
    Tenure of the CMSAF is determined by the Chief of Staff, but will normally not exceed 4 years.
    “Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force” is a distinctive rank and the proper term of address is “Chief
    Master Sergeant of the Air Force” or “Chief”.
    1.1.2. AF/DPE (Air Force Chief Master Sergeant Management Office – “AFCMSMO” or “Chiefs
    Group”) will notify the losing military personnel flight (MPF) to publish orders assigning the CMSAF
    and announce promotion to the rank of CMSAF.
    1.1.3. The special basic and retired pay rates for the CMSAF are set by law.
    1.1.4. The Reporting Identifier for the CMSAF is 9C000.

1.2. Duties and Responsibilities. The CMSAF serves as the personal advisor to the Air Force Chief of
Staff and the Secretary of the Air Force on all issues regarding the welfare, readiness, morale, proper uti-
lization, and progress of the enlisted force. Additionally he/she:
    1.2.1. Travels extensively to discuss Air Force concerns with enlisted members in the field.
    1.2.2. Serves on boards and committees for numerous organizations affecting Air Force members.
    1.2.3. Testifies before Congress and meets with members in all levels of government to discuss Air
    Force issues and concerns.
    1.2.4. Represents the Air Force to the American public, professional organizations, and the media.
    1.2.5. Serves as the functional manager for command chief master sergeants serving in Reporting
    Identifier 9E000 and group superintendents serving in Reporting Identifier 9G100.
    1.2.6. Manages the Air Force Order of the Sword Program.
    1.2.7. Performs other duties and manages programs as directed by the Air Force Chief of Staff.
    1.2.8. Acts to maintain and promote chain of command and associated chain of communications.
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                               3


                                               Chapter 2

                        COMMAND CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT (CCM)

2.1. Position.
   2.1.1. Major Commands (MAJCOMs) may establish CCM positions only as follows:
       2.1.1.1. One CCM for each MAJCOM headquarters.
           2.1.1.1.1. Once CCM per Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command/Office of Air
           Force Reserve (CCM/Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Office of the Air Force Reserve).
       2.1.1.2. One CCM per State Headquarters (Air National Guard only).
       2.1.1.3. One CCM for each Numbered Air Force (NAF), War Fighting HQs or AF Center. When
       NAF, WFHQs, Center only have one Wing equivalent assigned, only one CCM will be authorized
       for both. Reporting will be determined by MAJCOM/CC/CV.
       2.1.1.4. One CCM per wing.
       2.1.1.5. One CCM per Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command Wing
   2.1.2. Joint Agencies (DoD), Air Force Field Operating Agencies, Air Force Direct Reporting Units
   and other organizations not otherwise authorized a CCM position may process requests through HQ
   USAF/A1M with coordination through AF/DPE and AF/CCC.
   2.1.3. US Unified Commands (USCENTCOM, USEUCOM, USJFCOM, USPACOM, USSOCOM,
   USSOUTHCOM, USSPACECOM, USTRANSCOM, USSTRATCOM) may request an Air Force
   CCM to perform duties as their “Senior Enlisted Leader.” Process requests through AFCMSMO who
   will coordinate with HQ USAF/DPM and CCC.
   2.1.4. AFCMSMO, AF/CCC, and HQ USAF/DP will review all CCM authorizations every two years
   to ensure they continue to meet established guidelines.
   2.1.5. AFCMSMO approves the award of Reporting Identifier 9E000 and the duty title “Command
   Chief Master Sergeant.” Approved CCMs wear distinctive chevrons.
   2.1.6. The duty title “Command Chief Master Sergeant” and the distinctive CCM chevron will be
   used only by chief master sergeants awarded Reporting Identifier 9E000 who are currently assigned to
   a valid CCM authorization. The proper term of address is “Chief Master Sergeant” or “Chief”.
       2.1.6.1. Unless working in Reporting Identifier 9E000 in one of the US Unified Commands, Air
       Force enlisted members are prohibited from using the duty title “Senior Enlisted Leader.” It is a
       title commonly used to identify CCMs and their sister service equivalents within the joint environ-
       ment.
       2.1.6.2. Chief Master Sergeants who honorably completed a CCM tour as part of their career and
       are now retired may continue to wear the distinctive chevron on occasions where the wear of the
       uniform is appropriate for a specific event, such as an evening formal event on base. Retired Chief
       Master Sergeants who honorably completed a CCM tour as part of their career but still perform
       day-to-day duties in uniform in a retired status, such as high school ROTC instructors, can not
       wear the command chief chevron while performing those specific duties. If the CCM chevron is
4                                                                       AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


       used it must adhere to AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel stan-
       dards.
    2.1.7. All approved CCM positions will use “CCC” as the standard functional address symbol (except
    those in Unified Commands)
    2.1.8. Organizations establishing new CCM positions must ensure those office symbols are included
    in Address Indicating Group (AIG) 9360.
    2.1.9. CCMs serving in Reporting Identifier 9E000 and performing duties in an authorized position
    are eligible to receive Special Duty Assignment Pay (SDAP). SDAP levels are set by the SDAP
    Review board and are reviewed, validated and adjusted as appropriate. Those serving in an additional
    duty or temporary capacity are ineligible to receive SDAP.

2.2. CCM Selection Process.
    2.2.1. Eligibility. Command Chief Master Sergeants (CCMs) are the key senior enlisted leaders in the
    organization and have a significant impact on all facets of the enlisted force. Chief master sergeants
    selected for CCM duty must be exceptionally well qualified with a broad breadth of experience and
    significant supervisory/leadership experience and:
       2.2.1.1. Have a minimum of 10 months time-in-grade as a chief master sergeant and have less
       than 28 years time-in-service on the effective date of their eligibility for CCM hire (active duty
       only).
       2.2.1.2. Be within physical fitness standards and project an overall image that exceeds minimum
       standards (minimum fitness score of 75).
       2.2.1.3. Possess a proven ability to effectively communicate with subordinates, peers, and superi-
       ors.
       2.2.1.4. Be world-wide qualified (both deployment and assignment).
       2.2.1.5. Submit a letter of intent to the board specifically stating they will accept any CCM posi-
       tion offered, at any location worldwide.
       2.2.1.6. Be screened and recommended by their senior rater. Senior Rater should review members
       record and conduct personal interview ensuring member meets criteria.
       2.2.1.7. Not have a permanent ALC “C” stratification of “3”.
    2.2.2. Active Duty Procedures Using the Central Screening Board.
       2.2.2.1. AF/DPE is responsible for conducting an annual CCM screening board to create a formal
       AF candidate list.
       2.2.2.2. AF/DPE is the office of primary responsibility for the screening board process and will
       determine the projected number of CCM candidates required prior to the start of the screening
       board.
       2.2.2.3. When requested by AF/DPE, senior raters nominate those CMSgts within their command
       who possess the aforementioned eligibility criteria and have the demonstrated potential for CCM
       duty.
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                               5


      2.2.2.4. Currently serving CCMs are exempt from the screening board process and their com-
      mander may make them available for CCC reassignment as early as the 18th month of current
      assignment (9 months for those serving a short tour). A CCM transitioning to non-CCM duty
      remains a candidate for future CCM opportunities, provided the CCM tour was successfully com-
      pleted, member is a volunteer for worldwide CCM reassignment (including eligibility criteria),
      and current Senior Rater concurs. Aside from this situation, former CCMs must recompete
      through the screening board process.
      2.2.2.5. Candidate lists expire two years from effective date (normally 30 Sep).
      2.2.2.6. AFCMSMO will coordinate with owning/gaining Senior Raters as vacancies open.
      2.2.2.7. CMSgts on the CCM candidate list remain eligible for other assignment/personnel
      actions in their core CEM Code(s).
      2.2.2.8. AFCMSMO provides hiring authorities at the wing level three selections options: a tai-
      lored list of candidates/sitting CCMs based on background and/or desired experiences; the entire
      candidate list; or direct hire or an eligible and available chief.
      2.2.2.9. Hiring commanders are expected to select CCMs from the candidate list (or from those
      chiefs already serving as a CCM.) Exceptions must have MAJCOM/CC support.
      2.2.2.10. CCMs serving at the Center, NAF or MAJCOM levels are sourced through a nominative
      process. AF/DPE requests nominations of qualified Chiefs from individual MAJCOMs. All MAJ-
      COM nominations are combined to form a nominative slate and forwarded to the hiring authority
      for vetting and selection.
      2.2.2.11. CMSgts who decline selection for a specific CCM assignment will retire in lieu of
      assignment.
      2.2.2.12. AF/DPE is responsible for coordinating and announcing all CCM selections.
   2.2.3. Reserve Component Selection Process. The Commander of Air Force Reserve Command
   and the Director of the Air National Guard may establish other selection criteria and set procedures to
   meet the needs of their respective organizations.

2.3. CCM Nominations to Unified Commands.
   2.3.1. CCM (current and past) and CCM candidates may be considered for Unified Command senior
   enlisted advisor positions.
   2.3.2. AF/DPE will task MAJCOM/CCCs for input and AF/CCC will coordinate on all Air Force
   nominations for Unified Command Senior Enlisted Advisor positions.
   2.3.3. If an Air Force nominee is selected as the Unified Command senior enlisted advisor, AF/CCC
   and HQ USAF/DP will coordinate actions to establish an Air Force CMSgt authorization for the posi-
   tion.

2.4. Tenure. Tenure for CCMs at Wing/NAF/DRU/FOA is at the discretion of the organizational com-
mander, but is normally 2 years minimum and 3 years maximum, unless waived by the owning MAJ-
COM/CC.
6                                                                    AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


    2.4.1. CONUS based CCMs (active duty) normally serve two year tours. Commanders may request
    additional extensions in 1-year increments in coordination with owning MAJCOM. Total time will not
    exceed 3 years without MAJCOM/CC support. AF/DPE coordinates an extension request or works in
    concert with the owning Senior Rater to determine future utilization of the assigned CCM.
    2.4.2. Tenure for Air Force CCMs serving as Unified Command Senior Enlisted Advisors is at the
    discretion of the respective commander but normally will not exceed 3 years.
    2.4.3. When necessary, commanders may appoint an interim CCM for a maximum of 90 days.
    Interim CCMs will not wear the distinctive chevron and are ineligible for CCM SDAP.
    2.4.4. Removal for Cause: When a commander loses confidence in a CCM, he/she may, in his/her dis-
    retion, relieve the CCM. The relieving commander will ensure that the MAJCOM CCM and AFC-
    MSMO are notified.
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                                 7


                                                Chapter 3

                             CCM DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

3.1. General CCM Duties and Responsibilities. The CCM is the Senior NCO of the command at Wing
or higher levels. The CCM advises, carries out and monitors the commander’s and organizational policies,
programs and standards applicable to the assigned enlisted force. CCMs are the commander’s key enlisted
advocate and advisor on readiness, training, professional development, utilization of the force, operations
tempo, standards, conduct and quality of life. The CCM gives advice and initiates recommendations to the
commander and staff in matters pertaining to all assigned enlisted personnel. CCMs establish a SRNCO
support channel made up of other key assigned senior enlisted leaders such as, but not limited to other
CCMs, CFMs, FAMs, Group Superintendents, Commandants and First Sergeants. This support channel
does not supersede the set chain of command but is utilized to efficiently augment and support the
in-place chain of command. As the senior enlisted leader of the command the CCM is charged with over-
seeing and being the driving force behind the entire enlisted training and professional development pro-
grams. The CCM and the commander jointly coordinate and ensure all assigned Airmen are ready for all
in garrison and deployed missions. Additionally, they:
   3.1.1. Provide general supervision of the assigned enlisted force.
   3.1.2. Communicate the commander’s policies and programs to the force; to include traveling to geo-
   graphically separated subordinate units/elements on a regular basis.
   3.1.3. Represent the commander at varied meetings.
   3.1.4. Are an active member of the CAT, Battle Staff, senior staff meetings and other senior leader
   forums within the organization.
   3.1.5. Monitor and advise the commander on compliance with Air Force standards, disciplinary
   actions (discharges, PRP, courts martial, etc.), and promotion withholds, as well as IG, SF, OSI, and
   CC-directed investigations as necessary.
   3.1.6. Serve as an active participant on advisory councils and boards (i.e. base advisory, enlisted club,
   DECA, recognition, BTZ, etc.).
   3.1.7. Will be a liaison to and work closely with the local community.
   3.1.8. Monitor and ensure compliance of training and equipping enlisted force for deployment task-
   ings.
   3.1.9. Will actively lead in the organization’s fitness program.
   3.1.10. Coordinate on all communications (written and oral) impacting the enlisted force or base
   community.
   3.1.11. Assist in the professional growth/mentoring of civilian and officer supervisors of enlisted, the
   organization’s CGOs and new squadron commanders, as required.
   3.1.12. Will understand the operation and mission of the organization and all subordinate elements.
   3.1.13. Will understand AF doctrine and core leadership competencies and communicate these to the
   force.
8                                                                          AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


    3.1.14. Ensure their commander’s policies on senior rater endorsement are received and understood
    by commanders, their executive staff, SNCOs and the enlisted force.
    3.1.15. Will interact with sister service counterparts as required.
    3.1.16. Identify and assess factors impacting morale and well being of the enlisted force and provide
    their commander with recommendations to resolve problems.
    3.1.17. Will advise the senior rater on enlisted promotions and performance reports and assist/advise
    in the selection and nomination of CMSgts/SNCOs for positions of greater responsibility.
    3.1.18. Establish and maintain rapport with commanders and other CCMs and senior enlisted person-
    nel.
    3.1.19. Manage the organization’s Stripes for Exceptional Performers (STEP) and (enlisted) recogni-
    tion programs.
    3.1.20. Lead boards such as SrA Below-the-Zone and quarterly/annual recognition programs includ-
    ing the Twelve Outstanding Airmen of The Year nominees/candidates.
    3.1.21. Evaluate, oversee and support enlisted professional military education, retention efforts, pro-
    fessional enhancement programs, off-base recruiters’ efforts, dormitory management, and Honor
    Guard.
    3.1.22. Evaluate the quality of enlisted leadership, management, and supervisory training by visiting,
    briefing at, and sitting on panels for professional military education (PME) facilities, First Term Air-
    man Courses (FTACs), professional enhancement programs (enlisted, civilian and officer, when appli-
    cable), professional organizations, Top 3, Career Assistance Advisors, junior enlisted councils,
    Chiefs’ Groups, etc. Additionally, they will review the curricula and effectiveness of the enlisted
    developmental programs.
    3.1.23. Perform other duties as required/directed by their commander.

3.2. Responsibilities of Wing CCMs. In addition to the general responsibilities of all CCMs, wing-level
CCMs will also:
    3.2.1. Coordinate quality of life and enlisted issues with Numbered Air Force (NAF), MAJCOM and
    AFPC representatives.
    3.2.2. Serve as the functional manager for assigned first sergeants.
       3.2.2.1. Interview/screen first sergeant nominees for consideration by selection boards according
       to requirements and procedures outlined in AFI 36-2113 (The First Sergeant).
       3.2.2.2. Coordinate with unit commanders for initial and rotational assignments IAW AFI
       36-2110
       3.2.2.3. Assign first sergeant AEF/contingency taskings within their command IAW AFI 36-2113.
       3.2.2.4. Monitor first sergeant councils and ensure they are effective in supporting the mission
       and people.
       3.2.2.5. Mentor and assist in development of first sergeants.
    3.2.3. Meet regularly with, mentor and assist in the development of group superintendents.
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                             9


   3.2.4. Oversee the organization’s enlisted events (promotions, inductions, recognition functions,
   CCAF graduations, etc.).

3.3. Responsibilities of Host Wing CCMs. If tenant units are assigned to an installation, the host wing
CCM will also:
   3.3.1. Manage the base-level (enlisted) recognition program and coordinate with tenant CCMs/units
   on feeder program requirements.
   3.3.2. Coordinate and share Distinguished Visitor visits with tenant CCMs/units.
   3.3.3. Be the first sergeant functional for tenant organizations in the same command.

3.4. Responsibilities of Tenant CCMs. If more than one CCM is assigned to an installation, the tenant
unit CCMs will:
   3.4.1. Support base readiness pools.
   3.4.2. Communicate unique mission support requirements or unit capabilities to host wing CCM.
   3.4.3. Coordinate with host wing CCM to integrate tenant organization’s (enlisted) recognition pro-
   gram into base-level program, as required.
   3.4.4. Inform host wing CCM of quality of life issues and coordinate with host wing CCM for resolu-
   tion.
   3.4.5. Inform host wing CCM of DV visits and share DV opportunities with host wing.
   3.4.6. Coordinate with host wing CCM on dormitory integrity and management issues.

3.5. Responsibilities of Deployed CCMs. In addition to the general responsibilities for all CCMs,
Deployed CCMs will:
   3.5.1. Complete pre-deployment training as required by UTC/tasking location/command.
   3.5.2. Oversee, monitor and work issues regarding Airmen and equipment beddown, and site plans.
   3.5.3. Coordinate issues with joint and/or combined counterparts.
   3.5.4. Understand the site’s missions, functions, geography and force protection issues, and ensure
   necessary support is in place for the warfighter.
   3.5.5. Monitor awards, decorations and performance reports for deployed individuals.
   3.5.6. Monitor and deconflict differing service regulations.
   3.5.7. Give incoming troops a Welcome Brief and participate in the site’s reception plan or “Right
   Start” program.
   3.5.8. Monitor reporting instruction violation trends and up channel as required.
   3.5.9. Establish and/or manage a site detail program.
   3.5.10. Establish and/or manage a First Sergeants’ Council, Chiefs’ Group, and other organizations as
   required, to work site issues.
   3.5.11. Educate site personnel on rank and precedence of joint and/or combined services.
10                                                                      AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


     3.5.12. Ensure the site has the appropriate number of authorized and assigned first sergeants and
     group superintendents.
     3.5.13. Annotate lessons-learned, and complete and submit a trip report to reviewing authorities.

3.6. Responsibilities of NAF CCMs. In addition to the general responsibilities for all CCMs, NAF
CCMs will:
     3.6.1. Advocate for enlisted training, recognition, personnel and command policy, infrastructure, and
     morale.
     3.6.2. Coordinate and execute a quality of life budget and plan.
     3.6.3. Coordinate DV visits across subordinate and tenant units.
     3.6.4. Work with joint and/or combined CCMs/SEAs to support geographically-separated units, as
     required.
     3.6.5. Intermediate management of training, development and information issues between MAJ-
     COMs and wings.
     3.6.6. Ensure readiness, deployability, professional development and training of assigned 8Fs, 9Es,
     and 9Gs.
     3.6.7. Mentor and manage development of NAF staff personnel.

3.7. MAJCOM CCMs. In addition to the generic responsibilities of all CCMs, MAJCOM CCMs will:
     3.7.1. Act as MAJCOM functional for the command’s 8F, 9E and 9G personnel.
     3.7.2. Act as a liaison working issues between the MAJCOM CC and the entire command.
     3.7.3. Conduct MAJCOM training/orientation for new CCMs.
     3.7.4. Validate CCM positions within the MAJCOM; conduct periodic validation of 8F, 9E, and 9G
     within the command.
     3.7.5. Act as a direct conduit between the CMSAF and the MAJCOM.
     3.7.6. Evaluate the command’s approach to enlisted training, professional development, recognition
     and infrastructure.
     3.7.7. Assist wing CCMs and MAJCOM functional managers with various issues, i.e. retention, man-
     ning, special duties, etc.
     3.7.8. Advocate the command’s quality of life initiatives and plans to the MAJCOM CC.
     3.7.9. Be a key member of the Enlisted Corporate Board.
     3.7.10. Coordinate Stripes for Exceptional Performers (STEP) allocations.
     3.7.11. Coordinate with/advise command POC on enlisted nominations for higher HQ and key posi-
     tions.
     3.7.12. Coordinate command issues and concerns with other MAJCOMs.
     3.7.13. Serve as a member on MAJCOM boards and councils and other AF and DoD panels.
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                             11


   3.7.14. Provide recommendations to the CMSAF and MAJCOM CC on future enlisted needs in a
   changing environment.
   3.7.15. Establish and monitor professional development of assigned CMSgts and CCMs; manage
   senior enlisted leader training (i.e. CCL, Keystone, DEOMI, etc.) and develop subordinate CCMs for
   future positions.
   3.7.16. Brief at wing and squadron CC orientation/training courses.
   3.7.17. CCMs will be familiar with or have input into AEF – UTC Availability coding procedures,
   particularly enlisted coded billets and base AEF posturing criteria.
   3.7.18. Orient new CCMs within their command.

3.8. Unified Senior Enlisted Leaders. In addition to the general responsibilities of all CCMs, Unified
Command CCMs will:
   3.8.1. Monitor and coordinate on deconfliction of differing service policies and regulations (adminis-
   trative and operational).
   3.8.2. Coordinate with service component Senior Enlisted Leaders.
   3.8.3. Be familiar with sister service regulations, instructions and directives.
   3.8.4. Be responsible for coordinating/facilitating joint enlisted education.
12                                                                   AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007


                                              Chapter 4

                                             HOUSING

4.1. CCMs are key and mission essential personnel. As such, they will normally reside on the military
installation (AFI 32-6001, para. 3.2.).

4.2. Commanders should maintain dedicated CCM housing on the installation that is appropriate for their
duties and responsibilities.



                                             ROGER A. BRADY, Lt General, USAF
                                             DCS, Personnel
AFI36-2109 13 AUGUST 2007                                                                     13


                                             Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 1304.21, Award of Enlisted Personnel Bonuses and Special Duty Pay, 2 Aug 1984
AFI 32 - 6001 – Family Housing Management
AFI 36 - 21, Utilization and Classification of Air Force Military Personnel
AFI 36 - 2113, The First Sergeant
AFI 36 – 2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFI 40 – 502, The Weight Management Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Assignment Availability Code
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSLMO—Air Force Senior Leader Management Office
AIG—Address Indicating Group
ANG—Air National Guard
CC—Commander
CG—Chief’s Group
CCM—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CEM—Chief Enlisted Manager
CMSAF—Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force
CMSgt—Chief Master Sergeant
CONUS—Continental United States
DoD—Department of Defense
FTAC—First Term Airman Center
MAJCOM—Major Air Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
PME—Professional Military Education
SDAP—Special Duty Assignment Pay
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
