BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-7062 AIR
AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND
COMMAND (AETC)                                                                         Supplement
                                                                   Certified Current 25 MAY 2011
                                                                                      4 MAY 2009
                                                                                         Civil Engineer

                                                        AIR FORCE COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THE PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                          e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AETC/A7CPP                                                          Certified by: HQ AETC/A7C
                                                                                  (Mr. David H. Dentino)
Supersedes:   AFI32-7062_AETCSUP1,                                                              Pages: 3
              25 July 2003


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive
Planning, 1 October 1997. This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force
Reserve Command. Refer changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847
from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP). Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out
the form.) Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It specifies requirements
for the development of sustainable installation development plans (paragraph 1.3.7); incorporates the
integration of planning activities and mandates development and maintenance of planning mission data
layers to comply with Headquarters Air Force Geobase Integration Office policies (paragraph 2.3.4);
and deletes AETC IMT 118, Request for Facility Siting/Land Use Change.
1.3.6. Each installation commander should develop a long-range vision for his or her base. Installation
commanders must ensure that all facility programs and projects are included in these plans and
appropriate comprehensive planning documents are developed, maintained, and implemented. The
Installation Commander provides the mission and installation development vision to the Base Civil
Engineer. The Installation Commander approves the installation general plan (GP) and ensures the
installation’s integrated project list is compliant with the installation’s approved GP.
2                                                               AFI32-7062_AETCSUP 4 MAY 2009


1.3.7. (Added) Base Civil Engineer Responsibilities. The Base Civil Engineer will develop,
maintain, and implement the Comprehensive Planning Program by:
1.3.7.1. (Added) Assembling a cross-functional team consisting of major installation organizations and
critical partners necessary to develop, maintain, and implement the sustainable installation development
program. The Base Civil Engineer, or his or her delegate, will lead the cross-functional team and will
meet on a recurring basis as necessary to execute the program.
1.3.7.2. (Added) Collecting and interpreting the Installation Commander’s and other senior installation
leadership’s vision for mission and installation development and presenting it to the cross-functional
team for action.
2.3.4. Units will collect, store, and update GP digital map data on a geographic information system
(GIS) in compliance with the tri-service GIS/spatial data standards. Base-level mapping and plan
development will use the geobase or electronic GP model. Mapping and digital databases required for
AETC installations include, but are not limited to, the following:
2.3.4.1. (Added) Existing facilities map (formerly base layout map).
2.3.4.2. (Added) Constraints and opportunities map, which encompasses all airfield clear zones and
explosive quantity-distance (Q-D) zones, flood plains, wetlands, environmentally sensitive areas
(installation restoration program sites, air emissions from fixed or mobile sources, and other
environmental constraints or contamination sites), and generalized data on natural and cultural
resources. Facilities scheduled for consolidation or demolition should be identified because they may
present future development opportunities.
2.3.4.3. (Added) Airspace and airfield obstructions and waivers map which may be imported from the
airfield obstruction tool database.
2.3.4.4. (Added) Capital improvements program map, which will include approved base sitings for
military construction (MILCON); sustainment, restoration, and modernization; nonappropriated funds
(NAF); energy; base realignment and conversion (BRAC); and military family housing investment
projects.
2.6. Plan Updating, Reporting, and Approval. GP documents will be updated on an ongoing basis.
Generally, bases will update their electronic GPs in-house unless plans require extensive revision.
Before undertaking any projects identified in the GP, the Base Civil Engineer will complete AF IMT
813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis, to initiate the environmental impact analysis process.
3.4. (Added) Adopted Forms.
AF IMT 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication



                                            ROBERT E. HAMM, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                            Director of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
AFI32-7062_AETCSUP 4 MAY 2009                                     3


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
GIS—Geographic Information System
GP—General Plan
MILCON—Military Construction
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
Q-D—Quality-Distance
