                              Template modified:      27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1069
AIR FORCE                                                                                 31 MARCH 1994

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                    GAS SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFCESA/ENM (Mr Alvin L. Day)                                       Certified by: HQ AFCESA/DX
                                                                                     (Col Daniel J. Barker)
Supersedes AFR 91-20, 7 March 1972.                                                               Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities. It prescribes uniform require-
ments for utilities and services for the supply and distribution of gas (pressurized natural or bottled gas,
including liquefied petroleum, but not including gasoline or related, unpressurized liquid motor fuels) to
and on Air Force installations. Users should send comments and suggested improvements on AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through major commands and HQ AFCESA/ENM,
139 Barnes Drive, Tyndall AFB FL 32403-5319 to HQ USAF/CEO, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washing-
ton DC 20330-1260. See Attachment 1 for a list of references, abbreviations, and acronyms used.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This first issue updates references and aligns the instruction with AFPD 32-10.



1. What Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Does. BCE supplies gas for base use; constructs, operates, repairs
and maintains gas generating plants, storage, transmission and distribution systems.

2. How We Supply Gas to Air Force Installations. Gas for fuel and incidental technical uses is ordi-
narily supplied in two ways by local public utility companies: usually under utility service contracts (refer
to AFI 32-1061, Utilities Services [formerly AFR 91-5]); or through a direct purchase contract adminis-
tered by the Defense Fuels Supply Center. In both cases, the local distribution company wheels the gas to
the installation. Liquid petroleum systems are installed when economically justified or as standby for
interruptible purchased gas. Liquefied petroleum gases include propane, propylene, butanes (normal
butane or isobutane), and butylenes.

3. Operating and Maintaining Systems and Equipment. Use operating methods, repair procedures,
and preventive maintenance practices in AFI 32-1068, Heating Systems (formerly AFR 91-7), AFI
32-1031, Engineering Management (formerly AFR 85-2), and AFM 91-6, Maintenance and Operation of
Gas Systems. Operate the system in accordance with any required environmental and safety operating
permits, including any required under Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of
Transportation (DOT), the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act, CAA, etc.

4. Designing Liquefied Petroleum Gas Systems and Equipment. Follow standards of the National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA) to design and install liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) systems. Take
into account any environmental requirements for operating and reporting permits in system design.
   4.1. Use only systems assemblies certified by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., or other laboratory
   that meets American National Standards Institute/NFPA standards, whichever are stricter. Mark the
   system to show design pressure. Use only those gases for which the system is designed, and at correct
   pressures.
   4.2. Before using, be sure LPG containers meet the codes of the American Society of Mechanical
   Engineers and the American Petroleum Institute, and they are marked to show compliance with code
   requirements. Markings show designed working pressure in kilopascals (pounds per square inch) and
   water capacity in liters (gallons). Identify container content according to MIL-STD-101B, Color
   Code for Pipelines and for Compressed Gas Cylinders.

5. Safety. See AFM 91-6, appropriate AFOSH Standards, and the DOT Guidance Manual for Operators
of Small Gas Systems.
   5.1. Remain alert to detect and eliminate safety and fire hazards from defective gas facilities or faulty
   operation. Post operating instructions and precautions near gas-fired equipment.
   5.2. Permit only qualified in-house or contractor personnel to install or service gas-fired equipment or
   gas systems. At small installations unable to justify a regular gas-equipment maintenance force,
   assign properly trained technicians from other specialties to maintain the gas system.
   5.3. Make sure all gas on an Air Force installation has a distinct odor to allow easy detection in the
   atmosphere at all gas concentrations from one-fifth of the lower explosive limit and above. When
   such gases are not otherwise available, in-house technicians or the gas supplier will add the odorant.
   5.4. BCE must also take the following safety actions:
       5.4.1. Verify system critical (key) valves and other critical components have been maintained and
       operated as required in AFM 91-6. Documentation is essential.
       5.4.2. Review leak detection survey records to ensure required surveys are thorough, analyze the
       potential for future failures, and show appropriate corrective actions. Analysis includes leak com-
       plaints to the fire department, security police, and civil engineering zones.
       5.4.3. Verify designers of gas distribution systems know current regulations and standards. Make
       sure specifications include compliance with DOT Gas Pipeline Safety Provisions, including Title
       49, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 192, Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by
       Pipeline, Minimum Federal Safety Standards with Amendments, current edition. Emergency plan-
       ning and response requirements for gas supply and distribution systems containing hazardous
       materials are included in AFI 32-4002, Hazardous Material Emergency Planning and Response
       Compliance (formerly AFR 19-8).


                                                2
       5.4.4. Ensure that contract inspectors know gas safety requirements or a knowledgeable person is
       available for advice.
       5.4.5. Verify gas system operators and maintainers have the required training. The Air Force has
       a 1-week mobile training course titled Natural Gas Distribution System Maintenance, J4AZT
       55255-001.

6. Gas Distribution System Map. BCE prepares and maintains a general layout map of the base gas dis-
tribution system in the "G" series of the Base Comprehensive Plan. The map will be large enough to
show:
    • Regulator locations.
    • Flow quantities and pressures.
    • All connected loads.
    • Size and material of all mains and services.
   •   Locations with respect to streets.
   •   Any major structures related to or served by the system.
   •   Valves and distribution-line regulators by number.

NOTE:
LARGE INSTALLATIONS SHOULD MAINTAIN AN AREA MAP IN ADDITION TO THE GEN-
ERAL LAYOUT MAP.
BCE must distribute a complete map to the fire chief and all base activities involved in operating and
maintaining the gas distribution system. Keep copies up-to-date and show dates of revisions. Because
successful system operation depends on map accuracy, BCE must do the following:
   6.1. Validate maps and physically locate all isolation valves, other key valves, and regulators.
   6.2. Know the purpose of each valve and the delivery point of the connected line. Complete AF Form
   995, Gate Valve/Hydrant Record, describing system valves and regulators and showing a detailed
   sketch of locations. Include valves and regulators in the recurring work plan for regular maintenance.
   6.3. Develop data, keyed to the maps, identifying the pipe materials in the gas system. Include the
   manufacturer's name, numerical designation, American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM)
   number, type material and connectors, and any other descriptive information available. These data are
   critical for new construction or for making repairs since plastic components, including those with the
   same ASTM designation or manufacturer, can be incompatible and may not make a suitable joint.
   Title 49 CFR 192 sets requirements for joining plastic lines safely.




                                         JAMES E. McCARTHY,, Maj General, USAF
                                         The Civil Engineer




                                                3
                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

References
AFI 32-1031, Engineering Management (formerly AFR 85-2)
AFI 32-1061, Utilities Services (formerly AFR 91-5)
AFI 32-1068, Heating Systems (formerly AFR 91-7)
AFM 88-8, Chapter 5, Nonindustrial Gas Piping Systems
AFM 88-12, Chapter 1, Gas Distribution
AFM 91-6, Maintenance and Operation of Gas Systems
MIL-STD-101B, Color Code for Pipelines and for Compressed Gas Cylinders
Department of Transportation, Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 192, Transportation of Natural
and Other Gas by Pipeline, Minimum Federal Safety Standards with Amendments, current edition. (Cop-
ies available from US Department of Transportation, Office of Pipeline Safety, 400 6th Street SW., Wash-
ington DC 20590.)
Gas Engineers Handbook (PO Box C772, Brooklyn NY 11025)
Guidance Manual for Operators of Small Gas Systems. (Copies available from US Department of Trans-
portation Safety Institute (TSI), Pipeline Safety Division DTI-60, PO Box 25082, Oklahoma City OK
73125-5050.)
Guide for Gas Transmission and Distribution Piping Systems. (Copies available from American Gas
Association, 1515 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington VA 22209.)
*NFPA No. 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code
*NFPA No. 52, Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Vehicular Fuel Systems
*NFPA No. 54, National Fuel Gas Code
*NFPA No. 55, Standard for the Storage, Use and Handling of Compressed and Liquefied Gases in Por-
table Cylinders
*NFPA No. 58, Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
*Copies available from the National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy MA
02269-9990.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASTM—American Society for Testing and Materials
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DOT—Department of Transportation
LPG—Liquified Petroleum Gas
                                               4
NFPA—National Fire Protection Agency




                                       5
