BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2924
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         7 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                  COMMAND TRANSITION




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFI is available for downloading from the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1SR                                                              Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                     (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
                                                                                        Pages: 5




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-29, Military Standards. It provides
guidance for and applies to all board-selected commanders during the command transition
period, including Air Reserve Component squadron, group and wing commanders. It identifies
key areas which incoming and outgoing commanders must review during their in-person
discussion, to include sharing a written assessment. This AFI may be supplemented at any level,
but all supplements must be routed to AF/A1S for coordination prior to certification and
approval. Refer recommended changes about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.This instruction is subject to the
Privacy Act of 1974 and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.


1. Purpose and Goal. Provides guidance for outgoing and incoming commanders to effectively
transition command. This instruction identifies key areas that must be reviewed and discussed
by outgoing and incoming commanders before the guidon is passed.
 2                                                           AFI36-2924 7 SEPTEMBER 2012


2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Outgoing Commander. Provide a written assessment of the organization to the
     incoming commander. Outgoing commanders will present their personal written assessment
     in-person to the incoming commanders no later than one day prior to the Change of
     Command. NOTE: In rare cases where the in-person discussion cannot occur (i.e.,
     Assumption of Command) the outgoing commander is responsible for leaving the written
     assessment for the incoming commander and must be readily available to go over the
     assessment telephonically or via video teleconference upon the incoming commander’s
     request. This assessment will address, but is not limited to the following:
        2.1.1. People programs.
           2.1.1.1. Unit and workplace climate. Discuss the most recent unit climate
           assessment, Community Action Information Board issues of interest, issues regarding
           management-labor relations, and overall assessment of the unit.
           2.1.1.2. Recognition Programs. Discuss recognition initiatives for military and
           civilian personnel to include pending decoration/recognition matters. Highlight any
           personnel that stand out.
           2.1.1.3. Status of Discipline Issues. Discuss all Security Forces (SF), Air Force
           Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) investigations and other cases of interest
           (i.e., Unfavorable Information Files, Article 15s, Uniform Code of Military Justice
           actions nonjudicial and judicial, Central Registry Board).
           2.1.1.4. Open complaint investigations (i.e., Equal Opportunity (EO), Inspector
           General (IG), etc.). Discuss any open investigations and the background.
           2.1.1.5. Key Spouse Program. Discuss status and effectiveness of the Key Spouse
           Program.
           2.1.1.6. Resiliency. Assess resiliency of the organization and discuss any ongoing
           resiliency initiatives.
           2.1.1.7. Air Force Wounded Warriors (AFW2). Discuss any AFW2s in the unit.
           Include how they and their families are receiving personnel services and support,
           extended transition assistance, and are in compliance with the five-year base
           management follow-up. Describe how you track AFW2s and assess how their
           families are doing.
           2.1.1.8. Personel Reliability Program (PRP). Discuss the status of PRP as applicable.
           Explain information relating to the PRP Administrative Qualification process and
           identify “potentially disqualifying information” that may affect those transitioning
           in/out of PRP positions.
           2.1.1.9. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. Discuss initiatives/programs in
           place to address prevention of sexual assault. Additionally, discuss all open and
           recent cases of unrestricted reports of sexual assault. The Sexual Assault Response
           Coordinator (SARC) can provide assistance in this area.
           2.1.1.10. Areas of Special Attention. Discuss any areas of special concerns related to
           military and civilian personnel that require special attention. This may include, but is
AFI36-2924 7 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                   3


        not limited to, status of training, fitness program, top performers, significant
        additional duties, Officer Evaluation System, Enlisted Evaluation System, and
        personnel of concern.
     2.1.2. Resource/Readiness
        2.1.2.1. Unit Inspections. Discuss when the unit is due an inspection (i.e.,
        Consolidated Unit Inspection, Readiness Inspection, Health Services Inspection,
        Nuclear Surety Inspection , Nuclear Operation Readiness Inspection, etc.; reference
        AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System). Include the results of previous
        inspections and any ongoing trends as well as status of corrective actions, if
        applicable, related to negative findings.
        2.1.2.2. Deployment Actions. Discuss tempo bands/Air Expeditionary Force (AEF)
        blocks and current postured unit type codes. Identify any duty limiting conditions,
        Deployment Availability Codes, profiles or other items that prevent deployment
        taskings from being filled within the unit. Additionally, explain if redeployers are
        being given the opportunity to spend time at the Air Force Deployment Transition
        Center before returning to home station. Describe how you take care of family
        members while the member is deployed. Discuss any AOR-reported discrepancies
        the unit received and what corrective actions were taken to address them.
        2.1.2.3. Status of Resources & Training System/AEF Reporting Tool (ART)/Defense
        Readiness Reporting System ratings. Discuss unit readiness based on these systems
        to include the rationale (i.e., what are the drivers behind the readiness assessments to
        include C- ratings, ART Unit Type Code assessesments, and mission assessments).
        2.1.2.4. Security/safety.    Discuss the organization’s vulnerabilities, critical
        infrastructure assessment, mission threats, and local threats. Explain any incidences
        occurring during command that resulted in injury and/or damage of resources.
        Discuss the status of open investigations and highlight any unresolved concerns or
        issues.
        2.1.2.5. Budget. Discuss unit funding requirements. Identify the highest unfunded
        priorities in rank order and explain the rationale behind their priority.
  2.2. Incoming Commander.
     2.2.1. Schedule the outgoing commander’s written assessment and in-person discussion
     to occur no later than one day prior to the Change of Command. If this meeting cannot
     occur, ask the losing commander to review the written assessment telephonically.
     2.2.2. Become familiar with the outgoing commander’s written assessment and consider
     using it as a baseline to address issues as appropriate.
     2.2.3. Consult with senior enlisted (First Sergeant, Superintendent, etc.) and civilian
     leaders within the organization.
     2.2.4. Form your own assessment using commander’s calls, walk-arounds, and meetings
     with relevant agencies (i.e., SARC, SF, Judge Advocate, AFOSI, EO, IG, Medical
     Group).
 4                                                         AFI36-2924 7 SEPTEMBER 2012


       2.2.5. Maintain the outgoing commander’s written assessment for the duration of your
       command.
3. Closing. New commanders typically assume their duties without much knowledge of, or
experience in, the organization. This instruction is a basic flight plan to facilitate a smooth
transition during command changeover. It is geared toward ensuring continuity and stresses a
personal discussion between commanders and written assessment. The ultimate goal is to ensure
new commanders understand the environment and personnel under their command, to effectively
lead both mission and people.




                                           DARRELL D. JONES, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFI36-2924 7 SEPTEMBER 2012                                  5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 Oct 2009
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 23 Mar 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Aerospace Expeditionary Force
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFW2—Air Force Wounded Warrior
ART—AEF Reporting Tool
EO—Equal Opportunity
IG—Inspector general
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PRP—Personnel Reliability Program
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SF—Security Forces
