BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2609
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              11 AUGUST 1998
                                                                       Certified Current 17 February 2009
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                             MARRIAGE IN OVERSEAS COMMANDS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPSFC (SSgt Randy Larson)                 Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPS (Col Gary S. Boyle)
Supersedes AFI 36-2609, 1 February 1998.                                                   Pages: 11
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-26, Military Force Management, and provides
basic guidance to Commanders and personnel on the procedures to follow when planning a marriage in an
overseas command. Major Command and Wing level units may supplement this instruction. HQ AFPC/
DPSFC must coordinate on all supplements.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This change incorporates interim change (IC) 98-1, provides clarification on what Air Force personnel
stationed in or visiting foreign countries must do prior to marrying a foreign national (paragraph 3.) See
Attachment 1 of the publication, IC 98-1, for the complete IC. A bar (|) indicates revision from the pre-
vious edition.



1. Purpose. This instruction provides information and policy guidance to commanders on marriage of
personnel stationed in or visiting overseas commands, and on applications for the immigration of alien
spouses, fiancè or fiancèe, children, stepchildren, and adopted children.
   1.1. The restrictions imposed by this instruction are not intended to prevent marriage. These restric-
   tions are for the protection of both aliens and United States (U.S.) citizens from the possible disastrous
   effects of an impetuous marriage entered into without appreciation of its implications and obligations.
   1.2. This instruction is intended to make both aliens and U.S. citizens aware of the rights and restric-
   tions imposed by the immigration laws of the United States and to assist in identifying and precluding
   the creation of U.S. military dependents not eligible for immigration to the United States.

2. Statutory Authority. The admission to the U.S. of the above aliens is governed by the Immigration
and Nationality Act (Title 8, United States Code, Sections 1101, et seq.).
2                                                                                        11 AUGUST 1998

    2.1. Titles 8 and 22 of the Code of Federal Instructions (CFR) contain the immigration and nationality
    regulations. Since 24 December 1952, the effective date of the Immigration and Nationality Act, cer-
    tain policies and procedures have been changed. In general, the exacting standards heretofore deter-
    mining admissibility are continued, but additional categories of potential immigrants have been
    granted consideration.
    2.2. Public Law 91-225 (8 U.S.C. 1184(d)), signed by the President on 7 April 1970, amended the
    Immigration and Nationality Act to provide non-immigrant status for the alien fiancè or fiancèe of a
    U.S. citizen who seeks to enter the U.S. to conclude a valid marriage in the U.S. within the 90 days
    after entry.

3. Policy . It is the policy of the Department of the Air Force that all active duty personnel have the same
right to enter into marriage as other citizens of the U.S. in the same locality. Air Force personnel stationed
in or visiting foreign countries are required to obtain written authorization from the senior overseas area
commander prior to marrying, a foreign national who is not a legal resident of the U.S. This authority
may be delegated as deemed necessary. The policy of the Air Force is that approval will be given in all
instances where military personnel have complied with local instructions implementing this policy.
    3.1. Due examination and consideration do not indicate that the intended alien spouse would certainly
    or probably be barred from entry to the U.S. through inability to meet statutory physical, mental, or
    character standards and the provisions in paragraph 3.2.
    3.2. The applicant has demonstrated financial ability, not limited to any particular form of financial
    security, to prevent the alien spouse from becoming a public charge.
    3.3. Civilian personnel serving with, employed by or accompanying the Air Force outside the United
    States under Department of Defense (DoD) sponsorship are not required to submit applications for
    authorization to marry. They are encouraged to avail themselves of the consultative services provided
    by military commanders concerning the legal, moral, and procedural problems involved in overseas
    marriages, and the U.S. laws on immigration and nationality.
    3.4. Applications for authorization to marry will be forwarded by endorsement to the commander
    having authority to approve the application. These applications must be accompanied by written and
    notarized consent of the parents or legal guardian of the applicant and of the intended spouse if he or
    she is under the legal age for marriage without consent as prescribed by the laws of the state, territory
    or country of his or her respective domicile. If the laws of the country in which the marriage is to take
    place do not recognize the legal age of domicile as stated above, then the laws of that country shall
    apply.
       3.4.1. The notarized permission should include:
       3.4.2. The full name and place of residence of the person being granted permission to marry.
       3.4.3. The full name and place of residence of the intended spouse.
       3.4.4. The date permission is granted.
       3.4.5. The full name, place of residence, and relationship of the person or persons granting per-
       mission.
    3.5. Where obstacles to a lasting marriage appear to be present through the anticipated inadmissibility
    to the U.S. of the intended spouse, the application for authorization to marry will be returned by the
11 AUGUST 1998                                                                                           3

 commander for consideration by the service member of the problems that would result if the intended
 spouse were not admitted to the U.S. after marrying (see paragraph 4.1).
 3.6. Each application returned disapproved will indicate the specific reasons for lack of approval and
 will suggest any additional action that may be taken to secure permission (for example, medical atten-
 tion for either party or further savings by the service member).
 3.7. Marriage applications disapproved for security reasons and returned to the applicant will state
 briefly the reason for disapproval, but will not divulge the source of information or other data which
 would involve violation of security or jeopardize sources of information available in the conduct of
 these investigations.
 3.8. Prior to granting authorization to marry, a medical examination will be required of each alien
 fiancè or fiancèe and all dependents who will actually be residing with the prospective spouse, and
 that intend to seek admission to the U.S. The examination may be administered at either a U.S. Public
 Health Service office or a U.S. Forces medical facility and will be of sufficient scope and thorough-
 ness to detect mental or physical illness or conditions as described in paragraph 4.1.. Although the
 premarital medical examination performed at a U.S. Forces medical facility is given to determine suit-
 ability for later entry into the U.S., qualification as a result of this examination is tentative and does
 not ensure final medical acceptance of the prospective spouse or dependents for entry into the U.S.
 The alien spouse and dependents must later undergo and satisfactorily meet the requirements of a
 medical examination administered by a U.S. military or civilian doctor, in accordance with require-
 ments established by the U.S. Public Health Service, before a visa is granted.
 3.9. Premarital investigations: Members will refer to their Unit Security Managers for determination
 of a premarital investigation in accordance with AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Management Pro-
 gram Management.
 3.10. Applicants whose requests have been favorably considered will be given all assistance possible
 in arranging their marriages and securing visa and other entrance documentation, including forward-
 ing Form I-130 (Petition to Classify Status of Alien Relative for Issuance of Immigrant Visa)
 under cover letter of the command.
    3.10.1. The financial status of the individual has been considered;
    3.10.2. The alien spouse has undergone medical examination;
    3.10.3. No defects barring admission under pertinent immigration laws have been discovered.
 3.11. Air Force members will be encouraged to seek premarital advice and counsel of a military chap-
 lain before making final plans for marriage. If an applicant desires a wedding to be performed by a
 military chaplain, a civil ceremony may be required by the country and should be performed prior to
 the chaplain’s ceremony. This may sometimes involve two ceremonies. A civil ceremony is required
 by the laws of some countries. In this connection, the laws of the U.S. recognize only those marriages
 which are legally entered into under the laws of the country in which the ceremony is performed. All
 personnel concerned will be advised that the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not hold
 proxy, telephone, or similar marriages to be valid for immigration purpose unless the marriage shall
 have been consummated through cohabitation. A suitable marriage certificate will be presented by the
 command to supplement any document which may be provided under local laws.
 3.12. Once a marriage has been entered into and the dependents are deemed eligible for benefits nor-
 mally associated with command sponsorship, no distinction will be made between alien and citizen
4                                                                                        11 AUGUST 1998

    spouses in the access to, and use of available support facilities (EXAMPLE: Base or Post Exchange,
    Commissary, and Class VI stores). Any other benefit to which the dependents of military members
    are entitled by virtue of the member’s rank, tenure, or status will be conferred irrespective of the
    dependents’ nationality or command sponsorship. In the case of a marriage within the overseas com-
    mand, the member will not be authorized to occupy dependent-type quarters on a date earlier than he
    or she would be entitled to do so had he or she entered the overseas command on the date of marriage.
    3.13. The service member will ensure that an official record of his or her marriage (whether to an
    alien or a U.S. citizen) is made with the proper local civil authority immediately after marriage has
    been accomplished.

4. Problems to be considered. The admissibility of alien spouses and children merits serious consider-
ation by the parties to the marriage and the Air Force, because such marriages are normally planned in
anticipation of eventual residence in the United States. Thorough study of all aspects of the problem by
the individual prior to marriage, together with guidance from the appropriate military commanders, can
minimize, if not eliminate, the prospect of broken homes by divorce, abandonment, or desertion. This
could result if alien spouses failed to qualify for admission to the United States because the individuals
concerned were not aware of the requirements for entry prior to marriage.
    4.1. Mental and physical health of the alien spouse, as well as character, morals, and political beliefs
    and affiliations, are matters of primary importance since individuals in certain categories may be inad-
    missible to the United States for permanent residence. These categories include, but are not limited
    to, aliens who:
       4.1.1. Have a physical or mental disorder and behavior associated with the disorder which may
       pose or which has posed a threat to the property, safety, or welfare of the alien or others.
       4.1.2. Are afflicted with any dangerous contagious disease, including infection with etiologic
       agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
       4.1.3. Are drug addicts.
       4.1.4. Are prostitutes or have engaged in or profited from prostitution or are coming to the U.S. to
       engage in any other unlawful commercialized vice, whether or not related to prostitution.
       4.1.5. Are engaged in terrorist activity or are reasonably likely to engage in terrorist activity upon
       entry into the U.S. or is a member of a foreign terrorist organization.
       4.1.6. Are members of or affiliated with the communist or any other totalitarian party or associa-
       tion.
       4.1.7. Seek entry to engage in any activity to violate U.S. laws relating to espionage or sabotage
       or to violate U.S. laws prohibiting export from the U.S. of goods, technology, or sensitive infor-
       mation; any other unlawful activity; or any activity to oppose, control, or overthrow the Govern-
       ment of the U.S. by force, violence, or unlawful means.
       4.1.8. Have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or admits to having committed
       such a crime.
       4.1.9. Have been convicted of two or more offenses (other than purely political offenses) for
       which the aggregate sentence to confinement actually imposed was 5 years or more.
 11 AUGUST 1998                                                                                              5

       4.1.10. Have been convicted of (or admit violating) any law or regulation relating to controlled
       substance.
       4.1.11. Have been convicted of certain other offenses specified in Title 8, United States Code,
       Section 1182, regarding the general classes of excludable aliens.
       4.1.12. Have been arrested and deported, have fallen into distress and have been removed from
       the U. S., or have been excluded from admission and deported -- unless the U.S. Attorney General
       has consented to their applying or reapplying for admission.
   4.2. In addition to the high standards required of the alien, the U.S. citizen also must present satisfac-
   tory evidence of ability to prevent the spouse from becoming a public charge. Another important sub-
   ject for consideration is the large number of enlisted personnel of pay grade E-1 to the grade of E-4
   with less than 2 years of service who have no occupational backgrounds or histories of past earnings
   to establish their ability to support a family. Consideration must be given also to the health of the U.S.
   citizen. (The presence of active tuberculosis, for example, would not only impair his or her ability to
   support the family, but would endanger the health of the alien spouse, thus jeopardizing admissibil-
   ity.)
   4.3. An adverse effect on military sponsor’s career can often result from marriage to an alien when
   the sponsor occupies a sensitive position requiring access to classified defense information or crypto-
   graphic matter. This aspect should be closely examined through consultation with the Unit Com-
   mander or Security Manager. The military member should also consider possible reclassification
   action that could occur and its resultant impact on his or her career aspirations.

5. Exception to Policy. The Air Force recognizes the human aspects of situations leading to application
for authorization to marry an alien. It is the intent of this instruction that the procedures followed in over-
seas commands will be in accordance with normal legal rights and privileges of U.S. citizens to the fullest
extent practical. Existing local conditions may affect individual actions and procedures of commanders.
   5.1. A determination that the prospective alien spouse may be ineligible for admission into the United
   States does not require disapproval of the application for authorization to marry. The U.S. citizen
   desiring to marry and the alien fiancè or fiancèe will be thoroughly counseled and advised that in the
   opinion of the commander the intended alien spouse may be ineligible for admission to the United
   States. If the citizen, the intended spouse (and the parents of either, if appropriate, because of the part-
   ner’s age) indicate in writing that such advice has been received and they nevertheless desire that the
   marriage take place, the commander may approve the application for authorization to marry.

6. Command Publications . Directives will be reasonable and will stress the fact that the screening of
applicants for authorization to marry by the commander is substantially similar to the processing of
requests for entry of alien spouses into the United States, and that the lack of command approval is indic-
ative of probable unfavorable action of the United States Consul and the Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization on a visa request.
   6.1. Adoption or modification of the procedures recommended is at the discretion of the appropriate
   overseas service commander.
   6.2. Local information media will be used from time to time to promote an understanding of marriage
   instructions and their intent. Orientation of replacements will include this subject. Questions and dis-
   cussion will be encouraged.
6                                                                                         11 AUGUST 1998

7. Admission of Alien Spouses and Children. Subject to the conditions specified by law, the alien
spouse of any U.S. citizen may be approved for entry into the United States on a permanent-residence
basis, without regard to numerical limitations, provided that the required petition for immediate relative
status (Form I-130: Petition to Classify Status of Alien Relative for Issuance of Immigrant Visa) is
duly filed with the United States Consul concerned, and duly approved.
    7.1. Neither the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization nor the United States Consul has
    broad power to grant exceptions to the statutory restrictions governing the admissibility of aliens or
    eligibility to receive visas. However, the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended (PL 87-301 (8
    U.S.C. 1182), vests in the Attorney General of the United States discretionary authority to grant waiv-
    ers to certain alien spouses and children (including minor unmarried adopted children) who are ineli-
    gible for visas because of conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude, conviction of two or
    more offenses for which the aggregate sentence actually imposed was 5 or more years, or because of
    prostitution. The Attorney General of the United States may also grant waivers under his discretion-
    ary authority in the case of certain alien spouses and children who have procured, or attempted to pro-
    cure, a visa by fraud or misrepresentation, or admitting the commission of perjury in connection
    therewith:
    7.2. Each application for waiver (Form I-601: Application for Waiver of Grounds of Excludabil-
    ity) is judged on its individual merits. Waivers will not be granted where entrance of such alien
    dependents would be contrary to the nation’s welfare, safety, or security. A favorable decision is
    required to be based on a finding by the Attorney General of the United States that extreme hardship
    would result to a U.S. citizen or a lawful resident of the United States should his or her alien depen-
    dents be excluded from the United States. An advance decision on a waiver is not possible for pro-
    spective spouses. Applications for waiver can be made only after a legal marriage.
    7.3. Form I-601 can be obtained from United States Consuls.
    7.4. The Immigration and Naturalization Act provides that certain alien spouses and unmarried chil-
    dren (including minor unmarried lawfully adopted children) who are excludable from the United
    States because of mental retardation, a history of mental illness, or affliction with tuberculosis and
    who are otherwise admissible to the United States may be issued a visa and admitted to the United
    States for permanent residence. Approval thereof will be at the discretion of the Attorney General of
    the United States after consultation with the Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Ser-
    vice. (See AFI 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law/PHS GEN CIR NO.6/ NOAA CO-4.) Aliens
    in this category, who are dependents of the United States military personnel and who seek admission
    to the United States, must file an Immigration and Naturalization, Form I-601, with supporting docu-
    ments, at the consular office considering the request for a visa.
    7.5. A child is a citizen of the United States if he or she is born outside the geographical limits of the
    United States or its outlying possessions of parents, one of whom is an alien, and the other a citizen of
    the United States, who, prior to the birth of the child, was physically present in the United States or its
    outlying possessions for a period or periods totaling not less than 5 years, at least 2 of which were
    after attaining the age of 14 years. (Honorable service in the Armed Forces of the United States
    counts as physical presence in the United States.) Recognition of the child’s citizenship when travel-
    ing to the United States is made easier if the birth has been declared by the parents and documented at
    the office of the appropriate United States Consul.
 11 AUGUST 1998                                                                                              7

   7.6. Children in the following categories are permitted entry into the United States, without numerical
   limitations, if otherwise qualified under immigration laws:
       7.6.1. Children born to the alien spouse, whether or not born in wedlock, may enter as stepchil-
       dren of the citizen spouse, provided they had not reached the age of 18 years at the time of the
       alien’s marriage to the U.S. citizen.
       7.6.2. A child born out of wedlock, by, through whom, or whose behalf status, privilege, or ben-
       efit is sought because of the relationship of the child to its natural father if the father has or had a
       bona fide parent-child relationship with the person’s natural mother.
       7.6.3. Children adopted under the age of 16 years if they have since been in legal custody of, and
       have resided with the adopting parent or parents for at least 2 years.
       7.6.4. Children under 16 years of age at the time at which the visa petition is filed, who are eligi-
       ble orphans adopted abroad or coming to the United States for adoption.
   7.7. Overseas commanders authorized to take final action on marriage applications will consider
   waiver possibilities in determining their action under paragraph 3.1.

8. Admission of alien fiancè or fiancèe. Title 8, United States Code, Section 1101(a)(15)(K), provides
nonimmigrant status to the alien fiancè or fiancèe of a U.S. citizen who seeks to enter the United States
solely to conclude a valid marriage with the U.S. citizen within 90 days after entry.
   8.1. A service member desiring to have an alien fiancè or fiancèe admitted to the United States under
   the above provision is required to file a petition for a visa on behalf of the alien concerned. A visa will
   not be granted until the U.S. consular officer has received a petition filed in the United States and
   approved by the Attorney General. Satisfactory evidence must be submitted by the petitioner to estab-
   lish that the parties have a bona fide intent to marry and are legally able and actually willing to con-
   clude a marriage in the United States within 90 days after the alien’s arrival. Minor children
   accompanying or following to join the alien should be included in the petition. The service member
   should communicate with the nearest district office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, or
   with the nearest U.S. consular officer, if assigned overseas, to obtain information regarding the filing
   of the required Petition to Classify Status of Alien Fiancè or Fiancèe for Issuance of Non-immigrant
   Visa (Form I-129F) on behalf of the alien concerned. The service member should be advised that in
   the event the marriage does not occur within 3 months after entry of the alien and any minor children,
   they will be required to depart the United States and upon failure to do so, will be deported.
   8.2. The alien fiancèe or fiancèe desiring to immigrate to the United States should be advised to com-
   municate with the United States consular officer of the American Embassy appropriate to the country
   concerned and request information on the procedure to be followed in applying for a visa under Title
   8, United States Code, Section 1105(a)(15)(K).
   8.3. As the marriage will not be performed in the overseas area, commanders need not be concerned
   with the issue of the alien’s admissibility to the United States. Member will not be required to submit
   a formal application for authorization to marry.
   8.4. Commanders are encouraged to grant leave, consistent with operation and military requirements,
   to personnel stationed overseas who plan to return to the United States on leave for the purpose of
   marrying an alien fiancè or fiancèe. Therefore, in such cases, commanders need only be concerned
   with the following previous marriage (if applicable) is available (see paragraph 5.1.).
8                                                                                         11 AUGUST 1998

9. Completion of Processing of Applications of Personnel Who Depart Over seas Commands. The
date of marriage relative to prospective rotation date of the U.S. citizen or the plans of the alien spouse for
departure to the United States is an important factor. An application for authorization to marry is not
grounds for retention in the overseas command beyond the applicant’s date eligible to return from over-
seas (DEROS), nor is it grounds for retention in the Air Force beyond expiration of term of service
(ETS). It does not, however, preclude the individual’s voluntary extension of overseas tour or term of ser-
vice under other policies governing such extensions.
    9.1. Processing will continue on those applicants not completed by the time the applicant departs the
    overseas command, provided the applicant so requests in writing and states his or her intention to
    return to the overseas command in a leave status for the purpose of marriage if the application is
    approved.
    9.2. Requests for permission to visit an overseas command, or a foreign country not within the juris-
    diction of an overseas command in an ordinary leave status for the purpose of marriage normally will
    not be granted until a member’s application for authorization to marry has been approved. Unfore-
    seen complications are often encountered when the premarital member is required to depart the over-
    seas command before the investigation is completed. Additionally, an unnecessary burden is placed
    on administrative and investigative personnel in the overseas command attempting to complete the
    investigation prior to expiration of the member’s leave.
    9.3. Normally, leave is not granted to visit a country in which U.S. service members are entitled to
    receive hostile fire pay. Exceptions to this policy can be approved only by the major overseas com-
    mander with jurisdiction over U.S. personnel serving in the country to be visited.
    9.4. Travel in connection with leave to and from the United States or to and from the overseas com-
    mand where the marriage is to take place is the responsibility of the individual service member and
    will be at no expense to the government. However, active duty military personnel on ordinary leave
    are eligible for space-available transportation on DoD owned or controlled aircraft in accordance with
    DoD Instruction 4515.13-R. To obtain transportation, the member is required to have a valid leave
    authorization as prescribed by instructions of military service concerned.

10. Applications Originating in Other Overseas Commands or in the United States. Applications
of military personnel who are stationed in the Continental United States, its territories, or in an overseas
command other than the one in which the proposed marriage is to take place, will be submitted through
such channels as the service commander will prescribe to the overseas commander concerned for process-
ing.
    10.1. When a decision is reached, the overseas commander concerned will inform the commander
    from whom the application was received of the decision. If the application is approved, the notifica-
    tion should include instructions as to any special requirements the applicant must meet upon approval
    in the overseas command for marriage. If application is disapproved, the reasons for disapproval will
    be given and, when practicable, suggestions as to additional action that may be taken to secure
    approval of the marriage will be made.
    10.2. See paragraph 9.2 through 9.4 concerning permission to visit an overseas command in an ordi-
    nary leave status for the purpose of marriage, and transportation in connection therewith.
 11 AUGUST 1998                                                                                              9

11. Marriage Between U.S. Citizens and Certain Aliens. The issue of admissibility to the United
States is not involved in marriages between U.S. citizens overseas or between U.S. citizens and aliens
who have been admitted to the United States for permanent residence or have been granted immigrant sta-
tus.
   11.1. Commanders need only be concerned that authorization to marry has been obtained from par-
   ents or guardian in accordance with paragraph 4.2.
   11.2. Commanders need only be concerned that evidence of termination of each previous marriage (if
   applicable) is available (see paragraph 5.1.).
   11.3. That both parties are found on physical examination to be free from infectious venereal disease
   and active tuberculosis.
   11.4. That the service member and the intended spouse are adequately counseled on the problems and
   responsibilities of marriage.

12. Marriage Between Aliens. An alien member who intends to marry another alien will be advised that
such marriage will not exempt the alien spouse from the numerical limitations for immigrants (8 U.S.C.
1151). Nevertheless, a lawful permanent resident may petition for second preference classification for his
or her alien spouse (8 U.S.C. 1153).

13. Entry of Adopted Children. Personnel contemplating adoption of an alien child other than the alien
child of a spouse, should note, in general, adopted alien children are subject to the usual numerical limita-
tions, except as provided for in paragraphs 7.6.3. and 7.6.4. Physical examination will be administered by
a U.S. military or civilian doctor to determine as far as possible that the children are physically qualified
for visas and entry into the United States.

14. Optional Administrative Procedures for Command Instructions. The administrative procedures
outlined in the following paragraphs are optional and are intended only as a guide in the preparation of
supplementation. The Commander may prescribe those procedures considered necessary for the prepara-
tion and processing of applications for authorization to marry. Adoption or modification of the proce-
dures, as outlined, is at discretion of the Commander.
   14.1. Marriage counseling. Service members should be advised of the desirability of pastoral coun-
   seling by a military chaplain with reference to spiritual and religious matters, adjustments which may
   be required as a result of language and environmental background differences and the moral and
   financial obligations of marriage and family life. Where practical, referral should be to a chaplain of
   the service member’s faith. Counseling by a legal assistance officer should include a briefing on the
   requirements of the immigration and naturalization laws of the United States, and the legal responsi-
   bilities of supporting dependents. Where either party was previously married and divorce or annul-
   ment is involved, the legal assistance officer may advise whether, in his or her opinion, that the party
   is legally free to marry.
   14.2. Financial preparation. Where circumstances indicate the need for financial preparation on the
   part of the service member, he or she may be urged to set aside a definite portion of pay as a savings
   and cautioned that failure to do so may prejudice approval of the request for authorization to marry or
   the granting of a visa to the alien spouse, if authorization to marry is granted. (This is particularly per-
   tinent to personnel of pay grades E-1 through E-4 with 2 years or less service for pay purposes.)
10                                                                                       11 AUGUST 1998

     14.3. Application for authorization to marry. Documents listed in the following paragraphs may be
     required to support an application for authorization to marry.
        14.3.1. A statement by each party of legal freedom to marry. (Evidence of termination of each
        previous marriage, if any, of the applicant and or the intended alien spouse, such as a certified true
        copy of final divorce decree, marriage annulment document, or death certificate of a former
        spouse).
        14.3.2. A financial statement from those personnel in pay grades E-1 through E-4 with 2 years, or
        less, service indicating that they have sufficient funds to defray expenses for the marriage, to
        include transportation of spouse and dependents, if any, to the United States (at personal expense,
        non-reimbursable) and appropriate visas. Assets of the intended spouse may be included.
        14.3.3. Certificate of completion of marriage counseling.
        14.3.4. A report of medical examination for the U.S. citizen signed by a U.S. Forces medical
        officer indicating freedom from active tuberculosis and infectious venereal disease. For aliens, a
        medical report signed by a U.S. Public Health Service or U.S. Forces medical officer, indicating
        probable qualification under the immigration laws for entry into the United States, is required.
        14.3.5. Character references for the intended alien spouse.
        14.3.6. Other documents or forms as required by the laws of the country or locality of the
        intended alien spouse and or by the jurisdiction in which the ceremony is to be performed.
     14.4. Submission of petition to classify status of alien relative for issuance of immigration visa. The
     service member should be made aware of the importance of filing a petition as soon as possible
     because obstacles such as missing documents or the need for additional information could cause
     delays in the issuance of the visas and may result in the departure of the service member from the
     overseas command without his or her alien dependents. Submission of a petition may be required
     immediately following the marriage ceremony, when appropriate. A suspense file may be maintained
     until the visa is granted.
     14.5. Guidance classes. Alien spouses of U.S. military personnel often encounter overwhelming
     adjustment problems upon arrival in the United States due to cultural change and a language barrier.
     The service member must often be away from duty to deal with these problems. Many adjustment dif-
     ficulties could be avoided or significantly reduced by the spouses’ participation in educational and
     Western cultural activities aimed at developing spouses’ functional ability to live in the United States
     before arrival in the country. Service members should be encouraged to have their spouses, fiancèes,
     or fiancè enroll in English language classes and other appropriate classes while still in the overseas
     command.



                                           MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                           DCS/Personnel
 11 AUGUST 1998                                                                                            11

                                               Attachment 1

                IC 98-1 to AFI 36-2609, MARRIAGE IN OVERSEAS COMMANDS


SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This change incorporates interim change (IC) 98-1, provides clarification on what Air Force personnel
stationed in or visiting foreign countries must do prior to marrying a foreign national (paragraph 3). See
the last attachment of the publication, IC 98-1, for the complete IC. A bar (|) indicates revision from the
previous edition.


3. Policy. It is the policy of the Department of the Air Force that all active duty personnel have the same
right to enter into marriage as other citizens of the U.S. in the same locality. Air Force personnel stationed
in or visiting foreign countries are required to obtain written authorization from the senior overseas area
commander prior to marrying, a foreign national who is not a legal resident of the U.S. This authority
may be delegated as deemed necessary. The policy of the Air Force is that approval will be given in all
instances where military personnel have complied with local instructions implementing this policy.
