BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-115
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        16 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                AIR FORCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                                                           (IT) SERVICE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6CS                                                           Certified by: SAF/A6C
                                                                      (Maj Gen Earl Matthews)
Supersedes:   AFI33-115V1, 24 May 2006,                                               Pages: 47
              AFI33-115V2, 14 April 2004,
              AFI33-115 V3, 15 April 2004,
              AFI33-129, 3 February 2005, and
              AFI33-138, 28 November 2005


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) defines AF IT Service Management and assigns responsibilities
for standardization and management of IT Services in the AF. This instruction implements AF
Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Cyberspace Support, Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction
(DoDI) 8410.01, Internet Domain Name Use and Approval, DoDI 8410.02, NetOps for the
Global Information Grid (GIG), DoDI 8410.03, Network Management (NM) and DoDI 8550.01,
DoD Internet Services and Internet-Based Capabilities. This instruction is consistent with
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program; AFPD 33-3, Information Management;
AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance; and AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations.
This instruction provides guidance, direction and assigns responsibilities for the Air Force
Information Networks (AFIN) as the Air Force provisioned portion of the DoD Information
Networks (DoDIN). This directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, the
Air Force Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG). This publication shall be applied to
contractors or other persons through the contract or other legally binding agreement with the
Department of the Air Force. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this
publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance
statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of
the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain
of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication
OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Send recommended changes or comments to the Air
 2                                                                                      AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


Force Cyberspace Strategy & Policy Division (SAF/A6CS) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a total revision of AFI 33-115. Information from AFI 33-115 Volume 1, Network
Operations, AFI 33-115 Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network
Professionals, AFI 33-115 Volume 3, Air Force Network Operating Instructions, AFI 33-129,
Web Management and Internet, and AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification
and Tracking, were incorporated in this document. AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and
Guidance for Information Systems, provides guidance for responsible use of the Internet that was
previously covered by AFI 33-129 and user certification requirements previously covered by AFI
33-115V2. Network professional certification requirements are covered by AFMAN 33-285,
Information Assurance (IA) Workforce Improvement Program. Methods and Procedures
Technical Order (MPTO) 00-33A-1109, Vulnerability Management, provides vulnerability
notification and tracking processes and procedures previously covered by AFI 33-138. AFPD
10-17, Cyberspace Operations, and supporting AFIs, provides AF policy and assigns
responsibility for the planning and execution of Cyberspace Operations including DoDIN
Operations. AFI 10-1701, Command and Control (C2) of Cyberspace, provides Command and
Control (C2) guidance for DoDIN Operations within the AF.

       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Objectives. .............................................................................................................      3
       3.     Background. ...........................................................................................................        3
Figure 1.     Information Environment Relationships. ...............................................................                         4
       4.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               5
       5.     AF IT Services Framework. ...................................................................................                 20
Figure 2.     AF IT Services Framework. ...................................................................................                 21
       6.     AFIN Baseline Management. .................................................................................                   30
       7.     Operation of AF IT Services within the AFIN. .....................................................                            31

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              37
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    3


1. Purpose. This instruction defines AF IT Service Management and assigns responsibilities for
the configuration, provisioning, maintenance, and management of AFIN using an IT Service
Management (ITSM) framework to further integrate capabilities and maintain configuration
control of AF networks and data servers. This instruction serves as the single reference for AF
IT Service Management policy and applies to all personnel who manage, configure, operate,
maintain, defend, or extend any portion of the AFIN or provide support within the AF for the
DoDIN and the Joint Information Environment (JIE).
   1.1. Procedural guidance supporting this AFI is contained in Methods and Procedures
   Technical Orders (MPTOs) directing standard processes for management, standardization,
   and maintenance of AF IT Services applicable to all AF personnel, see paragraph 7.3.
   1.2. Cyberspace operational orders as defined in AFI 10-1701 (e.g., AF Cyber Tasking
   Orders, Cyber Control Orders, AF Time Compliance Network Orders) shall take precedence
   over information contained in this AFI and supporting MPTOs if there is a conflict.
2. Objectives. The primary objective of this AFI is to establish and define AF IT Service
Management with roles and responsibilities to ensure the AFIN is designed, built, configured,
secured, operated, maintained, and sustained to meet mission requirements. This AFI also
provides guidance regarding migration of AF enterprise capabilities (core services, applications,
and systems) to the JIE according to DoD guidance. AF IT Service Management integrates,
secures, and manages the AFNET/AFNET-S with processes and capabilities to enable the
seamless, secure, and reliable exchange of information across the AFIN and the DoDIN. The
AFNET is the AF’s underlying unclassified network that enables AF operational capabilities and
lines of business. AFNET-S is the secure AFNET.
   2.1. This AFI and supporting 00-33 series MPTOs shall not alter or supersede the existing
   authorities and policies of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) regarding the
   protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) systems or intelligence,
   surveillance, reconnaissance mission and mission support systems or higher authoritative
   guidance governing Special Access Program (SAP) systems. When DNI or SAP authorities
   fail to address areas covered by this AFI, this AFI and associated MPTOs will be followed.
   If there is conflict between this AFI and associated MPTOs with guidance issued by DNI or
   SAP authorities, DNI or SAP guidance will take precedence.
   2.2. For this instruction, the term Major Command (MAJCOM) also applies to Numbered
   Air Force (NAF), Field Operating Agency (FOA) and Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) when
   not assigned to a MAJCOM.
   2.3. All AF organizations will follow this policy when extending AF IT Services.
3. Background. The AF Information Environment consists of AF unique information
capabilities across the IT Governance Mission Areas: Business (BMA), Warfighting (WMA),
Defense Intelligence (DIMA) and Information Environment (IEMA). The AF Information
Environment includes the IT systems, components and networks of the Defense Business
Systems, National Security Systems (NSS), Platform IT, Enterprise Core Services and Common
Computing Environments as depicted in Figure 1. The AFIN is the globally interconnected,
end-to-end set of AF unique information capabilities and associated processes for collecting,
processing, storing, disseminating, and managing information on-demand to warfighters, policy
makers, and support personnel, including owned and leased communications and computing
 4                                                          AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


systems and services, software (including applications), data, and security. The AFIN can be
considered the networked AF Information Environment. Where known, this AFI will depict the
specific AF capabilities and services which will transition to DoD’s secure joint information
environment (JIE). JIE is comprised of shared IT infrastructure, enterprise services, and a single
security architecture to achieve full spectrum superiority, improve mission effectiveness,
increase security and realize IT efficiencies.

Figure 1. Information Environment Relationships.




     3.1. AF IT Service Management enables a robust and resilient net-centric environment
     providing the means to establish and extend the AFIN. AF IT Service Management supports
     rapidly evolving mission processes and warfighter requirements which require an optimized,
     stable, and enterprise managed AFIN postured to integrate with and support the JIE. AF IT
     Service Management encompasses management of common IT functions, actions, and
     capabilities to provide Common Computing Environments, Application Support Services,
     and Enterprise Core Services. Additionally, AF ITSM standardizes select ITSM processes for
     all information systems (e.g., Vulnerability Management).
     3.2. AF IT Service Management is aligned with the Defense Information Technology
     Infrastructure Library (ITIL) as it transitions to the Defense Enterprise Service Management
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    5


   Framework (DESMF), and DoD Directive (DoDD) 8000.01, Management of the Department
   of Defense Information Enterprise. These services and the standard methods and procedures
   in the supporting MPTOs will continue to evolve to support the AF’s management of IT
   under the JIE construct. These services must align with high level guidance and strategic
   goals of the AF Enterprise Architecture. For more information on enterprise architecture, see
   AFI 33-401, Air Force Architecting.
   3.3. AFI 10-1701 implements the C2 of Cyberspace Operations and while this AFI directs
   specific ITSM functions which support DoDIN Operations. Together, these two instructions
   direct operations and support of the AFIN for the business and warfighting mission areas
   including the Cyberspace Operations mission. Capabilities to secure and protect the AFIN
   must be integrated throughout AF networks and systems following Cybersecurity policy
   (previously known as IA). Cybersecurity inherent in AF networks and systems are further
   enhanced by Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO) under Cyberspace Operations. DCO
   may be integrated with or direct changes to cybersecurity in AF networks and systems under
   C2 of Cyberspace Operations as it directs AFIN operations and defense. Note: DoD defines
   DoDIN Operations as the actions taken to design, build, configure, secure, operate, maintain,
   and sustain DOD communications systems and networks in a way that creates and preserves
   data availability, integrity, confidentiality, as well as user/entity authentication and non-
   repudiation.
4. Roles and Responsibilities. Roles and responsibilities for AF IT Service Management are a
coordinated effort between all organizations providing, supporting, and utilizing IT in the AFIN,
the DoDIN, and the JIE. AF functional communities or DoD organizations such as Defense
Information Systems Agency (DISA) or AFSPC will have primary or supporting roles when AF
IT Services are consolidated at the DoD-enterprise level and JIE. Roles and responsibilities for
C2 of Cyberspace within AFI 10-1701 provides clear command and control over these
collaborative relationships and is to be used in conjunction with this AFI.
   4.1. Chief, Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO
   A6). SAF/CIO A6 has overall responsibility for the AFIN, information technology (IT), IT
   Service Management responsibilities for National Security Systems (NSS), defense business
   systems, and information resource management matters according to AFPD 33-1. SAF/CIO
   A6 will:
       4.1.1. Provide strategy, policy, guidance, and oversight for the AF portion of the DoD
       information enterprise, including communications, spectrum management, network
       management, information systems, and cybersecurity.
           4.1.1.1. Develop AF strategy and policy on the operation and protection of all AF IT
           and information systems within the AFIN as the AF provisioned portion of the
           DoDIN, including development and promulgation of enterprise-wide architecture
           requirements and technical standards, and enforcement, operation, and maintenance
           of systems, interoperability, collaboration, and interface between AF and non-AF
           systems, and investment and cost effectiveness of information system acquisition and
           sustainment.
           4.1.1.2. Maintain a consolidated inventory of AF mission-critical and mission-
           essential information systems, identify interfaces between these systems, and ensure
6                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


       the development and test of contingency plans for responding to disruptions in the
       operation of any of these information systems.
       4.1.1.3. Provide guidance and oversight for AF network management, including the
       standards for day-to-day security and protection of AF information networks; AF IT
       support to joint missions; and resilience and reliability of information and
       communication networks.
       4.1.1.4. Provide guidance and oversight on the administration of AF Internet
       services, use of Internet-based capabilities, and all Internet domain-related functions.
       4.1.1.5. Develop strategy, policy, and guidance for AF use of private and public
       cloud computing services in support of the AFIN. Review DISA’s security model for
       commercial cloud services and coordinate any modifications needed for alignment
       between the DoD cloud security model and the AFIN technical architecture security
       controls provided in the Target Baseline according to AFPD 33-4, Information
       Technology Governance.
    4.1.2. Provide governance of IT according to AFPD 33-4, Information Technology
    Governance, including oversight for compliance with the Target Baseline (TB),
    Implementation Baseline (IB), and Operational Baseline (OB).
    4.1.3. Define the AF IT Service Management for the AFIN and ensure Enterprise Core
    Services for the AF are in-line with the DoD Enterprise Services under the DoDIN and/or
    JIE.
    4.1.4. Provide oversight of the implementation status of AF IT Services on behalf of the
    Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF).
    4.1.5. Fulfill AF CIO responsibilities of DoDI 8550.01, DoD Internet Services and
    Internet-Based Capabilities.
    4.1.6. Provide oversight and guidance for personnel development, career field
    management, and training of AF Cyberspace career fields according to AFI 36-2640,
    Executing Total Force Development.
    4.1.7. Provide AF unique requirements to the DoD Enterprise Cloud Service Broker
    (ECSB) for commercial cloud providers for interoperability with AF implementations of
    Controlled Unclassified Information and the Enterprise Records Management Plan.
    4.1.8. Work with Air Force Office of the Judge Advocate General (AF/JA), the Air
    Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), the Air Force Office of the Inspector
    General (SAF/IG), the Intelligence Community, and the Acquisition Division of the Air
    Force General Counsel (SAF/GCQ) to provide requirements to the DoD ECSB to ensure
    that tools and processes to protect sensitive information and adequate law enforcement
    tools are available for commercial cloud services.
    4.1.9. Work with Air Force Legal Operations Agency (AFLOA), SAF/GC, AF/JAA and
    SAF/AQC to provide requirements to the DoD ECSB for Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
    compliance with AF e-Discoveryrequirements according to AFMAN 33-363,
    Management of Records.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  7


     4.1.10. Act as the approval authority for waiver requests to deviate from the
     requirements of this publication.
     4.1.11. Act as the central AF approval authority for obligations to acquire servers, data
     centers, and IT technology therein, IAW AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace
     Support Activities, Attachment 2.
  4.2. IT Governance Executive Board (ITGEB) will:
     4.2.1. Approve the data centers (Installation Processing Node [IPN], Installation Services
     Node [ISN], Special Purpose Processing Node [SPPN]) to serve as AF data center
     infrastructure. ITGEB-approved data centers are the only authorized data centers for the
     AF to employ application hosting and provisioning of private cloud services. See AFPD
     33-4 for more information on the ITGEB.
     4.2.2. Oversee the execution of application rationalization and migration across the AF
     to ensure compliance with DoD guidance regarding hosting within IPNs, CDC, and DISA
     commercial cloud brokered services. This includes directing the capture and reporting of
     metrics reflecting decommissioned servers and data centers in accordance with the
     Federal Data Center Consolidation Initiative (FDCCI).
     4.2.3. The scope for the ITGEB includes the entire AF IT enterprise for business and
     mission capabilities, including business and national security systems (NSS), and
     excluding the embedded software in support of weapons platforms. This team shall focus
     on the commoditization and operational configuration management of a baseline IT
     infrastructure and the business practices to exploit that IT infrastructure for AF users.
     The details of membership and processes can be found in AFPD 33-4.
  4.3. Secretary of the Air Force Office of Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will:
     4.3.1. Develop guidance for the integration of public web sites into the Air Force Public
     Web Program. Serve as chair of the Air Force Public Web Policy Board.
     4.3.2. Develop guidance governing the public communication program.
     4.3.3. Review and approve/disapprove waiver requests for AF public Web sites hosted
     outside the scope of the Air Force Public Web Program.
  4.4. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). As the Senior
  Acquisition Executive, SAF/AQ will:
     4.4.1. Oversee the acquisition and sustainment of capabilities that support the AFIN.
     4.4.2. Work with SAF/CIO A6 and AFSPC to procure, develop, integrate and test the
     AFIN components and systems in accordance with the Implementation Baseline.
     4.4.3. Collaborate with SAF/CIO A6 in developing the Implementation Baseline (IB)
     defined in AFPD 33-4. Ensure AF acquisition programs comply with the established IB
     requirements.
     4.4.4. Ensure AF acquisition programs leverage, to the maximum extent possible, the use
     of JIE Enterprise Core Services, and promote sharing of data, information, and
     knowledge throughout the AF corporate structure.
8                                                            AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


       4.4.5. Work with SAF/CIO A6 to develop strategy, policy, and guidance to provide an
       AF enterprise approach for acquiring commercial cloud computing services utilizing the
       DoD ECSB.
       4.4.6. Ensure all Acquisition Category (ACAT) programs address the requirements of
       National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Fiscal Year 2012 Section 2867 and AFI 33-
       150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, Attachment 2, in the acquisition of
       servers, data centers, and IT technology.
    4.5. Air Force Material Command (AFMC). As the Implementing Command defined by
    AFI 63-101/20-101, AFMC has overall responsibility for supporting the design, build, and
    sustainment of the AFIN. AFMC will:
       4.5.1. In coordination with AFSPC, provide technical assistance to SAF/CIO A6 to
       develop policy and guidance for the AFIN.
       4.5.2. Provide integration and test capability for IT components to support the
       development environment of new capabilities and troubleshooting performance issues
       with fielded capabilities, as required.
       4.5.3. Provide direction and guidance to ensure all Program Executive Offices (PEOs)
       comply with the single AF approach for cloud computing and establish the AF Cloud
       Service Lead according to paragraph 4.6.5.
       4.5.4. Oversee the work performed by PEO C3I&N on the commoditized infrastructure
       Implementation Baseline.
       4.5.5. In coordination with AFSPC, oversee the deployment of all AF IT services.
       4.5.6. Oversee the standup of the IT lifecycle integration and test capability.
    4.6. The Program Executive Office for Command, Control, Communications,
    Intelligence and Networks (PEO C3I&N). PEO C3I&N will:
       4.6.1. Perform Service Design and Development to include engineering, architecture,
       and provisioning support for AFNET, AFNET-S, and PEO C3I&N-provided systems
       within the AFIN and JIE in coordination with SAF/CIO A6 and AFSPC. Provides
       integration of AF IT across all systems centers (e.g., Air Force Life Cycle Management
       Center, Space and Missile Systems Center, Air Force Medical Support Agency, Air Force
       Nuclear Weapons Center).
       4.6.2. Establish, publish, and maintain the commoditized infrastructure Implementation
       Baseline in accordance with AFPD 33-4.
       4.6.3. Facilitate the standup and operation of an IT lifecycle integration and test
       capability supporting the development, test, and delivery of new warfighter capabilities
       utilizing the Implementation Baseline. Leverage existing DoD, AF and Contractor
       resources to establish a virtual, distributed system development, integration and test
       capability supporting the delivery of new warfighter capabilities.
       4.6.4. Support mission capabilities offices in configuring and provisioning the
       Implementation Baseline to meet requirements. Support mission capabilities offices with
       transitioning their newly developed capabilities into the Implementation Baseline
       integration environment leading to deployment.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  9


     4.6.5. Serve as the AF Cloud Service Lead:
         4.6.5.1. Review and validate all cloud computing technical requirements prior to
         engaging with DISA as the DoD cloud broker.
         4.6.5.2. Assist AF acquisition programs to define requirements and capabilities that
         can be implemented utilizing DoD ECSB approved cloud offerings.
     4.6.6. Ensure a standardized AF process is adhered to for common computing
     environments and cloud services, including Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-
     as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) as detailed in paragraph 5.3
     Fully leverage DoD efforts to provide a DoD Enterprise Cloud Environment under the
     JIE in accordance with DoD CIO Memorandum, DoD Cloud Computing Strategy
     Memorandum, 5 July 2012 and DoD CIO Supplemental Guidance Memo, 16 December
     13.
         4.6.6.1. Review all AF cloud computing technical requirements for consistency with
         the AF framework to cloud computing prior to engaging with DISA as the DoD
         ECSB.
         4.6.6.2. Work with the DoD ECSB, in conjunction with SAF/AQ and AFMC
         organizations to ensure a clear, tailorable cost model is established and made
         available for use of and migration to commercial cloud services.
     4.6.7. Implement Network Management (NM) data schemas and net-centric sharing
     mechanisms to support the development of Service Level Agreements (SLAs), and
     support the implementation of network management security according to DoDI 8410.03,
     Network Management (NM).
     4.6.8. Ensure that all AF Commercial Cloud Contracts address the additional issues in
     the DoD Cloud Issue Matrix according to DoD CIO Supplmental Guidance Memo, 16
     December 2013.
  4.7. Commander, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC). In accordance with AFPD
  10-17, AFSPC/CC is responsible for the overall command and control, security and defense
  of the AFIN. AFSPC/CC is responsible for the command, control, implementation, security,
  operation, maintenance, sustainment, configuration, and defense of the AFNET/AFNET-S.
  These day-to-day authorities may be delegated. In addition to those responsibilities outlined
  in 10-series AFIs, AFSPC will:
     4.7.1. Assist SAF/CIO A6 to develop policy and guidance for the AFIN and AF adoption
     of JIE capabilities.
     4.7.2. Establish and maintain the Operational Baseline in accordance with AFPD 33-4.
     4.7.3. Develop and submit to SAF/CIO A6 and HQ AETC requirements for initial,
     advanced, supplemental, and qualification training for cyberspace career field members.
     4.7.4. Fulfill DoDIN Operations responsibilities for the AFNET/AFNET-S in support of
     DoDI 8410.02, NetOps for the Global Information Grid (GIG), while remaining
     consistent with AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, and AFI 10-1701, Command and
     Control for Cyberspace Operations.
10                                                      AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     4.7.4.1. Establish and provide the necessary resources to ensure compliance with SLAs
     and memorandums of agreement (MOAs) among DoDIN and JIE service providers and
     users.
        4.7.4.2. Participate in the DoDIN Operations Community of Interest (COI) to share
        information, promote standards, and resolve DoDIN Operations issues.
        4.7.4.3. Participate in the DoD CIO and SAF CIO/A6 Enterprise Architecture (EA)
        efforts described in DoDI 8410.02 and AFPD 33-4.
        4.7.4.4. Ensure all AF contractors and other entities operating AF-owned information
        systems and AF-controlled information systems on behalf of the Air Force that
        receive, process, store, display, or transmit AF information, regardless of
        classification or sensitivity, comply with DoDI 8410.02.
     4.7.5. Provide Network Management for the AFNET/AFNET-S with automated
     Configuration Management and Policy Based Network Management (PBNM) according
     to DoDI 8410.03.
     4.7.6. Ensure the operation of the AF’s DoD Internet Services and official use of
     Internet-based Capabilities (IbC) according to DoDI 8550.01.
     4.7.7. Ensure that all DoD Internet services and IbC used by the AF to disseminate
     unclassified DoD information are assessed at least annually for compliance with DoDI
     8550.01.
     4.7.8. Provide technical procedures, and standards for the AFIN.
        4.7.8.1. Develop MPTOs for AF ITSM to configure, operate, and maintain AF IT
        established in Section 5, AF IT Services Framework.
        4.7.8.2. Provide life cycle management of AF ITSM MPTOs with technical content
        management (TCM) by 24 AF, other subordinate units, AF Program Management
        Offices (PMOs), or System Program Offices (SPOs) as needed.
        4.7.8.3. Serve as the Command Control Point for MPTOs supporting AF ITSM to
        include technical content management according to TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order
        System, and TO 00-5-3, AF Technical Order Lifecycle Management.
     4.7.9. Develop and implement metrics and measures of effectiveness for the
     AFNET/AFNET-S and AF IT Service Management.
     4.7.10. Develop processes and implement policies including MPTOs to manage all AF-
     owned networks and platform IT interconnections behind appropriate cybersecurity
     boundaries as defined in the Baselines and according to AFI 33-210, Air Force
     Certification and Accreditation Program.      Review and approve Service Level
     Agreements for non-AF owned networks on AF installations.
     4.7.11. As the AF Authorizing Official (AO) (previously known as Designated
     Accrediting Authority [DAA]) in accordance with AFI 33-200, assess networthiness and
     serve as the waiver approval authority for web servers, services, applications, or
     capabilities supporting the AF to be hosted on commercial servers or services (including
     cloud computing services) outside of military or government cybersecurity boundaries.
     Approval requires coordination with the AF Cloud Broker Lead and DoD ECSB. The
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                11


     AF AO has responsibility over AF networks, applications and systems as well as the
     connection approval authority for non-AF systems and applications that will integrate
     into the AFIN.
     4.7.12. Prior to JIE transitions, manage all networks under a One AF-One Network
     policy by directing the operation, maintenance, and configuration of all AFNET and
     AFNET-S components (see Chapter 7). Serve as the waiver approval authority for
     allowing management of networks outside of the lead MAJCOM.
     4.7.13. Support and facilitate management of the Standard Desktop Configuration
     (SDC)/Defense Server Core Configuration (DSCC) by Air Force Enterprise
     Configuration Management Office (AFECMO).
     4.7.14. Ensure records management procedures are implemented and sustained for all
     enterprise storage services.
        4.7.14.1. Ensure technology solutions meet requirements to support eDiscovery
        capabilities according to DoD 5012.02-STD, Electronic Records Management
        Software Applications Design Criteria Standard and the Federal rules of Civil
        Proceedure.
        4.7.14.2. Implement policy, advocate for resources, and organize, train, and equip
        cyberspace forces to identify, locate, protect, and produce electronically-stored
        information in response to litigation requirements.
        4.7.14.3. Cooperate with Air Force Legal Operations Agency and the Air Force
        Records Office directing actions to locate and preserve electronic records as well as
        non-record electronically stored information which become subject to a litigation
        hold.
        4.7.14.4. Cooperate with Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) when
        an investigation requires the location, acquiring and or preservation of electronic
        records as well as non-record electronically stored information, IAW AFPD 71-1.
     4.7.15. Assist AFMC with the development, integration, testing, and fielding of new
     systems and services, as required (e.g., step 4 of the SDDP to be published or when
     requested to determine causes of and solutions to deployment and performance issues).
     4.7.16. Incorporate AF IT Services into the Core Functions Support Plan (CFSP), as the
     CFL for Cyberspace Superiority.
     4.7.17. Work with MAJCOM/A6s and Mission/Functional process owners to ensure
     technical consistency of IT solutions across the AFIN in accordance with AFSPC’s roles
     and responsibilities as CFL for Cyberspace Superiority.
     4.7.18. If a specific approval authority is not identified (see paragraph 4.1.11), act as
     the AFIN approval authority for:
        4.7.18.1. System/equipment waiver requests (i.e., purchases, documentation,
        preventative maintenance inspections).
        4.7.18.2. Proposed temporary modifications, known as T-1 modifications to the
        AFNET/AFNET-S system/equipment modifications according to AFI 63-131,
        Modification Program Management.
12                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     4.7.19. Manage and administer Domain Name Service (DNS) subdomains assigned to
     the AF by DISA or approved for AF use according to DoDI 8410.01.
        4.7.19.1. Manage AF-level (af.mil and af.smil.mil) DNS and naming convention for
        the AF according to the MPTO for Directory Services. Maintain a Name Server (NS)
        record for all AF name servers in the af.mil zone and provide technical support for the
        af.mil and af.smil.mil domain and sub-domains.
        4.7.19.2. Annually verify administrative and technical contact information is correct
        in the registrations maintained at the DoD Network Information Center/Secret
        Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) Support Center (DoD NIC/SSC) and at
        the General Services Administration's Government Domain Registration and Services
        Web site at http://www.dotgov.gov.
     4.7.20. Review and update AF-level SLAs with external agencies and supported
     MAJCOMs as required.
     4.7.21. Provide network integration and engineering services for the AFNET/AFNET-S
     and development of JIE capabilities.
        4.7.21.1. Ensure operational systems do not introduce vulnerabilities to the
        AFNET/AFNET-S or disrupt existing functions, while creating a resilient network
        environment that preserves operational advantage.
        4.7.21.2. Perform networthiness consultation, validation, compliance and
        assessments of risk to the AFIN to enforce standards for functional and cyberspace
        systems, applications, and products requiring connection to the AFIN.
        4.7.21.3. Develop and implement the AFNET Integration Process to verify
        compliance with security, interoperability, supportability, sustainability, usability
        regulations of systems, applications, and/or products, and readiness review criteria.
        4.7.21.4. Collaborate with organizations to integrate all AF-owned, contracted or
        developed systems into the AFNET/AFNET-S.
        4.7.21.5. Develop integration and implementation plans for AFIN & AFNET
        evolution to current and future JIE capabilities.
     4.7.22. Provide the AF's engineering center of excellence for developing and
     implementing technical solutions for the AFIN via subordinate organizations such as the
     38th Cyberspace Engineering Installation Group (38 CEIG) and AF Network Integration
     Center (AFNIC).
        4.7.22.1. Document Main Operating Base AFIN infrastructure, including system life-
        cycle information, via the Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS)
        (Reference MPTO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the
        Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System).
        4.7.22.2. Provide AFIN network operations with enterprise engineering services
        according to AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities.
        4.7.22.3. Develop and analyze cyberspace requirements and associated impacts on
        operational architectures and capabilities, and convert AF and DoD technical
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               13


         specifications into standard AFIN and joint solutions to facilitate convergence on a
         single robust and defensible architecture.
         4.7.22.4. Provide network health and vulnerability assessments as coordinated and
         directed by 24 AF/AFCYBER, including network security and optimization
         assistance as well as event-driven response action teams.
         4.7.22.5. Develop and maintain the AFNET Infrastructure Roadmap and AFNET
         Concept of Operations to serve as an input to the Target Baseline and show how the
         Operational Baseline would evolve into the Target Baseline. The Roadmap and
         Concept of Operations will address Cyber, Situational Awareness of the network, and
         Network Management capabilities as well as operational roles and responsibilities.
         The Infrastructure Roadmap will contain the collected and prioritized set of
         requirements.
  4.8. 24th Air Force (24 AF (AFCYBER)). 24 AF is the AF component to
  USCYBERCOM. AFSPC/CC may delegate certain authorities to 24 AF/CC IAW AFI 10-
  1701, Command and Control for Cyberspace Operations.
     4.8.1. In coordination with AFSPC, maintain and administer the Operational Baseline
     including the AFNET/AFNET-S.
     4.8.2. Serve as liaison between the AFECMO and the operational community to facilitate
     the development and implementation of the SDC/DSCC.
     4.8.3. Direct the security, operations, and defense of cloud computing services operated
     for the AF outside of AF network boundaries but logically a part of the AFIN, using
     authorities designated by the Cyber C2 structure in AFI 10-1701.
     4.8.4. Provide assessments of impact to the AFIN in response to requests for web
     servers, services, applications, or capabilities to be hosted on commercial servers or
     services outside of military or government cybersecurity boundaries.
     4.8.5. In coordination with AFSPC, review and approve/disapprove MAJCOM unique
     applications, communications systems, and IT Services requests/needs to ensure
     compatibility with AF IT Services. Include recommended changes affected by use of
     commercial servers or services (including cloud computing services).
     4.8.6. Provide enterprise-level management of AF IT Services.
     4.8.7. Monitor subordinate units’ compliance with orders issued and provide assistance
     on compliance issues when resolution is beyond their scope and/or resources.
  4.9. 624th Operations Center (624 OC). 624 OC is the operational-level C2 organization
  for 24 AF (AFCYBER), providing strategy, planning, execution monitoring and assessment
  of Air Force cyber operations. 624 OC directs AF cyber operations and the activities of
  subordinate 24 AF cyber units via the Cyber Tasking Order (CTO) and other cyber orders.
  In addition to duties specified in 10-series AFIs and applicable CYBERCOM orders, 624 OC
  is responsible for the following:
     4.9.1. Develop options and directs operational configuration changes, Information
     Operations Condition (INFOCON) changes (see AFI 10-710, Information Operations
     Condition (INFOCON)), and changes to security postures in response to vulnerabilities
14                                                      AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     and incidents, AF and CCMD operations, USCYBERCOM direction, and outages that
     cross MAJCOMs, affect the preponderance of the AFIN, or are time critical in nature.
     4.9.2. Perform trend analysis and correlation of threat, performance, and compliance
     metrics as it relates to Vulnerability Management.
  4.10. Major Commands (MAJCOMs)/Functionals. MAJCOMs/Functionals implement
  AF guidance concerning the operation and maintenance of mission specific
  MAJCOM/Functional unique applications, communications systems, and IT.
  MAJCOMs/Functionals will:
     4.10.1. Manage and provide support for command/functional-unique programs and
     systems/IT. (T-1).
        4.10.1.1. Ensure command/functional-unique programs and systems/IT integrate
        with, but do not conflict with applicable AF IT Services. (T-1).
        4.10.1.2. Ensure command/functional-unique applications do not duplicate
        infrastructure, services or capabilities provided by the AFIN, AFNET, AFNET-S or
        JIE, by reviewing the Target, Implementation, and Operational Baselines for planned
        or existing services or capabilities. Exceptions must be approved by SAF/CIO A6.
        (T-1).
        4.10.1.3. Conduct application rationalization within their portfolios for business and
        mission systems to eliminate duplicity and ensure proper alignment with their
        business process in accordance with AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology
        Portfolio Management and IT Investment Review. (T-1).
        4.10.1.4. Ensure new applications and systems are fielded within IPNs or CDCs IAW
        DoD guidance. (T-0).
     4.10.2. Utilize only AFECMO produced standard configurations for command-unique
     systems. Cloning, repackaging, adding, or removing software from AFECMO standard
     images with the intent of producing a customized image is strictly prohibited except as
     waived by the AF AO (previously known as DAA) according to paragraph 4.15.2. (T-
     1).
     4.10.3. Submit requests to change an Operational Baseline Configuration Item (CI) such
     as new software or an equipment upgrade. (T-1).
        4.10.3.1. For non-program office fielded systems, follow the Change Management
        process by using the change request module of the Enterprise Information
        Technology Service Manager (EITSM), a.k.a. Remedy, or via AFTO Form 265,
        Request for Change, according to MPTO 00-33A-1100, Change Management,.
        4.10.3.2. For program office fielded systems and equipment, submit AF Form 1067
        according to AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management.
     4.10.4. Plan, program, and budget for the capability to respond to orders released
     according to AFI 10-1701, that impact command/functional-unique programs and
     systems/equipment including end user workstations and/or network servers and localized
     infrastructure supporting command-unique requirements. (T-1).
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  15


     4.10.5. Designate a MAJCOM/AF Forces Communications Control Center (M/ACCC)
     or equivalent organization to function as the MAJCOM’s advocate for mission impacts to
     the user community (MAJCOM only). (T-1).
  4.11. MAJCOM/AF Forces Communications Control Centers (M/ACCCs) will:
     4.11.1. As an operational element of the MAJCOM Commander’s staff , combine
     situational awareness of networks and information systems supporting the MAJCOM
     with an in-depth MAJCOM-unique understanding of how those networks and systems are
     used to accomplish the mission of the command. (T-2).
     4.11.2. Generate and disseminate near-real time situational awareness of how MAJCOM
     missions are being delayed, disrupted, degraded, or terminated due to events associated
     with the underlying communications networks critical to those missions. (T-2).
     4.11.3. Serve as the information dissemination point of contact to the Integrated Network
     Operations and Security Centers (I-NOSCs), Enterprise Service Units (ESUs), and AF
     Enterprise Service Desk (ESD) on mission impacts and/or degradation to the mission and
     its user community. (T-1).
     4.11.4. Elevate issues beyond the bases’ responsibility or capability to the respective
     enterprise service support organization. (T-2).
  4.12. Communications Focal Point (CFP) within the Communications Squadron or
  equivalent will:
     4.12.1. Serve as the conduit for the AF ESD to resolve communications systems and
     equipment issues at base level. The AF ESD is responsible for all AFNET users, but will
     delegate some of that responsibility to the CFPs via the Federated Administrative Rights
     (FAR). Tools such as Information Assurance Officer Express (IAO Express) and Virtual
     ESD (vESD) will automate certain functions, then re-route tickets that cannot be handled
     by the tool to either the CFP for Tier 1 or Tier 2 support, as appropriate and/or depending
     on the FAR authorized, or to the ESD backshop for further processing/support. Tickets
     that are routed to the CFP will then be routed (by the CFP) to the appropriate production
     work center for resolution. (T-1).
     4.12.2. Operate systems and the AFNET/AFNET-S in the IPN according to AFIN
     baseline management processes and AF IT Services MPTOs. (T-1).
     4.12.3. Maintain accountability of all AFIN components physically present on the
     installation regardless of the organization operating the equipment. (T-1).
     4.12.4. Execute control of production procedures prescribed by AFI 33-150 and MPTO
     00-33A-1001, General Cyberspace Support Activities Management Procedures and
     Practice Requirements.      Execute control of production on AFNET/AFNET-S
     components when requested by the operating organization, such as the 26 NOS, I-NOSCs
     or 33 NWS. Control of production includes planning and scheduling production,
     ordering and managing materials, and maintaining Automated Information Systems
     (AISs). (T-2).
     4.12.5. Serve as or assign a performing workcenter to provide preventive and touch
     maintenance on AFNET/AFNET-S, functional, and PMO equipment only as directed by
16                                                        AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     the owning organization (e.g., I-NOSC, ESU, 26 NOS, 33 NWS, MAJCOM, PMO).
     (T-1).
     4.12.6. Utilize only AFECMO produced standard configurations (e.g., SDC, DSCC).
     Cloning, repackaging, adding, or removing software from AFECMO standard images
     with the intent of producing a customized image is strictly prohibited except as waived by
     the AF AO (previously known as DAA) according to paragraph 4.15.2. (T-1).
     4.12.7. Provide detailed maintenance records in a transferable system such as Remedy
     for preventive and touch maintenance on AFNET/AFNET-S equipment when directed to
     execute such maintenance by the owning organization. Utilize Integrated Maintenance
     Data System (IMDS) for all maintenance data tracking and actions completed on the
     AISs within physical control of CFP, according to MPTO 00-33A-1001. (T-2).
     4.12.8. Elevate issues beyond the base’s responsibility or capability to the respective
     enterprise service support organization. (T-1).
     4.12.9. Execute actions to comply with Cyber C2 orders according to paragraph 7.
     (T-1).
        4.12.9.1. Identify information systems controlled by a PMO which will only be
        patched or modified upon approval of the PMO or system owner. (T-1).
        4.12.9.2. For command/functional systems, coordinate with Functional System
        Administrators (FSAs) to take action to comply with Cyber C2 orders. (T-1).
     4.12.10. Where remote administration/connectivity fails to resolve an end user service
     incident or fulfill a AF ITSM responsibility (e.g., Vulnerability Management), the CFP
     can be assigned network permissions and responsibilities to troubleshoot and resolve end
     user service incidents or fulfill AF ITSM responsibilities. Perform actions within local
     control requiring a touch labor solution as directed. (T-1).
        4.12.10.1. Document tasking and effort using Service Incident Management and
        Problem Management where appropriate.
     4.12.11. Identify and resolve network threats, vulnerabilities, and attacks in coordination
     with the I-NOSCs, so as to minimize risks to operations. (T-1).
     4.12.12. Inform base leadership and base populace on network threats, vulnerabilities,
     and actions. (T-2).
     4.12.13. Notify/coordinate Authorized Service Interruptions (ASI) to minimize impact
     on base-level mission. (T-1).
     4.12.14. Maintain situational awareness of their portion of the AFIN. Notify I-NOSCs
     and M/ACCCs of any issues regarding equipment under CFP control or that may affect
     base users. (T-1).
     4.12.15. Report communications systems/equipment issues to MAJCOM and other
     higher headquarter functions as required. The CFP will provide situational awareness to
     the M/ACCC according to MAJCOM or Combatant Commanders guidance. (T-1).
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               17


     4.12.16. Coordinate, correlate, assess de-conflict and eradicate suspicious/malicious
     activity through appropriate authorities FSAs, M/ACCC, 561 NOS, 83 NOS, 299 NOSS
     and 33 NWS. (T-2).
     4.12.17. Perform information dissemination management. (T-2).
     4.12.18. Follow compliance reporting requirements as specified in each Cyber C2 order.
     Orders may require compliance-based, task-based, or asset-based reporting. (T-1).
     4.12.19. Develop and exercise COOPs.                (T-3).     The Communications
     Squadron/equivalent Plans office will take lead on the development and maintenance of
     COOPs and/or Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) for managed services. Work centers will
     assist the Plans office with the COOP/DRP development for services under their
     responsibility. COOP will focus on restoring an organization’s mission-essential
     functions (MEF) at an alternate site and performing those functions for up to 30 days
     before returning to normal operations. See National Institute of Standards and
     Technology (NIST) Special Publication 800-34, Contingency Planning Guide for
     Information Technology Systems, for more details.
     4.12.20. Up channel information that may help C2 of the AFIN. (T-2).
  4.13. AF Enterprise Configuration Management Office (AFECMO).
     4.13.1. AFECMO will provide configuration management of the Standard Desktop
     Configuration (SDC), Defense Server Core Configuration (DSCC), Systems Center
     Configuration Manager (SCCM) and associated Group Policies, software components
     and TOs. (T-1).
     4.13.2. AFECMO is the only organization authorized to make changes to the SDC and
     DSCC installation image/configuration, baseline group policy, or the SCCM
     configuration baseline except as approved by the AFSPC Operational Baseline process
     or directed through orders released according to AFI 10-1701. Any organization cloning,
     repackaging, adding, or removing software from AFECMO standard images with the
     intent of producing a customized image is strictly prohibited except as waived by the AF
     AO (previously known as DAA). (T-1).
  4.14. Air Force Program Management Offices (PMOs), System Program Offices
  (SPOs), and Organizations Developing, and/or Managing, Operating non-core IT
  Services, Applications or Capabilities. Note: In accordance with the acquisition chain of
  authority and acquisition requirements specified in AFI 63-101/20-101, tiering of the
  acquisition requirements does not apply and waiver authority resides with the program
  execution chain. This does not relieve the program execution chain of complying with IT
  Services requirements specified in AFI 33-115. These organizations will:
     4.14.1. Design, build, and sustain AFIN components and systems in accordance with the
     Implementation Baseline. Ensure infrastructure, services or capabilities are not
     duplicated from those provided by the AFIN or the JIE, by reviewing the Target,
     Implementation, and Operational Baselines for planned or existing services or
     capabilities. Exceptions must be approved by SAF/CIO A6. (T-1).
     4.14.2. Design, build, and sustain systems and associated IT according to IT baseline
     management processes, AF IT Services MPTOs, systems TOs, and guidance for
18                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM) provided by AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life
     Cycle Management. (T-1).
     4.14.2.1. Ensure information systems environments are developed and maintained
     consistent with the AFIN technical architecture published as the Target, Implementation,
     and Operational Baselines according to AFPD 33-4, where applicable, for AF capabilities
     built on cloud services.
        4.14.2.2. Evaluate cloud computing solutions in accordance with paragraph 5.3, as
        part of their planning process when developing new applications or evaluating
        changes to the hosting of existing applications. Rationalize existing application needs,
        virtualize, and migrate existing applications to approved data centers and/or cloud
        services to support AF data center consolidation goals. The requiring program office
        is responsible for the acquisition and funding of cloud computing as supporting
        infrastructure. (T-0).
     4.14.3. Comply with all Cyber C2 orders according to paragraph 7. (T-1).
     4.14.4. Implement all actions required by Cyber C2 orders directing AF ITSM (e.g.,
     Vulnerability Management) and report compliance/non-compliance according to the
     orders and applicable methods and procedures. (T-1).
     4.14.5. Host, tenant, and Geographically Separated Unit (GSU) organizations will
     coordinate all IT actions with potential impact on the network or other IT services or
     capabilities with their servicing CFP. (T-1).
     4.14.6. Utilize AFECMO produced standard configurations (e.g., SDC, DSCC).
     Cloning, repackaging, adding, or removing software from AFECMO standard images
     with the intent of producing a customized image is strictly prohibited except as waived by
     the AF AO (previously known as DAA) according to paragraph 4.13.2. (T-1).
     4.14.7. Conform to a One AF-One Network policy (see paragraph 7.6) managed by
     AFSPC. All systems on the network must be configured to operate within this construct
     or possess a waiver from the lead MAJCOM. (T-1).
     4.14.8. Utilize base CFP, ESU, I-NOSC, DISA, or other government enterprise managed
     network services and Enterprise Core Services. IT capabilities or data servers residing
     outside the protections of government networks and data centers require a waiver from
     the lead MAJCOM. (T-1).
        4.14.8.1. Manage all data servers and associated computing infrastructure in the data
        center (IPN, SPPN) as approved by the ITGEB in support of federal and AF efforts to
        reduce operating costs by consolidating data centers. (T-0).
        4.14.8.2. Submit requirements for required approvals of data servers and associated
        IT using CIPS through the base level Cyberspace Systems Integrator (CSI) according
        to AFI 33-150, Attachment 2. Obligation requests must be submitted to
        usaf.pentagon.saf-cio-a6.mbx.a3c-a6c-afdcc-workflow@mail.mil and approved by
        the servicing lead command or MAJCOM A6. (T-1).
     4.14.9. Provide Information Support Plans to AFIN Operations activities as required by
     AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, for any IT system that
     exchanges information external to itself, and/or is connected to the DoDIN.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  19


  4.15. Functional Systems Administrator (FSA) will:
     4.15.1. Ensure functional communities of interest systems, servers, workstations,
     peripherals, communications devices, and software are on-line and supported. (T-2).
     4.15.2. Manage and maintain their functional systems. Provide an interface between
     program representatives and the CFP, CDC, or IPN. (T-1).
     4.15.3. Create a SLA or MOA for any transfer of administrative responsibilities to an
     IPN. (T-2).
        4.15.3.1. Implement all actions required by Cyber C2 orders as approved by each
        system’s configuration control authority according to paragraph 7. (T-1).
        Coordinate order implementation with servicing CFP, I-NOSC, users, and external
        agencies.
        4.15.3.2. Follow compliance reporting requirements as specified in each Cyber C2
        order. Orders may require compliance-based, task-based, or asset-based reporting.
     4.15.4. Work with the CFP to:
        4.15.4.1. Eradicate malicious logic from networks, information systems, and stand-
        alone computing devices. (T-1).
        4.15.4.2. Assess the scope of unauthorized network activities or incidents. (T-1).
        4.15.4.3. Review and upchannel I-NOSC-run vulnerability reports to the owning
        PMO.
     4.15.5. Utilize AFECMO produced standard configurations (e.g., SDC, DSCC).
     Cloning, repackaging, adding, or removing software from AFECMO standard images
     with the intent of producing a customized image is strictly prohibited except as waived by
     the AF AO (previously known as DAA) according to paragraph 4.13.2. (T-1).
  4.16. All Unit Commanders will:
     4.16.1. Ensure assigned personnel use government provided equipment, government IT
     services, or Internet-based Capabilities accessed from government equipment for official,
     authorized, or limited authorized personal use according to AFMAN 33-152 and DoDI
     8550.01. (T-0).
     4.16.2. Maintain the security, integrity, and accountability of AF information on the
     Internet by establishing and maintaining public websites/capabilities inside the network
     demilitarized zone (DMZ) and private websites/capabilities inside the protections of
     government network security. Any AF website, servers, services, applications, or
     capabilities to be hosted on commercial servers or services outside of military or
     government cybersecurity boundaries requires AFSPC lead command approval. (T-0).
     4.16.3. Ensure all publically accessible DoD Internet Services managed by the
     organization comply with applicable cybersecurity controls, information security
     procedures, OPSEC measures, and DoDI 8550.01 requirements including registration and
     dissemination guidance. (T-0).
 20                                                         AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


       4.16.4. Control content on public websites through the Public Affairs (PA) office
       according to AFI 35-107, Public Web Communications and AFI 35-102, Security and
       Policy Review Process. (T-0).
       4.16.5. Ensure all public websites and capabilities within the organization span of control
       are submitted to wing/base PA offices for review prior to their launch. ANG units will
       coordinate with their unit Public Affairs Officer (PAO) prior to their launch. ANG
       geographically separated units use their host wing for PAO support. (T-0).
       4.16.6. Obtain all Internet connectivity and web services through the supporting base
       CFP except as excluded by paragraph 7.4. (T-2).
   4.17. Air Force Office of Special Investigations Cyber Investigations and Operations
   (AFOSI CI&O). AFOSI conducts cyber investigations and operations in, through, and
   beyond cyberspace to identify, exploit, and neutralize criminal, terrorist, and intelligence
   threats to the AF, DoD, and US Government (USG). Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD)
   39, Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), and Air Force Policy Directive
   (AFPD) 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, both implement DoDD O-
   5240.02, Counterintelligence, and define AFOSI’s role as the Air Force's sole agency for
   conducting counterintelligence (CI) investigations, and offensive counterintelligence
   operations (OFCO) and as such is the only Air Force agency authorized to do so in
   cyberspace. AFOSI is also responsible for initiating and conducting independent criminal
   investigations per AFMD 39 and AFPD 71-1. The CI&O program is AFOSI’s primary
   cybercrime investigative and operations capability. For the purposes of this paragraph,
   AFOSI is a DoD intelligence component as defined in DoD 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing
   the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components That Affect United States Persons. AFOSI
   CI&O will:
       4.17.1. Be the focal point for Law Enforcement (LE) and Counterintelligence activities
       in cyberspace and the AFIN.
       4.17.2. Provide Law Enforcement support to AFCYBER/CC for matters occurring in or
       impacting the AFIN.
       4.17.3. Provide Cyber Counterintelligence support to AFCYBER/CC and the AF for
       matters occurring in or impacting the AFIN.
5. AF IT Services Framework. The AF IT Services Framework, as an ITSM framework,
provides foundation which integrates and manages the AFIN, enterprise core services, and
solutions to support the AF portion of the DoDIN and the DoD Information Enterprise as defined
by DoDD 8000.01. AF IT Services are functionally aligned to the Defense Information
Enterprise Architecture and its activities.   AF IT Services may not be provided by a single
entity but are instead a federated, shared capability among several organizations. The services
will be developed, operated and maintained in accordance with the Target, Implementation, and
Operational Baselines and the processes defined by this publication and supporting MPTOs.
Mission/Functional Unique Applications may be supported and defined as a new AF IT Services
as their usage and scope increases across the enterprise supporting the AF usage of a previously
functional unique application. Additional AF IT Services will be initially designated in the
Target or Implementation Baseline as appropriate with requests and changes to the Baselines
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     21


managed by the Air Force Consolidated Enterprise Information Technology Baseline (AF
CEITB).

Figure 2. AF IT Services Framework.




   5.1. AF IT Services Management (AF ITSM). AF IT Service Management is established
   as IT components, infrastructure, and processes (e.g., Network Management, Vulnerability
   Management) enabling effective operations and defense of the AFIN and the IT services. AF
   IT Service Management creates a trusted environment capable of protecting and maintaining
   the integrity, quality, and availability of the AFIN. All terrestrial, space and airborne
   networks will inherit the capabilities of AF IT Service Management, reference AFPD 33-5,
   Warfighting Integration for establishment of a fully integrated, flexible and net-centric
   family of systems, networks and architectures bridging theater warfighting, combat support,
   global/functional capabilities and infrastructure enterprises. Non-traditional services that are
   being migrated onto the Internet Protocol (IP) network (e.g., IP telephony, video
   teleconferencing) will need to be managed for both non-standard or legacy systems and
   newer IP-based implementations until all legacy systems are removed from the AF.
22                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     5.1.1. Vulnerability Management. Vulnerability Management is established as the
     practice of identifying AFIN hardware and software vulnerabilities, performing risk
     analysis, prioritizing mitigation actions based on levels of risk deemed acceptable by an
     appropriate commander, and remediating and/or mitigating the vulnerabilities to
     proactively prevent exploitation. This service area includes all AFIN systems and
     components, and the complete cycle of identification, classification, remediation, and
     mitigation of vulnerabilities. Vulnerability Management also includes patching, tracking,
     and testing. Note: Special precautions are taken with Command, Control, Intelligence,
     Surveillance, and Reconnaissance mission systems and non-standard or legacy systems
     to ensure automated vulnerability fix actions do not degrade operational missions.
     Specific methods and procedures are in MPTO 00-33A-1109, Vulnerability Management.
     5.1.2. Network Management. Network Management is established as the ability to
     monitor, control, configure, and optimize networks, systems, services and the underlying
     physical assets that provide end-user services, as well as connectivity to enterprise
     application services all in accordance with the applicable DISA Security Technical
     Implementation Guides (STIGs). Network Management includes the activities, methods,
     processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources that pertain to the operation,
     administration, logging, maintenance, and provisioning of networked systems. Network
     Management begins with the background situational awareness of network configuration
     and performance of networks. Network Management shall have and use automated
     Configuration Management and PBNM according to DoDI 8410.03. Specific procedures
     are in MPTO 00-33A-1106, Air Force Information Network (AFIN) Network
     Management.
     5.1.3. Server Management. Server Management is established as the activities,
     methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources that pertain to the
     operation, administration, monitoring, configuration, and maintenance of the hardware
     and software components of a server in accordance with the applicable DISA STIGs.
     Server Management includes coordination of server requirements for environmental and
     facility support, installation and deployment, monitoring, configuration, and security.
     Specific methods and procedures for Server Management are in MPTO 00-33A-1113,
     AFIN Server/Storage Management and Application Hosting.
     5.1.4. Storage Management. Storage Management is established as the activities,
     methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources that provide for the
     storage, retrieval, availability, backup and recovery, destruction, labeling, quota
     management, security, and confidentiality of user data on the AFIN in accordance with
     the applicable STIGs.       Storage Management also includes the administration,
     configuration, and monitoring of the storage media and devices. Specific methods and
     procedures for Storage Management are in MPTO 00-33A-1113, AFIN Server/Storage
     Management and Application Hosting.
     5.1.5. Service Incident Management. Service Incident Management is established as
     the activities, methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources used to
     restore normal service operations as quickly as possible. A service incident is any event
     (network security, network management, etc.) which is not part of standard operations
     and causes an interruption or reduction of the quality of service. A service incident is
     categorized under three major ticket models as Standard (applications, services,
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                23


     networks, etc.), Major (accelerated workflow with reduced escalation timelines), or
     Security (handling follows security incident guidance) with separate procedures and
     workflows for each major type. The goal of Service Incident Management is to minimize
     the adverse effect on operations, ensuring the best possible levels of service and
     availability are maintained. Service Incident Management is directly linked to
     management of the physical infrastructure and should focus on identifying infrastructure
     issues and documenting corrective actions or changes needed to prevent incidents in the
     future. Specific procedures for Service Incident Management are in the MPTO 00-33A-
     1112, Air Force Network Enterprise Service Desk Service Incident Management.
     Security incident procedures will be published in MPTO 00-33B-5007, Security Incident
     Management for Information Systems. Cyber incident procedures will be published in
     AFI 10-1702, Cyber Incident Handling.
     5.1.6. Problem Management. Problem Management is established as the activities,
     methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources used to identify and
     resolve the root causes of service incidents and prevent their recurrence. A “problem” is
     a condition typically identified as a result of multiple service incidents that exhibit
     common symptoms, share related mission impacts, or share a common root cause.
     Problem Management includes event correlation, trend analysis, problem diagnosis, root
     cause analysis, and knowledge basing to provide a user-level knowledge base of answers
     and resolutions to common user-level issues. Specific procedures for Problem
     Management are in MPTO 00-33A-1114, AFIN Problem Management.
     5.1.7. Change Management. Change Management is established as standardized
     activities, methods, processes, and procedures used to effectively manage and control all
     changes to the AFIN Operational Baseline, minimizing risk, disruptions in service and
     adverse impacts to operational users. A “change” is the addition, modification or
     removal of anything that could have an effect on IT services, configuration, processes,
     security, etc. Change Management focuses on documenting changes to the network.
     This includes documenting updates made to maps, drawings, network layouts, Virtual
     Local Area Network (VLAN) Architectures, IP addresses, and network configurations.
     Linkages identified such as base level drawings must be included in the CSI blueprint.
     The change management process must begin at the base level and extend to the AF level
     to ensure all requirements are contained in one process. Multiple change management
     processes must be consolidated and a governing group be formed to focus on change
     management. Change management and configuration management must be a dynamic
     process. Any change to the network must be automatically reflected in the visualization
     of the network configuration. It is critical to clarify the relationship between change
     management and vulnerability management. Vulnerability management is change
     management responsiveness to security-directed changes. Specific procedures for
     Change Management are published in MPTO 00-33A-1100, AF-GIG Operational
     Change Management Process.
     5.1.8. Configuration Management. Configuration Management is established as the
     activities, methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources which
     establish and maintain thorough, documented baselines of the hardware and software
     configuration items of the AFIN, including the features, attributes, technical
     configuration, and documentation of the components. Configuration Management
24                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     defines those items that are configurable, those items that require formal change control,
     and the process for controlling changes to such items. Configuration Management is vital
     to network and system stability and will be automated to support Network Management
     according to DoDI 8410.03. Before changes are introduced into a network or system,
     they must be properly reviewed, approved and documented following Change
     Management methods and procedures.              Specific procedures for Configuration
     Management will be in the Configuration Management MPTO.
     5.1.9. End-to-End Performance Monitoring. End-to-End Performance Monitoring is
     established as deliberate, proactive monitoring and capacity planning of all the hardware
     and software components of the AFIN which enables all AF IT Services including
     mission/functional unique applications. It supports mission assurance by including the
     end user experience and the warfighter's ability to access critical information. End-to-
     End Performance Monitoring includes the activities, methods, processes, procedures,
     capabilities, tools, and resources which allow cyber professionals to rapidly identify,
     isolate, and resolve service incidents before they cause significant degradation or poor
     performance resulting in mission impact. Monitoring, measuring, performance analysis,
     and optimizing networks and networked systems are included in the scope. Capacity
     Planning includes the long trend analysis of network devices including servers, and
     should be performed in order to identify future constraints with the results incorporated
     into either future Technical Baselines. Service and application performance is affected
     by both the performance of the network and performance of the servers and applications
     providing the service. As the operator of the network, 24 AF has the ultimate
     responsibility for determining the network elements to be monitored, the thresholds that
     must be established, and the appropriate responses to results that fall outside the
     established thresholds. 24 AF must coordinate with the network owner (e.g., DISA,
     Army, etc.) if monitoring spans networks outside of AF control. End-to-End
     Performance Monitoring applies to the NIPRNET and the SIPRNET, and all other
     terrestrial, space and airborne networks – anywhere a network can be hosted – for all
     entities (Active, Guard, & Reserve). Specific procedures for End-to-End Performance
     Monitoring will be in the End-to-End Performance Monitoring MPTO.
     5.1.10. Mission Assurance. Mission Assurance is established as the actions taken to
     ensure operational users can leverage AFIN systems and command/functional unique
     systems to execute operational missions. This includes activities, methods, processes,
     procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources that protect and defend information and
     information systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication,
     confidentiality, and non-repudiation. Continuity of operations, disaster recovery, risk
     management, and “fighting through an attack” are also critical aspects of Mission
     Assurance. Mission Assurance requires traceability of mission dependencies on
     cyberspace capabilities to provide prioritization of all other AFIN activities and provide
     the mission context for Situational Awareness. This applies to all components of the AF
     IT Services Framework. Specific procedures for Mission Assurance will be in the
     Mission Assurance and Situational Awareness MPTO.
     5.1.11. Situational Awareness. Cyberspace Situational Awareness (SA) is the requisite
     current and predictive knowledge of cyberspace and the operating environment upon
     which cyberspace operations depend, including all factors affecting friendly and
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 25


     adversary cyberspace forces (JP 3-12). Situational Awareness is enabled by the
     activities, methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources which
     provide meaningful and relevant end-to-end visibility incorporating data from End-to-
     End Performance Monitoring and other management data into a common operational
     picture by providing the operating status, location, performance, and utilization of AFIN
     hardware and software, both (a) within context as AFIN resources and (b) within the
     context of the mission(s) those resources are supporting. Specific procedures for
     Situational Awareness will be in the Mission Assurance & Situational Awareness MPTO.
     5.1.12. Voice Systems Management. Voice Systems Management is established as the
     ability to monitor, control, configure, and optimize voice systems. Voice Systems
     Management includes the activities, methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools,
     and resources that pertain to the operation, administration, maintenance, and provisioning
     of voice systems. Voice Systems Management will be undergoing significant change as a
     part of the DoD category of Unified Capabilities (UC), as stated in the AF UC Master
     Plan and DoDI 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities (UC). To optimize support of real-
     time voice (video, etc.) requirements in the future, systems and data networks must be
     optimized to meet the unique requirements of UC while eliminating specific system
     stovepipes to provide quality of service (QoS) needs for Voice over Internet Protocol
     (VoIP) and UC. Additional guidance for Voice Systems Management is available in
     AFMAN 33-145, Collaboration Services and Voice Systems Management. Specific
     procedures for Voice Systems Management will be in MPTO 00-33A-1108 Voice
     Systems Management.
     5.1.13. End Device Management. End Device Management is established as the
     installation and deployment, monitoring, configuration, maintenance, and security of end
     devices on the AFIN. End devices are items such as desktop PCs, laptops, notebooks,
     tablet PCs, smartphones, executive mobile devices, VoIP phones, IP-enabled
     sensors/alarms, etc. Specific procedures for End Device Management will be in the End
     Device Management MPTO.
  5.2. Enterprise Core Services. Enterprise Core Services are standard IT capabilities
  available to all users on the AFIN. Enterprise Core Services support DoD Net-Centric
  strategies for data and services by enabling users to safeguard, compile, catalog, discover,
  cache, distribute, retrieve, and share data in a collaborative environment across the AF and
  DoD enterprises. As DoD establishes joint enterprise services under JIE, the AF will
  evaluate the transition of AF enterprise core services when appropriate. 24AF will operate
  AF enterprise services not provided by JIE, and/or those JIE enterprise services being
  provided by the AF to all DoD customers.
     5.2.1. Collaboration. Collaboration services are established as the capabilities and
     resources that allow communications and interactions across the AFIN enterprise,
     including voice, video, data, and visual representation. This includes those capabilities
     which may be bundled into Unified Capabilities (UC). UC are defined as the integration
     of voice, video, and/or data services delivered ubiquitously across a secure and highly
     available network infrastructure, independent of technology, to provide increased mission
     effectiveness to the warfighter and business communities (DOD Unified Capabilities
     Requirements 2013). Examples may include web conferencing, application and desktop
     sharing, presence, chat, video teleconferencing, VoIP, white boarding, chat rooms, and
26                                                        AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     online forums. Additional guidance for Collaboration is in AFMAN 33-145,
     Collaboration Services and Voice Systems Management and DoDI 8100.04, DoD Unified
     Capabilities (UC).
     5.2.2. Messaging. Messaging services are established as the exchange of electronic
     message traffic between all users and organizational entities on the AFIN. Messaging
     services include the ability to compose, read, store, forward, manage, prioritize, digitally
     sign/encrypt, and track delivery/receipt of electronic messages. The AF is transitioning
     messaging services to cloud services utilitzing DISA Enterprise Email (DEE). Examples
     may include email, Instant Messaging and Voicemail. Specific user procedures for
     Messaging are in AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information
     Systems and incorporated in UC covered by AFMAN 33-145.
     5.2.3. Discovery. Discovery services are established as the capabilities and resources
     that enable users to identify, search, locate, and retrieve information across the AFIN.
     Discovery services include the ability to catalog and index information, identify
     applicable data repositories, formulate search queries/criteria, and retrieve/deliver
     relevant information to users in a timely fashion. This is a critical capability enabler for
     change management, configuration management, policy based management, and
     performance analysis as described above. Specific procedures for Discovery will be in
     the Discovery and Information Management MPTO.
     5.2.4. Enterprise Information Services (EIS). Enterprise Information Services will
     provide a solution across the entire AF by enabling organizations to communicate and
     collaborate vertically and horizontally with all EIS capabilities, optimizing the use of
     available bandwidth by using the most effective capabilities for the operational
     environment. Warfighters will utilize Knowledge Operations (KO) capabilities to drive
     operational effects through improved decision-making processes. Warfighters will pull
     required information and knowledge smartly, push information for continuous
     collaboration across the unified communications domain, and receive the right
     information at the right time and in the right format through advanced collaboration
     techniques (i.e., integrated people, processes and technology) via a proactive push from
     all integrated operations and support functions. Enterprise Information Services
     effectively capitalize upon KO performed by commanders, who integrate all AF
     functional areas into refined staff organizations, internal battle rhythms, and routine
     interactive sessions with subordinate commanders worldwide. The KO vision of a “One
     AF—One Enterprise” to fundamentally change the way the AF uses, delivers, and
     manages knowledge to perform peacetime missions and wartime operations across an
     integrated AF enterprise recognizes the imperative for a proactive means to promote
     collaboration, the sharing of ideas, and to find solutions to common problems across the
     entire AF. It also promotes the ability to learn, innovate, decide, and act, faster than our
     adversaries while operating in a condition of persistent conflict. Enterprise Information
     Services are established as the capabilities and resources supporting the security, reliable
     storage, timely delivery and deduplication of information across the AFIN enterprise.
     Examples include common and private data/file service, workflow management service,
     and enterprise print service. These services will be implemented and sustained according
     to AFPD 33-3, Information Management.               Specific procedures for Information
     Management will be in the Discovery and Information Management MPTO.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  27


     5.2.5. Knowledge Management (KM).               Knowledge Management (KM) is the
     capturing, organizing, and storing of knowledge and experiences of individual workers
     and groups within an organization and making this information available to others in the
     organization. KM is the art of creating, organizing, applying, and transferring knowledge
     to facilitate situational understanding and decision making. (AFSPC Enabling Concept
     for Knowledge Operations, May 2011)
     5.2.6. Application Hosting. Application Hosting services are established as hosting
     environments that are architecturally compliant, consistent, reliable, and secure
     computing environments (consisting of application software and associated utilities)
     supporting AF IT Services, Enterprise Core Services, Application Support Services, and
     mission/functional unique applications and systems. All Application Hosting will
     migrate to Common Computing Environments and Cloud Services, see paragraph 5.3,
     no later than end of Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 (FY18) according to DoD guidance. Specific
     procedures for Application Hosting are in MPTO 00-33A-1113, AFIN Server/Storage
     Management and Application Hosting.
     5.2.7. User Assistant. User Assistant services are established as the personnel,
     activities, methods, processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources providing an
     interface to AFIN users for customer service functions, including service
     incident/problem reporting, IT service requests, service incident prioritization,
     operational impact reporting, and escalation to mission/functional unique application help
     desks. The primary AFIN organization designated for user assistance is the AF ESD.
     Specific Procedures are in the MPTO 00-33A-1112, Air Force Network Enterprise
     Service Desk Service Incident Management.
     5.2.8. Directory Services. Directory Services are established as the activities, methods,
     processes, procedures, capabilities, tools, and resources that provide, operate, and
     maintain a global directory of AFIN users, objects, and resources. Directory services
     include appropriate identity and attribute information, allowing effective enterprise-wide
     identity management, authentication, and authorization to AFIN resources. Directory
     Services are sourced from and rely on a number of AF and DoD organizations for
     account management and data accuracy. Specific procedures for Directory Services will
     be in the Directory Services MPTO.
  5.3. Common Computing Environments and Cloud Services.
     5.3.1. The DoD CIO Cloud Computing Strategy (2012) provides Federal and DoD
     mandates for cloud computing adoption and identifies the three major benefits as
     efficiency, agility, and innovation. The DoD Cloud Computing Goal is to “implement
     cloud computing as the means to deliver the most innovative, efficient, and secure
     information and IT services in support of the Department’s mission, anywhere, anytime,
     on any authorized device.”
     5.3.2. Common computing environments authorized for hosting AF core enterprise
     services, applications, and systems are limited to IPNs, CDCs, and cloud services
     provisioned by DISA.
     5.3.3. The DoD and the AF must take advantage of the commoditized IT functions and
     transform the way in which they acquire, operate, and manage IT in order to realize
28                                                         AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     increased efficiency, effectiveness, and security. The DoD has begun this transformation
     in a reengineered information infrastructure called the Joint Information Environment
     (JIE). The JIE is comprised of shared information technology (IT) infrastructure,
     enterprise services, and a single security architecture to achieve full spectrum superiority,
     improve mission effectiveness, increase security and realize IT efficiencies. JIE is
     operated and managed per the Unified Command Plan (UCP) using enforceable
     standards, specifications, and common tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). The
     DoD Enterprise Cloud Environment is a key component to enable the DoD to achieve JIE
     goals.
     5.3.4. Cloud computing supports the DoD JIE and provides capabilities for
     Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS), and Software-as-a-
     Service (SaaS) as described in DoD CIO Memorandum, DoD Cloud Computing Strategy
     Memorandum, 5 July 2012.
        5.3.4.1. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) - Virtualized systems operated on
        fundamental computing resources (e.g., processing, storage, network) managed as a
        cloud service with the AF retaining control of operating systems, storage, and
        deployed applications.
        5.3.4.2. Platform as a Service (PaaS) - A cloud computing platform providing
        operating systems, database systems, web servers, security, etc. for hosting of AF
        unique applications. The AF is only retaining control of the hosted unique
        application(s) and not the operatiosn systems, database systems, web servers,
        security, etc.
        5.3.4.3. Software as a Service (SaaS) - All aspects of standard applications are
        provided as a cloud service to the AF. The AF does not retain control over the
        applications, platform or infrastructure.
     5.3.5. Organizations will work with Managed Services Office within PEO C3I&N, as the
     AF Cloud Service Lead, to coordinate all cloud computing technical requirements prior
     to engaging with DISA as the DoD cloud broker. Once DISA has developed cloud
     solutions across the ECSB Security Model and a waiver process, all AF cloud activities
     will be coordinated with the cloud broker.
        5.3.5.1. Cloud computing requirements will be grouped by the DoD ECSB Security
        Model to maximize data types of Unclassified-Public, Unclassified-Private,
        Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), and Classified. The priority of effort
        should focus on requirements for unclassified cloud computing in alignment with
        initial DoD ECSB efforts.
        5.3.5.2. Program managers will ensure that cloud computing technical requirements
        for their acquisition programs are in compliance with the DoD Enterprise Cloud
        Environment. Submit cloud computing technical requirements for review to PEO
        C3I&N as the AF Cloud Service Lead: AFLCMC/HNI Workflow,
        aflcmc.hni.workflow2@us.af.mil.
     5.3.6. Organizations will maintain responsibility for their application and capabilities
     built on a cloud service and/or identified as a government responsibility in any applicable
     documentation for cybersecurity or approvals to operate for the cloud service.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  29


         5.3.6.1. Maintain AFIN networthiness by complying with AF AO (previously known
         as DAA) direction for executing secure operations functions within their operated
         portions of the AFIN extending to cloud services.
         5.3.6.2. Ensure information systems and applications utilizing cloud computing
         services follow the DoD Provisional Authroization process and receive Certification
         and Accreditation (C&A) from the AF AO or designated Functional AO according to
         AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFCAP).
         C&A will utilize cybersecurity control inheritance for cybersecurity controls provided
         by the cloud service. SaaS with a full C&A decision from the DoD ECSB’s AO does
         not require further C&A review.
         5.3.6.3. Ensure Computer Network Defense Service Provider (CNDSP) and
         cybersecurity continuous monitoring requirements are met for cloud services used by
         the organization. Provide any additional resources required for a CNDSP to meet
         these requirements.
         5.3.6.4. Web servers, services, applications, or capabilities for processing non-public
         information to be hosted on commercial servers or services (including cloud
         computing services) outside of military or government cybersecurity boundaries
         requires DoD Provisional Authorization and AF AO approval for use regardless of
         applicability of C&A requirements.
  5.4. Application Support Services. Application Support Services should be provided by
  the Common Computing Environments. Application Support Services are the middleware
  and common services which enable cross-community of interest (COI) sharing of
  information and capabilities (exposure services, metadata repositories, mediation/translation,
  etc.). Application Support Services provide a set of tools, capabilities, processes, and
  methodologies to support enablement of a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for the AF
  and DoD enterprises.
     5.4.1. Mediation. Mediation services are established as data aggregation, correlation, or
     transformation processing; data translation or fusion; negotiation services (brokering,
     trading and auctioning services); subscription and publication services, and workflow
     coordination services. Typically, mediation services intercept and modify messages that
     are passed between existing services (providers) and clients (requesters).
     5.4.2. Metadata. Metadata is descriptive information about a particular data set, object,
     or resource, including how it is formatted, and when and by whom it was collected.
     Metadata services are established as procedures, guidelines, and methods for effective
     data planning, analysis, standards, modeling, configuration management, storage,
     retrieval, protection, validation, and documentation of metadata. Metadata will follow
     the DoD Metadata specification according to DoDI 8410.03. Although metadata most
     commonly refers to web resources, it can be about either physical or electronic resources.
     5.4.3. Exposure. Exposure services are established as procedures, guidelines, and
     methods for making web services visible and discoverable. This exposure or visibility
     allows web services to be discovered or searched using service registries. Once web
     services are exposed and discovered or searched, a data or service consumer (person or
     machine user) can determine if the service/data is viable for consumption and use.
 30                                                         AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


       5.4.4. Presentation. Presentation services are established as the presentation layer for
       user access to an application. The presentation layer of an application can vary from a
       simple Web-based front end to a heavy client that has the user interface.
       5.4.5. Middleware. Middleware services are established as the computer software that
       connects software components or people and their applications. The software consists of
       a set of services that allows multiple processes running on one or more machines to
       interact. This technology evolved to provide for interoperability in support of the move
       to coherent distributed architectures, which are most often used to support and simplify
       complex distributed applications. It includes web servers, application servers, and similar
       tools that support application development and delivery. Middleware is especially
       integral to modern information technology based on eXtensible Markup Language
       (XML), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Web Services, and Service Oriented
       Architecture (SOA).
       5.4.6. Enterprise Service Bus (ESB). The Enterprise Service Bus is established as the
       construct for a standards-based integration platform that combines messaging, web
       services, data transformation, and intelligent routing to reliably connect and coordinate
       interactions of significant numbers of diverse applications across extended enterprises
       with transactional integrity. ESB integration fabric infrastructure shall include highly
       distributed, scalable service containers; event-driven change invocation; centralized
       management of distributed integration configurations; diverse client connectivity and
       support for multiple protocols; seamless, dynamic routing of data across physical
       deployment boundaries; unified security and access control model; distributed
       configuration and caching of deployment resources, such as Extensible Stylesheet
       Language Transformations (XSLT) documents and routing rules; scriptable and
       declarative environment.
   5.5. Mission/Functional Unique Applications (MFUAs). Mission and Functional-Unique
   Applications are IT applications and/or systems which provide a mission-specific capability
   to one or more communities of interest, funded and managed by the requirements’ owners.
   MFUAs rely on services from AF ITSM, Enterprise Core Services, and Application Support
   Services to function. Owners of MFUAs must use the information within this AFI and
   corresponding MPTOs to ensure their systems can efficiently interface with and leverage all
   applicable AF IT Services. MFUAs will adhere to applicable Baseline standards in
   accordance with paragraph 6 and AFPD 33-4. MAJCOMs are responsible for managing
   and sustaining MAJCOM-unique systems. MFUA owners are responsible for reporting
   information, cost, plans, and status of applications to their respective MAJCOMs, SAF CIO,
   and Cyber CFL when requested.
6. AFIN Baseline Management. The Target, Implementation, and Operational Baselines
address the technical standards, protocols and guidance to establish a consistent environment for
IT capability engineering, development, deployment and support, see AFPD 33-4 for more
information. The Baselines are prescriptive and include those things required to ensure a
repeatable and predictable process by which to develop and deploy IT capabilities and of the
infrastructure on which they operate. The Baselines apply to both AF-controlled portions of the
NIPRNET and SIPRNET environments. Future technical standards, protocols, guidelines, and
implementation constraints are provided by the Target Baseline. Selected products and their
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  31


informed/allowed configurations are provided by the Implementation Baseline.           Currently
operational AF IT Services and their usage are provided by the Operational Baseline.
7. Operation of AF IT Services within the AFIN.
   7.1. Command and Control (C2) of the AFIN. C2 of the AFIN is conducted to operate,
   secure, defend, maintain, and control the AFIN for the purposes of DoDIN Operations and
   Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO).
       7.1.1. Operational type orders for C2 of the AFIN are defined and issued according to
       AFI 10-1701.
       7.1.2. Operational type orders, AF TCTOs, and TCNOs issued for C2 of the AFIN take
       precedence over TOs, MPTOs, and TCTOs issued by PMOs, SPOs, and other
       organizations directing the standard operation and maintenance of the AFIN.
   7.2. Technical Orders (TOs). The purpose of the Air Force Technical Order (TO) system
   in supporting AF IT Service Management is to provide clear and concise instructions for safe
   and reliable operation, inspection and maintenance of centrally acquired and managed AF
   systems and commodities.
       7.2.1. Technical publications are essential for the proper function of AFIN Operations
       and to provide the operations activity with accurate information. Technical publications
       include TOs, MPTOs, commercial manuals, and specialized publications.
       7.2.2. Technical publications for AF IT Service Management are developed and verified
       according to AFI 63-101, TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, and TO 00-5-3, AF
       Technical Order Life Cycle Management.
       7.2.3. All organizations supporting AF IT Service Management order TOs following
       procedures in TO 00-5-1.
       7.2.4. Report any errors, contradictions, or procedures requiring clarification, by
       following procedures in TO 00-5-1 on preparing AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual
       (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply.
       7.2.5. Compliance with AF IT Service Management TOs is mandatory, except as
       explained in TO 00-5-1.
   7.3. Method and Procedure Technical Orders (MPTOs). Air Force 00-series MPTOs are
   procedure-oriented and provide general methods and procedures standardizing processes
   across the AF and are used to standardize AF IT Service Management. MPTOs are available
   for ordering through the Enhanced Technical Information Management System (ETIMS)
   application on the AF Portal, per TO 00-5-1. Contact unit Technical Order Distribution
   Office (TODO) for assistance.
   7.3.1. AF IT Service Management MPTOs standardize AFIN ITSM processes and
   procedures and may integrate the operation of individual systems under AF IT Services. A
   full list of MPTOs directed by this AFI is located within Attachment 1.
       7.3.2. TOs published for specific systems take precedence over AF IT Services MPTOs.
32                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


  7.4. Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs). TCTOs document all permanent
  modifications, update changes and retrofit changes to standard Air Force systems and
  commodities.
     7.4.1. TCTOs are managed and issued according to TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time
     Compliance Technical Order Process.
     7.4.2. TCTOs are military orders issued by order of the SECAF and as such, shall be
     complied with as specified in the TCTO.
  7.5. Time Compliance Network Orders (TCNOs). TCNOs are downward-directed
  security or vulnerability-related orders issued by the AF.
     7.5.1. TCNOs are generated internally to the AF or in response to an Information
     Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA) or Information Assurance Vulnerability Bulletin
     (IAVB) to direct the implementation of an operational or security vulnerability risk
     mitigation procedure or fix action (countermeasure).
     7.5.2. TCNOs are managed and issued according to MPTO 00-33A-1109, Vulnerability
     Management and under the authority of AFI 10-1701.
  7.6. One AF-One Network. The lead command for Cyberspace Operations directs the
  operation, maintenance, configuration, and control of AF network infrastructure with the goal
  and objective of providing a single network for the AF that is managed,
  commanded/controlled, and fully compatible with a seamless DoD network.
     7.6.1. Core Data Center (CDC):
         7.6.1.1. CDCs are highly capable, highly resilient data centers providing standardized
         hosting and storage services to the enterprise within the Single Security Architecture
         (SSA) now being implemented. CDCs are the backbone of JIE and approved by DoD
         CIO.
         7.6.1.2. CDCs also enable a significant reduction in the total number of DoD data
         centers by serving as consolidation points for computing and storage services
         currently hosted across hundreds of Component Facilities in accordance with DoD
         CIO memorandum, Department of Defense Joint Information Environment:
         Continental United States Core Data Centers and Application and System Migration,
         11 July, 2013.
         7.6.1.3. All AF organizations will plan for systems to be hosted within an approved
         CDC NLT end of FY18, (T-0).
     7.6.2. Area Processing Center (APC):
         7.6.2.1. An APC is a facility which provides enterprise and regional computing and
         data centers supporting Enterprise Core Services and provides Application Hosting as
         an Enterprise Core Service for Mission/Functional Unique Applications.
         7.6.2.2. Per DoD CIO guidance (1 Nov 2012), APCs will either convert to IPNs or
         close as approved by the ITGEB. APCs will meet DoD standards for facility and
         network infrastructure, security, technology and operations, and adhere to DoD
         enterprise governance, (T-0).
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 33


         7.6.2.3. If not designated as a CDC, organizations will plan for transition of systems
         to a designated CDC under JIE construct, (T-0).
     7.6.3. Installation Processing Node (IPN):
         7.6.3.1. An IPN is a facility which provides a consolidated base-level computing and
         data processing node for all NIPRNET and SIPRNET systems which are unable to be
         hosted at a DoD enterprise-level data center (e.g., CDC) based upon validated
         Disconnected, Intermittent, Limited (DIL) requirements.
         7.6.3.2. IPNs will be designated by the ITGEB when sites are approved as an AF
         data center, (T-0).
         7.6.3.3. IPNs will provide 24-hour, 7-days a week on-site hardware maintenance,
         environmental control, space utilization, and physical security of the base-level
         processing node.
         7.6.3.4. IPNs will conform to the AF’s implementation of FDCCI.
     7.6.4. Installation Services Node (ISN):
         7.6.4.1. An ISN is the required localized equipment necessary to provide the
         minimum basic functionality to an installation should it become disconnected from
         the enterprise.
         7.6.4.2. Potential services include anomaly detection, audit functions, Active
         Directory (AD), DNS, Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS), Host
         Based Security System (HBSS), and print services. In addition, ISNs may also host
         unified capabilities (UC) that must remain on the Installation to enable emergency
         services even when the connection is interrupted.
     7.6.5. Special Purpose Processing Node (SPPN):
         7.6.5.1. A SPPN is a facility which provides a fixed processing node supporting data
         servers and special purpose functions that cannot be supported by a IPN, CDC, or
         other DoD enterprise-level data center due to its association with mission specific
         infrastructure or equipment.
         7.6.5.2. SPPNs will be designated by the ITGEB when sites are approved as an AF
         data center, (T-0).
         7.6.5.3. SPPNs will be supported and maintained by the functional community of
         interest requiring the SPPN.
  7.7. Cybersecurity (previously known as Information Assurance[IA]). All systems (e.g.,
  centrally managed applications) will comply with AF Cybersecurity program guidance in
  AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, DOD Cybersecurity program
  guidance, and U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM) warning and tactical
  directives/orders (e.g., Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) program,
  security incident handling program, and other responsibilities outlined in CJCSI 6510.01,
  Information Assurance (IA) and Support to Computer Network Defense (CND)).
34                                                        AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     7.7.1. Authorizing Official (AO) (previously known as Designated Accrediting
     Authority [DAA]) Approval. All systems must receive accreditation and authorization to
     operate by the appropriate AO prior to operational use according to AFI 33-210.
     7.7.2. Reciprocity, Reuse, and Inheritance. The AF recognizes and fully supports
     reciprocity and reuse according to AFI 33-210. In order to minimize certification and
     accreditation (C&A) workload and paperwork, AOs and Information Systems Security
     Manager (ISSM), (previously known as IAM) will fully embrace and support inheritance
     in which AF IT Services and mission/functional unique applications inherit security
     controls and other Cybersecurity attributes as reuse from other associated services,
     hosting environments, security solution, etc., as appropriate. Cybersecurity policy takes
     precedence if Cybersecurity policy provides specific guidance for inheritance in the
     future.
  7.8. Commercial Internet Service Provider (ISP) Connections and DoDIN Wavier
  Process.
     7.8.1. A DoDIN Waiver (previously known as DOD GIG Waiver) is required for any
     internet connection not utilizing the DoDIN infrastructure/transport services to allow a
     direct unfettered and non-attributable connection to the public Internet in the performance
     of DoD/AF missions. For more information about DoDIN Waivers and commercial ISPs
     refer to AFI 33-200. The commercial ISP connection cannot be connected to the
     NIPRNET (Use of an approved hardware/software secure tunnel across a commercial ISP
     circuit to connect to the NIPRNET/DoDIN is allowed).
     7.8.2. Quality-of-Life (QoL) Internet Services. The QoL Internet Services may be
     established for “patron” activities such as the Family Support Center, library, dormitories,
     medical treatment facilities, lodging, and other services facilities.
        7.8.2.1. For Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Category A, B, and C activities,
        refer to AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
        (MWR) and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS).
        7.8.2.2. For QoL internet access in Dormitories, refer to AFI 32-6005,
        Unaccompanied Housing Management.
        7.8.2.3. These systems shall not be connected to the base network/NIPRNET with
        the privileges of “.mil” registered users.
        7.8.2.4. Official business activities and administrative offices in these QoL locations
        may require and are authorized NIPRNET connectivity through the base network
        according to AFI 65-106. Refer to AFI 65-106 for the funding of NIPRNET
        installation, sustainment and management in MWR facilities.
        7.8.2.5. Certification and Accreditation (C&A) is not required for QoL Internet
        Services.
        7.8.2.6. Commercial ISPs used as Quality of Life (QoL) internet service for patrons
        are exempted from the DoDIN Waiver process.
     7.8.3. Portions of the AF Services’ mission must be conducted outside of the NIPRNET
     to comply with AF Cybersecurity policies. Although some patron-based activities are
     supported by the QoL networks, the vast majority of services user base, systems support
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   35


     organizations, and management activities are not permitted to operate on the NIPRNET,
     but still require identity authentication. AFPC Services Directorate is authorized to
     connect to commercial ISP nodes to support and manage the Services NAFIS that are not
     allowed on the NIPRNET according to AFI 65-106.
     7.8.4. DOD Dependent Schools and Base Education Offices. Only government
     personnel and/or government contractors are authorized Internet access through
     NIPRNET. Internet access for classroom education or civilian education institutions
     must be through a commercial ISP (or DISA’s Private ISP when available) and cannot be
     connected to the NIPRNET.
     7.8.5. Headquarters Air Education and Training Command (HQ AETC) and the United
     States Air Force Academy (USAFA). HQ AETC and USAFA require academic
     networks that provide students, faculty, and staff IT services that are not available on the
     AFNET (i.e., conduct research and scientific collaborations). Consequently, HQ AETC
     and USAFA are authorized to operate networks specifically designed to IT enable their
     education and training missions.
     7.8.6. Geographically Separated Unit (GSU). The GSU owning MAJCOM is required to
     provide funding to the supporting base, MAJCOM or AFSPC for any network circuit(s)
     required for the GSU connectivity. GSUs will comply with all policies and directives of
     their servicing AFIN Operations activities including the CFP supporting their network
     circuit.
     7.8.7. When available, DISA’s Private ISP Service (through AF Guest Network) will be
     the default method for obtaining direct, unfettered, and non-attributable access to the
     public Internet in the performance of DoD/AF missions (not MWR or QoL). DISA
     Private ISP connections will be exempt from the DoDIN Waiver requirements as DISA is
     the service provider.
  7.9. Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology Services. All
  Authoritative Data Sources (ADSs) should be exposed as Data-as-a-Service (DaaS).
     7.9.1. Data shall remain as closely controlled as possible by the ADS steward to ensure
     its currency and accuracy.
     7.9.2. Systems and services shall reference ADSs rather than duplicate or provision
     external source data for anything beyond short-term consumption or proxying for
     performance or security reasons.
     7.9.3. Sharing of data, information, and IT services shall be managed according to
     DoDD 8320.02.
     7.9.4. Data authentication and control shall be managed according to DoDI 8520.03,
     Identity Authentication for Information Systems.
  7.10. Service Level Agreements (SLA), Memorandums of Agreement (MOA),
  Memorandums of Understanding (MOU). SLAs will be established by AFSPC for AF IT
  Services to define division of responsibilities for network operations and services to
  minimize duplication of effort between organizations.
     7.10.1. Enterprise service SLAs will be established for ESUs and the AF ESD with
     approval by the ITGEB.
36                                                       AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


     7.10.2. An MOA, MOU, or Operational Level Agreement (OLA) will be established as
     appropriate for organizations or users whose network support requirements exceed the
     standards of an enterprise service SLA.
     7.10.3. Whenever possible, SLAs will identify the minimum levels of support required
     by the users rather than acceptable failure rates (uptime rates as opposed to downtime
     rates). SLAs will also describe the prioritization of systems and services to meet mission
     assurance requirements.
  7.11. AFIN Operations Training. Refer to AFI 33-154, Air Force On-The-Job Training
  Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted Specialty Training and MPTO 00-33A-1001, for
  policy and procedures for AFIN Operations training. Cyberspace Operations Training is
  covered under AFPD 10-17 and AFI 10-1703 Volume 1 Cyberspace Operations Cyber Crew
  Training.




                                          MICHAEL J. BASLA, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Chief, Information Dominance and
                                          Chief Information Officer
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               37


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Fiscal Year 2012, § 2867, Data Servers and
Centers, 31 December 2011
CJCSI 6510.01, Information Assurance (IA) and Support to Computer Network Defense (CND),
9 February 2011
CNSSI 4009, National Information Assurance (IA) Glossary, 26 April 2010
DoD 5012.02-STD, Electronic Records Management Software Applications Design Criteria
Standard, 25 April, 2007
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 25 November 2013
DoDI 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities (UC), 9 December 2010
DoDI 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Technology (IT) Services In The Department Of
Defense, 5 August 2013
DoDI 8410.01, Internet Domain Name Use and Approval, 14 April 2008
DoDI 8410.02, NetOps for the Global Information Grid (GIG), 19 December 2008
DoDI 8410.03, Network Management (NM), 29 August 2012
DoDI 8520.03, Identity Authentication for Information Systems, 13 May 2011
DoDI 8550.01, DoD Internet Services and Internet-Based Capabilities, 11 September 2012
DoD CIO Memo, Approvals/Waivers for Obligation of Funds for Data Servers and Centers, 26
June 2012
DoD CIO Memo, Exemption for Obligation of funds for Data Servers and Data Centers Related
to the High Performance Computing Modernization Program, 25 January 2013
DoD CIO Memo, Approvals/Waivers for Obligation of Funds for Data Servers and Centers, 9
May 2013
DoD CIO Memo, Department of Defense Joint Information Environment: Continental United
States Core Data Centers and Application and System Migration, 11 July 2013
AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 3 August 2011
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance, 17 January 2013
AFPD 33-5, Warfighting Integration, 11 January 2013
 38                                                      AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010
AFI 10-1701, Command and Control (C2) of Cyberspace, 5 March 2014
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011
AFI 10-710, Information Operations Condition (INFOCON) (FOUO), 10 August 2006
AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment
Review, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, 30 November 2011
AFI 33-154, Air Force On-The-Job Training Products for Cyberspace Support Enlisted
Specialty Training, 1 May 2013
AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program (AFCAP), 23 December 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 33-401, Air Force Architecting, 17 May 2011
AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 October 2009
AFI 35-107, Public Web Communications, 21 October 2009
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 16 December 2008
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 19 March 2013
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS), 6 May 2009
AFMAN 33-145, Collaboration Services and Voice Systems Management, 6 September 2012
AFMAN 33-152, User Responsibilities and Guidance for Information Systems, 1 June 2012
AFMAN 33-153, IT Asset Management, 19 March 2014
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Performance Plan for Reduction of Resources Required for Data Servers and Centers,
31 January 2012
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System
TO 00-5-3, AF Technical Order Life Cycle Management
TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process
MPTO 00-33A-1001 General Cyberspace Support Activities Management Procedures and
Practice Requirements
MPTO 00-33A-1100, AF-GIG Operational Change Management Process
MPTO 00-33A-1106, Air Force Information Network (AFIN) Network Management
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                          39


MPTO 00-33A-1108, AFIN Voice Systems Management
MPTO 00-33A-1109, Vulnerability Management
MPTO 00-33A-1112, Air Force Network Enterprise Service Desk Service Incident Management
MPTO 00-33A-1113, AFIN Server/Storage Management and Application Hosting
MPTO 00-33A-1114, AFIN Problem Management
MPTO 00-33A-XXXX, Directory Services
MPTO 00-33A-XXXX, Mission Assurance and Situational Awareness
MPTO 00-33A-XXXX, Discovery and Information Management
MPTO 00-33A-XXXX, End-to-End Performance Monitoring
MPTO 00-33B-5007, Security Incident Management for Information Systems
MPTO 00-33D-2002, Engineering Installation and Cyberspace Readiness Activities
Management
MPTO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the Cyberspace
Infrastructure Planning System
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply
AFTO Form 265, Request For Change
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADS—Authoritative Data Source
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—GIG—Air Force-Global Information Grid
AF CEITB—Air Force Consolidated Enterprise Information Technology Baseline
AFCAP—Air Force Certification and Accreditation Program
AFECMO—Air Force Enterprise Configuration Management Office
AF ESD—Air Force Enterprise Service Desk
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIN—Air Force Information Networks
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 40                                                 AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFNET—Air Force Network
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserves
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AIRCOM—Air Communications
AIS—Automated Information Systems
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Authorizing Official (previously known as DAA)
APC—Area Processing Center
ASI—Authorized Service Interruptions
C-NAF—Component Number Air Force
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
C2—Command and Control
C3I&N—Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence and Networks
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CCMD—Combatant Command
CDC—Core Data Center
CEIG—Cyberspace Engineering Installation Group
CFL—Core Function Lead
CFP—Communications Focal Point
CI—Counter Intelligence
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CIPS—Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System
CND—Computer Network Defense
COI—Community of Interest
COOP—Continuity of Operations Plan
COTS—Commercial of the Shelf
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CSI—Cyber Systems Integrator
DaaS—Data-as-a-Service
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                         41


DAA—Designated Accrediting Authority (now refered to as AO)
DCO—Defensive Cyberspace Operations
DESMF—Defense Enterprise Service Management Framework
DIL—Disconnected, Intermittent, Limited
DIMA—Defense Intelligence Mission Area
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DMZ—Demilitarized Zone
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DNS—Domain Name Service
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDIN—Department of Defense Information Networks
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Material, Leadership & Education, Personnel &
Facilities
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSCC—Defense Server Core Configuration
EA—Enterprise Architecture
ECSB—Enterprise Cloud Service Broker
EITSM—Enterprise Information Technology Service Manager
ESB—Enterprise Service Bus
ESD—Enterprise Service Desk
ESI—Enterprise Software Initiative
ESU—Enterprise Services Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FSA—Functional System Administrator
GIG—Global Information Grid
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ—Headquarters
IA—Information Assurance
IaaS—Infrastructure-as-a Service
IAVA—Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert
IAVB—Information Assurance Vulnerability Bulletin
 42                                                   AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


IAVM—Information Assurance Vulnerability Management
IbC—Internet-based Capabilities
IB—Implementation Baseline
IC—Intelligence Community
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
INFOCON—Information Condition
I-NOSC—Integrated Network Operations and Security Center
IP—Internet Protocol
IPN—Installation Processing Node
IS—Information Systems
ISN—Installation Services Node
IT—Information Technology
ITGEB—IT Governance Executive Board
ITIL—Information Technology Infrastructure Library
ITS—Information Transport System
ITSM—Information Technology Service Management
JIE—Joint Information Environment
JTF—Joint Task Force
KO—Knowledge Operations
MAJCOM—Major Command
M/ACCC—MAJCOM/Air Force Forces Command Coordination Center
MFUA—Mission/Functional Unique Applications
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
MPTO—Methods and Procedures Technical Order
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NAFIS—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
NetD—Network Defense
NetOps—Network Operations
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                           43


NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
NM—Network Management
NOS—Network Operations Squadron
NS—Name Server
NSS—National Security System
OLA—Operational Level Agreement
PA—Public Affairs
PAO—Public Affairs Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PaaS—Platform-as-a-Service
PBNM—Policy Based Network Management
PEO—Program Executive Office
PMO—Program Management Office
QoL—Quality of Life
QoS—Quality of Service
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAP—Special Access Program
SCCM—Systems Center Configuration Manager
SCI—Sensitive Compartmented Information
SDC—Standard Desktop Configuration
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SDDP—Service Development and Delivery Processes
SINE—Single Integrated Network Environment
SIPRNET—SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network
SLA—Service Level Agreement
SOA—Service Oriented Architecture
SOAP—Simple Object Access Protocol
SPO—System Program Office
SPPN—Special Purpose Processing Node
T.O.—Technical Order
TB—Target Baseline
 44                                                        AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


TCM—Technical Content Management
TCNO—Time Compliance Network Order
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TM—Technical Manual
UC—Unified Capabilities
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USCYBERCOM—United States Cyber Command
VLAN—Virtual Local Area Network
VoIP—Voice Over Internet Protocol
XML—Extensible Markup Language
XSLT—Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformation

Terms
Air Force Information Networks (AFIN)—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of AF
unique information capabilities, and associated processes for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on-demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel, including owned and leased communications and computing systems and services,
software (including applications), data, and security.
AFIN Operations— Operations to design, build, configure, secure, operate, maintain, and
sustain AF networks to create and preserve information assurance on the AF information
networks.
AF IT Services—The IT networks, systems, processes, and capabilities which enable the
seamless, secure, and reliable exchange of information across the AFIN.
Air Force Network (AFNET)—The AF’s underlying Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router
Network (NIPRNET) that enables AF operational capabilities and lines of business.
AFNET-S— The AF’s underlying Secret Internet Protocol Router Network that enables AF
operational capabilities and lines of business.
Authoritative Data Source (ADS)—A source of data or information that is recognized by
members of a Community Of Interest to be valid or trusted because it is considered to be highly
reliable or accurate or is from an official publication or reference.
Core Data Center—The backbone of the JIE, CDCs are highly capable, highly resilient data
centers providing standardized hosting and storage services to the enterprise within the Single
Security Architecture (SSA). CDCs also enable a significant reduction in the total number of
DoD data centers by serving as consolidation points for computing and storage services currently
hosted across hundreds of Component Facilities. (DoD CIO memorandum, Department of
Defense Joint Information Environment: Continental United States Core Data Centers and
Application and System Migration, 11 July 2013)
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                      45


Cyber Incident—Actions taken through the use of computer networks that result in an actual or
potentially adverse effect on an information system and/or the information residing therein.
(CNSSI 4009)
Cyberspace Operations—The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is
to achieve military objectives or effects in or through cyberspace. (AFPD 10-17)
Data Center—Accordingly, under the FDCCI, a data center is now defined as a closet, room,
floor or building for the storage, management, and dissemination of data and information. Such a
repository houses computer systems and associated components, such as database, application,
and storage systems and data stores.' A data center generally includes redundant or backup power
supplies, redundant data communications connections, environmental control (air conditioning,
fire suppression, etc.) and special security devices housed in leased (including by cloud
providers), owned, collocated, or stand-alone facilities. Under this revised definition, neither
square footage nor Uptime Institute tier classifications are required to define a facility as a data
center. (OMB memorandum, Implementation Guidance for the Federal Data Center
Consolidation Initiative (FDCCI), 19 March 2012)
Department of Defense Information Network (DoDIN)—The globally interconnected, end-to-
end set of information capabilities, and associated processes for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on-demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel, including owned and leased communications and computing systems and services,
software (including applications), data, and security (formerly known as GIG). (JP 3-12)
DoDIN Operations—Operations to design, build, configure, secure, operate, maintain, and
sustain Department of Defense networks to create and preserve information assurance on the
Department of Defense information networks. (JP 3-12)
Enterprise Core Services—Standard IT capabilities available to all users on the AFIN.
Enterprise Core Services support DoD Net-Centric strategies for data and services by enabling
users to safeguard, compile, catalog, discover, cache, distribute, retrieve, and share data in a
collaborative environment across the AF and DoD enterprises.
Implementation Baseline—The Implementation Baseline is the baseline of acquisition selected
products and their informed/allowed configurations that implement the architecture, standards
and protocols and guidelines specified in the Target Baseline. The Implementation Baseline
informs the Operational Baseline of the acquisition selected products and how they are to be
configured to support deployment of user applications across the infrastructure topology. The
Implementation Baseline governs the implementation of the Development and Integration/Test
environments (AFPD 33-4).
Information Enviroment (IE)—The aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that
collect, process, disseminate, or act on information. The information environment, which
includes cyberspace, consists of three interrelated dimensions that continuously interact with
individuals, organizations, and systems. These dimensions are the physical, informational, and
cognitive. (JP 3-13 and Draft DoDI 8115.02)
Information Processing Node—A fixed DoD data center serving a single DoD installation and
local area (installations physically or logically behind the network boundary) with local services
that cannot (technically or economically) be provided from a CDC. There will be no more than
 46                                                         AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014


one IPN per DoD installation but each IPN may have multiple enclaves to accommodate unique
installation needs (e.g., Joint Bases)
Information Technology—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment
that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control,
display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or information by the
executive agency. For purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is used by an executive
agency if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under
a contract with the executive agency which (i) requires the use of such equipment or (ii) requires
the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or the
furnishing of a product. The term information technology includes computers, ancillary
equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and
related resources. (CNSSI 4009)
Infrastructure—as-a-Service (IaaS)—Virtualized systems operated on fundamental computing
resources (e.g., processing, storage, network) managed as a cloud service with the AF retaining
control of operating systems, storage, and deployed applications.
Installation Services Node (ISN)—An Installation services node is the required localized
equipment necessary to provide the minimum basic functionality to an installation should it
become disconnected from the enterprise. Potential services include anomaly detection, audit
functions, Active Directory (AD), DNS, Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS),
Host Based Security System (HBSS), and print services. In addition ISNs may also host unified
capabilities (UC) that must remain on the Installation to enable emergency services even when
the connection is interrupted.
Internet—An informal global collection of government, military, commercial, and educational
computer networks. The global collection of interconnected local, mid-level, and wide area
networks that use IP as the network layer protocol.
Internet-based Capabilities—All public information capabilities or applications available
across the Internet from locations not directly or indirectly controlled by DoD or the Federal
government (i.e., locations not owned or operated by DoD or another Federal agency or by
contractors or others on behalf of DoD or another Federal agency).
Internet Service Provider—A commercial entity providing data connectivity into the Internet.
Joint Information Environment—A secure joint information environment, comprised of
shared information technology (IT) infrastructure, enterprise services, and a single security
architecture to achieve full spectrum superiority, improve mission effectiveness, increase
security and realize IT efficiencies. JIE is operated and managed per the Unified Command Plan
(UCP) using enforceable standards, specifications, and common tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs).
Operational Baseline—The Operational Baseline is the set of components of the
Implementation Baseline appropriately configured and deployed across the topology of the AFIN
infrastructure that implements the architecture, standards and protocols and guidelines specified
in the Target Baseline and provide the required warfighter capabilities and performance. It
specifies the exact laydown and configurations of hardware and software within all facilities in
the AF infrastructure topology.
AFI33-115 16 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                        47


Platform—as-a-Service (PaaS)—A cloud computing platform providing operating systems,
database systems, web servers, security, etc. for hosting of AF unique applications.
Security Incident—An assessed occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an information system; or the information the system
processes, stores, or transmits; or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of
security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies. (CNSSI 4009 - Security
Incident refers to Incident)
Server—A hardware platform (computer) that houses software providing service to other
computers or programs to satisfy client requests and needs.
Service Incident—Any event which is not part of the standard operation of a service and which
causes or may cause an interruption to, or a reduction in, the quality of that service. (ISO 20000
– ITSM definition of Incident) An unplanned interruption to an IT service or reduction in the
quality of an IT service. Failure of a configuration item that has not yet affected service is also an
incident – for example, failure of one disk from a mirror set. (ITIL Version 3 Service Operation)
Service Oriented Architecture—A set of principles and methodologies for designing and
developing software in the form of interoperable services.
Service Request—A request from a user for information, or advice, or for a standard change or
for access to an IT Service. For example to reset a password, or to provide standard IT Services
for a new user. Service Requests are usually handled by a Service Desk, and do not require an
request for change to be submitted. (ITIL Version 3 Service Operation)
Software—as-a-Service (SaaS)—All aspects of standard applications are provided as a cloud
service to the AF.
Special Purpose Processing Node (SPPN)—A fixed data center supporting special purpose
functions that cannot (technically or economically) be supported by CDCs or IPNs due to
association with infrastructure or equipment (e.g., communication and networking,
manufacturing, training, education, meteorology, medical, modeling & simulation, test ranges,
etc.). No general purpose processing or general purpose storage can be provided by or through a
SPPN. SPPNs do not have direct connection to the Global Information Grid (GIG); they must
connect through a CDC or IPN. (DoD CIO memorandum, “Department of Defense Joint
Information Environment: Continental United States Core Data Centers and Application and
System Migration,” 11 July, 2013)
Target Baseline—The Target Baseline specifies the standards, protocols, guidelines and
implementation constraints for the future state of the AFIN infrastructure. It is used to inform
the development of the Implementation Baseline. The Target Baseline is thoroughly
documented and continually updated based upon emerging industry standards and the evolving
AF enterprise architecture.
Unified Capabilities (UC)—The integration of voice, video, and/or data services delivered
ubiquitously across a secure and highly available network infrastructure, independent of
technology, to provide increased mission effectiveness to the warfighter and business
communities. (DODI 8100.04)
User—The individual who operates the computer or uses application software.
