BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1064
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 25 MAY 2006
                                                              Incorporating Change 1, 16 November 2006
                                                                           Certified Current 4 June 2010
                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                                     ELECTRICAL SAFE PRACTICES


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFCESA/CES                                                         Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CC
Supersedes AFI 32-1064, 17 May 2005                                                           Pages: 15

This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities. It
assigns responsibilities to personnel who maintain and operate electrical systems and facilities. Headquar-
ters, Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Engineering Support Directorate (HQ AFCESA/CES) is
the final interpretation authority for definitions and guidance contained in this document. Engineering
Technical Letter (ETL) 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance, and ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) Requirements of High Voltage Overhead Line Work at 69 kV (nominal) or Less, pro-
vides additional safety requirements. Users should send comments and suggested improvements on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through major commands (MAJCOM) to HQ
AFCESA/CES, 139 Barnes Dr, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Air Force
Information Management, and Air Force manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim update to AFI 32-1064 clarifies safe clearance manager responsibilities, supervisor responsi-
bilities for determining safe practices and appropriate PPE, and high-voltage underground/overhead dis-
tribution and transmission line work procedures. A bar ( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Application and Scope. This instruction assigns supervisor responsibilities and provides necessary
guidance to safely build, operate, and maintain electrical distribution systems and equipment. It complies
with AFI 91-301, The Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
Program (AFOSH), and incorporates National Consensus Standards. Other requirements for worker
safety are in ETL 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance.
2                                                                           AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


2. Supervisor Responsibilities.
    2.1. Personal Safety. The most important part of a supervisor’s job is to get the job done safely.
    Supervisors must provide a safe and healthful work environment. Facilities, work areas, equipment,
    and work procedures must comply with safety, fire, and health policies. Each supervisor must be thor-
    oughly familiar with safe working practices, particularly those in ETL 04-15 and applicable standards
    and codes referenced in Attachment 1.
    2.2. Planning and Worker Awareness. Plan the work properly and ensure it is performed safely.
    Review job requirements with the workers and ensure they understand why and how to do the work,
    the hazards they may encounter and how to control them, and the proper procedures for working
    safely.
    2.3. Training Assistance. Provide general and specific safety instructions and training to workers.
    Give personnel the opportunity to attend formal technical schools for training. Make sure each
    employee has access to this instruction and ETL 04-15 and demonstrates satisfactory knowledge
    before performing any task. Document all training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
    Record.
       2.3.1. After initial job safety training, train employees annually on lock out/tag out, safe clear-
       ance, confined spaces entry, manhole, pole top and bucket truck rescue and shop operating
       instructions.
       2.3.2. Train employees weekly on abnormal or hazardous existing conditions (e.g., switches left
       in an abnormal condition or bypassed, broken equipment temporarily fixed, changes to the
       one-line distribution map or schematic diagram, lock out or safe clearance tags left on unfinished
       jobs).
    2.4. Safety Meetings. Make safety briefings interesting and successful by using a variety of aids such
    as safety posters, mock-ups (using the actual equipment where appropriate), pictures, and films. Be
    enthusiastic. As a minimum, cover the following topics:
       2.4.1. Lockout/tagout.
       2.4.2. Selected safety rules (two or three).
       2.4.3. Methods and hazards of jobs in progress.
       2.4.4. Unsafe practices and common causes of mishaps.
       2.4.5. Recent accidents.
       2.4.6. Potential personal injuries.
       2.4.7. Personal protective equipment (PPE).
       2.4.8. Electrical tools.
       2.4.9. Materials handling.
       2.4.10. Good housekeeping.
       2.4.11. Adequate illumination.
       2.4.12. Working on or near machinery.
       2.4.13. Ladders.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                                   3


     2.4.14. Working in elevated positions.
     2.4.15. Lifting and hoisting equipment, including aerial lifts.
     2.4.16. Grounding systems.
     2.4.17. Working in underground facilities (confined spaces).
     2.4.18. Overhead lines.
     2.4.19. First aid.
     2.4.20. Rescue and resuscitation.
  2.5. Specific Job-Related Safety Training.
     2.5.1. Give special attention to hazardous conditions workers may encounter on any new task.
     2.5.2. Instruct employees who must handle poisons, caustics, and other harmful substances in
     their safe handling and potential hazards. Include required personal hygiene and protective mea-
     sures. See paragraph 3. on polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB).
     2.5.3. Instruct employees who work on job sites where harmful plants or animals are present
     regarding potential hazards, how to avoid injury, and relevant first aid.
     2.5.4. Instruct employees who must enter confined or enclosed spaces on hazards and necessary
     precautions. Specific instructions and procedures to enter and work in hazardous or potentially
     hazardous confined spaces must comply with the requirements in AFOSH standard (AFOSHSTD)
     91-25, Confined Spaces. Technical orders or other procedures that incorporate the requirements
     established in the standard are valid and may be used. This training should also include egress
     even if the space is not confined.
     2.5.5. The employee should describe the work assignment and methods.
  2.6. Assigning Tasks. Assign employees to jobs they are capable of doing safely. Permit only quali-
  fied personnel to operate equipment and machinery. Ensure two qualified employees work together
  when high-voltage circuits or energized circuits are present.
  2.7. Job Site Inspection. Frequently inspect job sites, materials, and equipment and ensure unsafe
  items are tagged, rendered inoperative, or removed from the work site. Ensure safe working condi-
  tions and practices. Take action to correct any observed or reported violation of safety rules in this
  instruction. Pay particular attention to safe clearance procedures and practices when working on ener-
  gized lines and equipment. Present safety briefings to workers at the job site. See paragraphs 4. and 5.
  2.8. Work Injuries. Report injuries, even minor ones, to the employee's immediate supervisor as
  directed in AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
  2.9. Mishap Reports. Investigate every mishap involving an injury, property damage, or “near
  misses.” Determine the cause and implement corrective action to prevent recurrence. Notify the wing
  or installation safety staff of all mishaps involving injuries or property damage. Investigate and report
  certain mishaps through safety channels according to AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports.
  Either the supervisor or base safety personnel will perform the investigation.
  2.10. Standards and Codes. Train employees to comply with AFOSH standards and the following
  codes: National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) 70, National Electrical Code (NEC); NFPA 70E,
4                                                                            AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


    Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace; National Electrical Safety Code (NESC or ANSI C2);
    state, local, and host nation codes (see Attachment 1).
    2.11. Protective Equipment. Equip workers properly and train them to use and maintain tools and
    PPE properly. Pay particular attention to rubber insulating protective equipment (rubber gloves,
    sleeves, line hoses, hoods, and covers) and hotline tools. Make sure equipment receives periodic elec-
    trical tests in accordance with applicable American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and Ameri-
    can Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) specifications (see Attachment 1).
    2.12. Scheduling Routine Maintenance. Schedule routine maintenance when disrupting power will
    cause the least inconvenience to all users. Arrange electrical circuits and equipment of the prime
    power source to important facilities to allow efficient performance of routine maintenance tasks with
    minimum outages.
    2.13. First Aid Training. Ensure all electrical personnel (military and civilian) receive training in
    CPR, controlling bleeding, shock management, emergency care of a person having open wounds or
    burns, and using automated external defibrillators.
       2.13.1. Host base medical personnel usually train unit CPR instructors. If the host base cannot
       provide medical personnel, they can arrange for certification of unit personnel through the Amer-
       ican Red Cross or American Heart Association.
       2.13.2. Personnel shall be re-certified annually. Written documentation of recertification is
       required.
       2.13.3. Relevant emergency phone numbers shall be readily available to all personnel.
    2.14. Rescue Training. Train individuals designated by the supervisor for rescuing workers from con-
    fined spaces according to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and AFOSH
    requirements; this includes initial and annual refresher training.
    2.15. Noise Hazards. Ensure all potentially hazardous noise sources are identified to bioenvironmen-
    tal engineering services for evaluation. Ensure all personnel that may be exposed to noise hazards are
    made aware of them and use the controls required by AFOSHSTD 161-20, Hearing Conservation
    Program. To warn workers, post noise hazard warning signs at noise hazard area entry points.
    2.16. System Maintenance. Maintain electrical systems properly so they will continue to operate in a
    safe and effective manner (AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems). Do not authorize or permit alter-
    ations or modifications to equipment or protective device settings without adequate engineering guid-
    ance and study. This shall include removing all obstacles and vegetation that restrict unimpeded
    egress from the work area or ready access to equipment.
    2.17. Technical Data. Make sure current maintenance and operations procedures, diagrams, schemat-
    ics, device settings, fuse sizes, and manuals are available and properly used. Develop them if manu-
    facturers' data are not available; obtain engineering guidance if necessary.
    2.18. Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) Systems. All operators of SCADA sys-
    tems that remotely control electrical distribution systems must have full knowledge of the base distri-
    bution system and thorough understanding of switching procedures. Operators must keep each display
    screen (schematic or map) within the SCADA system up-to-date and all switching points on the
    remote terminal unit accurately identified. Develop local procedures for remote operation of circuit
    breakers and switches to ensure safety of personnel and equipment.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                                    5


   2.19. Safe Clearance. Make sure all workers are thoroughly familiar with and comply with safe clear-
   ance procedures found in NFPA 70E, AFOSH Standard 91-25, or those posted at the job location
   before starting work. See paragraph 4. Do not permit work unless workers follow these procedures.
   2.20. Work on Energized Equipment. Work on energized electrical equipment is prohibited except in
   circumstances when justified to and approved by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE) or equivalent in
   accordance with paragraph 5. Before de-energizing circuits or equipment for routine maintenance or
   repair, the BCE shall:
       2.20.1. Provide a minimum three-day notice to all users who may be affected by the electrical util-
       ity outage. Facility manager approval is not required, but as a courtesy an effort should be made to
       coordinate the outage. Coordinate substation, switch station, or major feeder outages with the util-
       ity provider, giving as much advance notification as possible.
       2.20.2. Assist users with authorized backup power, either through equipment authorization inven-
       tory data or real property installed equipment generators; prepare to run a backup generator during
       the outage if necessary.

3. Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB).
   3.1. Purpose and Limitations. PCB is a class of nonflammable liquid insulation formerly used as a
   transformer liquid dielectric. PCB is a suspected carcinogen and no longer manufactured. Several
   manufacturers distributed PCB under various trade names such as Askarel, Inerteen, Pyranol, Chlor-
   extol, and others.
   3.2. Personal Contact Precautions. Workers should avoid contact with PCBs. If PCB contacts the
   skin, remove it with waterless hand cleaner, wipe with towels, and dispose of towels with other con-
   taminated material. Flush eye thoroughly with water if eye contact occurs and seek further medical
   attention.
   3.3. Cleaning Spills. Clean up PCB spills immediately. Prevent PCB from reaching storm drains,
   sewers, drainage ditches, or any other place where water is flowing. Handle a PCB spill and report it
   according to base and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements. Report a spill through
   the base environmental coordinator.
   3.4. Controlling Equipment Containing PCB. Mark, handle, store, dispose of, and account for equip-
   ment containing PCB according to the latest EPA standards. Contact the base environmental coordina-
   tor for additional information and the latest EPA rulings.

4. Safe Clearance Requirement. Require safe clearance procedures for personnel opening and closing
switches while working on transmission or distribution lines and equipment. Safe clearance procedures
are necessary to clear lines and equipment for work in the deenergized condition. Safe clearance will
include locking out switches, breakers, or other controlling devices when necessary. Mishap prevention
tags, completing and posting energized work permits, and grounding provide additional warning and
safety if lockout is not possible because of equipment design; however, if a circuit cannot be locked out, a
qualified worker must remain at the controlling device while work is being conducted. No individual may
work on lines or equipment until all safety requirements are met.
   4.1. Safe Clearance Responsibilities.
6                                                                            AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


       4.1.1. The safe clearance manager, who is designated by the BCE, will issue a written safe clear-
       ance as required. The safe clearance manager will arrange for interruption of service, must have
       knowledge of the base distribution system, and notify the utility company supplying power to the
       installation before performing any operation that may affect the utility company's system.
       An on-site supervisor may also perform the duty of Safe Clearance Manager or Switching Super-
       visor, (person receiving safe clearance), but never both. The Safe Clearance Manager and person
       receiving the safe clearance (Switching Supervisor) must never be one and the same.
       4.1.2. Develop local procedures for proper switching, blocking, tagging, and lockout when
       switching by remote control, such as the SCADA system. Depending on the type of SCADA sys-
       tem, each software manufacturer will have different protocols to identify and issue tag orders for
       equipment or switchgear being worked on. Each worker and system operator must fully under-
       stand local procedures; local procedures must be accessible or available in the work area. Physi-
       cally verify all SCADA-issued commands for opening and lockout before beginning work. When
       working on equipment with local control capability, the technician should take control from the
       SCADA operator and notify the operator when the equipment is returned to normal operation. The
       operator must issue blocking orders and attach messages stating the reason for the condition and
       estimated restoration time.
    4.2. Switching and Blocking Procedures. The Switching Supervisor (person receiving AF Form
    269 from the Safe Clearance Manager) ensures workers accomplish switching, blocking, and tagging
    operations in the sequence specified on AF Form 269, Electrical Facilities Safe Clearance. When
    work is completed, operations shall begin only when authorized by the Safe Clearance Manager and
    will be performed in the reverse order. For instance, if a detail of switching, blocking, and tagging
    reads, "Open Switch No. 501 and Attach Danger Tag," the opposite operation is "Remove Danger Tag
    and Close Switch No. 501." Annotate the form with the date and time. Do not operate switches bear-
    ing AF Form 979, Danger Tag, or AF Form 982, Danger Tag: Do Not Start, under any circum-
    stances without specific authorization from the operations flight chief. Notify the SCADA systems
    operator before operating remotely operated or monitored circuit-opening devices. The "local-remote"
    switch must be blocked in the position which disables remote operation. Notify the operator when
    work is complete and remote operation is safe.
    4.3. Tagging Procedures. “Tagging” is placing an appropriate tag directly on the circuit opening
    device. Apply tags and lock out the energy control device to ensure safety and prevent unauthorized
    personnel from altering device positions. Before beginning work on a line or equipment, place danger
    tags in a conspicuous place upon opening a switch, disconnects, cutouts, primary jumpers, or break-
    ers.
    4.4. Underground Distribution Systems. Block the switch mechanically and lock and tag the handle
    on underground distribution systems when it is not practical to provide a visible line break. Always
    use AF Form 979; AF Form 980, Caution Tag; and AF Form 982 under a safe clearance (AF Form
    269), except when working on secondary lines or equipment. Do not use AF Form 269 when applying
    AF Forms 979, 980, and 982 on secondary lines or equipment.
    4.5. Grounding Lines and Equipment. Before touching for work, always check all deenergized trans-
    mission and distribution lines and equipment, test for voltage, and ground. Treat all lines not grounded
    as energized. For definitions of transmission and distribution voltages, see Attachment 1.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                                      7


5. Energized Circuits. When energized work is deemed absolutely necessary, it should be accomplished
with extreme caution and only when the basic energized work procedures listed in the following para-
graphs are followed and reviewed with all personnel immediately before starting. Furthermore, if any
potential environmental, safety and health, operational, fiscal or mission risks are associated with working
on energized circuits, the base/wing Staff Judge Advocate shall be notified and consulted. Such risks may
also create potential legal liabilities for the Air Force and Air Force personnel.
   5.1. Electrical Work Less than 600 Volts (V) and Not In Manholes. Work on or near energized
   electrical equipment less than 600 V is prohibited except in rare circumstances and then only when
   approved by the BCE or equivalent. Authorization is not required for tasks such as voltage measure-
   ment on circuits operating less than 600 V, as long as maintenance or repair is not performed and safe
   practices and appropriate PPE are used. Safe practices and appropriate PPE are determined by the
   qualified site supervisor who shall follow applicable AFOSH, HQ AFCESA ETL, UFC, and NFPA
   70E, Article 130 guidance.
       5.1.1. The BCE must approve energized work in advance.
       5.1.2. Use two-person teams to perform work.
       5.1.3. A qualified supervisor must be consulted and must approve any plan to work on energized
       equipment and ensure proper use of PPE.
       5.1.4. The energized work permit must be prepared in advance and as a minimum include:
           5.1.4.1. Description of work and location.
           5.1.4.2. Description of work practices to be followed.
           5.1.4.3. An electrical shock analysis and boundaries (safe working distance).
           5.1.4.4. Arc flash hazard analysis and flash boundary determination.
           5.1.4.5. Necessary PPE to safely perform the task, i.e., arc flash, shock, or other required PPE.
           5.1.4.6. Means to restrict access by unqualified persons in work area.
           5.1.4.7. An emergency egress plan in the event of an emergency.
           5.1.4.8. Evidence of completing the job briefing, i.e., safety, tools, PPE, any other hazards.
       5.1.5. Place special emphasis on PPE and appropriate supervision. Proper supervision, training,
       and planning are paramount to ensure safety.
       5.1.6. Conventional circuit de-energizing/re-energizing methods (i.e., turning off/on a switch,
       opening and closing switches, or operating circuit breakers/disconnects) for the purpose of isolat-
       ing circuits is considered performing "energized work" and all the procedures of paragraph 5.
       above shall be followed; however, for the purposes of this paragraph, BCE approval is granted
       through a written safe clearance form in accordance with paragraph 4.
   5.2. Overhead/Underground Line Work Greater Than 600 V, But Less Than 34.5 Kilovolts
   (kV). Work on or near energized distribution lines is prohibited except in rare circumstances and then
   only when approved by the BCE or equivalent in accordance with procedures outlined in the follow-
   ing paragraphs. Authorization is not required for tasks such as voltage measurement, as long as main-
   tenance or repair is not performed and safe practices and appropriate PPE are used. Safe practices and
8                                                                            AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


    appropriate PPE are determined by the qualified site supervisor who shall follow applicable AFOSH,
    HQ AFCESA ETL, UFC, and NFPA 70E, Article 130 guidance.
       5.2.1. The BCE must approve energized work in advance based upon an acceptable operational
       risk management (ORM) analysis prepared by the operations flight chief in accordance with AFI
       90-901, Operational Risk Management, and AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management
       (ORM) Guidelines And Tools.
       5.2.2. Use two-person teams to perform work.
       5.2.3. A qualified supervisor must be consulted and approve any plan to work on energized equip-
       ment and ensure proper use of PPE.
       5.2.4. The energized work permit must be prepared in advance and as a minimum include:
           5.2.4.1. Description of work and location.
           5.2.4.2. Description of work practices to be followed.
           5.2.4.3. An electrical shock analysis and boundaries (safe working distance).
           5.2.4.4. Arc flash hazard analysis and flash boundary determination.
           5.2.4.5. Necessary PPE to safely perform the task, i.e., arc flash, shock, or other required PPE
           in accordance with NFPA 70E and, if applicable for overhead line work, ETL 06-9, Arc Flash
           Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High Voltage Overhead Line Work at
           69 kV (nominal) or Less.
           5.2.4.6. Means to restrict access by unqualified persons in the work area.
           5.2.4.7. An emergency egress plan in the event of an emergency.
           5.2.4.8. Evidence of completing the job briefing, i.e., safety, tools, PPE, any other hazards.
           5.2.4.9. The ORM analysis shall be kept with the energized work permit and retained for a
           period of one year following completion of the work.
       5.2.5. Place special emphasis on PPE and appropriate supervision. Proper supervision and plan-
       ning are paramount to ensure safety.
       5.2.6. Conventional circuit de-energizing/re-energizing methods (i.e., turning off/on a switch,
       opening and closing switches, or operating circuit breakers/disconnects) for the purpose of isolat-
       ing circuits is considered performing "energized work" and all the procedures of paragraph 5. shall
       be followed; however, for the purposes of this paragraph, BCE approval is granted through a writ-
       ten safe clearance form in accordance with paragraph 4.
       5.2.7. Supervision. While the job is in progress, an on-site supervisor must closely supervise the
       workers, checking them constantly to make sure they are in safe working positions, handling tools
       safely, and complying with the energized work permit.
    5.3. Overhead/Underground Line Work between 34.5 kV and 69 kV. Work on or near energized
    distribution/transmission lines greater than 34.5 kV is prohibited except in rare circumstances and
    only when justified through a documented ORM analysis approved by the BCE or equivalent in accor-
    dance with procedures outlined in the following paragraphs.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                                    9


     5.3.1. The BCE must approve energized work in advance based upon an acceptable ORM analy-
     sis prepared by the operations flight chief in accordance with AFI 90-901 and AFPAM 90-902.
     5.3.2. Use two-person teams to perform work.
     5.3.3. A qualified supervisor must be consulted and must approve any plan to work on energized
     equipment and ensure proper use of PPE.
     5.3.4. The energized work permit must be prepared in advance and as a minimum include:
         5.3.4.1. Description of work and location.
         5.3.4.2. Description of work practices to be followed.
         5.3.4.3. An electrical shock analysis and boundaries (safe working distance).
         5.3.4.4. Arc flash hazard analysis and flash boundary determination.
         5.3.4.5. Necessary PPE to safely perform the task, i.e., arc flash, shock, or other required PPE
         in accordance with NFPA 70E and, if applicable for overhead line work, ETL 06-9, Arc Flash
         Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High Voltage Overhead Line Work at
         69 kV (nominal) or Less.
         5.3.4.6. Means to restrict access of unqualified persons in work area.
         5.3.4.7. An emergency egress plan in the event of an emergency.
         5.3.4.8. Evidence of completing the job briefing, i.e., safety, tools, PPE, any other hazards.
         5.3.4.9. The ORM analysis shall be retained with the energized work permit for a period of
         one year following completion of the work.
     5.3.5. Place special emphasis on PPE and appropriate supervision. Proper supervision and plan-
     ning are paramount to ensure safety.
     5.3.6. Conventional circuit de-energizing/re-energizing methods (i.e., turning off/on a switch,
     opening and closing switches, or operating circuit breakers/disconnects) for the purpose of isolat-
     ing circuits is considered performing "energized work" and all the procedures of paragraph 5. shall
     be followed; however, for the purposes of this paragraph, BCE approval is granted through a writ-
     ten safe clearance form in accordance with paragraph 4.
     5.3.7. Supervision. While the job is in progress, an on-site supervisor must closely supervise the
     workers, checking them constantly to make sure they are in safe working positions, handling tools
     safely, and complying with the energized work permit.
  5.4. Electrical Work in Manholes. Work on or near energized electrical equipment in manholes is
  extremely dangerous and prohibited except when justified to and approved by the BCE or equivalent
  in accordance with the following paragraphs. All manhole electrical circuits shall be completely
  de-energized before starting any troubleshooting, maintenance or repair action within the manhole,
  unless justified to and approved by the BCE or equivalent in accordance with the following para-
  graphs. Entering a manhole for the purpose of examining insulated cable, equipment, or accomplish-
  ing other inspections not requiring touching or disturbing the energized conductors or equipment is
  permitted, but requires wear of minimum Hazard/Risk Category 2 arc flash PPE (NFPA 70E) and
  compliance with other confined space requirements (AFOSHSTD 91-25).
     5.4.1. The BCE must approve energized work in advance, and:
10                                                                           AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


          5.4.1.1. Prepare an ORM analysis detailing the rationale and energized work procedures to be
          followed while working in the manhole (information copy to the MAJCOM electrical engi-
          neer; Air Force Safety Center, Engineering and Standards Branch [HQ AFSC/SEGS]; and Air
          Force Civil Engineer Support Agency, Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Division [HQ AFC-
          ESA/CESM]). Follow guidance in AFI 90-901 and AFPAM 90-902.
          5.4.1.2. Absolutely no work shall be accomplished on energized circuits in standing water.
          5.4.1.3. Bases shall retain the electrical manhole ORM analysis with the energized work per-
          mit for a period of one year following completion of the work.
       5.4.2. Use three-person teams to perform work (two people in the manhole and one aboveground
       spotter).
       5.4.3. A qualified supervisor must be consulted and approve any plan to work on energized equip-
       ment and ensure proper use of PPE.
       5.4.4. The energized work permit must be prepared in advance and as a minimum include:
          5.4.4.1. Description of work and location.
          5.4.4.2. Description of work practices to be followed.
          5.4.4.3. Electrical shock analysis and boundaries (safe working distance).
          5.4.4.4. Arc flash hazard analysis and flash boundary determination.
          5.4.4.5. Necessary PPE to safely perform the task, i.e., arc flash, shock, or other required PPE.
          5.4.4.6. Options and means to restrict access by unqualified persons in the work area.
          5.4.4.7. Option and means to rescue incapacitated workers.
          5.4.4.8. Description of compliance action and/or methods with AFOSHSTD 91-25.
          5.4.4.9. Evidence of completing the job briefing, i.e., safety, tools, PPE, any other hazards,
          and ORM assessment.
       5.4.5. Place special emphasis on PPE and appropriate supervision. Proper supervision and plan-
       ning are paramount to ensure safety.
       5.4.6. Conventional circuit de-energizing/re-energizing methods (i.e., turning off/on a switch,
       opening and closing switches, or operating circuit breakers/disconnects) for the purpose of isolat-
       ing circuits is considered performing "energized work" and all the procedures of paragraph 5. shall
       be followed; however, for the purposes of this paragraph, BCE approval is granted through a writ-
       ten safe clearance form in accordance with paragraph 4.

6. Form Prescribed. Safe clearance procedures require the use of AF Form 269, Electrical Facilities
Safe Clearance.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                  11


7. Forms Adopted: AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record; AF Form 979, Danger Tag;
AF Form 980, Caution Tag; and AF Form 982, Danger Tag: Do Not Start.



                                       DONALD J. WETEKAM, Lt General, USAF
                                       DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
12                                                                      AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFPD 33-1, Information Management
AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports
AFI 91-301, The Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management (ORM) Guidelines And Tools
AFOSH Standard 48-8, Controlling Exposures to Hazardous Materials
AFOSH Standard 91-10, Civil Engineering
AFOSH Standard 91-25, Confined Spaces
AFOSH Standard 91-50, Communications Cable, Antenna and Communications–Electronic (C-E) Sys-
tems
AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
AFOSH Standard 161-20, Hearing Conservation Program
ETL 04-15, Electrical Safety Guidance
DELETED ETL 06-1, Arc Flash Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High Voltage
Overhead Line Work at 69 kV (nominal) or Less
ETL 06-9, Arc Flash Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Requirements for High Voltage Overhead
Line Work at 69 kV (nominal) or Less
ANSI C2, National Electrical Safety Code
ANSI/ASTM D120, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Gloves
ANSI/ASTM D178, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Switchboard Matting
ANSI/ASTM D1048, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Blankets
ANSI/ASTM D1049, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Insulator Covers
ANSI/ASTM D1050, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Line Hose
ANSI/ASTM D1051, Standard Specification for Rubber Insulating Sleeves
ANSI/ASTM F478, Standard Specification for Inservice Care of Insulating Line Hose and Covers
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                              13


ANSI/ASTM F496, Standard Specification for Inservice Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves
NFPA 70, National Electric Code
NFPA 70E, Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
BCE—base civil engineer
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
kV—kilovolt
MAJCOM—major command
NFPA—National Fire Protection Agency
ORM—operational risk management
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PCB—polychlorinated biphenyls
PPE—personal protective equipment
SCADA—Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
V—volt

Terms
Approved—Sanctioned, endorsed, accredited, certified, or accepted as satisfactory by a duly constituted
and nationally recognized authority or agency.
Authorized Person—A person approved or assigned by a supervisor to perform a specific duty or duties
or to be at a specific location or locations at the job site.
Blocking—Placing a switch in the open or closed position and mechanically ensuring the position of the
switch cannot be accidentally changed.
Cable—A conductor with insulation or a stranded conductor with or without insulation and other
coverings (single conductor cable or a combination of conductors) insulated from one another (multiple
conductor cable). NOTE: A cable sheath may consist of multiple layers of which one or more are
conductive.
14                                                                              AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006


Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—An emergency medical procedure that includes opening and
maintaining an airway, providing ventilation through rescue breathing, and providing artificial circulation
through the use of external cardiac compression.
Certified or Certification—The accomplishment of curriculum as specified in this instruction.
Circuit—For purposes of this instruction, a conductor or system of conductors through which an electric
current is intended to flow.
Circuit Breaker—A device to open and close a circuit and to open the circuit automatically at a
predetermined overload of current, without injury to itself, when properly applied within its rating.
Conductor—Material (typically a wire, cable, or bus bar) for carrying an electric current. NOTE: This
term is used only in reference to current-carrying parts that are sometimes alive (energized).
Energized—Electrically connected to or having a source of voltage.
Equipment—General term which includes fittings, devices, appliances, fixtures, apparatus, and like
items used as part of, or in connection with, an electrical power transmission and distribution system, or
communication systems.
-      Equipment - Climbing. Includes body belts, safety and climber straps, climbers and ladders.
-      Equipment - Electrical Inspecting and Testing. Electrical and mechanical devices such
as voltmeters, ammeters, ohmmeters, phase meters, and similar devices.
-      Mobile and Portable - Large Equipment. Relatively large equipment items easily transported for
maintenance, including line trucks, aerial lift trucks, motor-generator sets, pole hole diggers, and similar
apparatus.
-       Equipment - Protective. Includes rubber gloves, line hose, matting, blankets, insulator hoods,
 and sleeves, in addition to barricades and warning devices.
Limited Approach Boundary—An approach limit at a distance from an exposed live part within which
a shock hazard exists.
Live (Energized) (parts)—Energized conductive components. Electrically connected to a source of
potential difference or electrically charged to have a potential significantly difference from the earth in the
vicinity. The term "live" is sometimes used in place of the term "current carrying" where the intent is clear
to avoid repetition of the longer term.
Live Line (Hotline) Work—Maintenance of energized high voltage electrical conductors or equipment
using approved hotline tools and rubber protective goods.
Mishap—An unplanned or unsought event or series of events that results in death, injury, or occupational
illness or damage to or loss of equipment or property.
Qualified—One who has the skills and knowledge related to the construction and operation of the
electrical equipment and installations and has received safety training on the hazards involved.
Supervisor—Refers to the supervisor of "employees or workers" as used in this instruction. Generally
includes the supervisor responsible for exterior electrical systems, the zone supervisor or foreman, and the
infrastructure support element supervisor. Titles are necessary to assign specific responsibilities to a
specific individual.
AFI32-1064 25 MAY 2006                                                                                     15


Switch—A device for opening and closing or changing the connection of a circuit. In this instruction, the
term is generic for all oil circuit breakers, air switches, network protectors, disconnects (either fusible or
plain), hot clamps, and other devices which open an electrical circuit.
Tag—A system or method of identifying circuits, systems, or equipment being worked on.
Tagging—Placing a safety tag directly on a circuit opening device or equipment for additional safety to
ensure it is not used or its position altered.
Tags—Temporary signs (usually attached to a piece of equipment or part of a structure) to warn of
existing or immediate danger.
Voltage—The effective root mean square (RMS) potential difference between any two conductors or
between a conductor and ground. Voltages are usually listed as nominal values. The nominal voltage of a
system or circuit is the value assigned to a system or circuit of a given voltage class to provide a
convenient nomenclature. The operating voltage of the system may vary above or below this value.
−      Secondary Voltage. Lines and equipment operating at and below 600 V (nominal phase-to-phase).
−      Distribution Voltage. Lines and equipment operating above 600 V (nominal phase-to-phase) up to
and including 36 kV (nominal phase-to-phase).
−      Transmission Voltage. Lines and equipment operating above 36 kV (nominal phase-to-phase).
−      Low Voltage. Lines and equipment operating at and below 600 V (nominal phase-to-phase).
−      High Voltage. Lines and equipment operating above 600 V (nominal phase-to-phase).
Working Near (live parts)—Any activity inside a Limited Approach Boundary.
Working On (live parts)—Coming in contact with live parts with the hands, feet, or other body parts,
with tools, probes, or with test equipment, regardless of the PPE a person is wearing.
