BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 34-116
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 24 JUNE 2011
                                                               KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                              20 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                        Services

                                                    AIR FORCE GOLF COURSE PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFSVA/SVPCR                                                        Certified by: AF/A1S
                                                                      (Brig Gen Eden J. Murrie)
Supersedes:AFI 34-116, 1 February                                                      Pages: 34
           1996, AFMAN 34-130,
           1 November 1995
                                 (KIRTLANDAFB)
OPR: 377 FSS/FSC                                                       Certified by: 377 FSS/CL
                                                                          (Ms. Nanci Wildman)
Supersedes:   SVBG Operating Instruction                                                 Pages:7
              (OI), 34-116, 15 March 2008


This instruction provides guidance and procedures for Air Force golf programs. It is applicable
to all active duty and the Air Force Reserve Command units. It is not applicable to the Air
National Guard. This publication may be supplemented, but all direct Supplements must be
routed to the OPR of this publication prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records             Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)           located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

(KIRTLANDAFB) This publication supplements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-116, Air
Force Golf Course Program. It pertains to any unit, organization, group, person or persons to
 2                                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


include but not limited to; 377th Air Base Wing and associate units, active duty, reserve and
retired military personnel, and Kirtland civilian Department of Defense (DoD) personnel and the
use of the Tijeras Arroyo Golf Course on Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) subject to the
jurisdiction of the Commander, 377th Air Base Wing (377 ABW/CC). This publication applies
to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units/personnel if
within the confines of KAFB. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at AFRIMS. This publication
may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended. Requests for waivers must be
submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
consolidates AFI 34-116, Air Force Golf Course Program with AFMAN 34-130, Air Force Golf
Course Program Management. This publication applies to the Force Support Squadron and any
new flight/division/branch names associated with the merger at base or higher HQ levels.

(KIRTLANDAFB) All information previously published as an Operating Instruction has been
transitioned as a supplement. This document has been updated to reflect the new guidance in
AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I, Publications and Forms Management.

       1.     Program. .................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................              6
       3.     Golf Shop Operations. ...........................................................................................             8
       4.     Golf Course. ...........................................................................................................     10
       5.     Snack Bar Operations. ...........................................................................................            16
       6.     Driving Range Operations. ....................................................................................               18
       7.     Golf Course Maintenance and Carts. .....................................................................                     19
       8.     Administration .......................................................................................................       24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             28

Attachment 2—ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED TO CONTRACT-OUT
             A GOLF COURSE                                                                                                                 32

Attachment 2—(KIRTLANDAFB) LIGHTNING SAFETY PROCEDURES FOR COURSE
             MAINTENANCE WORKERS                                                                                                           34
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                       3


1. Program.
   1.1. Program Objectives. Air Force golf courses are MWR activities providing a
   recreational outlet to enhance the mental and physical well-being of Air Force members and
   their families. Golf courses offer other services such as retail, snack bars, rental equipment,
   and instructional programs. Golf Course Operations Chiefs and their staffs offer their
   customers quality programs and facilities.
   1.2. Program Funding. Nonappropriated funds (NAFs) are the primary funding source for
   Air Force golf courses and are supported according to AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated
   Funds. Appropriated fund (APF) support is authorized in AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund
   Support of Morale, Welfare and Recreation Programs (MWR) and Nonappropriated Fund
   Instrumentalities( NAFIS), for certain indirect APF support to all locations and some direct
   APF support to those locations classified as remote and isolated by the Office of Secretary of
   Defense (OSD).
   1.3. Program Participation. Follow the procedures in AFI 34-262, Services Programs and
   Use Eligibility, to establish eligibility, priority requirements, and approval authority for
   personnel using Air Force golf facilities.
   1.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Program Participation. Eligibility to use the golf course, pro
   shop, and snack bar are as stated in AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
   (MWR) Programs and Use Eligibility, Attachment 2 and IAW AFI 34-262, para 3.1.1.2.
   Priority of play will be given to foursomes. The pro shop employee may, at his/her
   discretion, and depending on the amount of play, allow threesomes, twosomes, and singles to
   play on busy days, until all tee times have expired. Family members under the age of 12
   must be accompanied by an adult when playing on the course, including practice greens and
   practice areas. Children under the age of eight (8) are not permitted on the course at any
   time, unless certified by the golf course manager as qualified to play.
      1.3.1. Tournaments or events sponsored by non-DoD organizations are not permitted
      without advance approval in accordance with AFI 34-262. Such usage is approved only
      if the approving authority determines on an individual basis each event or program
      benefits the Air Force by contributing to overall community relations. If the event is
      conducted as a fund-raising event, it must meet the requirements of AFI 36-3101,
      Fundraising Within the Air Force and AFI 34-223 Private Organizations (PO) Program.
      The following public use programs are authorized, provided they meet the above criteria:
          1.3.1.1. Annual base open house where all base facilities are open to the public.
          1.3.1.2. Base-hosted or co-hosted events connected with national, state, city, or local
          tournaments sponsored by non-DoD organizations with which Air Force personnel
          are affiliated.
          1.3.1.3. Events to support on- and off-base schools.
          1.3.1.4. Base sponsored invitational golf events involving both eligible DoD
          personnel and non-DoD civilians.
          1.3.1.4. (KIRTLANDAFB) Requests for tournament outings must be received by
          written application to the manager and must have military sponsorship. Tournaments
          will normally be scheduled Monday through Friday.
4                                      AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


              1.3.1.4.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Tournaments must have a minimum
              participation of 40 players. A nonrefundable deposit of $50.00 is due ten days
              prior to the event. Management may cancel scheduled tournaments if the
              minimum of 40 players is not met. Shotgun starts will be approved for groups of
              72 players or more with a nonrefundable deposit of $100.00. Deposits will be
              applied to final bills.
              1.3.1.4.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) All food and beverages consumed in the
              clubhouse or on the golf course must be purchased through the golf course snack
              bar, refreshment cart, or vending machines. No outside food or beverages may be
              brought on the course unless otherwise approved by the manager.
       1.3.2. Use of Air Force facilities as outlined above and any use not listed require written
       statements from the owners or operators of local civilian golf facilities within 10 miles or
       30 commuting minutes stating they do not object. Other areas of concern about
       participation are:
          1.3.2.1. Do not use NAFs to subsidize the programs addressed above.
          1.3.2.2. Prohibit the free use of facilities or the purchase of trophies or other related
          items from NAFs for these types of events. Exception: When holding reciprocal
          rotational events provided the installation commander approves each event.
          1.3.2.3. Generating income for Force Support activities supported by the base
          Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Fund (MWRF) are not used as justification to
          conduct these programs.
          1.3.2.4. Golf tournaments and prizes for golf tournaments must follow United States
          Golf Association (USGA) guidelines and rules (paragraph 3.3 Merchandise Gift
          Certificates).
    1.4. Junior Golf Programs.
       1.4.1. As a standard, junior lessons must be offered on an annual basis. As a further
       development of a junior golf program, Golf Course Operations Chiefs should establish a
       year-long structured junior golf program (up to ages 17), where potential participation
       warrants. When offering a junior program, consider the following:
          1.4.1.1. Provide group or individual lessons at affordable rates.
          1.4.1.2. Include golf rules, etiquette, and life skills teachings.
          1.4.1.3. Include supervised play on the course as part of the lesson program.
          1.4.1.4. Consider a seasonal period or a time and day during the week to allow
          juniors the opportunity to play on the golf course at a special rate.
          1.4.1.5. Include tournaments, banquets, awards, and special competitions.
          1.4.1.6. Offer at least one league and/or family event per year.
          1.4.1.7. Instructors for junior golf programs are required to have an Installation
          Record Check through Security Forces.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                         5


         1.4.1.8. With installation commander’s approval, provide agreed upon support for the
         high school golf team program.
  1.5. Intramural Play. The golf course manager and the fitness center director will
  coordinate an intramural program.
  1.5. (KIRTLANDAFB) Intramural Play. From May through August, KAFB intramural
  teams will play each Tuesday and Thursday afternoon. They will have priority on the course.
  Participants who do not pay annual green fees will purchase a daily green fee ticket prior to
  reporting to the starter. Participants who are late for their tee time will forfeit their match as
  outlined in league rules.
     1.5.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ladies Golf Association. Each Thursday morning is
     reserved for play of the Ladies Golf Association. Should a holiday fall on Thursday, play
     will be changed to the preceding Wednesday.
     1.5.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Retired League. Each Wednesday morning is
     reserved for play of the Retired League. Should a holiday fall on Wednesday, play will
     be changed to the preceding Tuesday.
  1.6. Lessons and Clinics.
     1.6.1. Professional golf instruction must be offered.
     1.6.2. Monitor the golf instruction by a Professional Golfers Association (PGA)
     registered professional.
     1.6.3. It is highly recommended at least one professional on staff be a PGA member,
     registered in the PGA’s Professional Golf Management (PGM) program, or is in the
     process of applying for the PGM. Contractors are not considered staff members.
     1.6.4. Hire golf professionals on an individual service contract as outlined in AFMAN
     64-302, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting Procedures. The following guidelines apply
     when hiring an instructor under an individual service contract:
         1.6.4.1. Do not give individual service contractors rights or privileges for use of the
         facility other than required for providing the contracted service.
         1.6.4.2. If an individual service contract is awarded to a person employed at the golf
         facility, that person will perform the contracted services during nonscheduled
         working hours only. In these cases, the requirements of DOD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics
         Regulation must be satisfied. Golf Course Operations Chiefs or assistant managers
         cannot teach on an individual service contract.
     1.6.5. All fees charged for golf lessons are collected and accounted for through the golf
     shop cash register or point of sale system (POS).
  1.7. Golf Advisory Committee. This is an optional committee. The purpose of the Golf
  Advisory Committee is to make recommendations on local play, programs, course rules of
  etiquette, and course maintenance to the golf course manager with the sole aim of improving
  the golf operation for all players.
     1.7.1. The Golf Course Operations Chief recommends committee members for the Force
     Support Squadron Commander’s/Director’s approval. The committee represents a cross
 6                                       AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


        section of players and includes the golf course manager, the greens superintendent, a
        PGA registered professional, the flight chief, one representative from each of the men’s
        and ladies’ golf association, one active duty senior grade officer, one DoD civilian
        employee, one junior grade officer, one senior enlisted, one junior enlisted, and one
        retired military person. Other members are at the discretion of the golf course manager.
        The senior ranking active duty member chairs the committee.
     1.8. Other Programs. Establish consistent and ongoing programs to assure a viable
     operation meeting the needs and demands of customers.
        1.8.1. Hold a least a total of six special sales annually during holidays or special
        occasion days such as Father's/Mother's Day.
        1.8.2. Offer a yearly golf lesson program to senior citizens and retirees.
        1.8.3. Conduct at least one golf course organized tournament monthly during the golf
        season.
        1.8.4. Offer an annual family golf program or family golf instruction.
        1.8.5. Conduct a golf club equipment demo day annually as a minimum.
        1.8.6. Develop, organize, and conduct one new program or event annually.
        1.8.7. As a minimum, utilize the current Air Force Services developed introduction to
        golf programs for adults and juniors.
     1.9. Gaming Machines. Amusement machines that reward participants are not permitted
     except where authorized in overseas locations.
     1.10. Gambling or Lottery-Like Tournaments. Events or programs involving gambling
     or lotteries like “Calcutta” tournaments are prohibited. The USGA Policy on gambling
     guidelines are followed at all Air Force courses. AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund
     Financial Management and Accounting, outlines procedures for cash awards at Air Force-
     sponsored events.
2. Roles and Responsibilities
     2.1. Headquarters United States Air Force, Director of Services (HQ USAF/A1S)
     develops policy and provides oversight of golf operations.
        2.1.1. Oversees golf operations.
        2.1.2. Allocates resources.
     2.2. Headquarters Air            Force   Services    Agency–Golf       Program   Manager
     (HQ AFSVA/SVPCR).
        2.2.1. Provides golf procedural guidance and operational technical advice.
        2.2.2. Performs staff assistance visits to installation golf courses as requested by the
        MAJCOM’s.
        2.2.3. Trains MAJCOM staff and installation-level Gold Course Operations Chiefs on
        operational and technical procedures.
        2.2.4. Reviews major golf program construction and renovation projects.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                     7


     2.2.5. Provides turf management expertise and turf management staff assistance visits.
     2.2.6. Maintains a golf course web site.
  2.3. Headquarters Air Force Services Agency–Air Force NAF Purchasing Office
  (AFNAFPO) (HQ AFSVA/SVC).
     2.3.1. AFNAFPO formulates and oversees NAF contracting procedures throughout the
     Air Force.
     2.3.2. Manages the Commanders’ Smart Buy program.
     2.3.3. Provides direct or individual support for NAF requirements exceeding installation-
     level warrant authority.
  2.4. MAJCOM/A1S. Conducts training and staff assistance visits as required.
     2.4.1. Requests HQ AFSVA to supplement staff assistance visits as needed.
     2.4.2. Visits installations periodically to help and advise with golf issues.
     2.4.3. Assists with training and program funding.
  2.5. Installation Commander.
     2.5.1. Ensures installations operate golf facilities according to the Air Force and
     MAJCOM policies and guidance.
     2.5.2. Assures the golf course meets the needs of the community.
     2.5.3. Approves the use of the golf course by non-DoD personnel as outlined in AFI 34-
     262.
     2.5.4. Approves tee time policy.
  2.6. Force Support Squadron Commander/Director.
     2.6.1. Ensures the community services flight chief complies with the guidance outlined
     in this AFI.
     2.6.2. Sets resale merchandise inventory levels (as a dollar amount) for golf course golf
     shops and approves merchandise markdowns below cost and acts on the
     recommendations of the NAF Council, when applicable.
     2.6.3. Ensures compliance with the Commanders’ Smart Buy Program.
     2.6.4. Approves operating instructions for the golf course operation.
     2.6.5. Reviews fees and charges.
     2.6.6. Approves Golf Advisory Council Committee members.
     2.6.7. Approves merchandise return policy.
  2.7. Community Services Flight Chief.
     2.7.1. Recommends merchandise return policy.
     2.7.2. Reviews fees and charges.
     2.7.3. Reviews tee time policies.
 8                                      AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


        2.7.4. Ensures 5-year plan is completed.
        2.7.5. Reviews operating budget, market plan, and business plan
     2.8. Chief, Golf Course Operations.
        2.8.1. Supervises golf facility programs and employees.
        2.8.2. Provides employee training and assists in career development.
        2.8.3. Prepares required financial, program, facility, and equipment reports.
        2.8.4. Protects assets    and recommends        resale inventory levels      to   the FSS
        Commander/Director.
        2.8.5. Approves merchandise markdowns (but not below cost).
        2.8.6. Develops an annual marketing plan.
        2.8.7. Develops a 5-year facility and equipment requirements plan, purchasing plan,
        annual program, marketing and training plans, and APF/NAF budgets (as appropriate)
        and updates as required.
        2.8.8. Uses marketing research tools, i.e., customer feedback surveys, to determine the
        size and share of the golf market for the installation, identify potential market increases,
        and plan improvements aimed at increasing program participation.
        2.8.9. Develops rain check policies.
        2.8.10. Uses the Commanders’ Smart Buy program as the primary source of supply
        (except as otherwise required) for acquiring products/service.
        2.8.11. Complies with Essential Products Program. EPP is part of Commander’s Smart
        Buy Program.
        2.8.12. Executes programs, tournaments, and instructional programs.
3. Golf Shop Operations.
     3.1. Golf Shop. Sales are restricted to active duty military, retired military, reservists, and
     DoD civilians overseas. APF and NAF civilian personnel employed by Force Support, and
     their family members, may purchase goods and services from their respective activities,
     without restrictions, (not Base Exchanges), where not prohibited by status of forces or other
     country to country agreements. DoD employees assigned to the base and guests of
     authorized patrons may buy convenience merchandise incidental to daily participation, as per
     AFI 34-262, Table A2.2, paragraph A2.5.
        3.1.1. Golf shop inventory turnover rate and cost of goods must be in accordance with
        the Air Force Golf Standards, found at the Air Forces Services web site. The Force
        Support Squadron Commander/ Director must approve golf shop merchandise discounted
        below cost. Refer to AFI 34-209. Guidance on free items received from vendors for
        resale or special occasions are found in AFMAN 34-214, Procedures for
        Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting.
        3.1.2. Use the Air Force Nonappropriated Fund Purchasing Office (AFNAFPO)
        Commanders’ Smart Buy Program Golf Program as a guide in purchasing merchandise
        and equipment.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                   9


     3.1.3. The Chief, Golf Course Operations:
        3.1.3.1. Develops an annual merchandise plan including purchases, sales, pricing
        strategies, promotions, profit margin goals, and a training program for golf shop
        employees to actively sell golf merchandise.
        3.1.3.2. Establishes a refund policy for merchandise return that is approved by the
        Force Support Commander/Director. Posts the policy letter in the appropriate
        location in the golf shop.
        3.1.3.3. Establishes a dress code policy approved by the Force Support
        Commander/Director for customers and posts in appropriate areas.
        3.1.3.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Proper golf attire must be worn while at the facility.
        Attire must properly cover the upper and lower torso. Proper golf shoes must be
        worn while playing golf or using the practice areas. Flat soled shoes or regulation
        golf shoes with soft spikes are the only approved footwear. Metal spikes are not
        allowed. Failure to abide by the dress requirements will result in the Tijeras Arroyo
        Golf Course manager or staff requesting offending patrons leave the facility. Pro
        shop personnel have final authority determination relative to the acceptability of
        attire. Inappropriate attire for all players and spectators at the golf facility areas
        include:
            3.1.3.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) T-shirts             designed   to   be   worn   as
            undergarments.
            3.1.3.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Shirts with profane/derogatory artwork or
            lettering.
            3.1.3.3.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Running shorts, swimming trunks/suits,
            and gym shorts.
            3.1.3.3.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Frayed/cut-off/slashed shorts or slacks
            and short shorts.
            3.1.3.3.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Bare midriff shirts and tank tops, (men's
            or ladies), and halter tops.
            3.1.3.3.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) High-heeled shoes, cowboy boots, or
            large cleated shoes are not permitted on the course. Bare feet are not allowed.
            Soccer and football cleats are strictly prohibited.
        3.1.3.4. Posts fees and charges for customers to see.
        3.1.3.5. Provides oversight of the sales staff to include customer service training,
        operating procedures, cleanliness and appearance of the shop, merchandise, and
        promotional programs.
        3.1.3.6. Ensures resource protection and internal controls are in place to account for
        merchandise and properly recorded sales.
        3.1.3.7. Provides a facility brochure describing services and policies available for
        customers. Brochure includes rules, policies, procedures, and catering services
        available.
 10                                    AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


   3.2. Golf Shop Layout and Design. The Golf Course Operations Chief takes an active role
   in the layout and design of the golf shop. Use available marketing, merchandising, and
   design professionals available through Civil Engineering (CE), MAJCOM, or HQ AFSVA.
   Use a professional design consultant on all projects. Further guidance on the design of golf
   course facilities is available in the Air Force Clubhouse Design Guide (UFC 4-750-01 NF)
   under the Facilities area of the Air Force Services Agency web site.
   3.3. Merchandise Gift Certificates. Gift certificates won at installation tournaments can be
   redeemed in the golf shop for merchandise, range balls, green fees, and golf car rentals. In
   conjunction with USGA Rules of amateur status, gift certificates cannot be redeemed for
   cash or previously purchased merchandise. Gift certificates purchased as gifts are redeemed
   for any item or service per the discretion of the golf course manager. AFMAN 34-212,
   Control Procedures for Protecting NAF Assets, outlines procedures for issuance and
   controlling gift certificates. AFMAN 34-214 outlines procedures to account for gift
   certificates. Refer to AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets, for storing and
   protecting gift certificates.
   3.4. Special Order Programs. A special order is any item ordered not normally carried in
   stock/inventory and specially ordered for a customer from a vendor. Collect a deposit of at
   least 25% of the resale price for special order purchases as per AFMAN 34-214. In-house
   credit options or layaways are not authorized.
4. Golf Course.
   4.1. Fees and Charges. Persons authorized to use Air Force golf facilities must pay
   established fees. Free play (except as noted below in paragraphs 4.1.1., 4.1.1.1., and 4.1.1.2),
   free use of facilities and equipment, or discounted fees, (except as noted in paragraph 4.1.4.1
   below) are not authorized.
      4.1.1. The Golf Course Operations Chief, assistant manager, the golf course
      superintendent, and assistant superintendent are exempt from paying green fees when
      playing on a non-recurring basis for the purpose of reviewing the course and the turf
      conditions. Recurring and frequent course reviews are coordinated and approved by the
      flight chief.
          4.1.1.1. Any registered PGA professional or Golf Course Superintendents
          Association of America (GCSAA) member may play an Air Force course on a space
          available basis, without paying green fees, but must make a courtesy phone call to the
          facility manager to request permission.
          4.1.1.2. Free rounds of golf may be given for promotional or customer satisfaction
          purposes but must be identified in an approved OI, annotated in a log, and properly
          accounted on the financial statement.
      4.1.2. The Golf Course Operations Chief recommends fees and charges through the NAF
      Council.
      4.1.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) All persons using the golf course must pay the established
      fees and charges. There are two types of green fees available, annual or daily.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                    11


     4.1.3. Establish fees in the following categories: 9 hole, 18 hole, advanced, twilight,
     punch cards (cards which offer a discount when purchasing a locally established quantity
     of golf rounds), and guest fees.
     4.1.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Guests. On weekdays, three (3) guests per authorized user
     are allowed per visit. On weekends and holidays, only one (1) guest per authorized user
     is allowed. Guests pay established daily green fees.
     4.1.4. Establish three fee structures. The first for E1-E4; the second for authorized users
     including active duty, DoD civilians (active or retired), and currently employed
     contractors assigned to the base; and the third for guests. The E1-E4 rate must be set at
     75% or less of the second structure.
        4.1.4.1. Advanced green fees are defined as a discounted fee for a 12-month period
        and are paid in a one-time lump sum payment. (For seasonal courses open less than
        12 months, the advance fee period must not exceed the number of months the course
        is open, and the inclusive months are indicated on the advance fee card.)
        4.1.4.2. Monthly payment of annual green fees is only authorized if billed through
        the Club Plus, or the contracted Air Force Services POS. The Club Plus software and
        manual can be downloaded from the HQ AFSVA web site. Coordinate use with the
        resource manager. The monthly payment option may be charged at a minimum of
        5% higher than 1/12 of the advance fee for each person. Customers electing
        automatic monthly charges for green fees must sign an agreement outlining the
        payment policies.
        4.1.4.3. The Air Force does not extend advance greens fee privileges to community
        leaders or other non-DoD civilians.
        4.1.4.4. A golf course may set up a family green fee plan with a fee for each family
        member or a single rate for all family members. Issue a separate greens fee card for
        each person in a family plan.
        4.1.4.5. Spouses and other relatives designated as authorized family members pay
        according to their sponsor's rate. When both husband and wife use the facility, the
        individual with the highest grade is considered the sponsor for annual green fee
        purposes.
        4.1.4.6. If the sponsor is not a golfer but other family members play, the course
        charges an annual fee at the sponsor’s rate.
        4.1.4.7. Guests (non-authorized users of Air Force facilities) pay the established and
        approved daily guest rate. Non-authorized users are not entitled to advance fees or
        punch cards.
        4.1.4.8. Retired military and their family members pay fees according to their retired
        military grade.
        4.1.4.9. DoD civilians, who are retired military, pay the higher of the two established
        rates.
        4.1.4.10. Include military and civilian grades in fee structures.
12                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


     4.1.5. Advance green fee customers are issued a controlled, pre-numbered card.
     Documentation is completed and signed by the purchaser, outlining the use of the card,
     refund policy, TDY policy, and reciprocal play policy. If the advance fee is based on the
     number of months the course is open, inclusive dates on the card indicates the months
     included in the payment of the advance fee. (If the golf facility is closed during non-
     seasonal play, the open and operation months must be reflected as start and ending dates
     on the card).
     4.1.5. (KIRTLANDAFB) Reciprocal Annual Greens Fees. We honor all current Air
     Force annual green fees cards as a no-charge privilege.
        4.1.5.1. The prorated portion of an advance greens fee card is refunded to the
        cardholder upon receiving permanent change of station (PCS), separation, retirement
        orders, valid and documented medical reasons, official notification of death, or when
        clearing the installation. When refunding on a PCS move, the advance fee card and a
        copy of PCS orders must be provided to the golf course before a refund is given.
        4.1.5.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Annual Green Fees Refunds. Personnel desiring
        refunds must present their orders or a written justification to the golf course manager.
        Retired personnel will not normally be granted refunds unless retired for not more
        than one (1) year, or medically incapacitated.
        4.1.5.2. PCS refunds. The annual fee card may be retained and used in route to the
        new duty station as a full reciprocal privilege when showing PCS orders; however, it
        may not be used at the new home duty station to obtain reciprocal golf fees. The card
        must be returned to the base where issued and refunded from the date of mailing,
        based on the annual fee refund policy in effect at that base.
        4.1.5.3. Deployed personnel have advance green fee payment requirements waived if
        deployed for 30 days or more to a contingency location where a golf course is not
        available. This is accomplished by placing the person in a “no fee” status during the
        deployment period, refunding a prorated amount of the advance payment, or
        extending the period of payment by the length of the deployment at no additional
        charge. Extend punch card expiration dates equal to the deployment time.
        4.1.5.4. As a guide to establishing daily or advance green fees, use the green fee
        formula located on the HQ AFSVS golf web page to assist in determining the proper
        fee.
     4.1.6. If golf club and locker storage spaces are available, authorize patrons to use on a
     first-come, first-served basis with priority given to active duty personnel. At overseas
     bases, DoD civilians may receive equal priority as active duty personnel.
     4.1.7. Private golf cars or storage of private golf cars is not authorized. Any private cars
     currently authorized for use, must be phased out by 31 December 2013. Private use of
     golf cars specifically designed for physically handicapped players are authorized
     providing proper medical documentation is presented; however, storage of these cars is
     not permitted. Establish owner liability requirements and trail fee before allowing use.
     Liability insurance is required.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                       13


     4.1.7. (KIRTLANDAFB) In order to assist handicapped golfers, a blue flag issuance
     has been instituted. The following applies:
         4.1.7.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) In order to obtain a blue flag, a medical
         statement from individual's doctor must be provided to course management and be on
         file.
         4.1.7.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The annual green fees card holder's file in the
         clubhouse Point of Sale System (POS) will be tagged to identify them as
         handicapped. Abuse of the blue flag will result in removal of this privilege.
         4.1.7.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The following rules apply to blue flag users:
             4.1.7.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) All blue flag users must always consider
             course conditions and take care of the course in whatever they do. Blue flag
             status is a privilege, not a right.
             4.1.7.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Use cart paths whenever possible and
             keep carts on the paths around greens and tees.
             4.1.7.3.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Do not go past white lines in front of
             greens unless absolutely necessary.
             4.1.7.3.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Do not drive carts in un-irrigated areas.
  4.2. Reciprocal Play. Individuals with a current advanced green fee card and on official
  TDY orders are granted full reciprocal green fee privileges. When not on TDY orders, those
  with a current advance greens fee card, from their home course are given at least a 25 percent
  discount off the established per round rate after showing proper identification. Punch cards
  may not be used for reciprocal play.
     4.2.1. In locations with more than one Air Force golf facility (e.g., San Antonio TX;
     Colorado Springs CO; Ft. Walton Beach FL), installation commanders may develop local
     policies for reciprocal play as long as they are consistent with the facility usage priorities
     in AFI 34-262.
  4.3. Tee-Time Policies. The Golf Course Operations Chief develops tee-time policies for
  the approval of the Installation Commander. Tee-time priorities are in accordance with AFI
  34-262 (use Table A2.1., Unlimited Program Eligibility and Use Priority, and Table A2.2.,
  Limited Program Eligibility and Use Priority, to determine program access).
  4.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Tee-Time Policies. Protocol Tee Times. The 377th Air Base
  Wing (ABW), 58 Special Operations Wing (SOW), Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
  (AFNWC), Air Force Operational Test Evaluation Center (AFOTEC), Air Force Safety
  Center (AFSEC), and Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) will be provided two preferred-
  use tee times (each) for use by active duty senior leaders of those organizations on weekends
  and holidays. Use of these tee times must be verified 24 hours in advance or they will be
  returned to the golf course to be used for the standby list.
     4.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) All players with reserved tee times must sign in with
     pro-shop and show proof of their (annual green fee card or green fee). Patrons must sign
     in not later than 15 minutes before the scheduled tee time. Failure to report 15 minutes
     early will result in forfeiture of the reservation, and the slot will become a "starter time”.
14                                    AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


     Players arriving late will be added to the waiting list if they so desire. The starter will fill
     any vacancy from the top of the waiting list.
     4.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Weekend and holiday tee times are requested in
     advance at the pro shop or at kirtlandgolfteetime@kirtland.af.mil. Deadline is close
     of business each Tuesday. Requests are drawn IAW para 4.3.2.1 (Added) early every
     Wednesday morning prior to the weekend or holiday. All interested parties are welcome
     to witness the drawing.
         4.3.2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The first priority for weekend and holiday tee
         times is two active duty or two active duty family members. Second priority is two
         retired military or two reservist personnel. Third priority is all other eligible patrons.
             4.3.2.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Weekend and holiday tee times assigned
             to active duty (priority) personnel and their family members will be honored when
             two active duty personnel listed on the "Request for Tee Time" sheet are present
             to play.
             4.3.2.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Weekend and holiday tee times assigned
             to retired military personnel will be honored when two retired military personnel
             or reservists listed on the "Request for Tee Time" sheet are present for play.
         4.3.2.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Weekday tee time requests may be made by
         phone or in person by active duty personnel three (3) days in advance and by all other
         eligible patrons two (2) days in advance.
         4.3.2.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Tee times cannot be given away to others and
         duplicate written requests will be thrown out.
     4.3.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) A waiting list will be used for all unused tee times.
     These times will be assigned from the waiting list on a first come, first served basis.
     4.3.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) . The intent of these restrictions is to ensure
     maximum use of available tee times, as well as accommodating players on the waiting
     list.
  4.4. Severe Weather Conditions. The golf course manager establishes written procedures
  for advising players of weather watches and warnings. As guidance, use AFI 10-229,
  Responding to Severe Weather Events; and AFOSH 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground
  Operations and Activities. The local base weather flight or designated Operational Weather
  Squadron (OWS) is responsible for making the initial notification and final cancellations to
  predetermined support agencies. Those agencies, in turn, will notify golf course personnel.
  4.4. (KIRTLANDAFB) Severe Weather Conditions. The KAFB Command Post will
  contact course management and notify of severe weather. Severe weather warnings will be
  issued for: lightning within a three to five mile radius of the base; hail larger than one inch in
  diameter; and wind greater than 25 miles per hour (Mph).
     4.4.1. A Lightning Watch is issued by the supporting weather unit and in effect 30
     minutes prior to thunderstorms being forecast within a five nautical mile radius of the
     designated base reference point. (Contact the local base weather flight or OWS to
     determine the designated base reference point for the base/installation and the golf
     course’s location to that point.) During a Lightning Watch, accomplish the following:
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                     15


     4.4.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Only the golf course manager or designee will coordinate
     closure or early closure due to inclement weather conditions. Coordination will start by
     contacting the Chief, Community Services Flight, 377 FSS/FSC to report the weather
     condition and proposed action. Authorization for early closure will come directly from
     377 FSS/FSC after appropriate coordination.
        4.4.1.1. Operations or activities may continue; however, all personnel must be
        prepared to implement Lightning Warning procedures without delay.
        4.4.1.2. Be alert for any lightning activity, to include audible thunder, and advise
        supervisory personnel of any observations.
        4.4.1.3. Advise players on the course and in the surrounding clubhouse and practice
        areas of the lightning watch.
     4.4.2. A Lighting Warning is issued and in effect whenever any lightning is occurring
     within a five nautical mile radius of the designated base reference point. Notify golfers to
     discontinue play and seek shelter. The golf course and all associated activities such as
     practice areas will be closed.
        4.4.2.1. Golf courses located further than five nautical miles from the designated
        installation reference point will contact their local weather flight to coordinate
        weather watch/warning support. If requested support is not available, golf courses
        will purchase lightning detection equipment or use web-based lightning data to meet
        requirements.
            4.4.2.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) All command post contacts will be logged
            in by staff and severe weather notification for the course will be: Three blasts of
            the course siren along with verbal announcement. When circumstances allow,
            course marshal will ensure all players are off the course or have taken shelter and
            know there is an active weather warning.
            4.4.2.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Lightning              safety procedures for course
            maintenance workers are at Attachment 2.
     4.4.3. Courses located in areas that commonly see heavy thunderstorm activity should
     provide appropriate protective shelters for players on course grounds.
        4.4.3.1. Signage such as the USGA Lightning Safety Tips will be posted in prominent
        areas. Non-lightning safe structures must be posted as such in shelters located on golf
        facility grounds and must include the location of the nearest lightning safe structure.
     4.4.4. Develop written lightning safety procedures for course maintenance workers.
     4.4.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Resumption of Play. If the course has been closed
     due to severe weather, golfers will be notified that play may resume by one blast of the
     siren along with a verbal announcement.
  4.5. Rain Checks. The Golf Course Operations Chief develops a rain check policy
  documented with written procedures and approved by the Force Support Squadron
  Commander/Director.
  4.5. (KIRTLANDAFB) Rain Checks. Rain checks will not be given unless the course is
  closed due to inclement weather.
 16                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


   4.6. Professional Memberships. Do not use NAFs for personal memberships in
   organizations like the PGA or GCSAA, however, one “desk” membership is authorized as
   prescribed in AFI 34-201, paragraph 4.1.2., for each professional organization.
   4.7. Rental Clubs. Provide two levels of rental clubs. The first level, offered at the lowest
   rental rate, are clubs for the general golfing public. The second level, offered at a slightly
   higher rental rate, are clubs of an upgrade quality.
   4.8. Key Control. Control all keys and establish a key control log. Refer to AFI 34-202
   and AFMAN 34-212.
   4.9. Checklists. Establish opening and closing checklist for all operational sections
   including, but not limited to pro shop, snack bar, course maintenance, driving range, and golf
   carts.
5. Snack Bar Operations.
   5.1. Scope. The Golf Course Operations Chief establishes and maintains standards for
   customer service, preparation, presentation, and serving of food items. Total quality
   customer service is obtained by staff empowerment and development of sound organizational
   practices. Managers practice continuous employee training and stay abreast of industry
   trends and changes. Sound internal controls, quality purchasing, effective merchandising,
   and accurate assessments of customer markets are keys to success. The use of internal
   controls for controlling food and beverage items is the most important element in managing
   the cost of goods. Controlling waste, portions, deliveries by vendors, and theft is critical to
   the financial stability of the snack bar operation. Use standardized recipes, menu cost cards,
   POS data, and scatter sheets to more effectively control food costs. Refer to AFMAN 34-
   228, Air Force Club Program Procedures, for additional guidance on food controls.
   Procedural guidance is also found in AFI 34-202, AFI 34209, and AFI 34-219, Alcoholic
   Beverage Program.
      5.1.1. Golf course snack bars primarily sell fast-moving products and must attain a
      monthly inventory turnover rate and cost of goods in accordance with the Air Force Golf
      Standards, found at the HQ AFSVA web site.
      5.1.2. Combined cost of sales and cost of labor are in accordance with standards found
      on the HQ AFSVA web site.
   5.2. Purchasing. The golf course manager must follow these purchasing guidelines:
      5.2.1. Establish par stocks with reorder points for food and supply items. Base purchases
      on forecasted requirements. Local situations and contracts dictate the frequency and
      system of ordering. Consider cooperative buying with other Force Support activities
      using the Prime Vendor Program.
      5.2.2. Buy for specific needs. The intended use of an item dictates the quality required.
      5.2.3. Buy the portion size providing the best edible yield, at the best price, and suits the
      menu and consumption rate.
      5.2.4. Keep inventories as low as possible and within approved inventory levels.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                      17


  5.3. Receiving Procedures. The Golf Course Operations Chief designates, in writing,
  personnel authorized to receive purchases (personnel performing ordering function cannot be
  receivers). Every purchase is inspected for quantity or weight against the invoice.
     5.3.1. Document the receipt of free items on the receiving report.
     5.3.2. For food safety inspection frequencies, see AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program, or
     the USDA Food Code.
  5.4. Food Storage. Control refrigerator temperatures to prevent spoilage, maintain quality,
  and prevent food poisoning. The golf course manager must:
     5.4.1. Keep storage loss to a minimum. Storage includes refrigeration (both freezer and
     chilled), dry storage, in-use storage, and leftover storage.
     5.4.2. Use first-in, first-out procedures.
     5.4.3. Provide thermometers for all refrigeration units and record the temperature
     readings at the beginning and end of each day, per AFMAN 34-228 para 3.4.3.
         5.4.3.1. Have signs posted on the outside of walk-in cooler doors stating, “Ensure
         no one is inside before closing or locking.”
         5.4.3.2. Coordinate with the flight chief or another activity manager for designated
         emergency cold storage.
         5.4.3.3. Display a prominent sign in the refrigeration area, reading, “The emergency
         number to be called for loss of refrigeration is ______.”
  5.5. Portion Control. Portion control is one of the most important factors of food cost. The
  golf course manager ensures each food item served is assigned the exact weight, volume,
  size, or count as established on menu cost cards. Convenience or prepackages items provide
  desired portion control.
  5.6. Menu Cost Cards. The golf course manager develops menu cost cards for each menu
  item served. As a minimum, use established Club menu cost cards for like items.
     5.6.1. Menu cost cards are reviewed quarterly and revised as required.
     5.6.2. Menu cost cards include recipe title, selling price, ingredients, portion size, recipe
     cost, desired food cost percentage, number of servings, and contribution margin (profit).
  5.7. Beverage Sales. AFI 34-219 provides instructions on the sale of alcoholic beverages
  for all Air Force activities. Refer to AFI 34-272 for specific guidance on operating an
  effective beverage management program. Activities supported by the base MWRF may sell
  those alcoholic beverages authorized by the installation commander.
  5.8. Food and Beverages from Outside Sources. Only food and beverages sold on the
  premises can be consumed in/on the facility or grounds. Golf course management, with
  proper coordination and approval from base public health, may consider case-by-case
  exceptions of specialty food items not provided by the golf course.
  5.9. Equipment Maintenance. Maintain an equipment log containing a description of each
  piece of equipment, date acquired, maintenance, cleaning schedules, and agency responsible
  for maintenance.
 18                                    AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


      5.9.1. The Golf Course Operations Chief must establish cleaning and preventive
      maintenance schedules for all equipment in accordance with the manufacturer’s
      maintenance schedules.
          5.9.1.1. Keep a work order log to track repairs and report unresolved problems to the
          flight chief.
          5.9.1.2. Forecast when equipment will wear out and budget for replacement.
          5.9.1.3. Sanitation. The kitchen, food preparation areas, and food storage areas can
          present major sanitation problems. These areas must be kept clean, neat, and orderly
          at all times.
   5.10. Training and Employee Development. An effective employee training program is
   essential to a successful food and beverage operation. The golf courses’ Income and
   Expense budget must include funding for employee training and development. Include
   training for NAF food and beverage management as well as the staff. Be sure to budget for
   all costs related to training (payroll, supplies, tuition, and travel) include food handlers and
   serve safe training. Send staff members to appropriate HQ AFSVA and MAJCOM
   sponsored courses, and applicable locally available education and training.
      5.10.1. The Golf Course Operations Chief ensures all employees serving and selling
      alcoholic beverages receive initial and annual training in dram shop theory, alcohol abuse
      awareness, alcohol deglamorization, and the Air Force Driving While Intoxicated (DWI)
      Prevention Program. Document this training in accordance with AFI 34-219.
6. Driving Range Operations.
   6.1. Facility. The key to a successful range operation is maintaining the highest possible
   standards for equipment and grounds. Market and advertise the driving range along with
   other areas of the operation.
      6.1.1. Driving range minimum standards are:
          6.1.1.1. Range clubs available for use or rent.
          6.1.1.2. Yardage signs, flags, or target greens.
          6.1.1.3. Provide clean range balls free of cuts or worn dimples.
          6.1.1.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Driving range balls must be used on the range. They
          will not be used on other practice areas.
          6.1.1.4. Post range safety, operational policies, and hours of operation.
          6.1.1.5. Use protective screening on equipment provided for employees when
          collecting balls.
          6.1.1.6. Provide a private area for golf instruction.
          6.1.1.7. Offer ball dispensers with multi-payment options such as coins, bills,
          debit/credit cards, or tokens.
          6.1.1.8. Provide a bill-changing machine.
          6.1.1.9. To maximize the range operation and associated customer service, consult
          available sources such as the PGA, USGA, and the NGF (National Golf Foundation).
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                            19


   6.2. Funds Collection Procedures. AFI 34-202, paragraph 3.20. and 3.21.; and AFMAN
   34-212, paragraph 6.2. and 6.3. provide mandatory guidance on funds harvested from the ball
   dispenser and change machine.
7. Golf Course Maintenance and Carts.
   7.1. Grounds Maintenance Objectives and Program. The golf course superintendent is
   the key link in establishing a viable program assuring the best possible turfgrass conditions
   for the best price. The superintendent plays an important role, not only in the success of the
   facility, but also to the vitality of the game itself. It is highly desirable the superintendent is a
   member of the GCSAA. They are responsible for every facet of the day-to-day and long-
   term management of what is likely to be your facility's most valuable asset. The
   superintendent is supervised by the golf course manager, working in tandem through regular
   coordination and communication to ensure the program reaches the program goals of all
   concerned. Procedural guidance is found in the following instructions: AFI 32-1053, Pest
   Management Program, AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Nonappropriated Fund
   Facility Construction Projects; AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management;
   and DoDI 4150.07, DoD Pest Management Program.
   7.2. Maintenance Plan. The golf course greens superintendent develops an annual
   maintenance plan and coordinates with the golf course manager prior to the manager
   scheduling tournaments for the year.
   7.3. Course Safety. The golf course superintendent must:
       7.3.1. Clearly mark all safety hazards on course that may cause injury to a customer.
       7.3.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) The golf course is established as a hazardous area. A golf
       ball is a dangerous object and can cause serious injury or death. Golf course management
       will make every effort to disseminate safety precautions to all golf course patrons as well
       as the general public.
       7.3.2. Post signs at all appropriate course water hazards that state “Do Not Drink,” “No
       Swimming,” and “No Fishing” if the situation dictates warning signs for safety reasons.
           7.3.2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Personnel are not authorized to park privately
           owned vehicles (POVs) on the edges of the course, any maintenance service road, or
           under trees. Parking for sightseeing, repairs, and waxing or polishing of POVs is also
           prohibited.
       7.3.3. Supply sufficient drinking water on the course where and when needed.
           7.3.3.1. Water coolers are provided and maintained in accordance with the USGA
           “Best Management Practice for Golf Course Water Cooler” available on HQ AFSVA
           golf maintenance web site.
       7.3.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Picnics are not authorized anywhere on the course.
       7.3.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Jogging, hiking, and biking are not authorized within
       the golf course boundary.
       7.3.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Pets are not permitted on the course, practice areas,
       in the clubhouse, or parking lot.
20                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


     7.3.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Personnel will be responsible for damages to course
     or equipment and may be held liable for replacement costs and other disciplinary actions
     deemed appropriate.
  7.4. APF Funding.
     7.4.1. IAW AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare and Recreation
     Programs (MWR) and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities( NAFIS), limited APF
     support for supplies (i.e., fertilizer, herbicides, pesticides, etc.), equipment, management
     salaries, utilities, and CE contractor application (on a reimbursable basis) are authorized
     at OSD approved remote and isolated locations.
     7.4.2. IAW AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Nonappropriated Fund Facility
     Construction Projects, at all Air Force golf courses, maintenance costs for perimeter
     roads or other roadways next to or within the boundaries of the golf course that would
     exist if the courses were not there are charged to APFs. This also applies to drainage
     ditches, culverts, fences, structures, or accessories (power lines, runway approach lights,
     etc.).
     7.4.3. APFs are authorized for repair and restoration of facilities damaged or destroyed
     by acts of God, terrorism, and fire (see AFI 32-1022 and AFI 65-106 for further
     guidance). Appropriated funds are authorized to pay for losses of merchandise, services,
     and equipment procured by a NAFI for resale or rent to authorized persons when loss was
     caused by an act of God; during wartime deployments; or in support of contingency,
     humanitarian and peacekeeping operations.
  7.5. Turf Grass Maintenance. HQ AFSVA is one source to assist with turf management
  issues. However, the services and guidance of organizations such as the GCSAA, the USGA
  Green Section, the PGA, colleges and universities can be used. Schedule a turf assistance
  visit with HQ AFSVA or the USGA every 5 years.
  7.6. Chemical and Pesticide Use Protocols.
     7.6.1. Chemicals and Pesticides. The course superintendent or designated maintenance
     employee keeps copies of and follows guidance in DoDI 4150.07 and AFI 32-1053. The
     superintendent or designated maintenance also adheres to the following guidelines when
     using, pesticides, fertilizer, or other chemicals on course grounds:
         7.6.1.1. Must be a DoD or State certified pesticide applicator. In overseas areas, the
         DoD certification is required. See the DoD Plan for Certification of Pesticide
         Applicators for reference, available on Internet site http://www.afpmb.org/.
         7.6.1.2. Inform the Golf Course Operation Chief, base Fire Chief, and hazardous
         materials (HAZMAT) coordinator of the type of chemicals used.
         7.6.1.3. Post safety warnings for patrons and employees when spraying chemicals.
         The following information/wording is included for all golf courses OCONUS or for
         golf courses in CONUS that do not have State posting laws or other guidelines
         established: 1. “Caution Pesticide Application;” 2. Name of golf course; 3. POC
         and phone number (superintendent or contract applicator); 4. Date of application; 5.
         Areas treated (hole numbers, greens, tees, or fairways).
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                21


        7.6.1.4. Post signs at least 12 inches by 12 inches on the first and tenth tees as a
        minimum, or where there is normal access to the golf course grounds. Post signs at
        least 24 hours before application and remove signs 48 hours after application. Golf
        courses in states with posting laws or other established guidelines must follow
        standards for their respective states.
        7.6.1.5. Consult with installation environmental personnel about proper pesticide
        disposal in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
        7.6.1.6. Track all pesticide use and forward information to installation and/or
        MAJCOM entomology on a monthly basis. Pesticide application records are kept on
        file for 2 years (DoDM 4150.07-M-V1, Record Keeping: Pest Management and
        Reporting Requirements) or as required by state regulation.
        7.6.1.7. Obtain pesticide approval and assistance from the MAJCOM or base
        agronomist or entomologist.
        7.6.1.8. With the assistance of the base environment management, develop and
        implement a pest management plan that includes an Integrated Pest Management
        (IPM) plan.
        7.6.1.9. Strictly follow label directions. The label is the law. Deviations are not
        authorized.
        7.6.1.10. Receive proper training on the hazards of handling chemicals.
        7.6.1.11. Maintain a minimal inventory of pesticides to prevent generation of
        hazardous wastes.
        7.6.1.12. A Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) file is maintained on all hazardous
        materials used on the golf course, and be accessible to all maintenance employees.
     7.6.2. Employees trained and certified to apply chemicals must:
        7.6.2.1. Wear course-issued protective clothing and personal protective equipment as
        required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Air Force Office
        of Safety and Health (AFOSH) standards, and the chemical manufacturer's label
        directions.
        7.6.2.2. Be enrolled in the base occupational health program, as determined by
        installation medical personnel.
     7.6.3. Course maintenance chemical storage facilities must:
        7.6.3.1. Meet the requirements of military handbook (MIL HDBK) 1028/8A ,
        (Technical Instruction Manual 17) available on the Internet site
        http://www.afpmb.org/.
        7.6.3.2. Stock only pesticides specifically labeled for golf course applications and
        approved by the MAJCOM Pest Management Consultant (PMC).
        7.6.3.3. Be located in an area approved by the MAJCOM PMC.
22                                  AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


        7.6.3.4. Include an eye wash and shower facility next to the pesticide mixing area, as
        specified in AFOSH Std 91-32, Emergency Shower and Eyewash Units. Be properly
        marked and easily recognizable to all employees.
     7.6.4. Pest Management Contracting. Golf course pest maintenance contracts may be
     used when cost-effective. Contractors shall comply with state regulatory requirements in
     the state where the work is performed. Contract pesticide applicators must be certified in
     the state where work will be performed.
        7.6.4.1. Review and Approval. MAJCOM pest management consultants shall review
        and approve golf course maintenance contract documents, including augmentation
        contracts, to ensure appropriate IPM methods are specified. Contracting offices shall
        award augmentation contracts only when the MAJCOM PMC has verified the
        contract will provide necessary services beyond the capability of any in-house staff.
        Installations lacking expertise in pest management contracts shall request the services
        of the MAJCOM PMC to develop the technical portions of golf course maintenance
        contract in accordance with DoD/AFPMB guidance for contract pest management.
        Installation Civil Engineer pest management personnel, the golf course
        superintendent, and MAJCOM PMCs act as technical experts during the performance
        of contracted work. Installations ensure Quality Assurance Evaluators (QAEs), who
        inspect the performance of contractor provided golf course maintenance services are
        trained in pest management as required in DoDI 4150.07.
  7.7. Golf Course Environmental Management (GEM).
     7.7.1. The Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE) golf course
     environmental management program manager is Force Support Squadron environmental
     consultant. AFCEE is available to assist in golf course environmental issues.
     Information on the golf course environmental management program can be accessed
     through the HQ AFSVA web page.
     7.7.2. Golf course superintendents assist the installation environmental staff in
     developing and implementing a GEM plan as directed by AFI 32-7064. Specific
     guidance on the GEM planning process can be found at the AFCEE golf course
     environmental management website.
     7.7.3. Golf Course Operations Chiefs and superintendents will comply with
     Environmental Compliance and Assessment Program (ECAMP) requirements.
  7.8. Recordkeeping and Reporting. The golf course superintendent or his designated
  representative keeps accurate records and documents as required:
     7.8.1. Records:
        7.8.1.1. Pesticide and chemical applications
        7.8.1.2. Fertilizer and growth enhancement products
        7.8.1.3. Soil and irrigation water testing
        7.8.1.4. Mowing and cultivation schedules
        7.8.1.5. Irrigation system, water use, in-ground as-built, and repair costs
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                 23


        7.8.1.6. Agronomic repair and maintenance
        7.8.1.7. Training for managers and crewmembers
        7.8.1.8. Equipment repair and maintenance including parts inventories
        7.8.1.9. Utilities
        7.8.1.10. Facilities including construction and maintenance
     7.8.2. Documentation
        7.8.2.1. Golf Maintenance Plan
        7.8.2.2. Written Hazardous Communication Plan
  7.9. Air Force Golf Course Maintenance Standards and Goals. The golf course
  maintains maintenance standards and goals through the basic golfing and growing season.
     7.9.1. Greens are mowed a minimum of 5 times per week.
     7.9.2. Tees are mowed a minimum of 2 times per week.
     7.9.3. Fairways are mowed a minimum of 2 times per week.
     7.9.4. Roughs are mowed a minimum of 1 time per week.
     7.9.5. Trim mowing is done a minimum of 1 time per week.
     7.9.6. Bunkers are raked a minimum of 3 times per week.
     7.9.7. Bunkers are edged and trimmed a minimum of 1 time per month.
     7.9.8. Cups and tee marker locations are changed after a maximum of 150 rounds of golf.
     7.9.9. Greens are core aerated a minimum of 2 times per year.
     7.9.10. Greens receive frequent light sand topdressing (meets USGA sand specifications)
     to keep thatch layer at ½ inch or less.
     7.9.11. Greens are verticut a minimum of 2 times per year.
     7.9.12. Fairways are core aerated a minimum of 1 time per year.
     7.9.13. Tees are aerated and top dressed a minimum of 2 times per year.
     7.9.14. A minimum of 1 ballwasher and wastebasket is located at each hole.
     7.9.15. A scorecard and pencil box is located at the 2nd and 11th tees on front and back
     starts.
  7.10. Golf Car Fleet Management. The golf course manager or his designated
  representative establishes a maintenance schedule based on manufacturers’
  recommendations. Set up the following basic procedures:
     7.10.1. Keep a record and inventory of spare parts showing date received, amount on
     hand, date used, and the reorder level.
     7.10.2. Keep a log or chart on each golf car showing maintenance or repairs performed.
     7.10.3. Establish a rotation plan ensuring all cars are used equally.
 24                                  AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


      7.10.4. Program a scheduled golf car purchase or capitol lease plan for fleet replacement.
      7.10.5. Maintain a preventative maintenance schedule for each car.
      7.10.6. Establish a liability for golf car rentals by requiring the patron to sign a rental
      agreement/statement.
          7.10.6.1. The rental agreement/statement requires the person renting or operating a
          golf cart have a valid driver’s license.
8. Administration
   8.1. Handling and Safeguarding Funds. Proper handling and safeguarding of funds and
   Air Force property is the responsibility of every employee. Operating Instructions (OI)
   provide specific guidance on handling and safeguarding funds are issued locally. These
   procedures, instructions, and requirements are an integral part of the employee education and
   training program. Staff personnel responsible for handling cash must be familiar with all
   requirements of local OIs and AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets. The
   Golf Course Manager continually ensures employees handling cash meet all safeguards.
   8.2. Cash Register/Point of Sales Operations. Ensure cash register operations and POS
   transactions are handled according to the requirements in AFIs 34-202 and 34-209.
      8.2.1. Change funds are required to conduct business. Provide each cashier with a change
      fund in an amount necessary to conduct business. It is imperative that only one person be
      responsible for and operate out of a change fund. The most important control of an
      operation change fund is to ensure each fund is properly accounted for at all times.
      Provide training in all aspects of cash register or POS operations to all employees. Only
      one cashier will operate from a single drawer. Refer to AFI 34-201, Use of
      Nonappropriated Funds, for additional guidance.
   8.3. Inventories. Inventories and control of equipment and merchandise are critical to the
   overall financial stability of a golf operation. When establishing maximum in-use
   inventories, consider the following: cost of merchandise or parts, delivery time, storage
   space, shelf life. The golf course manager maintains the updated NAF and APF property
   control listing. Refer to AFIs 34-204 and 34-209 for guidance on inventory, control, and
   accounting for merchandise and equipment. Refer to AFI 34-202 and AFI 34-204, Property
   Management, and AFI 34-209 for property control procedure.
   8.4. Golf Course Operational Ratio Comparison Analysis (ORCA) Data. Operational
   data is needed to determine the demographics of the golf course customer base and the
   financial relationship compared to rounds of golf. This serves as a barometer for Air Force
   golf operations worldwide in order to determine the health and progress of the Air Force golf
   program. The ORCA reporting process is Internet based and the monthly data is compiled by
   the golf course manager. It is submitted electronically by the golf course manager to a web-
   based data server no later than the 9th day of each month. MAJCOMs verify the data from
   each golf course by the 11th day of the month and electronically verify and forward it to the
   data server. Access to ORCA is through the Services Agency Information System (SAIS).
      8.4.1. For reporting purposes, a “round of golf” is defined as “one person who tees off in
      an authorized start.” The round is not defined by the number of holes played or fees paid.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                                 25


     On nine hole courses, ensure the second nine holes, in sequence, are not counted as an
     additional round of golf.
     8.4.2. ORCA reports require rounds of golf and daily weather information.
     8.4.3. The ORCA contains a variety of informational reports to include weather data,
     rounds of golf, and inventory turnover.
  8.5. Training.
     8.5.1. Provide a formal training program for all employees by developing a training
     manual and address general operating and procedural policies for the golf course. Divide
     the training by sections and include the different centers such as course maintenance,
     food and beverage, golf shop, golf car operations, driving range, starters and marshals.
     Require all employees to review their respective work section of the manual on an annual
     basis. Document initial and reoccurring training in the employee’s personnel record.
     8.5.2. All new Golf Course Operations Chiefs must complete the Services Management
     Training Course for prerequisite credit, located on the Services Learning Management
     System, or completion of the AETC Distance Learning Activity Manager’s Course,
     L6ONU34M3X. Previous attendance at a HQ AFSVA Activity Manager’s in-residence
     course, previous completion of the Activity Management Training Core Topics (CD-
     ROM version), or attendance at AFIT 101 satisfies this prerequisite requirement. New
     golf course managers must attend the Golf Activity Management Course within 12
     months of selection.
     8.5.3. The annual PGA Merchandise Show and Conference is an important industry
     event providing educational seminars keeping management abreast with the rapidly
     changing golf business industry. Golf course managers must stay in tune with the golf
     economy. Recommend attendance of the conference on an annual basis.
     8.5.4. The annual Golf Industry Show for golf course greens superintendents, provides
     educational seminars and keeps superintendents abreast with new technologies, research
     and product developments. Superintendents must stay abreast of the golf turfgrass
     industry and should attend on an annual basis to provide the best possible playing
     conditions and customer satisfaction.
     8.5.5. The golf course may establish an employee training program to enhance their
     work performance and knowledge of the game to include introductory golf lesson
     program participation and on-course play during non peak hours. This is formalized with
     an approved operating instruction through the Force Support Squadron
     Commander/Director.
  8.6. Planning. The Golf Course Operations Chief develops a 5-year plan updated annually
  and approved by the flight chief. The plan should include construction, renovation,
  equipment replacement, programs, and goals.
  8.7. Marketing. The Golf Course Operations Chief is required to develop an effective
  marketing plan annually using the standards in AFI 34-104, Services Marketing and Publicity
  Program. HQ AFSVA offers several programs to help managers successfully market their
  programs. Information on marketing is available on the HQ AFSVA Marketing web page.
26                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


  HQ AFSVA program surveys are used to analyze customer demographics and assist in
  decision making.
  8.8. Commercial Sponsorship. Coordinate all commercial sponsorship through the
  installation Force Support commercial sponsorship coordinator. Refer to AFI 34-407, Air
  Force Commercial Sponsorship Program, for guidance. Keep in mind only authorized Force
  Support programs use the commercial sponsorship program. Other Air Force organizations,
  units, private organizations, or unofficial activities or organizations (such as off-base
  organizations) are not authorized to use the commercial sponsorship program to offset
  program or activity expenses, even if held at a Force Support activity. The sale of
  advertising is authorized in/on established NAF funded media to include benches, tee
  markers, score cards and more. The Force Support Squadron marketing office is responsible
  for the advertising program IAW AFI 34-407 and AFMAN 34-416, Air Force Commercial
  Sponsorship and Sale of NAFI Advertising Procedures.
  8.9. Essential Products Program (EPP). EPP, part of the Commander’s Smart Buy
  Program, is designed to maximize purchasing leverage in the marketplace on products that
  are essential to NAF operations. The EPP effectively standardizes both quality and price for
  selected requirements, and its use is mandatory. Golf products are included in this program.
  The program provides an opportunity to purchase items at significant savings. EPP catalogs
  can be obtained from the AFNAFPO or viewed on their HQ AFSVA web site.
  8.10. Web-Based Golf Course Data. HQ AFSVA provides a comprehensive database for
  customers, golf managers, and greens superintendents. The golf course manager must update
  the database annually. Obtain access to the database through the web-based HQ AFSVA
  Information System.
  8.11. Closure of Activities. If an installation commander wants to close an activity,
  requests to close all Force Support activities must be routed through MAJCOM/A1S to HQ
  USAF/A1S through HQ AFSVA/CC 60 days prior to proposed closure. Neither requests nor
  notifications are required for any activity being closed due to a base closure. Requests
  should include a business case, the alternative to be used in place of the activity, and
  documentation of approval to use alternative source. In reviewing whether to continue or
  discontinue programs or activities reference AFI 34-262, paragraph 2.5, and use the criteria
  below:
     8.11.1. Accessibility and capabilities of existing exchange service, base commercial or
     civilian community alternatives.
     8.11.2. Current and planned Force Support/MWR programs of adjacent DoD
     installations.
  8.12. Contracting-Out a Golf Course. HQ AFSVA/CC approves the waiver to contract-
  out a golf course or any part of the golf course operation. Coordinate the waiver request with
  HQ AFSVA/SVF for accounting guidance.                      The Force Support Squadron
  Commander/Director submits a letter requesting the waiver through the MAJCOM/A1S to
  HQ AFSVA/SVP. For additional guidance, refer to Attachment 2.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                              27


                               DARRELL D. JONES
                               Lieutenant General, USAF
                               DCS, Manpower, Personnel and Services

                               (KIRTLANDAFB)

                               TOM D. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                               Commander
 28                                  AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, 15 October 2003
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Nonappropriated Fund Facility Construction
Projects, 20 May 2009
AFI 32-1053, Integrated Pest Management Program, 23 June 2009
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFI 34-101, Air Force Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR)
Programs and Use Eligibility, 28 March 2013
AFI 34-104, Services Marketing and Publicity Program, 25 July 1994
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs), 17 June 2002
AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets, 27 August 2004
AFI 34-204, Property Management, 27 August 2004
AFI 34-205, Services Nonappropriated Fund Facility Projects, 07 October 2005
AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting, 10 January 2005
AFI 34-219, Alcoholic Beverage Program, 17 October 2007
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 08 March 2007
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
AFI 34-272, Air Force Club Program, 01 April 2002
AFI 34-407, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship Program, 19 July 2005
AFI 36-3101, Fundraising Within the Air Force, 12 July 2002
AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program, 22 March 2004
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs), 06 May 2009
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 34-212, Control Procedures for Protecting NAF Assets, 1 September 1995
AFMAN 34-214, Procedures for Nonappropriated Funds Financial Management and
Accounting, 14 February 2006
AFMAN 34-228, Air Force Club Program Procedures, 1 April 2002
AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, 3 November 2000
AFMAN 34-416, Air Force Commercial Sponsorship and Sale of NAFI Advertising Procedures,
5 October 2004
AFOSH 91-100, Aircraft Flight Line - Ground Operations and Activities, 1 March 1998
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                    29


DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 29 November 2007
DoDI 4150.07, DoD Pest Management Program, 29 May 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Mph—Miles per hour
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ABW—Air Base Wing
AFCEE—–Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence
AFI—–Air Force Instruction
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFMAN—–Air Force Manual
AFNAFPO—–Air Force Nonappropriated Funds Purchasing Office
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test Evaluation Center
AFPD—–Air Force Policy Directive
AFPMB—–Air Force Pest Management Board
AFOSH—–Air Force Office of Safety and Health
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
AFSVA—–Air Force Services Agency
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ANG—Air National Guard
APF—–Appropriated Fund
CE—–Civil Engineer
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) CL—Civilian Lead (Director)
CONUS—–Continental United States
DoD—–Department of Defense
ECAMP—–Environmental Compliance and Management Program
EPP—–Essential Products Program
FDA—–Food and Drug Administration
 30                                AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) FSC—Community Services Flight
FSS—–Force Support Squadron
GEM—–Golf Environmental Management
GCSAA—–Golf Course Superintendents of America Association
HAZMAT—–Hazardous Materials
HDBK—–Handbook
HQ AFSVA—–Headquarters Air Force Services Agency
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) IAW—In Accordance With
IPM—–Integrated Pest Management
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
LPGA—–Ladies Professional Golfers' Association
MAJCOM—–Major command
MIL—Military
MSDS—–Material Safety Data Sheet
MWRF—–Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Fund
NAF—–Nonappropriated Fund
NGF—–National Golf Foundation
OCONUS—–Outside Continental United States
OI—–Operating Instruction
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORCA—–Golf Course Operational Ratio Comparison Analysis
OSD—–Office of Secretary of Defense
OWS—–Operational Weather Squadron
PCS—–Permanent change of station
PGA—–Professional Golfers' Association
PGM—–Professional Golf Management
PMC—–Pest Management Consultant
POC—–Point of Contact
POS—–Point of Sale System
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAIS—–Services Agency Information System
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013         31


QAE—–Quality Assurance Evaluator
SOW—– Statement of Work
(KIRTLANDAFB) SOW—Special Operations Wing
(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) SVBG—Services Business Golf
TDY—–Temporary duty
USGA—–United States Golf Association
 32                                     AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


                                         Attachment 2
      ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED TO CONTRACT-OUT A GOLF
                              COURSE

A2.1. In addition to the letter requesting contracting out the golf course or any part of the golf
course, the package includes, as a minimum, the following:
   A2.1.1. Reason(s) for contracting.
   A2.1.2. The proposed contractor’s Statement of Work (SOW).
   A2.1.3. A financial proforma showing cost saving and projected income.
   A2.1.4. Contractor’s requirement to use the approved Air Force Services Point of Sale
   (POS) system for all sales transactions (cash and credit).
   A2.1.5. Contractor’s access to the POS Back-of-the-House (BOH) applications (limited to
   on BOH access identification card and no access to item maintenance or price adjustment in
   Back Office Security Levels).
   A2.1.6. Contractor’s requirement to use the Employee Security Access Card (ESAC) to
   access to POS.
   A2.1.7. Contractor’s requirement to provide the golf course manager and the NAF AO a
   monthly POS audit report showing Reopened Checks, No Sale Transactions, Refunds, Void
   and Clear Items.
   A2.1.8. The NAFI commission based on a percentage of gross sales.
   A2.1.9. Comments on the following:
        A2.1.9.1. Effect on management structure.
        A2.1.9.2. Current services.
        A2.1.9.3. Proposed services.
        A2.1.9.4. Benefits.
        A2.1.9.5. Proposed personnel actions to include reclassification and/or business based
        actions of golf course manager/staff positions.
        A2.1.9.6. Proposed effective date.
        A2.1.9.7. Hours of operation.
        A2.1.9.8. Use of required standard AF software.
        A2.1.9.9. Purchasing.
        A2.1.9.10. Food Code.
        A2.1.9.11. Uniforms.
        A2.1.9.12. Pricing.
        A2.1.9.13. Menu.
        A2.1.9.14. Equipment and facility maintenance.
AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013                                            33


      A2.1.9.15. Scope of work.
      A2.1.9.16. Personnel.
      A2.1.9.17. Employee requirement.
      A2.1.9.18. Controls.
      A2.1.9.19. NAFI-furnished property and services.
A2.2. For additional information on Contract-out Golf Course’s Concessionaire Contract
Format, Special Provisions and General Provisions Template, go to http://www.afnafpo.com
under the Information for Bases heading, then go to Policy & Training and click on AFMAN
Contract Format and find the link for Contract-out Concessionaire Contract.
 34                                   AFI34-116_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 20 AUGUST 2013


                             Attachment 2 (KIRTLANDAFB)
 LIGHTNING SAFETY PROCEDURES FOR COURSE MAINTENANCE WORKERS

A2.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Procedure for closing the golf course due to severe weather.
   A2.1.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Three blasts of siren along with verbal announcement will
   signal closure of golf course and driving range.
   A2.1.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) When circumstances allow course marshal will ensure all
   players are off the golf course or have taken shelter and there is an active weather warning.
A2.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) Procedure for reopening the golf course after severe weather.
   A2.2.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) One blast of siren along with verbal announcement will signal
   the all clear for play and use of driving range.
   A2.2.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) All golfers must return to the hole they were on, or place on the
   tee when the signal was given to clear.
A2.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Types of severe weather warning
   A2.3.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Lightning within five miles of the Manzano mountain range.
   A2.3.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) Hail larger than one inch in diameter.
   A2.3.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) Wind greater than 41mph.
