BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2869
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            21 JUNE 2005
                                                        Incorporating Through Change 3, 3 March 2008

                                                                                             Personnel

                                                        GENERAL COUNSEL AWARDS PROGRAM


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-Publishing on AF
                      Links) for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/GCA                                                                     Certified by: SAF/GC
                                                                                         (Mr. Don Fox)
Supersedes AFI36-2869, 11 October 2002                                                         Pages: 6

This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, and describes the General Counsel
awards presented to individuals in recognition of their outstanding service and contributions to the
Department of the Air Force. It explains who is eligible for the awards, the criteria and procedures for
nomination, and who selects the winners. It applies to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve person-
nel.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change (IC) amends AFI 36-2869, General Counsel Awards Program. It adds a new type of
General Counsel Award, “The General Counsel’s Excellence in Ethics Program Award” (new paragraph
3.5.) and republishes what was paragraph 3.5. as a new paragraph 3.6. A margin bar indicates newly
revised material.


1. Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, SAF/GC. The General Counsel:
   1.1. Manages the General Counsel’s Award Program
   1.2. Establishes award criteria
   1.3. Announces award recipients each year
   1.4. Acquires plaques and other tangible awards
   1.5. Arranges for the presentation of the awards
   1.6. Ensures that all records created pursuant to this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW
   AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”
2                                                                            AFI36-2869 21 JUNE 2005


2. Selecting Recipients. The General Counsel:
    2.1. Accepts nominations
    2.2. May appoint a formal or informal panel to review nominations and make recommendations con-
    cerning selection of recipients
    2.3. Makes final selection of recipients
    2.4. May decide not to make an award if he/she finds no suitable nominees

3. Awards:
    3.1. The General Counsel’s Award: This award is presented by the General Counsel and recognizes
    one or more attorneys from the staffs of the General Counsel and The Judge Advocate General,
    including Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve personnel, who have clearly demonstrated
    innovative, efficient, and effective use of legal resources and personnel in a collaborative way to ben-
    efit Air Force clients. This award can recognize either continuing contributions or a single achieve-
    ment that reflects effort above and beyond that which is typically displayed in accomplishing
    assignments and the workload of the Air Force legal team. There is no limitation on the number of
    nominations that may be submitted; however, each must be indorsed by at least one supervising attor-
    ney. The last day for meeting the eligibility requirements is December 31st of the year for which the
    award is being given. Nominations will be made on Air Force 1206, Nomination for Award; a com-
    pleted proposed award citation will follow the format found in AFI 36-2805; a biographical sketch
    may also be submitted. Military and civilian recipients will receive an award certificate and plaque.
    3.2. The General Counsel’s Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Award: This award is presented by
    the General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (includ-
    ing Major Commands) to advance the Air Force ADR and negotiations program and the goal of early
    and/or successful appropriate dispute resolution processes in avoidance of, or in furtherance of the Air
    Force’s interests in, litigation. Any Air Force organization or employee of the Department of the Air
    Force (including non-attorneys) may be eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will be
    made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in
    the format found in AFI 36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel,
    Dispute Resolution Division (SAF/GCD). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be
    announced by SAF/GCD on a periodic basis. SAF/GCD will make recommendations to the General
    Counsel, who will select award winners. Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate and
    plaque.
    3.3. The General Counsel’s Procurement Fraud Remedies Award: This award is presented by the
    General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (including
    Major Commands) to advance the Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program. Any Air Force
    organization or employee of the Department of the Air Force (including non-attorneys) may be eligi-
    ble for this award. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for
    Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805,
    through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Contractor Responsibility (SAF/
    GCR). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCR on a periodic
    basis. SAF/GCR will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select award winners.
    Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate.
AFI36-2869 21 JUNE 2005                                                                                 3


  3.4. The General Counsel’s Procurement Law Award: This award is presented by the General Coun-
  sel to recognize the contributions of an individual to advance the Air Force practice of acquisition or
  operational contract law. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for
  Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805,
  through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Acquisition Law Division (SAF/
  GCQ). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCQ on a periodic
  basis. SAF/GCQ will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select the award win-
  ner. Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate.
  3.5. The General Counsel’s Excellence in Ethics Program Award: This award is presented by the Air
  Force General Counsel to recognize a group or organization’s exceptional contributions to the promo-
  tion of the Air Force culture of ethics based on our Core Values and as a part of an ethics program. The
  award may be given either for a single year of extraordinary accomplishments or for a pattern of truly
  exemplary accomplishments over a period spanning several years. Any Air Force group or organiza-
  tion (including a Major Command) is eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will be made
  on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the
  format found in AFI 36-2805, and forwarded through command channels to the Office of the General
  Counsel, Fiscal and Administrative Law Division (SAF/GCA). Calls for nominations and the award
  criteria, will be announced by the General Counsel on a periodic basis. SAF/GCA will make recom-
  mendations to the General Counsel, who will select award winners. Recipients of this award will
  receive an award certificate and plaque.
  3.6. The General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award: The General Counsel may
  present performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including the
  Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and to personnel of other military departments and Exec-
  utive Branch agencies for outstanding contributions or service rendered in furtherance of the Air
  Force mission. Presentation of the coin award recognizes either continuing contributions or a single
  achievement. The purpose of this coin is to provide the General Counsel with an informal means to
  show recognition of and appreciation for outstanding job performance. Presentation of the General
  Counsel's Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award to personnel of other military departments and
  Executive Branch agencies will be set forth in a memorandum signed by the General Counsel citing
  the basis for recognition, a copy of which shall be kept by the Office of the General Counsel.



                                              MARY L. WALKER
                                              General Counsel of the Air Force
4                                                     AFI36-2869 21 JUNE 2005


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
AFI36-2869 21 JUNE 2005                                                                                    5


                                              Attachment 2

                          INTERIM CHANGE (IC) 2005-1 TO AFI 36-2689,
                            GENERAL COUNSEL AWARDS PROGRAM
21 JUNE 2005
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This interim change (IC) amends AFI 36-2869, General Counsel Awards Program (11 October 2002). It
designates Mr. Joseph L. Trombo, SAF/GCA as the OPR, and corrects the honorific used for the certify-
ing official. It also adds two varieties of General Counsel Awards: The General Counsel Alternative Dis-
pute Resolution Award (new paragraph 3.2.), and The General Counsel Procurement Fraud Award (new
paragraph 3.3.). It expands eligibility for the General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin
Award to personnel of other military departments and Executive Branch agencies, for outstanding contri-
butions or service rendered in furtherance of the Air Force mission (amended paragraph 3.4.).
OPR: SAF/GCA (Mr. Joseph L. Trombo)
Certified by: SAF/GC (The Honorable Mary L. Walker)
3.2. The General Counsel’s Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Award: This award is presented by the
General Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (including Major
Commands) to advance the Air Force ADR and negotiations program and the goal of early and/or suc-
cessful appropriate dispute resolution processes in avoidance of, or in furtherance of the Air Force’s inter-
ests in, litigation. Any Air Force organization or employee of the Department of the Air Force (including
non-attorneys) is eligible for this award. Nominations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206,
Nomination for Award, together with a completed proposed award citation in the format found in AFI
36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of the General Counsel, Dispute Resolution Division
(SAF/GCD). Calls for nominations, and the award criteria, will be announced by SAF/GCD on a periodic
basis. SAF/GCD will make recommendations to the General Counsel, who will select the award winner.
Recipients of this award will receive an award certificate and plaque.
3.3. The General Counsel’s Procurement Fraud Remedies Award: This award is presented by the General
Counsel to recognize the contributions of any individual, group, or organization (including Major Com-
mands) to advance the Air Force Procurement Fraud Remedies Program. Any Air Force organization or
employee of the Department of the Air Force (including non-attorneys) is eligible for this award. Nomi-
nations for this award will be made on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, together with a completed
proposed award citation in the format found in AFI 36-2805, through Command channels, to the Office of
the General Counsel, Contractor Responsibility (SAF/GCR). Calls for nominations, and the award crite-
ria, will be announced by SAF/GCR on a periodic basis. SAF/GCR will make recommendations to the
General Counsel, who will select the award winner. Recipients of this award will receive an award certif-
icate.
3.4. The General Counsel’s Recognition and Appreciation Coin Award: The General Counsel may present
performance recognition coins to personnel of the Department of the Air Force, including the Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve, and to personnel of other military departments and Executive
Branch agencies for outstanding contributions or service rendered in furtherance of the Air Force mission.
Presentation of the coin award recognizes either continuing contributions or a single achievement. The
purpose of this coin is to provide the General Counsel with an informal means to show recognition of and
appreciation for outstanding job performance. Presentation of the General Counsel's Recognition and
6                                                                        AFI36-2869 21 JUNE 2005


Appreciation Coin Award to personnel of other military departments and Executive Branch agencies will
be set forth in a memorandum signed by the General Counsel citing the basis for recognition, a copy of
which shall be kept by the Office of the General Counsel.
