BY ORDER OF THE                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-322
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             7 OCTOBER 2003
                                                                     MOUNTAINHOME AFB
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                                 26 JULY 2011

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                     RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILCXE                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/ILCX
                                                                          (Col Hollace D. Lyon)
Supersedes:   AFI 33-322, 1 December                                                   Pages: 15
              1998.
                                 (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)
OPR: 366 CS/SCOKR                                                       Certified by: 366 CS/CC
                                                                         (Major Ted D. Glasco)
Supersedes:   AFI 33-322/MHAFB Sup 1,                                                    Pages:3
              7 February 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 37-1, Air Force Information
Management (will become AFPD 33-3). It establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for life-
cycle management (i.e., creation, maintenance and use, and disposition) of information as
records in all media through the Air Force Records Management Program. The instruction also
implements Title 44, United States Code (U.S.C.), Public Printing and Documents, Chapters 29,
Records Management by the Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General
Services; Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies; Chapter 33, Disposal of
Records; and Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy; Title 36, Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and
Records Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management; Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources; Title 18 U.S.C.,
Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and Reports, Section 2071,
Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000; DoD Standard 5015.2 (DoD
5015.2-STD), Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
 2                                AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


Applications, June 2002; DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and
Subordinate Joint Commands, November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000. This instruction
applies to all Air Force military, civilians, and contractor personnel under contract by the DoD
who maintain records in their area of responsibility. Failure to observe the prohibitions and
mandatory provisions of this instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by military personnel is a
violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of Military
Justice. Similarly, failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
instruction in paragraph 3.2.1 by civilian e mployees may result in administrative
disciplinary action unde r applicable civilian personnel instructions without regard to
otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Additional
records management publications are listed on the Air Force website at Uniform Resources
Locator: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil, under Electronic Publications. Air Force Directory
(AFDIR) 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology, explains other
terms. Direct questions or conflicts on the contents of this instruction, through appropriate
command channels, to Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF/ILCXE), 1030 Air
Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030. Refer recommended changes or comments to
Headquarters Air Force Communications Agency (HQ AFCA/ITXD), 203 West Losey Street,
Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222, through appropriate channels, using Air Force (AF)
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Provide an information copy to HQ
USAF/ILCXE. Refer to Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
Maintain and dispose of records according to Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule. Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program, affect this publication.

(MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFI 33-322, 7 Octobe r 2003, is supple mented as follows. This
supplement establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for life-cycle management (e.g.,
creation, maintenance and use, and disposition) of information as records in all media through
the Air Force Records Management Program. This supplement applies to all Air Force military,
civilians and contractor personnel under contract by the Department of Defense who maintain
records in their area of responsibility. This supplement does not apply to Air National Guard
units and the Air Force Reserve Command. OPR determines no waivers will be granted in
regards to this publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at ttps://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended
changes and questions regarding this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR)
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 through
the base publications and forms manager. See Attachment1 (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a total rewrite of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-322. It redefines roles and
responsibilities at all levels; deletes the requirement for joint commands to appoint a records
manager (RM), requires all field operating agencies (FOA) to appoint a RM (paragraph 3.4);
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                                                         3


revises support provided to joint commands; and updates electronic record-keeping
responsibilities throughout. The bar (|) preceding the publication title indicates a major revision
from the previous publication.

(MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Changed reference to 366 CS/SCSR to 366 CS/SCOKR.
Paragraph 6.3.5 (Added) was completely rewritten. Added paragraphs 6.3.6, 6.3.7 and 8.2.
Changed reference to WebRIMS to AFRIMs. In paragraph 8.9 (Added), after “date trained,”
added wording “completed RM computer-based training (CBT) taken.”

       1.      General. .........................................................................................................    4
       2.      Definition of Records. .....................................................................................          4
       3.      The Air Force Program Guidance. ....................................................................                  4
       4.      The Air Force Records Officer. ........................................................................               5
       5.      Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers. ..........................                                      6
       6.      Base Records Manager (RM). ..........................................................................                 7
       6.      (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Base Records Manager (RM). .................................                                        7
       7.      Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). ...................................................                          9
       8.      Chief of the Office of Record (COR). ...............................................................                 10
       9.      Records Custodian (RC). .................................................................................            11
       10.     Contractor Records. ........................................................................................         11
       11.     Support Agreements. .......................................................................................          12
       12.     Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT). 12

               Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
               INFORMATION                                                                                                          13
 4                                AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


1. General. Records play a vital role in managing and operating Air Force activities. In simple
terms, records document official business, serve as the memory of the organization, a record of
past events, and are the basis for future actions. Every Air Force activity must manage its records
to comply with legal accountability requirements. The key to an effective records management
program is the integrity of the filing system--a system that ensures a standard methodology for
filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to published retention
and disposition schedules. Criteria for establishing a filing system can be found in AFMAN 37-
123, Management of Records.
     1.1. Commanders and staff agency chiefs must implement records management programs in
     order to comply with this instruction and protect the rights of the U.S. Government and
     persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
     1.2. This instruction applies to contractors performing records management support and
     where contractors perform duties/services/functions in place of U. S. Government
     employees. Performance work statements must include record keeping requirements (see
     paragraph 10).
     1.3. Air Force units at all levels must manage records systematically to make sure they are
     complete, accurate, trustworthy, and easily accessible. Air Force units at all levels must
     document their organization, function, and activities and preserve their records by
     implementing effective life-cycle management procedures within their areas of
     responsibility.
2. Definition of Records. “…all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable
materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or
received by an agency of the United States Government under Fed eral law or in connection with
the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or
its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions,
procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational
value of data in them. Library and museum material made or acquired and preserved solely for
reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only for convenience of
reference, and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not included.” (Title 44
U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301,
Definition of records).
3. The Air Force Program Guidance.
     3.1. The Air Force Director, Communications Operations (HQ USAF/ILC) oversees the Air
     Force records management program and appoints the Air Force Records Officer to
     administer the program, represent the Secretary of the Air Force on records management
     issues, and oversee the legal requirements of records disposal.
     3.2. Air Force Personnel, Civilian Employees, and Contractors:
        3.2.1. Must not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate or destroy records without proper
        authority. Unauthorized concealment, removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of
        records, or any attempt to do so, is a violation of Title 18, U.S.C., Section 2071 and may
        be punished by up to three years confinement and a fine. Failure to obey the
        prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
        Military Justice. Failure of civilian e mployees to follow the prohibitions in this
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                      5


      paragraph may also result in administrative disciplinary action under applicable
      civilian personnel instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or
      civil sanctions.
      3.2.2. Must inform officials of any actual or potential unlawful removal, change, or
      destruction of Air Force records.
      3.2.3. Must distinguish Federal records from non-record materials and maintain personal
      papers separately.
   3.3. The Air Force requires an organized network of Record Managers (RM) at major
   commands (MAJCOM), direct reporting units (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), and
   bases for managing the program and ensuring compliance at all levels.
      3.3.1. Each MAJCOM (commander or senior communications and information official)
      must appoint a command records manager (CRM). Upon appointment or subsequent
      change of RM, notify HQ USAF/ILCX of the name, grade or rank, telephone number,
      office symbol, and organizational electronic mail address of the appointee.
      3.3.2. Each DRU (commander or senior communications and information official) must
      appoint a RM. CRM responsibility applies to Air Force DRUs and Air National Guard
      for the purposes of executing the Air Force Records Management Program. The 11 th
      Wing supports offices of record in the Secretariat, HQ USAF, and at Bolling AFB DC
      and should develop a headquarters operating instruction outlining National Capital
      Region procedures.
      3.3.3. Each FOA (commander or senior communications and information official) must
      appoint an agency records manager (ARM).
      3.3.4. Each Air Force base (commander or senior communications and information
      official) must appoint a base RM and notify the CRM, providing the same information as
      in paragraph 3.3.1. At levels below MAJCOM, where there is a communications
      squadron, the RM is the chief of the office of records (COR) function.
4. The Air Force Records Officer.
   4.1. Works with the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and General
   Services Administration (GSA) using the guidelines from Titles 36 CFR and 41 CFR, Public
   Contracts and Property Management.
   4.2. Develops and issues policies governing life-cycle management of Air Force records
   according to AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and AFI 37-138, Records
   Disposition--Procedures and Responsibilities.
   4.3. Works with the Archivist of the United States in applying standards, rules, and
   techniques to improve managing automated and manual records, to improve how the Air
   Force identifies, maintains, and protects permanently valuable records, and separates and
   disposes of records of temporary value under guidelines in Titles 36 and 41 CFR.
   4.4. Certifies to the Archivist of the United States that records no longer of value to the Air
   Force are disposable.
   4.5. Reports to the Archivist of the United States potential unlawful removal, change, or
   destruction of Air Force records.
 6                                 AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


     4.6. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure the Air Force properly creates and
     preserves records that document all aspects of its business to protect the rights of the United
     States Government and of persons directly affected by Air Force actions.
     4.7. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure all records, including databases and those
     in automated information systems, generated by processes and prescribed in Air Force
     publications are scheduled.
     4.8. Establishes guidance and processes to ensure system developers include records
     management requirements in automated information systems development and redesign.
     4.9. Applies DoD records management functional and system requirements to all electronic
     record-keeping systems.
     4.10. Obtains written approval or concurrence from the Comptroller General of the United
     States to dispose of records of claims and demands by or against the United States
     Government or accounts affecting the United States Government.
     4.11. Negotiates agreements to transfer Air Force records to NARA, Federal records centers
     (FRC), other Federal agencies, or private organizations.
     4.12. Implements agreements to store, service, dispose of, access, or use records.
     4.13. Publishes a records disposition schedule authorizing disposal of agency records and
     directing prompt and proper disposition of temporary records and retirement of permane nt
     records.
     4.14. Directs evaluations of the Air Force’s Records Management Program, during staff
     assistance visits (SAV) or Inspector General (IG) team visits, ensuring compliance with
     Federal, DoD, and Air Force requirements.
     4.15. Issues guidance on authenticating records according to AFI 33-321, Authentication of
     Air Force Records.
     4.16. Maintains awareness of developments in the field of records technology and systems,
     and potential application to the Air Force’s record systems..
        4.16.1. Provides, upon request, a copy of any report submitted to NARA, GSA, OMB, or
        the Congress, to the Director of Administration and Management (DA&M), Office of the
        Secretary of Defense (OSD).
        4.16.2. Advises the DA&M, OSD of any matters pertaining to records management that
        may have DoD-wide implications.
        4.16.3. Provides combatant commands with requested administrative and logistical
        support for records management as specified in DoDD 5100.3.
        4.16.4. Advises personnel on recovery or reconstruction of records.
5. Command Records Managers and Agency Records Managers.
     5.1. Manage the records program within their command or agency as specified in Federal
     laws, NARA guidelines and applicable Air Force 33- (and 37-) series publications.
     MAJCOM/FOA/DRU internal record-keeping programs will comply with host base
     guidelines for storage, staging, retrieval, and training.
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                 7


   5.2. Establish and manage a training program for newly appointed base RMs and for
   continuing training and education.
   5.3. Provide guidance on document imaging and electronic record-keeping requirements. If
   records are to be maintained electronically, establish and implement command-wide process
   for electronically storing records having a retention of 10 years or less, with manual
   application of disposition, where a DoD 5015.2-STD compliant system is not implemented.
   Records with a retention of more than 10 years are not authorized for electronic storage
   without a compliant system or approval of HQ USAF/ILCX.
   5.4. Ensure records generated by command or agency directives and information collections
   (forms) are scheduled. When a command or FOA is designated as the office of primary
   responsibility (OPR) for an Air Force publication, the CRM or ARM ensures records
   generated by the prescribed processes are scheduled. Send documentation to support this
   action to HQ USAF/ILCX.
      5.4.1. Provide instruction to the OPR on submitting records disposition recommendation
      (AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation).
      5.4.2. Agency record managers must ensure functional series records dispositions are
      current. At a minimum, during the month of September review applicable tables and rules
      in AFMAN 37-139 and submit changes or a negative reply, as applicable, through their
      functional Air Force OPR to HQ USAF/ILCX. When processes change, are deleted, or
      new ones implemented, submit records scheduling information as previously stated.
   5.5. Coordinate contract record-keeping requirements with MAJCOM contracting office (see
   paragraph 10).
   5.6. Review each base RM program at least once every 24 months.
   5.7. Work with the IG to:
      5.7.1. Identify areas requiring special review by command IG teams.
      5.7.2. Provide compliance evaluation criteria and standards for functional area
      inspectors.
      5.7.3. Establish crossfeed procedures to ensure command units are aware of records
      management evaluation contained in IG reports. Send a copy of procedures to HQ
      USAF/ILCX.
   5.8. Establish a local support agreement with the host base RM, when deemed necessary, for
   program assistance, training, electronic records storage (where applicable), staging, or
   records shipping services.
6. Base Records Manager (RM). The RM administers the installation program. Their duties
fall into three major areas: providing assistance, managing staging areas, and training.
6. (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)Base Records Manager (RM). The 366th Communications
Squadron, Records Management (366 CS/SCOKR), is the RM for Mountain Home AFB
(MHAFB) and is located in Building 512, Room 110.
8                                  AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


    6.1. Providing Assistance.
       6.1.1. Implements the Air Force Records Management Program across the base and
       provides assistance in the Air Force 33- and 37-series publications and guidance
       published by NARA.
       6.1.2. Makes recommendations on records storage issues. Provides guidance on using
       document imaging systems for records storage and authorized disposition of paper-based
       records following imaging.
       6.1.3. Provides guidance on electronic record-keeping requirements and implements
       MAJCOM/local procedures for creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of
       electronic records.
       6.1.4. Reviews OPR proposals for electronic storage and document imaging of records,
       makes recommendation to improve processes, and sends the proposal to the CRM before
       implementation.
       6.1.5. Implements the Records Information Management System according to AFMAN
       37-123.
       6.1.6. Establishes and implements procedures for processing and approving file plans not
       specified by the CRM.
       6.1.7. Investigates incidences of lost records and unauthorized destruction of records.
           6.1.7.1. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost/destroyed records.
           6.1.7.2. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records loss.
           6.1.7.3. Provides report as prescribed by AFI 37-138.
       6.1.8. Reviews base directives and forms/Information Management Tool (IMT) before
       publication to ensure compliance with records management directives.
       6.1.9. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525, Records Disposition
       Recommendation, for new or revised records schedule.
       6.1.10. Provides records management administrative and logistical support for combatant
       commands where a support agreement exists.
       6.1.11. Ensures offices of record receive a SAV at least every 24 months.
    6.2. Managing Staging Areas.
       6.2.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or
       transfer to a FRC including centralized storage of electronically stored inactive records.
       6.2.2. Provides records staging service for tenant activities, if provided for in a support
       agreement.
       6.2.3. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and accountability for
       records transferred to other agencies or FRCs by maintaining copies of the Standard
       Forms (SF) 135, Records Trans mittal and Receipt, as prescribed in AFI 37-138.
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                    9


       6.2.4. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for disposition.
       Where required, the base RM negotiates contracts for the disposal of paper-based records
       stored in the staging area.
   6.3. Training.
       6.3.1. Train all personnel within 3 months of assignment, including tenant activities’
       personnel. ANG personnel will be trained within 6 months of assignment.
       6.3.2. Training must cover command- unique or local operating procedures or
       requirements, particularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
       6.3.3. Include instruction on requirement to identify personal papers, how to identify
       personal papers, and requirement to maintain them separately from official records.
       6.3.4. Notify supervisors of the training completion and requirement to record training
       on their Supervisor’s Employee Brief for civilian employees and on AF Form 623A, On-
       The-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet for military personnel.
       6.3.5. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) RM will type records management training
       certificates for all class attendees and forward certificates to them.
       6.3.6. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FARMs will create AFRIMS user accounts
       for newly appointed RCs assigned to their unit. FARMs will enter the RC’s appointment
       date and training date in AFRIMS. FARMs will delete the RC’s AFRIMS user account
       when the RC is no longer assigned to unit.
       6.3.7. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FARMs will provide AFRIMS user training
       to their unit RCs. FARMs will document AFRIMS training they provided to the RC, and
       file training documentation in their FARM book.
7. Functional Area Records Managers (FARM). Each base-level unit, principal staff office
within an Air Force organization, or contractor appoints a FARM. One or more FARMs may be
required based on the span of control, the complexities of the mission, and the size of the
organization’s functional areas. Where a MAJCOM-approved electronic records management
process or application has been implemented, a designated workgroup manager may perform a
combination of FARM and records custodian duties. The FARM:
   7.1. Serves as the point of contact for and monitors the records management program of their
   unit or functional area and serves as liaison with the base RM.
   7.2. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
   7.3. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
   7.4. Ensures each office of record receives a SAV at least once every 24 months. Follows up
   with the COR on corrective actions for discrepancies noted during visits.
   7.5. Ensures offices of record promptly retire eligible records and maintain accountability of
   such records.
   7.6. Schedules training for all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records.
   7.7. Assists the RM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and
   electronic storage media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and electronic
 10                               AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


   storage on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office records. Reports
   problems to the COR and RM.
   7.8. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FARMs will enter FARM SAV dates in AFRIMS.
   FARMs will file copies of FARM/RM SAV letters in their FARM book and forward copies
   of FARM SAV letters to RM. FARMs will distribute current RM SAV checklists to the RCs
   and maintain and dispose of the appointment letters and checklists IAW the RDS.
   7.9. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) The FARM will also act as the unit Privacy Act
   Monitor (PAM) with the concurrence of the unit commander.
   7.10. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FARMs will ensure applicable sections in their
   AFRIMS are up-to-date.
   7.11. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) FARMs will maintain a FARM book, which will
   contain items as indicated on the FARM file plan provided by RM. Maintain all
   documentation in the FARM book IAW the RDS.
8. Chief of the Office of Record (COR).
   8.1. Responsible for physical and legal custody of all records the office creates or receives,
   regardless of their physical characteristics, including identifying appropriate disposition
   authorities (AFMAN 37-139) for records the office maintains according to AFI 37-138.
   8.2. Ensures the office creates only essential records, permanently preserves valuable
   records, and disposes of temporary records according to AFMAN 37-139.
   8.2. (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) If an office of record has no vital records, then a no vital
   records letter must be signed by the COR and sent to RM.
   8.3. Ensures each office of record under their purview develops a file plan.
   8.4. Appoints a records custodian (RC).
   8.5. Ensures RCs attend records management training. The COR briefs the RC on office
   functions to include the reason why the office keeps records.
   8.6. Submits proposals for establishing electronic records storage and document imaging
   systems to the RM.
   8.7. Assists the FARM or RM in reviewing and evaluating automated information systems
   for their effect on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of records.
   8.8. Ensures all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records attend records
   management training.
   8.9. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CORs will provide and verbally appoint an RC
   and notify the FARM. FARMs will submit an appointment letter to RM listing all their RCs
   and file a copy in their FARM book. The letter must include the RC's rank, full name, office
   symbol, duty phone, date appointed, date trained, completed RM computer-based training
   (CBT) and signed by FARM. FARMs will also update AFRIMS and ensure office prints
   updated cover sheet for the COR to sign. Attach the new cover sheet to the remaining pages
   of the file plan and file. Maintain all documentation in the FARM book IAW the RDS.
   8.10. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CORs or RCs will draft their office file plan.
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                   11


9. Records Custodian (RC). The RC maintains, services, and disposes of the office records.
RCs must learn the functional mission of the office of record that the records support and know
the purposes the records serve. The RC:
   9.1. Maintains the office file plan and accountability for active and inactive records.
   9.2. Ensures eligible records are promptly and properly prepared to retire or transfer.
   9.3. Must be proficient on the equipment used for storing and retrieving the records from the
   files.
   9.4. Knows and implements the records maintenance, use, and disposition policies and
   procedures for records maintained.
   9.5. Adjusts office records maintenance practices to provide accurate and effective reference
   service to the users of the records.
   9.6. Consults with the COR, and when necessary with the FARM, on problems that affect
   creating, maintaining, using, and disposing of records.
   9.7. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) RCs will verbally notify FARM when the COR
   changes. The unit FARM will update AFRIMS by replacing the previous COR’s account
   with the new COR. FARM will ensure the RC prints out an updated file plan cover s heet and
   provides it to the COR to sign. New cover sheet will be attached to the remaining pages of
   the file plan and filed. Maintain this documentation IAW the RDS.
   9.8. (Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) Upon receipt of a training certificate, the FARM
   will update AFRIMS to reflect the RC's records management training date. The FARM will
   ensure the RC prints updated cover sheet and provides it to COR to sign.
10. Contractor Records. Records management oversight of a contractor’s records is necessary
to ensure all Air Force record-keeping requirements are met. Agencies or organizations initiating
contracts must coordinate them with the applicable command or base RM.
   10.1. Contractors performing Congressionally mandated program functions must create and
   maintain records to document these programs. The contract must include requirements for
   the delivery of all pertinent documentation of contractor program execution.
   10.2. Many other types of contracts involve creating background data that may have value to
   the United States Government. Whenever appropriate, agency officials should require the
   delivery of such background data in addition to a final product. The contractor assigns the
   appropriate file identification and disposition instructions to all records delivered to the
   United States Government.
       10.2.1. Contracts to produce statistical analyses specify the delivery of background data
       that may have value to the contracting agency or to other agencies.
       10.2.2. Contracts to produce reports that represent Air Force policy specify the delivery
       of background data needed to verify assertions or justify conclusions.
       10.2.3. Research contracts specify the delivery of background data that have value to the
       contracting agency.
 12                               AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


   10.3. Background electronic data and records specified for delivery to the contracting
   agency must be accompanied by sufficient technical documentation to permit the Air Force
   to use the data.
   10.4. A deferred ordering and delivery data clause should be included in the contract to
   acquire any data and records that may have value to the Air Force but were not identified in
   advance.
   10.5. Contracts must list records management instructions and directives for contractor
   compliance.
11. Support Agreements. Base RMs will provide support to any and all organizations
authorized to receive administrative or logistical support. To validate and defend availability of
resources, a support agreement is an essential tool. Local support agreements for records
management services can be between the host and Air Force tenants of other MAJCOMs, other
services, or DoD components and non-DoD agencies. Normally it is the responsibility of the
receiving activity to assess and generate requests for support. If a support agreement is
necessary, the RM must work with the base communications unit plans flight to modify an
existing agreement or create a new one. Follow the procedures in AFI 25-201, Support
Agreements Procedures.
12. Information Collections, Records, and Forms/Information Management Tools (IMT).
   12.1. Information Collections: No information collections are created by this publication.
   12.2. Records: Records pertaining to disposition recommendations, on-the-job training,
   support agreements, transmittal and receipt are created b y this publication. Retain and
   dispose of records created by this publication according to AFMAN 37-139, Table 37-19,
   Rules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8.01, 12, 17 and Table 37-15, Rules 7, 8, 9, and 10.
12.3.1. Adopted Forms
 AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation;
 AF Form 623A, On-The-Job Training Records Continuation Sheet;
 AF Form 847, Recomme ndation for Change of Publication; and
 SF 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt
 AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
12.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms are prescribed by this publication.




                                             MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                             DCS/Installations and Logistics

                                             (MOUNTAINHOMEAFB)

                                             SCOTT E. MOSER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 366th Mission Support Group
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                 13


                                         Attachme nt 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 104-13, The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
Title 18, U.S.C., Crime and Criminal Procedure, Part I, Crimes, Chapter 101, Records and
Reports, Section 2071, Concealment, Removal, or Mutilation Generally
Title 44, U.S.C., Public Printing and Documents, Chapter 29, Records Management by the
Archivist of the United States and by the Administrator of General Services
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 31, Records Management by Federal Agencies
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 33, Disposal of Records, Section 3301, Definition of Records
Title 44, U.S.C., Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management
Uniform Code of Military Justice, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources
DoD 5015.2-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, June 2002
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, March 6, 2000
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands,
November 15, 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management (will become AFPD 33-3)
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records
AFI 33-360, Volume 2, Forms Management Program
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition - Procedures and Responsibilities
AFDIR 33-303, Compendium of Communications and Information Terminology
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDIR—Air Force Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 14                            AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management
System
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) ANG—Air National Guard
ARM—Agency Records Manager
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CBT—Computer-Based Training
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of an Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) CS—Communications Squadron (366 CS)
DA&M—Director of Administration and Management
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
MAJCOM—Major Command
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) MHAFB—Mountain Home AFB
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) PAM—Privacy Act Monitor
RC—Records Custodian
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Records Managers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
(Added-MOUNTAINHOMEAFB) SCOKR—Records Management (366 CS/SCOKR)
AFI33-322_MOUNTAINHOMEAFBSUP_I 26 JULY 2011                                                       15


U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Chief of Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records are
created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.
This can be at staff level (division chief, branch chief, director) wing, squadron, or flight.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers at MAJCOM, specific FOAs,
DRUs, and Combatant Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a
specified retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer
to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken
with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or
transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in AFMAN 37-139, specifying the date or event
for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records that are
stored together and treated as a unit.
Information Management Tool (IMT)—Information Management Tool, formerly referred to
as a form. The new nomenclature reflects the expanded capability brought on by the new
technology.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Personal pape rs—Documentary materials belonging to an individual that are not used to
conduct agency business. Related solely to an individual’s own affairs or used exclusively for
that individual’s convenience. Must be clearly designated as such and kept separate from the
records.
Records—(See paragraph 2)
Records Custodian (RC)—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal
record keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a base records storage area or a Federal records
center.
Scheduled—Having final disposition approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory
instructions for what to do with records (and nonrecord materials) no longer needed for current
Government business.
