BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2633
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            30 AUGUST 2004

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                         THE AIR FORCE RESERVE PRETRAINED
                                                          INDIVIDUAL MANPOWER PROGRAMS –
                                                              MANAGEMENT AND UTILIZATION

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ ARPC/XPX (Ms Patricia Camara)                  Certified by: HQ USAF/RE (Brig Gen Rajczak)
Supersedes AFI 36-2633, 1 December 1995                                                  Pages: 12
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction covers the procedures and standards required for management of the Pretrained Individ-
ual Manpower (PIM) pool and implements AFPD 36-26, Military Force Management, and applies to all
Air Force personnel who are involved in the management, utilization, muster, and mobilization of PIM
members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Section A—Composition of the Air Force (PIM) Pool

1. PIM. The Air Force policy definition for the PIM is “personnel with prior military training or experi-
ences that are subject to recall to extended active duty (EAD) in a mobilization” in accordance with AFI
10-416, Personnel Readiness and Mobilization. PIM categories include the (a) Individual Ready Reserve
(IRR), (b) Retired Reserve (active and Reserve), and (c) Standby Reserve (active and inactive). (DoDI
1215.19, Uniform Reserve, Training and Recruitment Category Administration)
   1.1. The IRR is a manpower pool comprised of individuals who have had training, have previously
   served on Active Duty (AD) or in the Selected Reserve and may or may not have a Military Service
   Obligation (MSO) or other contractual obligation remaining. Some individuals volunteer to remain in
   the IRR beyond their MSO or contractual obligations and participate in programs providing a variety
   of professional assignments and opportunities for earning retirement points and military benefits. The
   IRR consists of Ready Reservists who are not in the Selected Reserve. IRR members are subject to
   recall to AD by the President or Congress in time of national emergency or war.
   1.2. The Standby Reserve consists of personnel who maintain their military affiliation without being
   in the Ready Reserve. Standby Reservists may be active or inactive Reservists who: 1) are key civilian
   employees, 2) in Reserve sanctuary, 3) Voluntary Separation Incentive (VSI) recipients and/or, 4) hav-
   ing a command acknowledged/approved hardship. (AFI 36-2115, Assignments Within the Reserve
2                                                                        AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


    Components, Chapter 5). Standby Reserve members are subject to recall to AD by Congress in time of
    national emergency or war.
    1.3. The Retired PIM pool consists of AD and Reserve retirees subject to AD recall by Congress or
    the Secretary of Defense in time of national emergency or war.
       1.3.1. Retired AD are those members who have completed the appropriate years’ of service for an
       AD retirement.
       1.3.2. Retired Reserve consist of reservists receiving retirement pay and all personnel who have
       completed requisite qualifying years credible for retirement, but have yet to reach 60 years of age
       for retired pay.

Section B—Program Management of the Participating Individual Ready Reserve (PIRR) and the Spe-
cial Professional Education and Stipend programs.

2. Participation Programs exist in the IRR that permit participation, under certain conditions, and on a
voluntary basis. Participation in these programs also permit continuation of training on a temporary basis
while in assignment transition (see AFI 36-2115, for guidelines or restrictions on assignments to these
programs.) Participation requirements for the various Reserve sections are defined in AFMAN 36-8001,
Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures.
    2.1. Program Management. Program managers assist in the completion of various personnel actions
    in support of their IRR/PIRR customers. These include: 1) providing professional guidance, 2) com-
    municating program requirement, 3) assigning members within/from these programs, 4) ensuring
    compliance with participation requirements, 5) providing career guidance, and 6) processing tour
    requests.
       2.1.1. Publishes Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) orders if not assigned to programs man-
       aged by Headquarters Air Reserve Personnel Center (HQ ARPC). Exception: Ready Reinforce-
       ment Personnel Section (RRPS) members’ orders are published by the using unit.
    2.2. The RRPS program, is managed by HQ ARPC/DPST. This Reserve section is for members who
    lose a selected Reserve position through no fault of the member and cannot secure another selected
    Reserve position. This program pertains to line personnel only. Members wishing to change their
    training attachment while in RRPS must contact the gaining Air Force unit for permission to train, and
    follow up in writing to the unit and HQ ARPC/DPST. For members requesting training overseas, the
    Major Command (MAJCOM) or program manager will ensure status of forces agreements permit the
    attachment and training of Reserve members. While assigned, members must meet and maintain mil-
    itary standards prescribed for selected Reserve and AD members. Members may stay in RRPS for 3
    years and HQ ARPC/DPST may extend the 3-year maximum upon a favorable recommendation from
    the unit of attachment and/or MAJCOM Individual Mobilization Augmentee Program Manager.
    2.3. HQ ARPC/JA manages:
       2.3.1. The 9025th Air Reserve Squadron. This program permits continued participation for points
       by judge advocates or paralegals temporarily unable to participate in the Selected Reserve. Mem-
       bers are attached to the closest Air Force installation for duty. Members who do not participate
       within a 3-year period (1-year period if they have over 20 year’s satisfactory service) will be trans-
       ferred to a non-participating status.
AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                               3


       2.3.2. The 9035th Air Reserve Squadron. This program gives Air Force Reserve Officer Training
       Corp (AFROTC) graduates an educational delay for entry on AD to attend law school. Commonly
       known as “Legal Interns,” these members participate for pay only (no points) with an AD legal
       office between their second and third year of law school. They are not a mobilization resource.
   2.4. HQ ARPC/HC manages:
       2.4.1. The 9002nd Air Reserve Squadron. This program permits continued participation for points
       for Reserve chaplain or chaplain service support personnel temporarily unable to participate in the
       Selected Reserve.
       2.4.2. The 9017th Air Reserve Squadron. This program allows chaplain candidates to train with
       AD chaplains for up to 100 AD days within a Retention/Retirement year while attending a semi-
       nary. They are not a mobilization resource.
   2.5. HQ ARPC/SG manages:
       2.5.1. The 9021st Air Reserve Squadron. This program permits continued training opportunities
       for medical personnel who cannot participate in the Selected Reserve. Members participate for
       points only.
       2.5.2. The 9016th Air Reserve Squadron. Members enrolled in the Health Professions Scholarship
       Program (HPSP) and Financial Assistance Program (FAP) are assigned to this squadron. Individ-
       uals in HPSP must perform 45-days AD each year. Those in FAP must perform 14-days of AD
       each year. These members are not a mobilization resource.
       2.5.3. The 9027th Air Reserve Squadron. Members assigned to this squadron enroll in one of three
       stipend programs available to both officers and enlisted medical personnel while enrolled in
       higher medical education programs that increase their skills. These members are not a mobiliza-
       tion resource.
   2.6. The 9001st Air Reserve Squadron. Members participate in the Air Force Admissions Liaison
   Officer program. This program is made up of liaison officers who counsel and recruit potential candi-
   dates for attendance at the Air Force Academy or enrollment in the AFROTC Program. (see AFI
   36-2017, Personnel Liaison Officer, for program details and requirements.) Participation is for points
   only and individuals are mobilization resources.
   2.7. The 9004th Air Reserve Squadron. Civil Air Patrol (CAP) manages members in the CAP Reserve
   Assistance Program who volunteer technical assistance and advice to CAP units located throughout
   the United States. They train for points only, but some paid AD support opportunities are available
   using MPA days. They are mobilization resources. See AFI 10-2701, Organization and Function of
   the Civil Air Patrol, for program details and requirements.

Section C—Management of the Non-participating IRR

3. Program Management for the IRR is managed by HQ ARPC/DPAF. Upon entry to the IRR individ-
uals are sent a“Welcome to the PIM” letter. This letter defines the responsibilities of the individual and
identifies the points of contact at HQ ARPC for personnel functions. The IRR members are assigned to
either the Obligated Reserve Sections (ORS/RA or ORS/RC) or the Non-obligated Non-participating
Ready Personnel Section (NNRPS/RD). Members in ORS/RA and NNRPS/RD are subject to PIM
Screenings and Push-Pull exercises. (See Section G for information on these screenings.)
4                                                                      AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


    3.1. The majority of ORS/RA members are individuals released from AD with a remaining MSO.
    This Reserve section also includes members who request transfer because of pregnancy or personal
    reasons, such as job or school conflicts, and PALACE CHASE members. Qualified ORS/RA mem-
    bers may volunteer for Selected Reserve positions.
    3.2. ORS/RC encompasses both officer and enlisted personnel. Officers are member with EAD com-
    mitments and/or waiting EAD orders and include graduates of professional training programs on
    approved education delays, physicians released from AD for specialty training, members appointed to
    professional programs, AFROTC graduates on approved education delays, and graduates of HPSP.
    Enlisted members are either, 1) assigned to college scholarship programs or the Professional Officer
    Course of the AFROTC per AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corp, and 2) enlisted to
    attend the United States Air Force Academy per AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air
    Force Academy Cadets, or other military training courses.
    3.3. NNRPS/RD includes officers and enlisted personnel without an MSO who do not meet the
    requirements of participating Reserve assignments or who have requested a transfer to NNRPS due to
    personal reasons (AFI 36-2115, Chapter 5).

Section D—Management of the Standby and Retired Reserve

4. Standby Reserve is comprised of the active Non-Affiliated Reserve Sections (NARS) and the Inactive
Status List Reserve Section (ISLRS) who are managed by ARPC/DPAF (AFI 36-2115, Chapter 5).
    4.1. NARS is comprised of four categories: NARS-NA (members with no MSO with hardship/pend-
    ing discharge for cause), NARS-NB (members with an MSO same as NARS-NA), NARS-NC (offic-
    ers eligible for sanctuary), and NARS-ND (members who are key employees or elected official and
    request to still participate). Individuals in NARS-NA and NARS-NB are not authorized to train. Indi-
    viduals in NARS-NC and NARS-ND must train for points, either by taking the Air Force Institute for
    Advanced Distributed Learning course or via training attachment to a training activity. HQ ARPC/
    DPST acts as the Program Manager for personnel assigned to NARS-NC and NARS-ND.
    4.2. ISLRS-RB are members who are VSI recipients, dual status members, unsatisfactory partici-
    pants, or individuals who have exceeded 2 years in NNRPS and NARS. Members assigned to ISLRS
    are not authorized to train and are not eligible for promotion.
    4.3. The Retired PIM pool consists of AD and Reserve retirees subject to AD recall by Congress or
    the Secretary of Defense in time of national emergency or war. Managed by HQ ARPC/DPPR.

Section E—Screening of the PIM

5. PIM Screening. DoDD 1200.7, Screening the Ready Reserve and Title 10 U.S.C., Section 10149,
requires screening of the IRR to ensure there will not be significant attrition of those members during a
mobilization. Screenings are conducted annually and result in members either being retained in the IRR,
transferred to the Standby Reserve, discharged under AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Proce-
dures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members, or transferred to the Retired Reserve (for
eligible members who apply). DoDI 1100.19, Wartime Manpower Mobilization Planning Policies and
Procedures, requires exercise programs in peacetime, enabling the estimation of mobilization manpower
yields of the PIM.
AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                              5


   5.1. Screening ensures: military skill usability or skill degradation factors, military qualifications
   required for ranks, ratings, and specialties (provided in Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS)),
   mental, moral, professional, and physical fitness, and annual muster surveys (Section F and Section
   G).

Section F—IRR Muster Exercise

6. HQ ARPC/DPAR is the Air Force program manager for the muster exercise which tests the services
provided by HQ ARPC/FM, Defense Finance Accounting Service-Denver Center (DFAS-DE), HQ AFR
Recruiting Service and the host base. (NOTE: When full or partial mobilization is declared under Title 10
U.S.C., Section 12301(a) or Title 10 U.S.C., Section 12302, muster screening will cease. When Presiden-
tial Reserve Call-Up (PRC) authority, Title 10 U.S.C., Section 12304 is invoked, the Department of
Defense will direct continuation or cessation of screening.)
   6.1. HQ ARPC/DPAR selects Air Force bases to participate and coordinates dates of screenings.
       6.1.1. Identifies and notifies PIM members selected to participate.
       6.1.2. Reschedules or excuses members for screening based on HQ ARPC/DPP internal policy.
       6.1.3. Publishes screening orders, amendments, and revocations.
       6.1.4. Mails orders and instructions to member.
       6.1.5. Provides written screening guidance/base planning guide to participating bases.
       6.1.6. Provides the DFAS-DE participant screening information to prepare paychecks.
       6.1.7. Resolves pay problems with DFAS-DE and HQ Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
       Reserve pay office (AFRPO/FMFQ-P).
       6.1.8. Records member status (show, no-show, excused) in MilPDS.
       6.1.9. Prepares statistical and after action reports.
   6.2. HQ ARPC/FM receives a budget estimate for screening action and provides the overall Reserve
   Personnel Appropriation (RPA) Budget Estimate Submission (BES).
   6.3. DFAS-DE provides the following services:
       6.3.1. Prepares muster paychecks.
       6.3.2. Ensures paychecks are in place at muster location before muster date.
       6.3.3. Processes and cancels checks not disbursed at the muster site. AFRPC/FMFQ-P resolves
       pay issues and errors.
       6.3.4. Mails muster pay listing to host base.
   6.4. HQ AFR Recruiting Service ensures a Reserve recruiter is available at the muster site to brief
   participants on assignment opportunities within the Selected Reserve and reports the number of leads
   and accessions gained from each muster to HQ ARPC/DPAR.
   6.5. The host base for the muster performs the following functions:
       6.5.1. Appoints an office of primary responsibility (OPR) to coordinate muster activities.
6                                                                       AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


       6.5.2. Arranges for logistical support for processing line to support logistics such as billeting,
       finance, and medical, etc.
       6.5.3. Orders necessary supplies and forms to accomplish muster-processing tasks.
       6.5.4. Accomplishes objectives and tasks in the Base Planning Guide furnished by HQ ARPC/
       DPAR. These include:
           6.5.4.1. Ensures receipt of ARPC Form 31, Significant Medical History, and ARPC Form
           32, Request for Medical Information, to accomplish muster actions.
           6.5.4.2. Ensures receipt of Base Management Roster (2 copies) from HQ ARPC/DPAR.
           6.5.4.3. Ensures receipt of Pay Roster (2 copies) from DFAS-DE.
           6.5.4.4. Provides a location and establishes a processing line with applicable stations, equip-
           ment, and personnel to meet mission requirements.
           6.5.4.5. Accounts for participants and accomplishes no show reporting and preparation of
           required reports, etc. and forwards to HQ ARPC/DPAR.
           6.5.4.6. Ensures a Veterans Administration (VA) representative is available to brief on VA
           opportunities and VA disability claims.
           6.5.4.7. Ensures members have a current DD Form 2, Armed Forces of the United States –
           Geneva Convention Card, as required and updates Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting
           System.
    6.6. Host base FM ensures DD Form 577, Signature Card and SF Form 1195, Recommendation for
    Designation and Revocation of Agent to Receive and Deliver Checks and Savings Bonds, are
    mailed to DFAS at least 30 days prior to PIM muster.

Section G—Testing Personnel Mobilization.

7. HQ USAF/DPPR is the OPR for testing personnel mobilization procedures and systems. A Per-
sonnel Mobilization Test (PMT) evaluating personnel mobilization, procedures, and systems will be con-
ducted at a minimum of every other year as part of a Joint Chief of Staff (JCS) Mobilization Exercise, an
Air Force-directed Command Post Exercise, Field Training Exercise, or other appropriate forum deter-
mined by AF/DPPR. Actual mobilization activity driven by contingency operations may alter or eliminate
the need for scheduled PMTs based on the degree that PMT objectives were deemed to be met.
    7.1. Exercises/test will provide “no fault” opportunities to train and evaluate processes, procedures,
    commander support requirements, customer service, and supporting information/reporting systems
    (both C2 and administration) that support personnel mobilization.
       7.1.1. HQ USAF/DPPR will coordinate objectives and participants that may include Headquarters
       Air Force offices, selected major commands, HQ Air National Guard (ANG), HQ AFRC and the
       HQ ARPC with systems support provided by the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
       7.1.2. HQ ANG, HQ AFRC, and HQ ARPC will develop and define their own requirements to be
       exercised during PMTs, and coordinate this participation with HQ USAF/DPPRX and all other
       participates.
AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                             7


     7.1.3. The PMT objectives will be outlined and included in JCS or Air Force Exercise Plans along
     with systems tests and procedures.
     7.1.4. Each organization participating is required to evaluate procedures, processes, and systems
     and share lessons learned throughout the personnel readiness community.
  7.2. The following will assist to further identify testing responsibilities:
     7.2.1. HQ AFPC/DPA identifies the assignment control flag for individuals who are “tested”.
     7.2.2. HQ AFPC/DPMAR provides an assignment team to exercise the PMT portion of the exer-
     cise by simulating end assignment determinations and provides assignment and reporting instruc-
     tions.
     7.2.3. DFAS-DE supports the PMT by attending planning meetings and processing necessary
     actions to accomplish pay transactions.
     7.2.4. HQ ARPC/FM provides a budget estimate for the PMT (pay and allowances, travel, and per
     diem) to HQ USAF/REC to be included in the RPA BES.
  7.3. HQ ARPC/DPAR:
     7.3.1. Coordinates exercise requirements with other ARPC directorates and HQ Air Education
     and Training Command (AETC).
     7.3.2. Assists in development of exercise objectives.
     7.3.3. Notifies HQ AFRC/RS of upcoming PMT.
     7.3.4. Performs the initial selection of PIM members based on selection criteria established by
     HQ USAF/DPPR.
     7.3.5. Sends an initial notification for members to make their own travel arrangements to also
     include a survey for height, weight, medical screening, uniforms, civilian occupation, and security
     clearance. Members are not advised of follow-on assignment prior to arrival at the HQ AETC pro-
     cessing location.
     7.3.6. Provides replacements for those with an approved delay and exemption identified by HQ
     ARPC/DPP.
     7.3.7. Sends copies of entitlements/orders packages to the training wing.
     7.3.8. Sends orders (to include mobilization authority) to members no later than 45 days in
     advance of date of report.
     7.3.9. Accomplishes development and disposition of master/field personnel records (simulated)
     for activated PIM members in conjunction with HQ ARPC Records Contractor.
     7.3.10. Provides list of names and social security numbers to the Commercial Travel Office
     (CTO).
     7.3.11. Receives information from member in case of travel problems or other emergencies and
     notifies HQ AETC PIM Squadron and HQ AETC/CCR if member is unable to proceed.
     7.3.12. Provides a budget estimate for screening actions to the HQ ARPC/FM, to be included in
     the overall RPA BES.
8                                                                         AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


    7.4. HQ AETC/DOX:
       7.4.1. Selects training locations to participate.
       7.4.2. Coordinates with selected training locations.
    7.5. HQ AETC/CCR:
       7.5.1. Reports all arriving PIM members to HQ AFPC, HQ ARPC, and HQ USAF/CAT-MPRC.
       7.5.2. Provides in-processing, medical screening, skills testing, weapons qualification, dog tag,
       ID card issuance, uniform issuance (simulated), refresher training, force protection, entitlements,
       and mobilization briefings, lodging, meals, etc.
       7.5.3. Notifies HQ ARPC/DPAR if a member determined to be unsuitable (medical, etc.) for
       replacement action (simulated) and takes necessary action to return unsuitable individuals to their
       Home Of Record (HOR). Forwards all data and paperwork on issue to HQ ARPC/DPAR.
    7.6. HQ AETC Training Locations:
       7.6.1. Plan for and receive Push-Pull participants.
       7.6.2. Administer evaluations based on exercise objectives.
       7.6.3. Establish accountability for participants, no-shows, etc.
       7.6.4. Perform self-assessment of procedures used to receive and process large numbers of incom-
       ing PIM members.
       7.6.5. When directed to evaluate skills of PIM members, ensures technically qualified subject
       matter specialist is available to conduct the evaluation.
       7.6.6. Program and provide exercise funds to support exercise costs.
       7.6.7. Monitor arrival and report no-shows to HQ AETC/CCR, HQ ARPC, and HQ USAF/
       CAT-MPRC.
       7.6.8. Process members for new uniforms.
       7.6.9. Verify medical status.
       7.6.10. Determine refresher training needs.
       7.6.11. Process travel voucher for disqualified PIM members to return to their HOR.
       7.6.12. Process travel voucher for mobilized PIM member to travel from their HOR to their train-
       ing location.
    7.7. HQ AETC Training Location Traffic Management Office:
       7.7.1. In conjunction with the local CTO, handles all travel from the AETC base to final duty
       location.
       7.7.2. Process travel voucher for disqualified PIM members to return to their HOR.
       7.7.3. Process travel voucher for mobilized PIM member to travel from their HOR to their train-
       ing location.
    7.8. HQ AETC Servicing Military Personnel Flight: Follows the guidelines in AFI 10-215, Personnel
    Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO), to include:
AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004                                                                         9


     7.8.1. Publishing Permanent Change of Station or Contingency, Exercise, Deployment orders.
     7.8.2. Building the Manpower and Personnel record.
     7.8.3. Establishing a Unit Personnel Record Group.
     7.8.4. Ensuring applicable directives are available.



                                                  JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Lt General, USAF
                                                  Chief of Air Force Reserve
10                                                                  AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United State Code, Section 10149, Ready Reserve: Continuous Screening
Title 10, United State Code, Section 12301, Reserve Components Generally
Title 10, United State Code, Section 12302, Ready Reserve
Title 10, United State Code, Section 12304, Selected Reserve and Certain Individual Ready Reserve
members; order to active duty other than during war or national emergency
DoDI 1100.19, Wartime Manpower Mobilization Planning Policies and Procedures
DoDD 1200.7, Screening the Ready Reserve
DoDI 1215.19, Uniform Reserve, Training and Recruitment Category Administration
DoDD 1235.13, Management of the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) and the Inactive National Guard
(ING)
DoDI 1235.14, Administration and Management of the Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) and the Inactive
National Guard (ING)
AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO)
AFI10-416, Personnel Readiness and Mobilization
AFI 10-2701, Organization and Function of the Civil Air Patrol
AFI 36-2011, Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
AFI 36-2017, Personnel Liaison Officer
AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets
AFI 36-2115, Assignments Within the Reserve Components
AFPD 36-26, Military Force Management
AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Members
AFMAN 36-8001, Reserve Personnel Participation and Training Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Active Duty
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004                                       11


AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
ANG—Air Nation Guard
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CTO—Commercial Travel Office
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DFAS-DE—Defense Finance Accounting Service-Denver Center
EAD—Extended Active Duty
FAP—Financial Assistance Program
HOR—Home of Record
HPSP—Health Professional Scholarship Program
IRR—Individual Ready Reserve
ISLRS—Inactive Status List Reserve Section
JCS—Joint Chief of Staff
MAJCOM—Major Command
MilPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
MSO—Military Service Obligation
NARS—Non-Affiliated Reserve Section
NNRPS—Non-obligated Non-participating Ready Personnel Section
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORS—Obligated Reserve Section
PIM—Pre-trained Individual Manpower
PIRR—Participating Individual Ready Reserve
PMT—Personnel Mobilization Test
RPA—Reserve Personnel Appropriation
RRPS—Ready Reinforcement Personnel Section
VA—Veterans Administration
VSI—Voluntary Separation Incentive
12                                                                      AFI36-2633 30 AUGUST 2004


Terms
Chaplain Candidates—Members appointed as officers in the Ready Reserve, who have completed their
4-year college degree, and are attending an accredited seminary to become clergy and chaplains in the
AFR. These officers participate and train with active duty chaplains during summer break.
Health Professions Scholarship Program (HPSP)—Members appointed as officers in the Ready
Reserve, who have completed their 4-year college degree, and are attending an accredited health
professions school. They receive a scholarship from the Air Force in return for pay back via active and
Reserve service.
Individual Ready Reserve (IRR)—Officer and enlisted members who may or may not have a remaining
military service obligation or a commitment to remain in the Ready Reserve for benefits or training
received. This section consists of both participating and non-participating members. Some of these
members are those who completed their 4 years of AD and serve the remainder of their 8 year obligation
in the IRR. These members are subject to involuntary recall by the President and Congress, and are also
required to participate in Muster or Push-Pull screenings.
Legal Interns—AFROTC graduates, appointed as officers in the Reserve, who have been granted a delay
before going on AD, to complete law school. These members train during summer break with an AD legal
office between their second and third year of law school. Upon successful completion of law school and
admission to practice before a Federal court or the highest court of any state, they are called to AD to
serve in The Judge Advocate General’s Corps.
Paralegals—Enlisted members trained to assist attorneys in various law offices throughout the Air Force.
They perform a variety of duties to include legal assistance, wills, powers of attorney, military justice,
claims, etc.
Push-Pull—The system used by the Air Force to mobilize and exercise IRR, Standby, and Retired
members. Upon mobilization, the Air Force determines in advance the number of individuals, by skill,
and tells the Air Force Personnel Center to mobilize those individuals to a technical training location for
the purpose of uniform reissue, medical qualification testing, and skill training needs. Once completed,
the individuals are reported as available for assignment, and assigned where needed.
Retired Reserve—Comprised of Reserve and AD members who have reached eligibility and requested
retirement. The Reserve has two categories, awaiting pay at age 60, and receiving pay. The AD has only
one category, receiving pay.
Standby Reserve—Comprised of Reserve members who have no military Reserve obligation, or those
who have been temporarily excused from Reserve participation, or those who have been designated as
key or essential in their present civilian position. It is also used to place members who have reached
Reserve Sanctuary, NARS-NC (18 but less than 20 years satisfactory service for retirement) and are
unable to participate in the Selected Reserve.
Stipend Program—Monetary assistance provided to medical professionals and specialists who are
enrolled in educational programs to increase their medical skills. They incur a Reserve Service Obligation
for this assistance.
