                                    Template modified:               27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2019
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                                    16 MAY 1994

                                                                        HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                                                                                                 Supplement 1
                                                                                                                     12 MAY 2004
                                                                                                 Certified Current on 12 June 2012
                                                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                     APPOINTMENT TO THE UNITED STATES AIR
                                                                                          FORCE ACADEMY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFA/OL-C                                                                                Certified by: HQ USAFA/OL-C
       ( Maj Nelson English)                                                                                   (Col Scott E. Mills)
Supersedes AFR 53-10, 22 October 1985.                                                                                  Pages: 12
                                                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-20, Accessions of Military Personnel. It provides instructions to
Air Force members to process nominations and appointments to the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA). This instruction directs collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Chapter 903 and Title 10, United States Code, Section
8013. System of Records F053 MP A applies.

(USAFA) AFI 36-2019, 16 May 1994, is supplemented as follows:
(USAFA) This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Pri-
vacy Act of 1974. 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 9346 and Executive Order (EO) 9397 authorize the col-
lection and maintenance of data prescribed in this publication. USAFA Forms 145, 146, 147, 148, 149,
149a, USAFA Office form, Candidate Writing Sample, and USAFA Office Form Candidate Physical
Aptitude Exam contain Privacy Act Statements as required by AFI 33-332. System of Records notice,
#F036 USAFA K, Admissions Records, applies.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFI 36-2019, substantially revising AFR 53-10.
(USAFA) Added USAFA Form 145, and the two USAFA office forms, Candidate Writing Sample and
Candidate Physical Aptitude Exam to 4.3. (Added) Added the purpose of the forms at 4.3.1. A bar (|)
indicates revision from the previous edition.
      1.     Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................   3
      2.     Nominations and Appointments: ...............................................................................                 3
2                                                                        AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

    3.   Obligation of Appointees. ..........................................................................................        4
    4.   Forms Prescribed: ......................................................................................................    5
    5.   (Added-USAFA) Information Collections, Records, and Forms. .............................                                    5

Attachment 1—ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR US AIR FORCE ACADEMY
             APPLICANTS                                                                                                              7

Attachment 2—ACADEMY NOMINATION CATEGORIES                                                                                          8

Attachment 3—NOMINATION METHODS                                                                                                     12

Attachment 4—APPOINTMENT VACANCY SELECTION                                                                                          13

Attachment 5—APPOINTEE OBLIGATIONS                                                                                                  14
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                        3

1. Responsibilities. The USAFA offers cadet appointments to candidates with the strongest potential to
become successful career officers. USAFA offers appointments according to law and HQ USAF guid-
ance. The President may appoint candidates to become cadets; however, appointments are conditional
until the candidates enter the Academy.
   1.1. HQ USAFA/RRS evaluates applications as an initial step in the appointment process and as an
   aid to Members of the Congress in screening their applicants for nomination.
   1.2. As part of the appointment process HQ USAFA/RRS will:
       1.2.1. Send each applicant a packet, with a request for the academic, athletic, leadership, and
       background information.
       1.2.2. Evaluate the application information and provide an analysis to appropriate congressional
       offices. This report indicates the applicant's potential to qualify for admission and assists Members
       of the Congress in selecting the best-qualified applicants for nomination.
       1.2.3. Advise qualified applicants to seek a nomination. Inform and encourage individuals whose
       evaluations reflect areas needing improvement to submit additional test scores or information in
       an effort to improve their qualifications.
       1.2.4. Schedule qualified applicants for a medical examination through the Department of
       Defense Medical Examination Review Board (DoDMERB) for military service eligibility. DoD-
       MERB will notify the student directly of his or her medical status.

2. Nominations and Appointments:
   2.1. Eligibility and Nomination Categories. Statutory authority for nominations and appointments
   is Title 10, U.S.C., Chapter 903.
       2.1.1. Eligibility requirements for potential candidates are at Attachment 1.
       2.1.2. Specific authorities may nominate eligible applicants for appointment vacancies.
       2.1.3. Each applicant must obtain a nomination in order to receive an appointment. Applicants
       may apply for a nomination in each category in which they are eligible. Nomination categories are
       at Attachment 2.
   2.2. Notice of Nomination. The Associate Director of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RRS) acknowl-
   edges receipt of all nominations (see Attachment 3).
       2.2.1. If a nominee is not in the Academy system, HQ USAFA/RRS will forward an application
       to the nominee.
       2.2.2. HQ USAFA/RRS will send a candidate kit to all applicants or nominees with qualifying
       potential for either the Academy or the USAFA Preparatory School.
   2.3. Appointment Selection:
       2.3.1. HQ USAFA/RRS will notify HQ USAFA/OL-C, of all candidates selected for appointment
       (see Attachment 4).
       2.3.2. To bring the Cadet Wing up to full strength, HQ USAFA/RRS may offer additional appoint-
       ments in order of merit from the qualified alternate pool.
          2.3.2.1. The first 150 appointments must come from individuals having nominations from
4                                                           AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

           Members of Congress.
           2.3.2.2. Thereafter, three of every four additional appointments must come from individuals
           having nominations from the Vice President, Members of the Congress, and US possessions
           categories.
       2.3.3. If any of the annual quotas of cadets authorized in the Regular Airman, Reserve Airman, or
       Presidential nomination categories are not filled, HQ USAFA/RRS may offer appointments to
       candidates from the other two categories to fill the vacancies on a best-qualified basis.
       2.3.4. HQ USAFA/OL-C, notifies Members of Congress and the Vice President of all offers of
       appointment from their nominees. After HQ USAFA/OL-C notifies the congressional and Vice
       Presidential nomination sources and advises HQ USAFA/RRS of this notification, HQ USAFA/
       RRS will notify each appointee by letter, enclosing a USAFA Form 0-28, Acceptance Declina-
       tion Certificate.
       2.3.5. On receipt of an acceptance statement for each unconditional offer of appointment, HQ
       USAFA/RRS forwards pertinent information from the completed candidate file to Cadet Exami-
       nations and Records (HQ USAFA/DFRR).
       2.3.6. HQ USAFA/RRS will hold accepted conditional offers of appointment until the conditional
       factor is resolved.
           2.3.6.1. HQ USAFA/RRS will then notify HQ USAFA/OL-C of conditional status removal
           (from the offer of appointment) for notification of the nominating sources.
           2.3.6.2. If the conditional status of appointment is not removed, HQ USAFA/RRS will notify
           HQ USAFA/OL-C, who will in turn notify the applicable nominating sources of the with-
           drawal of the appointment.
       2.3.7. HQ USAFA/RRS completes appointment processing by:
           2.3.7.1. Forwarding an appointment kit which includes detailed reporting instructions to each
           appointee.
           2.3.7.2. Arranging for the appointees' travel or by issuing invitation to travel orders.
           2.3.7.3. Notifying the Directorate of Cadet Personnel (HQ USAFA/DPYC) of Regular airmen
           appointees. Note: Regular airmen in technical school should complete all phases of train-
           ing, if time permits, before reporting to the Academy. USAFA/DPYC will coordinate with
           HQ AFMPC/MPCRAC1 to set the reporting date.
    2.4. Nonselection for an Appointment:
       2.4.1. HQ USAFA/RRS will notify in writing each candidate who qualified as an applicant but
       was later disqualified (due to receipt of unfavorable or unvalidated information).
       2.4.2. HQ USAFA/RRS will notify in writing each candidate who is not offered an appointment
       by 1 May. Note: For active duty Air Force applicants, HQ USAFA/RRS will also notify the
       applicable Military Personnel Flight (MPF) of the member's appointment status.

3. Obligation of Appointees. An appointee who enters the Air Force Academy from civilian status and
takes the oath of allegiance as a cadet normally assumes a military service obligation of not less than 6
years nor more than 8 years under 10 U.S.C. 651.
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                       5

   3.1. As a condition to appointment, cadets will fulfill the following obligations:
      3.1.1. Complete the Academy course of instruction unless disenrolled from the Academy by com-
      petent authority.
      3.1.2. Accept an appointment and upon graduation serve as a commissioned officer in a Regular
      (Reserve after 30 September 1996) component of one of the armed services for a minimum of 6
      years.
      3.1.3. Serve as a commissioned officer in the Reserve component until the 8th anniversary (if
      authorized to resign from the Regular component before the 8th anniversary of their graduation).
      3.1.4. Be subject to the separation policies in AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of US Air Force Acad-
      emy Cadets.
   3.2. HQ USAFA/DPYQ will ensure minor cadets sign an agreement with the parent's or guardian's
   consent to fulfill the above obligations.
   3.3. Cadet's Oath of Allegiance. On admission, each appointee (except foreign cadets) is required to
   take the Oath of Allegiance as written at Attachment 5.
      3.3.1. If an appointee refuses to take and subscribe to the oath, the appointment is terminated.
      3.3.2. Cadets who enter the Air Force Academy from the regular or reserve component of the Air
      Force or as an enlisted member of the armed forces may not terminate any period of remaining
      obligated service because of the acceptance of that appointment. If such cadets fail to complete the
      Academy course of instruction, or are separated from service as cadets for any reason other than
      appointment as a commissioned officer or because of a physical disability, they will revert to
      enlisted status to serve any prior service obligation under 10 U.S.C. 516. However, all service as a
      cadet is counted toward fulfillment of the remaining period of obligated service.

4. Forms Prescribed:
   4.1. AF Form 1786, Application for Appointment to the USAF Academy Under Quota Allotted
   to Enlisted Members of the Regular and Reserve Components of the Air Force.
   4.2. DD Form 1870, Nomination for Appointment to the United States Military Academy, Naval
   Academy, Air Force Academy.
   4.3. (Added-USAFA) Forms Purpose. USAFA Form 145 evaluates a candidates’ character, USAFA
   Form 146 collects a candidates’ personal information and information regarding arrest records and/or
   suspension from school; USAFA Form 147 provides information regarding a candidates participation
   in high school athletic and non-athletic activities; USAFA Form148 provides information regarding a
   candidates high school performance; USAFA Form 149 is the initial application to USAFA and is
   used to evaluate an applicants’ potential to compete for an appointment; USAFA Form 149a is used to
   select students to attend the Summer Seminar and also used in place of USAFA Form 149; USAFA
   office form, Candidate Writing Sample, allows a candidate to express themselves to the Academy
   Selection Panel; USAFA office form, Candidate Physical Aptitude Exam, evaluates a candidates
   physical condition.

5. (Added-USAFA) Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
6                                                        AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

    5.1. (Added-USAFA) Information Collections. This publication requires the collection and mainte-
    nance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. 10 U.S.C. 9346 and EO 9397 authorize the
    collection and maintenance of data prescribed in this publication.
    5.2. (Added-USAFA) Records. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed pro-
    cesses in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
    5.3. (Added-USAFA) Forms Prescribed.
       5.3.1. (Added-USAFA) Forms or IMTs Adopted. No forms are adopted by this publication.
       5.3.2. (Added-USAFA) Forms or IMTs Prescribed. USAFA Form 145, Air Force Academy
       School Official’s Evaluation of Candidate; USAFA Form 146, Air Force Academy Candidate
       Personal Data Record: USAFA Form 147, Air Force Academy Candidate Activities Record;
       USAFA Form 148, Air Force Academy Request for Secondary Transcript; USAFA Form 149,
       United States Air Force Academy Application (Precandidate Questionnaire/PCQ); and
       USAFA Form 149a, United States Air Force Academy Application (Precandidate Question-
       naire/PCQ)/Summer Scientific Seminar Application; USAFA office form, Candidate Writing
       Sample; and USAFA office form, Candidate Physical Aptitude Exam.




                                        BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                        DCS/Personnel
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                          7

                                              Attachment 1

      ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR US AIR FORCE ACADEMY APPLICANTS

This attachment provides the eligibility requirements for all applicants desiring to attend the USAFA.

A1.1. Each applicant must meet the following eligibility requirements:
   A1.1.1. Age. Must be at least 17 and not have passed their 22nd birthday on 1 July of the year of entry
   into the Academy.
   A1.1.2. Citizenship. Must be a citizen or national of the United States (except for students sponsored
   by foreign governments under 10 U.S.C. 9344). HQ USAFA/RRS will verify citizenship of all incom-
   ing cadets prior to administration of the oath of appointment, (i.e. birth or nationalization certificate).
   Facsimiles, copies, photographs or otherwise of birth certificate or certificate of citizenship must
   include proper certification as evidenced by the raised seal of the issuing authority.
   A1.1.3. Domicile. Be domiciled within the boundaries of the constituency if nominated by an author-
   ity designated in the Congressional and US Possessions categories.
   A1.1.4. Personal Standards. Must exhibit the highest standards of moral character, personal con-
   duct, and integrity. Applicants must explain or clarify any of the following circumstances:
       A1.1.4.1. Applicant is or has been a conscientious objector.
       A1.1.4.2. Any facts that indicate the applicant's appointment may be inconsistent with national
       security interests.
       A1.1.4.3. Conviction by court-martial of other than a "minor offense" (MCM, 1984, Part V, para-
       graph 1e, page V-1) or conviction of a felony in a civilian court.
       A1.1.4.4. Elimination from any officer training program or any preparatory school of the Army,
       Navy, or Air Force Academies for military inaptitude, indifference, or undesirable traits of charac-
       ter. This includes any person who resigned in lieu of impending charges or who was eliminated by
       official action.
       A1.1.4.5. Habitual alcohol misuse or drug abuse which exceeds Air Force standards is disqualify-
       ing.
       A1.1.4.6. Behavior, activity, or association showing the applicant's conduct is incompatible with
       exemplary standards of personal conduct, moral character, and integrity.
   A1.1.5. Marital Status. Be unmarried and have no legal obligation to support a child, children, or
   any other person.
   A1.1.6. Medical Examination. Must be medically qualified as determined by DoDMERB. The Air
   Force Academy Command Surgeon may grant waivers.
   A1.1.7. Academic Examinations. Each applicant must achieve satisfactory results on the Scholastic
   Aptitude Test or the American College Testing (ACT) Test.
   A1.1.8. Candidate Fitness Test (CFT). Note: HQ USAFA/AH may grant waivers if the candidate
   clearly demonstrates an accep table level of physical fitness.
8                                                         AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

                                             Attachment 2

                            ACADEMY NOMINATION CATEGORIES

This attachment identifies the nomination categories available to individuals seeking an appointment to
the USAFA.

A2.1. Congressional and US Possessions Categories. The nominating authorities listed below are
authorized the following cumulative quotas: Note: Nominating authorities will send DD Form 1870 to
HQ USAFA/OL-C, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040 for processing.


Nominating Authority                         Authorized Quota


US Senators                                  5
US Representatives                           5
District of Columbia                         5
US Delegate Guam                             2
US Delegate Virgin Islands                   2
US Delegate American Samoa                   1
(Applicants domiciled in American
Samoa)
Governor of Puerto Rico                      1
Resident Commissioner                        5
of Puerto Rico (domiciled and native)
Vice-Presidential                            5
(Nominates from nation at large with dead-
line to apply 31 October)

A2.2. Military Related Nomination Categories:
    A2.2.1. Presidential Competitive Category. This nomination category authorizes 100 appointments
    each year and is made by applicant order of merit. Individuals apply to HQ USAFA/RRS between 1
    May and 31 January. Applicants do not write directly to the President of the United States. Note: For
    the purpose of this instruction, children are defined as natural children of a parent and adopted
    children whose adoption proceedings were initiated before their 15th birthday. To be eligible in this
    category, the applicant's parent must be or have been a Regular or Reserve member of the Armed
    Forces with the following restrictions:
       A2.2.1.1. On active duty (other than for training) and served continuously on active duty for 8
       years by 1 July of the year that the candidate would enter.
       A2.2.1.2. Retired with pay or granted retired or retainer pay (children of reservists retired and
       receiving pay pursuant to Chapter 67 of Title 10, United States Code are ineligible).
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                      9

     A2.2.1.3. Parent died after retiring with pay or died after being granted retired or retainer pay
     (children of such reservists who were retired and receiving pay pursuant to Chapter 67 of Title 10,
     United States Code are ineligible).
     A2.2.1.4. In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 9342, a person eligible for appointment consideration
     under the Children of Deceased or Disabled Veterans (CODDV) category is not eligible as a can-
     didate in the Presidential category.
     A.2.2.2. Children of Deceased or Disabled Veterans and Children of Military or Civilian Per-
     sonnel in a Missing Status Category (CODDV). This category authorizes 65 cadets at USAFA
     at any one time. Individuals apply to HQ USAFA/RRS between 1 May and 31 January. USAFA
     will offer appointments by order-of-merit. Eligibility requirements are delineated in 10 U.S.C.,
     Chapter 9342(a)(1), and the Department of Veteran Affairs is the final determining agency for this
     category. Disabilities under this category must be a full 100 percent determination.
     A.2.2.3. Honor Military and Honor Naval Schools, Air Force Reserve Officers' Training
     Corps (AFROTC), and Air Force Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (AFJROTC)
     Competitive Category. This category authorizes 20 appointments. USAFA will offer appoint-
     ments by order-of-merit.
     A.2.2.3.1. Honor Military and Honor Naval Schools may nominate five honor graduates, or pro-
     spective honor graduates, from each designated honor military and honor naval school. School
     authorities certify that each nominee is a prospective honor graduate or an honor graduate, and
     meets the basic eligibility requirements. School authorities submit nominations directly to the
     USAFA/RRS using specific nomination forms no later than 31 January of the entry year. Nomina-
     tions are not limited to honor graduates of the current year. Eligible candidates apply to the admin-
     istrative authority of the school involved.
     A.2.2.3.2. AFROTC may nominate five students from each college or university AFROTC
     detachment to compete for appointment. Students must apply for nomination to the Professor of
     Aerospace Studies (PAS) who must certify that the applicants meet the basic eligibility require-
     ments and have or will have satisfactorily completed at least 1 year of scholastic work at the time
     of admission. The president of the institution will nominate directly to HQ USAFA/RRS by 31
     January.
     A2.2.3.3. Five students from each high school AFJROTC detachment to compete for appoint-
     ment. Students will apply for nomination to the Aerospace Science Instructor, who must certify
     that the applicants meet the basic eligibility requirements and have or will have successfully com-
     pleted the prescribed AFJROTC program by the end of the school year. The principal of the high
     school may nominate five individuals directly to USAFA by 31 January.
  A2.2.4. Children of Medal of Honor Recipients Category. The child of any Medal of Honor recip-
  ient who served in any branch of the Armed Forces may apply for nomination directly to HQ USAFA/
  RRS between 1 May and 31 January. If applicants meet the eligibility criteria and qualify for admis-
  sion, they are admitted to the Academy. Appointments from this category are unlimited. Note: For
  the purpose of this category, children are defined as natural children of a parent and adopted chil-
  dren whose adoption proceedings were initiated before their 15th birthday.
  A2.2.5. Regular Airmen Category. This category is authorized 85 appointments each year and
  filled from candidates in order of merit. Any enlisted member of the Regular component of the Air
  Force may apply for nomination by 31 January.
10                                                           AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

        A2.2.5.1. Selectees must be in active duty enlisted status when appointed as cadets and must com-
        plete AF Form 1786, Application for Appointment to the USAF Academy Under Quota Allot-
        ted to Enlisted Members of the Regular and Reserve Components of the Air Force, and
        submit it to their organization commander who determines if the applicant meets the basic eligibil-
        ity requirements. If a candidate is not qualified, the organization commander will return the appli-
        cation to the applicant and explain why the applicant was disqualified.
        A2.2.5.2. The organization commander will: advise the local Military Personnel Flight (MPF) to
        hold any reassignment action pending selection of an appointment. The MPF places the airman in
        assignment availability code (AAC) 05 and coordinates on AF Form 1786. Upon Academy notifi-
        cation, MPF will reassign applicants not selected. The initial application package from the techni-
        cal training center MPF to HQ USAFA/RRS includes the following information on all pipeline
        students: name, Social Security Number, Air Force specialty code, course graduation date, fol-
        low-on training, and end assignment.
        A2.2.5.3. Complete an endorsement and forward AF Form 1786 through the MPF to HQ USAFA/
        RRS. The commander's endorsement must include a comprehensive statement of the applicant's
        character, ability, and motivation to become a career officer. The commander will use official
        records to verify statements in the application regarding component, length of service, and date of
        birth.
     A2.2.6. Reserve Airmen Category. This category is authorized 85 appointments each year and
     filled from candidates in order of merit. The deadline for applications is 31 January of the entry year.
     Any enlisted member of the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)
     may apply for nomination by 31 January of the entry year. A reserve commissioned officer who satis-
     factorily completes 1 year of service in an active Reserve assignment by 1 July of the year in which
     admission is sought may apply in this category. (Reserve commissioned officers on extended active
     duty (EAD) may apply for vacancies in the Regular competitive category.) If selected, such candidates
     must have commissioned officer status terminated and be in the enlisted Air Force Reserve before
     appointment as Air Force Academy cadets. Cadets in this category who are separated from the Air
     Force Academy without prejudice and under honorable conditions may apply for reappointment as
     Reserve commissioned officers. Reserve Airmen on EAD as a result of an honor suspension from the
     Air Force Academy Cadet Wing must reapply for admission under this category.
        A2.2.6.1. Reserve category applicants must complete AF Form 1786 and submit it to their orga-
        nization commander. The organization commander processes the application.
        A2.2.6.2. A Reserve applicant is not placed on active duty for the purpose of processing him or
        her for a nomination or appointment to the Air Force Academy.

A2.3. Superintendent Competitive Category. The Superintendent may nominate fifty eligible appli-
cants who have not secured a nomination to USAFA from any other nominating authority. USAFA will
select highly qualified applicants by order-of-merit from the nationwide applicant pool of qualified alter-
nates to fill the class.

A2.4. Foreign Students Competitive Category. 10 U.S.C. 9344 authorizes USAFA to provide instruc-
tion for as many as 40 foreign students at any one time. Foreign citizens must apply to their government.
USAFA coordinates with US Embassies to ensure compliance with all admission and appointment
requirements. HQ USAFA/OL-C coordinates with HQ USAF, Department of Defense and State Depart-
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                   11

ment before forwarding nomination invitations to each country. The application must describe the appli-
cant's background and must be received by USAFA by 31 December before their desired summer
admission. Applicants in these categories must meet the eligibility and admissions requirements estab-
lished for all Academy candidates except for US citizenship. They must be able to read, write, and speak
English proficiently in a college environment.
12                                                          AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

                                              Attachment 3

                                      NOMINATION METHODS

This attachment provides information on the different methods to nominate candidates for appointment to
the Academy.

A3.1. Nomination methods to fill quota vacancies in the Vice-Presidential, congressional, and US Posses-
sions Categories follow:
     A3.1.1. The Principal Numbered-Alternate Method. The nominating authority indicates his or her
     personal preference by designating a principal nominee and numbering up to nine alternate nominees
     in order of preference. HQ USAFA/RRS must offer the appointment to the first fully qualified nomi-
     nee. The order of preference must be honored; however, HQ USAFA/RRS may offer appointments in
     any sequence.
     A3.1.2. The Principal Competitive-Alternate Method. The nominating authority designates his or
     her principal nominee and up to nine other nominees. HQ USAFA/RRS evaluates and ranks nominees
     by order-of-merit. If the principal nominee is fully qualified, HQ USAFA/RRS will offer this individ-
     ual the appointment; otherwise, HQ USAFA/RRS will offer the appointment to the fully qualified
     alternate nominee ranked the highest.
     A3.1.3. The Competitive Method. At the request of the nominating authority, the HQ USAFA/RRS
     evaluates the records of all the nominees, ranks them in order of merit, and offers the appointment to
     the highest ranked nominee.
AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004                                                                     13

                                             Attachment 4

                            APPOINTMENT VACANCY SELECTION

This attachment provides instructions for charging appointments to the appropriate nominating source.

A4.1. HQ USAFA/RRS charges appointees on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force. HQ USAFA/
OL-C will audit all charges. Selection of the charged cadets from the nominees for each vacancy is
accomplished as follows:
   A4.1.1. Principal Nominee, Numbered-Alternate Method. If the Principal Nominee has accepted
   appointment, he or she is charged against their nominating source vacancy. Otherwise the highest
   ranked alternate accepting an appointment is charged. In instances where a candidate received princi-
   pal nominations from two different congressional sources, the principal is normally charged to the
   Member of Congress who submitted the nomination first.
   A4.1.2. Principal Nominee, Competitive-Alternate Method. If the Principal nominee has accepted
   appointment, he or she is charged against the nominating source vacancy. HQ USAFA/RRS evaluates
   alternates and ranks according to merit. If the Principal does not meet admission criteria, the highest
   ranking alternate accepting an appointment is charged.
   A4.1.3. Competitive Nominee Method. HQ USAFA/RRS evaluates the group of competitive nomi-
   nees, ranks according to merit, and charges the highest-ranked nominee accepting an appointment.
   A4.1.4. Multiple Congressional Nominations. For candidates receiving numerous nominations,
   HQ USAFA/RRS normally charges the candidate to the congressional source. When a candidate is
   nominated by several congressional sources, HQ USAFA/RRS charges the candidate to the slate of
   the congressional member where the candidate ranks the highest, unless the candidate is the principal
   nominee or a numbered alternate.
   A4.1.5. Other Sources of Nomination. HQ USAFA/RRS charges all other candidates not nomi-
   nated by congressional, Vice-Presidential, or US Possessions to that nominating source (Presidential,
   AFJROTC, AFROTC, CODDV, Medal of Honor, etc.).
   A4.1.6. Qualified Alternates. To bring the Cadet Wing up to strength, the qualified alternates
   appointed according to paragraph 2.3.2. are charged to the Secretary of the Air Force. Those candi-
   dates having congressional, Vice-Presidential, or US Possessions nominations appear as a qualified
   alternate for that nominating source.
   A4.1.7. Multiple Congressional and Other Sources of Nomination. For appointees who have
   multiple nominations, HQ USAFA/RRS determines the appointment category to which they are
   charged. Normally a cadet with both congressional and noncongressional nominations is charged to a
   congressional authority. HQ USAFA/RRS notifies HQ USAFA/OL-C, of these assignments. HQ
   USAFA/OL-C audits and verifies the charges, then notifies the Vice-President, nominating authorities
   in the Congress, and US Possessions of their charged appointees and other nominees who win
   appointments.
14                                                          AFI36-2019_USAFASUP1_I 12 MAY 2004

                                              Attachment 5

                                     APPOINTEE OBLIGATIONS


NOTE:
This attachment provides the Oath of Allegiance which each Academy appointee must take as an obliga-
tion of service.
"I (name), having been appointed an Air Force cadet in the United States Air Force, do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without
any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the
office of which I am about to enter. So Help Me God."
