BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2103
366TH WING
                                                                               MOUNTAIN HOME AFB
                                                                                       Supplement 1
                                                                                      1 FEBRUARY 1996

                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                      INDIVIDUAL NEWCOMER TREATMENT AND
                                                              ORIENTATION (INTRO) PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally.


OPR: 366 MSS/DPMP ( )                                                       Certified by: 366 MSS/CC ( )
Supersedes ACCR 35-35/MHAFB Sup 1,                                                                Pages: 2
           1 May 1994                                                                      Distribution: F

AFI 36-2103, 3 June 1994, is supplemented as follows.
This supplement gives directive requirements for Mountain Home AFB (MHAFB) Right Start Programs,
which complement both ACC requirements and the Air Force requirement for all bases to conduct an
INTRO program, as described in AFI 36-2103, Individualized Newcomer Treatment and Orientation
(INTRO) Program. This supplement encompasses the traditional sponsorship and newcomer orientation
programs.
1.2.3.5. (ACC Sup 1) Every group will identify a group Right Start Program monitor. Group monitors
will ensure group modules are operating in line with the wing program. Group modules will facilitate
commander participation to the greatest possible degree and will include a group mission briefing tailored
to each group. This presentation will stress how each individual contributes to the accomplishment of the
organization’s mission. Group monitors will oversee unit and work center modules. They will supervise,
guide, and instruct Unit Right Start Program administrators and act as liaison between these individuals
and the wing program manager.
1.2.6. (Added) (ACC Sup 1) A Wing Right Start Program Manager will be appointed to supervise and
oversee MHAFB’s Right Start Program. This individual must possess expertise in the areas of sponsor-
ship, newcomer orientation, and in-processing procedures, as well as maintain a precise working knowl-
edge of AFI 36-2103, and "Guidelines and Standards for Air Combat Command Orientation Programs -
Right Start."
1.2.6.1. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) The Wing Program Manager will maintain an open communication with
the Vice Commander, 366th Wing (366 WG/CV) on the status of the Right Start Program continually.
This will include periodic meetings, after-action reports following all Right Start Programs, all correspon-
dence (on-or off-base) pertaining to Right Start, and any other exchange that either the 366 WG/CV or
Wing Program Manager deems necessary.
1.2.6.2. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) Unit commanders will select a Unit Right Start Program administrator.
These individuals must possess expertise in the areas of sponsorship and INTRO monitor functions. Unit
2                                                           AFI36-2103_MHSUP1 1 FEBRUARY 1996


program administrators must also be individuals of strong character and initiative, to create and maintain
a tailored, specific, high visibility program.
1.2.9.3.1. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) The Wing Program Manager will ensure the accuracy and effectiveness
of all Right Start Modules. Effective accounting and reporting of required quality performance measure-
ments (QPM) is the responsibility of the Wing Program Manager.
1.2.9.4.1. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) Unit program administrators are responsible for the execution of all
newcomer oriented tasks. These tasks include, but are not limited to, INTRO monitor functions, sponsor-
ship functions, in-processing/orderly room functions, and administration of Right Start Module 5 at the
unit level. In addition, the unit administrators are responsible for accurate coordination on all allocation
Report on Individual Personnel (RIP) documents. Administrators will contact appropriate offices to deter-
mine and confirm assignments of inbound individuals in a timely manner. Gaining offices will be con-
tacted, sponsors appointed and scheduled for mandatory sponsorship training at the Family Support
Center (FSC) and sponsor information updated in the PC-3 computer.
1.2.9.4.2. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) Unit program administrators are responsible for their unit’s sponsorship
training program. Unit administrators will ensure training occurs for all unit members and that only the
most competent members are assigned to sponsor newcomers. Guidance and materials will be obtained
from the Relocation Assistance Manager (located at the FSC). Unit administrators will suspense and mon-
itor sponsor actions using an appropriate checklist, and will act as point of contact (POC) in obtaining
sponsorship packages from FSC. Administrators will personally ensure the mailing of completed pack-
ages, to include sponsor and commander letters. Unit administrators will execute orderly room functions
to include the initiation, explanation, and suspensing of complete and accurate in-processing checklists
for all newcomers upon arrival. Unit administrators will develop, implement, and maintain Right Start
Module 5 IAW "Guidelines and Standards for Air Combat Command Orientation Programs - Right
Start," chapter 7, Module 5 - Group and Squadron Mission Module.
1.2.9.4.3. (ACC Sup 1) (Added) Every unit or squadron on MHAFB is a distinct organization with unique
needs and requirements. It is not feasible to create detailed taskings for every unit program administrator
given these variances. However, it is essential to set forth criteria and specific goals for these individuals.
Unit administrators are empowered by their commanders to develop and maintain a creative, effective
program at the unit level. A sense of ownership within these individuals is essential to the program’s suc-
cess.
6. (Added) Forms Prescribed: None



                                                           WESLEY W. GALLOP, Colonel, USAF
                                                           Commander, 366th Support Group
