BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                             AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-809
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                                1 JULY 2003

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                    CIVILIAN SURVIVOR ASSISTANCE




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPPC (Ms Lynda Lake)                                              Certified by: HQ USAF/DPP
                                                                                 (Maj Gen John M. Speigel)
Supersedes AFI 36-809, 22 April 1994.                                                               Pages: 9
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitle-
ments. It prescribes the procedures to follow when a civilian employee dies. It explains the responsibilities
of commanders; supervisors; employees; civilian personnel flights (CPF); Air Force Personnel Center,
Benefits and Entitlements Service Team (BEST) (HQ AFPC/DPCMB); installation mortuary officers;
and other staff officials for notifying and assisting the next of kin (NOK). This instruction applies to
appropriated fund civilian employees, including United States Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
Title 5 employees, civilian employees assigned to foreign overseas areas; civilian employees with trans-
portation agreements assigned to non-foreign overseas areas; employees who become seriously injured or
die while on duty; and local national employees on temporary duty. Records Disposition. Ensure that all
records created by this Air Force Instruction (AFI) are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139,
“Records Disposition Schedule.”

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first revision of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-809, 22 April 1994. A bar ( | ) indicates revi-
sions from previous edition. For installation commanders, supervisors, HQ AFPC, CPFs, installation mor-
tuary officers, and other staff officials, it updates and clarifies responsibilities for notification of NOK in
the event an appropriated fund civilian employee becomes a casualty. It includes the coordination of the
CPF and the Casualty Services Branch (HQ AFPC/DPWCS) in the NOK notification process. This
instruction does not change survivor/designated beneficiary benefit procedures in accordance with (IAW)
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) instructions. For the purpose of survivor/designated benefi-
ciary benefits, the term casualty is specifically identified as a civilian death. For the purpose of NOK noti-
fication, casualty is defined in AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services. Notification and reporting of all Air Force
civilian casualties will occur in IAW this AFI and AFI 36-3002, as appropriate. Also included is a new
component in the process, the Air Force Civilian Emergency Data System (EMDS) and the related input
document, the Air Force Civilian Record of Emergency Data.
2                                                                                 AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003


1. Philosophy. The survivor assistance program aims to reduce the trauma on the deceased’s survivors.
Each person handling the personal affairs of the deceased employee must act with thoughtfulness and on
a confidential basis. As civilian employees are called on, in greater numbers, to help continue to meet our
mission needs, and total force accountability becomes a necessity; we must also plan to provide NOK
notification for AF civilian deaths/casualties with compassion and professionalism.

2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Employee’s Commander/Organization Director:
       2.1.1. When an employee dies, the employee’s commander/organization director notifies the
       installation commander and provides status on NOK notification. The supervisor will immediately
       contact the CPF.
           2.1.1.1. Further assistance to notify other family members, will be provided by the base Mili-
           tary Personnel Flight (MPF) casualty assistance representative (CAR) or the Casualty Services
           Branch (HQ AFPC/DPWCS), if requested by the CPF, employee’s commander/organization
           director or NOK.
           2.1.1.2. Casualty notifications will be made in person by an Air Force representative when-
           ever feasible. This person will be referred to as the casualty assistance representative.
           2.1.1.3. A field grade officer, or civilian equivalent carries out notification, with the assistance
           of the CPF or the employee’s supervisor, and others, as directed by the employee’s com-
           mander/organization director.
           2.1.1.4. Once notification is completed, the commander may convey condolences in person or
           by sending an official letter of condolence to the NOK within a reasonable period of time, but
           not to exceed thirty days. This letter should be personal, sympathetic in tone, and offer full
           assistance to the employee’s survivors.
    2.2. Supervisor. When an employee dies, the supervisor (or next immediately available supervisor):
       2.2.1. Promptly notifies the servicing CPF, the organizational commander, and, in the overseas
       areas, the installation mortuary officer, when applicable. Assists in NOK notification, if requested.
       2.2.2. Prepares the Request for Personnel Action (RPA) in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data
       System (DCPDS) to document the death and forwards action to the CPF for immediate action.
       2.2.3. Certifies and sends (hand-carry, if possible) the Time and Attendance sheet to the Customer
       Service Representative in the Comptroller Squadron as soon as possible on the first workday after
       the employee's death.
       2.2.4. Secures the employee's personal property for prompt inventory and shipment to the autho-
       rized recipient as directed in AFI 34-244, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects.
       2.2.5. Arranges for turn in government property assigned to the employee and out-processing of
       individual through normal installation procedures.
       2.2.6. Prepares compensation forms as directed in DoD 1400.25-M, Civilian Personnel Manual,
       Subchapter 810, Injury Compensation, if a work-related injury or illness caused the employee's
       death with the assistance from CPF, Injury Compensation Program Administrator.
AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003                                                                                     3


     2.2.7. Notifies, in writing, an official of the union representing the deceased’s organization so that
     it may provide any insurance or other union benefits due survivors.
  2.3. Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF):
     2.3.1. The CPF provides all civilian employees with information and instructions for completion
     of the Air Force Civilian Employee Record of Emergency Data in the Air Force Civilian Emer-
     gency Data System (EMDS). This includes new employees during in-processing. See EMDS
     guidance at paragraph 2.6.1..
         2.3.1.1. Annually reminds employees to update AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief
         or the EMDS when their emergency contact information changes. Employees should provide
         a copy to their supervisor.
     2.3.2. When a civilian casualty occurs, the home installation CPF will coordinate NOK informa-
     tion with employee’s supervisor before providing the MPF Casualty Assistance Representative a
     copy of the employee’s completed Employee Record of Emergency Data containing current NOK
     information, if available. If no EMDS data is available, provides emergency information obtained
     from supervisor on employee’s AF Form 971.
         2.3.2.1. If the NOK are aware of the casualty and desire family members not in the immediate
         area to be notified, HQ AFPC/DPWCS will assist in the notification.
         2.3.2.2. If the immediate family has not already been contacted, the employee’s supervisor in
         coordination with the CPF and Casualty Services Branch, will notify NOK as quickly and
         compassionately as possible.
     2.3.3. If it appears the employee’s death could be as a result of a work-related injury or illness, the
     CPF promptly notifies HQ USAF/DPPC, Washington DC, and the Office of Workers' Compensa-
     tion Programs, either by telephone or by e-mail and describes the details of the death.
     2.3.4. If requested, the CPF (with assistance from AFPC) makes biographical information from
     the personnel folder available for use in a public announcement. No public announcement is made
     before the NOK have been told of the death.
     2.3.5. If the death occurs in a foreign area, the CPF notifies the American Embassy in the host
     nation.
     2.3.6. If the Air Force Personnel Center, Benefits and Entitlements Service Team (BEST or HQ
     AFPC/DPCMB) is the servicing office for survivor benefits, the CPF is to notify that office and
     provide the following information: deceased employee’s name and SSAN, date and cause of
     death, name, phone number, and address of next of kin, any worker compensation claim numbers
     and date of receipt of compensation benefits, and the name and telephone number of the
     employee’s supervisor. See guidance in paragraph 2.4.1. If the CPF is the servicing office for sur-
     vivor benefits (i.e., limited-serviced bases), the CPF assists the NOK as soon as possible after noti-
     fication has been completed by:
         2.3.6.1. Contacting the NOK, and offering assistance.
         2.3.6.2. Mailing copies of letters and supporting information to other CPFs mentioned in let-
         ters of assistance to hasten any help they are expected to provide.
         2.3.6.3. Notifying the Air Force Senior Leader Management Office, Sustainment
4                                                                             AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003


          Division (AFSLMO/SU) upon the death of all active Senior Executive Service, Senior
          Level, Scientific and Professional, Defense Intelligence Senior Executive Service and Defense
          Intelligence Senior Level members with the following information: deceased employee's
          name and organization; date, place, and cause of death; name, relationship, phone number, and
          address of next of kin, and funeral information, if available. AFSLMO will prepare the con-
          dolence letter for the AF/CC and notify appropriate senior leadership.
       2.3.7. The CPF counsels the survivors/designated beneficiaries on their entitlements which may
       include:
          2.3.7.1. Any unpaid compensation.
          2.3.7.2. Death benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System, the Federal Employees'
          Retirement System, the Thrift Savings Plan, and Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance
          Program.
          2.3.7.3. Health benefits coverage.
          2.3.7.4. Possible eligibility under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act if a work-related
          injury or illness caused the death.
          2.3.7.5. Availability of special tax benefits if the death occurred because of terrorist or mili-
          tary action. Advises NOK to contact the nearest office of the Internal Revenue Service for
          more information.
       2.3.8. The CPF provides claim forms to survivors and assists them with completing and process-
       ing their claims. Specifically, the CPF:
          2.3.8.1. Promptly notifies survivors that they may need up to six certified copies of the death
          certificate which reflect the manner/cause of death (continental United States [CONUS] death)
          or DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty (See AFI 36-3002,) if the employee died while in a
          temporary duty status or in a location outside the CONUS.
          2.3.8.2. Advises survivors to find out whether any benefits are due them under the Social
          Security Program, the Veterans Administration, a credit union, or the decedent's membership
          in an employee union, social or religious organization.
       2.3.9. The CPF should annually remind employees:
          2.3.9.1. That if the order of precedence by law does not meet with the employee’s wishes, it is
          important to make beneficiary designations in writing and to keep the designations current.
          2.3.9.2. To consider taking part in government insurance programs.
          2.3.9.3. To make a will.
          2.3.9.4. To take similar protective measures.
    2.4. Air Force Personnel Center, Benefits and Entitlements Service Team (BEST or HQ AFPC/
    DPCMB):
       2.4.1. For full-serviced bases, the BEST assists the survivors/designated beneficiaries as soon as
       possible after notification has been completed, by providing benefits related counseling on their
       entitlements which may include:
          2.4.1.1. Any unpaid compensation.
AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003                                                                                   5


         2.4.1.2. Death benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System, the Federal Employees'
         Retirement System, the Thrift Savings Plan, and Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance
         Program.
         2.4.1.3. Health benefits coverage.
         2.4.1.4. Possible eligibility under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act if a work-related
         injury or illness caused the death.
         2.4.1.5. Availability of special tax benefits if the death occurred because of terrorist or mili-
         tary action. Advises NOK to contact the nearest office of the Internal Revenue Service for
         more information.
         2.4.1.6. Annually, reminds all employees to ensure beneficiary information on file such as life
         insurance, Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), unpaid compensation, and/or retirement is current.
     2.4.2. For full-serviced bases, the BEST will provide claim forms to survivors/designated benefi-
     ciaries and assist with completing the death claim forms. Specifically, the BEST:
         2.4.2.1. Promptly notifies survivors that they may need up to six certified copies of the death
         certificate which reflect the manner/cause of death (continental United States [CONUS] death)
         or DD Form 1300, Report of Casualty (See AFI 36-3002) if the employee died while in a
         temporary duty status or in a location outside the CONUS.
         2.4.2.2. Advises survivors to find out whether any benefits are due them under the Social
         Security Program, the Veterans Administration, a credit union, or the decedent's membership
         in an employee union, social or religious organization.
  2.5. HQ AFPC Casualty Services Branch (HQ AFPC/DPWCS):
     2.5.1. If the NOK has no knowledge of the death and the CPF requests assistance, then the base
     MPF CAR and/or HQ AFPC/DPWCS will assist with the civilian casualty notification process.
         2.5.1.1. Ensures family members are notified, in writing, when a member dies or death is
         imminent.
         2.5.1.2. Reports the casualty IAW guidance provided in AFI 36-3002 and this AFI.
  2.6. Employee’s Responsibility:
     2.6.1. After new employee in-processing, employees should complete their Civilian Employee
     Record of Emergency Data in the EMDS at the earliest opportunity and need to periodically check
     the system to ensure it is current at all times. The Air Force Civilian Employee Record of Emer-
     gency Data provides a dependable system for immediate access to emergency information. The
     purpose of the Air Force Civilian Emergency Data System (EMDS) web application is to provide
     casualty notification personnel immediate NOK contact information in the event of a casualty or
     to provide the supervisor contact information in the event of an emergency. Instructions about the
     web application can be found at http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/emds/default.htm.
     2.6.2. Civilian employees should complete the emergency data information to show the names
     and addresses of the person(s) they would like notified if the employee becomes a casualty or for
     any other emergency. The employee is the only person who may update their emergency data in
     the EMDS. All civilian employees will be provided access to government computers and any
6                                                                             AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003


       assistance needed for the purpose of completing the Civilian Employee Record of Emergency
       Data in the Air Force Civilian Emergency Data System (EMDS).
           2.6.2.1. Current employees are encouraged to complete the Civilian Employee Record of
           Emergency Data in the EMDS and provide their supervisor a printed copy to place in the AF
           Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief. Without this information in EMDS, the ability to
           make timely notification to NOK could be adversely affected. This is especially critical for
           employees in Emergency-Essential, Mission-Essential, and Key positions as well as employ-
           ees overseas and deployed civilians to maintain this information on a regular basis. It impacts
           all employees in the event of a terrorist act, natural disaster, or other catastrophe.
       2.6.3. The servicing CPF and the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), Casualty Services Branch
       (HQ AFPC/DPWCS) have EMDS view-only capability. After the employee updates his/her data,
       a printed copy should be provided to the supervisor for placement in the AF Form 971, Supervi-
       sor’s Employee Brief. Establishment of EMDS does not relieve employees of the responsibility
       to provide their supervisors with the name, address, and phone number for their emergency con-
       tact.
    2.7. The Installation Mortuary Office. Helps the NOK on mortuary affairs benefits (overseas
    only).

3. Preparation and Transportation of Remains:
    3.1. When an employee dies while traveling on official government business, while permanently
    serving outside the 50 states and District of Columbia, or on transportation agreements to OCONUS
    (outside CONUS) to include Hawaii and Alaska, the remains are prepared and transported as provided
    for in AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program and the Joint Travel Regulation (JTR), Volume 2, Chap-
    ter 6, Part B.

4. Travel and Transportation of Family Members and Personal Property:
    4.1. When an employee stationed outside the CONUS dies, travel and transportation of family mem-
    bers, household goods, and personal effects are provided as specified in AFI 34-244, Disposition of
    Personal Property and Effects and in the JTR, Volume 2, Chapter 6, Part B. Family members need
    approved travel orders before they undertake such travel and transportation. The CPF and AFPC will
    work together to ensure timely completion of these orders.



                                                      RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt General, USAF
                                                      DCS/Personnel
AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003                                                                      7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
DoD 1400.25-M, Civilian Personnel Manual, current edition
Joint Travel Regulation (JTR), Volume 2, DoD Civilian Personnel, current edition
Joint Publication 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, current edition
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 34-244, Disposition of Personal Property and Effects
AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSLMO—Air Force Senior Leadership Management Office
BEST—Benefits and Entitlements Service Team
CAR—Casualty Assistance Representative
CONUS—Continental United States
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
DD—Department of Defense
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DoD—Department of Defense
DUSTWUN—Duty status—whereabouts unknown
EMDS—Emergency Data System
HQ AFPC/DPCMB—Headquarters, Air Force Personnel Center, Benefits and Entitlements Service
Team
HQ AFPC/DPWCS—Headquarters, Air Force Personnel Center, Casualty Services Branch
HQ USAF/DPPC—Headquarters United States Air Force, Compensation and Legislation Division
IAW—In accordance with
8                                                                           AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003


JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NOK—Next of kin
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
SF—Standard Form
TSP—Thrift Savings Plan

Terms
NOTE: These definitions are for the purpose of this AFI only. See Joint Publication 1-02, DoD Dictio-
nary of Military and Associated Terms, for the official DoD definition of many of these terms.
Beneficiary—The individual who is entitled to receive certain benefits either by law or written
designation of the employee.
Casualty—Any person who is lost to the organization by having been declared dead, duty status—
whereabouts unknown (DUSTWUN), missing, ill, or injured (AFI 36-3002, Casualty Services).
Casualty Assistance Representative (CAR)—Any person at the nearest Air Force installation
responsible for reporting deaths and assisting survivors.
Civilian Employee—The Air Force pays civilian employees from Department of the Air Force or DoD
appropriated funds. A civilian employee must be either a US citizen or an alien admitted for permanent
residence.
Continental United States (CONUS)—United States territory, including the adjacent territorial waters,
located within North America between Canada and Mexico. When used for Air National Guard casualties
the term applies to the geographical limits of the 50 states and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
Deceased—A casualty status applicable to a person who is either known to have died, determined to have
died based on conclusive evidence, or declared dead based on a presumptive finding of death. The
recovery of remains is not a prerequisite to declaring a person deceased.
Duty status - whereabouts unknown—An employee whose duty status and whereabouts is unknown.
Immediate Family—The employee's spouse, children, parents, and siblings.
Installation Commander—The individual responsible for all operations performed by an installation.
AFI36-809 1 JULY 2003                                                                                      9


Next of Kin—An employee’s relatives. The person most closely related to the person. The order in which
the family relationship is recognized by law is spouse, son or daughter, father or mother, brother or sister,
and grandfather or grandmother. Parents or legal guardians exercise the rights of minor children. The Air
Force identifies the next of kin in this order:
      Spouse.
      Natural, adopted, and stepchildren. All children, if acknowledged by the employee or so deter-
      mined by a court.
      Parents, unless a court or a statute has granted sole legal custody of the employee to someone else.
      Persons standing in loco parentis.
      Persons granted legal custody of the employee by court or statute.
      Siblings, including those gained through adoption.
      Grandparents.
      Other relatives in order of relationship to the employee according to civil laws.
      If no other persons are available, the Secretary of the Military Department may act on behalf of the
      employee.
Overseas—All locations, including Alaska and Hawaii, outside the continental United States (CONUS).
