BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                        AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2846
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   6 DECEMBER 2004

                                                                 AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                                    Supplement
                                                                                     3 OCTOBER 2006
                                                                       Certified Current 13 August 2012
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                                     AND COMPTROLLER ANNUAL
                                                                             AWARDS PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/FMPW                                         Certified by: SAF/FM (Mr Michael Montelongo)
Supersedes AFI 36-2846, 26 November 2001                                                Pages: 15

                                                (AFRC)
OPR: HQ AFRC/FMXX                                    Certified by: HQ AFRC/FM (Mr. Larry Collier)
Supersedes AFI36-2846_AFRCSUP1,                                                        Pages: 2
           20 October 2003

This instruction implements Air Force policy directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams. It describes award categories, eligibility requirements, nomination procedures, and the selection
process for recognizing outstanding performers⎯individuals and groups⎯in financial management and
comptrollership. Attachment 1 lists references, abbreviations, and acronyms used in this instruction.
Attachment 2 describes award categories and eligibility requirements. Attachment 3, Attachment 4,
and Attachment 5 provide nomination format and award criteria requirements. Attachment 6 identifies
the enduring competencies outlined in the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model. Note:
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFPD 37-1, Information Management, and Air Force manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force records disposition schedule (RDS)
located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

(AFRC) This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2846,
6 December 2004. It provides Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel and tenants of AFRC
bases guidance and procedures for submitting nominations for AFRC/FM awards. This supplement
applies to all Air Force Reserve Command Units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/
2                                                           AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication is substantially revised to ensure that the Air Force Financial Management and Comp-
troller Annual Awards are in alignment with the vision, mission, and strategic priorities of Air Force
Financial Management. It emphasizes recognizing individuals, teams, and organizations who exemplify
the Air Force Financial Management Vision, manifest the competencies outlined in the Air Force Finan-
cial Management Competency Model* (see Attachment 6), and have made significant contributions to
the Air Force Financial Management Transformation efforts; deletes the award for runners-up; deletes
reference to the Association of Government Accountants; deletes reference to the Air Force Accounting
and Finance Office (AFAFO); deletes the Air Force Top Dollar Awards; deletes reference to Regional
Accounting and Finance Office; renames the award NAF Financial Analyst of the Year; adds a team
award for Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management Transformation; adds an enlisted category
to the award for Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller (Secretariat/Air
Staff Level); changes military award category to officer for the award Outstanding Contribution to Finan-
cial Management and Comptroller (Secretariat/Air Staff Level); changes the Airman category to enlisted
for the Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller (MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU
Level); changes the Airman category to enlisted for the Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial
Management and Comptroller (working outside the Department of the Air Force); changes the criteria for
Outstanding Achievements for Individual Awards; deletes Leadership and Management Traits category
for Individual Awards; adds Personal and Enduring Competencies category and criteria for Individual
Awards; changes the criteria for Outstanding Achievements for Organizational Awards; and changes all
references to airman to enlisted.
(AFRC) This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
(AFRC) This supplement replaces AFI 36-2846/AFRC Sup, 20 October 2003 in its entirety. Submit rec-
ommended changes to this supplement to HQ AFRC/FMXX, 155 Richard Ray Blvd., Robins AFB, GA
31098-1635.


1. Purpose and Scope. This program recognizes outstanding performance by both individuals and
groups at all levels of command that exemplify the Air Force Financial Management Vision and have
made significant contributions to the Air Force Financial Management Transformation efforts by out-
standing behavior, actions, innovations and, most importantly, results. It complements major command
(MAJCOM), field operating agency (FOA), direct reporting unit (DRU), and base recognition programs
by focusing attention on the most deserving individuals and groups in the financial management and
comptroller community. Individuals and groups, except where otherwise noted, operate under the func-
tional management of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)
(SAF/FM).

2. Nomination Procedures:
    2.1. The nomination procedures listed in paragraphs 2.1.1. through 2.1.4. apply to all awards except
    Author of the Year.
       2.1.1. The award period covers one fiscal year, 1 October through 30 September.
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                         3


       2.1.2. Submit original nominations by the first workday in January to SAF/FMPW, 1130 Air
       Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1130.
       2.1.2. (AFRC) Submit nominations through e-mail to HQ AFRC/FMXX and an original to arrive
       at HQ AFRC/FMXX, 155 Richard Ray Blvd., Robins AFB, Ga. 31098-1635, no later than (NLT)
       31 October.
          2.1.2.1. Submit nominations on AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, using appropriate for-
          mat (see Attachment 3, Attachment 4, and Attachment 5). Each nomination is limited to
          one page (front side of AF IMT 1206). Use bullet format with no smaller than 10-point type.
       2.1.3. Nominating officials submit only one nomination for each award category, except for the
       Special Acts and Services Award. SAF/FMB, SAF/FMC (including the Air Force Cost Analysis
       Agency [AFCAA]), SAF/FME, SAF/FMP, and SAF/FMT each compete as single entities for Out-
       standing Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller Awards.
       2.1.4. Nominations may come from any of these officials:
       2.1.4. (AFRC) The senior commander on the installation and the commander or chief of the orga-
       nization for categories listed in paragraphs A2.1 and A2.2 may submit one nomination for Comp-
       troller of the Year Award and one nomination for Comptroller Organization of the Year Award
       according to paragraphs A2.1.1 and A2.2.1. Installation comptrollers and the organizations listed
       in paragraphs A2.1. and A2.2. may submit nominations for the remainder of the installation level
       categories listed in Attachment 2. Submit only one nomination for each award category. HQ
       AFRC Division Chiefs may submit one nomination for each MAJCOM level category listed in
       Attachment 2.
          2.1.4.1. SAF deputy assistant secretaries.
          2.1.4.2. Air Staff directors.
          2.1.4.3. MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Comptrollers or Directors, Financial Management and
          Comptroller.
          2.1.4.4. Commanders or directors of organizations outside the Department of the Air Force
          for the Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller award.

3. Selection Process:
   3.1. Selection panels consist of at least three members and are chaired by a general officer or civilian
   equivalent for all awards except the Author of the Year. SAF/FM deputy assistant secretaries select the
   chairpersons.
   3.1. (AFRC) Selection committees evaluate nomination packages and make recommendations to the
   HQ AFRC/FM for approval. Selection committee consists of 3 Division Chiefs chaired by FMX Chief
   or at least 3 members, one from each division, with one of the members a Division Chief and the
   Chair. FMXX will be the recorder. Minutes will record the evaluation and selection process.
       3.1.1. MAJCOM Comptrollers or Directors, Financial Management and Comptroller, select the
       Author of the Year from the quarterly winners of The Air Force Comptroller journal.
4                                                            AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


    3.2. The selection panels evaluate individual nominees for:
    Outstanding Achievements- 70 percent
    Personal and Enduring Competencies- 20 percent
    Professional Accomplishments- 10 percent
    3.2. (AFRC) The following factors will be considered as part of the Outstanding Achievements for
    the NAF Analyst of the Year – Installation Level.
       3.2.1. (Added-AFRC) Completion and timely submission of required quarterly/semi-annual/
       annual reports and reviews.
       3.2.2. (Added-AFRC) Application of innovative techniques or use of statistical applications.
       3.2.3. (Added-AFRC) Notable improvements to financial analysis made during the course of the
       year.
       3.2.4. (Added-AFRC) Accomplish weighted evaluation using cumulative performance ratings.
    3.3. The selection panels evaluate group nominees for:
    Mission Accomplishment- 25 percent
    Outstanding Achievements- 50 percent
    Management of Resources- 25 percent
    3.3. (AFRC) The following factors will be considered as part of the Outstanding Achievements for
    the Financial Services Office of the Year:
       3.3.1. (Added-AFRC) Management indicators provided by Defense Finance and Accounting
       Services (DFAS) operating locations.
       3.3.2. (Added-AFRC) Inspection and staff assistance reports.
       3.3.3. (Added-AFRC) Evaluation of criteria from HQ AFRC as well as submission packages
       from units.
    3.4. The selection panel evaluates special acts and services nominees on the basis of unusual or
    extraordinary accomplishments, the circumstances that make an act or service special, and the tangi-
    ble/intangible benefits to financial management and the Air Force.
    3.5. Each selection panel Chairperson forwards its recommendations through SAF/FMPW to SAF/
    FM for approval.

4. Award Recognition:
    4.1. SAF/FM announces the award winners via memorandum to MAJCOM/FMs, FOA/FMs, DRU/
    FMs, SAF/FM deputy assistant secretaries, and all other nominating organizations.
    4.1. (AFRC) HQ AFRC/FM announces AFRC winners by e-mail and through Public Affairs (PA)
    after AFRC/CV approval in accordance with AFRCI 36-2801. Selectees for AFRC awards are the
    command’s nominees for Air Force-level awards.
    4.2. Within two weeks of announcement, photographs of all individual, team, and organizational
    award winners (except Special Acts and Services awards) must be sent by the nominating organiza-
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                      5


   tion to SAF/FMPW. Photographs appear in The Air Force Comptroller journal and are displayed on
   the Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller award board in the Pentagon.
      4.2.1. Individual award winners provide one 5- by 7-inch color photograph and one digital photo-
      graph (military pictures should be in service dress uniform without cap).
      4.2.2. Organizational award winners provide one 10- by 8-inch color photograph and one digital
      photograph.
   4.3. Each award consists of an engraved plaque and coin presented by SAF/FM to the award winner
   at the annual ASMC PDI, and a congratulatory letter from SAF/FM to the award winner’s MAJCOM,
   FOA, or DRU commander or organization’s senior official for presentation to the award winner.
   4.3. (AFRC) Winners of the Financial Management and Comptroller awards will receive an
   engraved plaque and coin and appropriate congratulatory letter signed by AFRC/CV.
   4.4. Nominating officials forward awards to individuals who have transferred, separated, or retired
   from the Air Force.
   4.5. Military members receiving individual awards are authorized to wear the Air Force Recognition
   Ribbon. Civilian recipients receiving individual awards are authorized to wear the Air Force Recogni-
   tion Lapel Pin. AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, describes the ribbon and lapel pin.
   4.6. Individual award recipients provide documentation to the servicing Military Personnel Flight or
   Civilian Personnel Office for personnel system update.

5. Special Recognition Programs:
   5.1. MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, Air Staff, and Secretariat staff should establish programs to honor
   their personnel with award ceremonies and news media coverage.
   5.2. In addition, these organizations should support other appropriate award programs that recognize
   professional achievements. Other award programs related to financial management and comptroller-
   ship include but are not limited to:
      5.2.1. American Society of Military Comptrollers (ASMC). ASMC is an educational and profes-
      sional organization for military and civilian personnel who are involved in financial management
      and comptrollership. Each year ASMC recognizes individuals for outstanding accomplishment
      within each of the functional fields of comptrollership. The Armed Forces Comptroller magazine
      and the ASMC website (http://www.asmconline.org) provide information on this program.
      5.2.1. (AFRC) Financial Management and Comptroller award winners may be submitted for the
      same awards in the American Society of Military Comptrollers (ASMC) Recognition Program.
      5.2.2. Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) Financial Management Awards Program. Annu-
      ally, the DOD recognizes individuals or groups who have made significant contributions to the
      improvement of financial management. Chapter 6, Volume 1, of the Department of Defense
      Financial Management Regulation (DOD FMR), provides information on this program. The USD
      (Comptroller), through SAF/FM, solicits nominations at the beginning of each calendar year.
6                                                      AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


6. Forms Adopted: AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.



                               MICHAEL MONTELONGO, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                               (Financial Management and Comptroller)

                               (AFRC)

                               JOHN A. BRADLEY, Lieutenant General, USAF
                               Commander
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                     7


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCAA—Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
ASMC—American Society of Military Comptrollers
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DAFSC—duty Air Force specialty code
DOD—Department of Defense
DOD FMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
DRU—direct reporting unit
FOA—field operating agency
FM—Financial Management
IMT—information management tools
MAJCOM—major command
NAF—nonappropriated fund
NCO—noncommissioned officer
PDI—Professional Development Institute
RDS—records disposition schedule
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller)
SAF/FMB—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Budget)
SAF/FMC—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Cost and Economics)
8                                                      AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


SAF/FME—Executive Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial
Management and Comptroller)
SAF/FMP—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Operations)
SAF/FMPW—Workforce Management Directorate
SAF/FMT—Financial Management Strategic Planning and Transformation Program Management Office
SNCO—senior noncommissioned officer
UMD—unit manning document
USD—Under Secretary of Defense
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                          9


                                              Attachment 2

                            AWARD CATEGORIES AND ELIGIBILITY

A2.1. Individual Awards:
   A2.1.1. Financial Management and Comptroller of the Year. A single award to an officer or
   civilian comptroller working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.2. Financial Analysis Officer and Civilian of the Year. One award each to an officer and
   civilian (GS-11 and above and GS-10 and below) working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.3. Financial Services Officer and Civilian of the Year. One award each to an officer and
   civilian (GS-11 and above and GS-10 and below) working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.4. Financial Management SNCO, NCO, and Airman of the Year. O n e a w a r d e a c h t o a
   SNCO (E-7 through E-9), NCO (E-5 through E-6), and Airman (E-1 through E-4) working below
   MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.5. Superintendent of the Year. A single award to an enlisted member serving in a designated
   Superintendent position working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.6. Acquisition Cost Analyst of the Year Military and Civilian. One award each to a military
   member and a civilian assigned to a cost position.
   A2.1.7. Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Financial Analyst of the Year:
      A2.1.7.1. NAF Financial Analyst of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A single
      award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
      A2.1.7.2. NAF Financial Analyst of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an officer,
      enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.8. Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller O f f i c e r,
   Enlisted, and Civilian. One award each to an officer, enlisted, and civilian assigned at MAJCOM,
   FOA, or DRU level.
   A2.1.9. Outstanding Contribution to Financial Management and Comptroller O f f i c e r,
   Enlisted, and Civilian. One award each to an officer, enlisted, and civilian assigned to the Secretariat,
   Air Staff, or the AFCAA staff. Nominees may be assigned outside of a financial management function
   but must be within a financial management duty Air Force special code (DAFSC) or related civilian
   job series.
   A2.1.10. Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management and Comptroller
   Officer and Enlisted. One award each to an Air Force officer and enlisted member working in an
   organization outside the Department of the Air Force.
   A2.1.11. Resource Advisor of the Year. Personnel with any DAFSC or civilian job series are eligi-
   ble.
      A2.1.11.1. Resource Advisor of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A single award to
      an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
      A2.1.11.2. Resource Advisor of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an officer,
      enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
10                                                           AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


            A2.1.11.2.1. (Added-AFRC) More than one organization per base may submit nominations
            for the installation-level resource advisor. However, all nominations for this award will be
            channeled through the base comptroller, who will select the installation representative.
     A2.1.12. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year:
        A2.1.12.1. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level. A sin-
        gle award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian working at MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
        A2.1.12.2. Quality Assurance Manager of the Year Installation Level. A single award to an
        officer, enlisted, or civilian working below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU level.
     A2.1.13. Educator of the Year. A single award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian assigned as an
     instructor or working in a position where their primary responsibility is developing/improving educa-
     tional programs of financial management and comptroller personnel working at any level.
   A2.1.14. Author of the Year. A single award to an officer, enlisted, or civilian selected from the
quarterly winners as The Air Force Comptroller journal’s best author of the year.

A2.2. Team Award:
     A2.2.1. Outstanding Contribution to Air Force Financial Management Transformation. A sin-
     gle award to a team of military members and/or civilians working at any level. Team may consist of
     cross-organization members.

A2.3. Organization Awards (for organizations below MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU Level):
     A2.3.1. Financial Management and Comptroller Organization of the Year. A single award to
     the best financial management and comptroller organization in the Air Force.
     A2.3.2. Financial Analysis Office of the Year. A single award to the best financial analysis office
     in the Air Force.
     A2.3.3. Financial Services Office of the Year. A single award to the best financial services office in
     the Air Force.

A2.4. Special Acts and Services Award. Awards given to Air Force financial management and comp-
troller organizations or any part of the organization performing a special act or service.
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                            11


                                               Attachment 3

                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                               NOMINATION FOR AWARD
INDIVIDUAL AWARDS
Award⎯type name of the award
Category⎯type appropriate category, if applicable
Award Period⎯type appropriate fiscal year (1 October __ - 30 September __)
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯self-explanatory
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯self-explanatory (for civilians, use job series vice DAFSC)
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe how the nominee exceeded the scope and magnitude of
assigned duties or the level of performance (quantify performance measures or performance standards)
expected. Identify the nominee’s technical competencies (accounting, auditing, business planning, bud-
geting, cost estimating/analysis, financial analysis, financial reporting, financial services, and forecasting)
as outlined in the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model*, ingenuity, and any other factors
bearing directly on the performance being evaluated. Describe how the nominee furthered attainment of
the Financial Management vision, goals, and strategic objectives. Include outstanding accomplishments,
the impact on customer satisfaction, how the nominee demonstrated effective management of resources
(dollar or time savings, productivity increases, long-range implications, and general applicability to other
sections or organizations), provided extraordinary decision support leading to a strong perception of stra-
tegic partnering by our customers, improved the timeliness, accuracy, and relevance of financial informa-
tion, significantly reduced costs or drove exceptional efficiencies through application of technology or
efficient redesign of processes, or redesigned processes resulting in reduced cycle time. Where possible,
use quantitative data to substantiate narrative, indicating the basis for all estimates and projections. Pro-
vide direct, hard-hitting information. The emphasis here is on results/outcomes.


PERSONAL AND ENDURING COMPETENCIES: Provide specific examples of how the nominee’s
exceptional demonstration of key personal competencies (insight, integrity, judgment, ethics, selfless ser-
vice, and professional demeanor) and/or enduring competencies (decision support, developing people,
12                                                          AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


strategic orientation, risk management, problem solving, collaborating and influencing, driving processes
for results, leading change, leading teams, and communication) established in the Air Force Financial
Management Competency Model* had a significant impact upon mission and people.
PROFESSIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Describe what the nominee has done beyond work and
above the normal expected in areas such as self-improvement, college, seminar, additional job-related
education, professional military education, and community service.
* See Attachment 6 for a summary explanation of the competency model; see the Air Force FM Knowl-
edge Management website (https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/fmkm) for a more detailed explanation;
use chain-of-command for further assistance.
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                          13


                                              Attachment 4

                     INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                               NOMINATION FOR AWARD
TEAM AND ORGANIZATIONAL AWARDS
Award⎯type name of the award
Category⎯leave blank
Award Period⎯type appropriate fiscal year (1 October __ - 30 September __)
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯identify the name of the specific office
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯leave blank
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.


MISSION ACCOMPLISHMENT: Identify the organization’s overall effectiveness and contribution in
fulfilling its role and mission.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe in detail the team’s/organization’s outstanding accom-
plishments, how they were accomplished, why they were undertaken, and the impact on financial man-
agement at all levels. Describe exemplary efforts and results in meeting the Financial Management vision,
goals, and/or strategic objectives. Include examples of extraordinary decision support leading to a strong
perception of strategic partnering by our customers; developing and implementing innovative or substan-
tially improved services for our customers; improving the accuracy, timeliness, and utility of financial
information; significantly reducing costs or driving exceptional efficiencies through application of tech-
nology or efficient redesign of processes; or efficient redesign of processes resulting in reduced cycle
time.
MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES: Focus on the effective management of monetary or human
resources or both. Include dollar or time savings, productivity increases, long-range implications, and
general applicability to other sections or organizations. Where possible, use quantitative data to substanti-
ate narrative, indicating the basis for all estimates and projections.
14                                                          AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006


                                             Attachment 5

                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF AF IMT 1206,
                              NOMINATION FOR AWARD
SPECIAL ACTS AND SERVICES AWARD
Award⎯type Special Acts and Services
Category⎯leave blank
Award Period⎯state specific time period during fiscal year of the act or service
Rank/Name of Nominee⎯identify the specific office/organization for which the award is recommended
SSN⎯leave blank
MAJCOM, FOA, or DRU⎯self-explanatory
DAFSC/Duty Title⎯leave blank
Nominee’s Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯self-explanatory. For telephone numbers outside the US
with no DSN access, provide commercial phone number with country code.
Unit/Office Symbol/Street Address/Base/State/Zip Code⎯self-explanatory (use two-letter state or
country abbreviation)
Rank/Name of Unit Commander and Telephone (DSN & Commercial)⎯see paragraph 2.1.4. for
authorized nominating officials. For telephone numbers outside the US with no DSN access, provide
commercial phone number with country code.
Specific Accomplishments (use single-spaced, bullet format)⎯use no smaller than 10-point type;
address the following categories.
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS: Describe in detail the act or service and the circumstances that
make the act or service special. Outstanding accomplishments must be separate and distinct from regu-
larly assigned duties. (Describing multiple acts or services is discouraged unless each is special for a
clearly outstanding reason.)
DIFFICULTIES/OBSTACLES: Describe the difficulties and obstacles overcome.
EFFECTS ON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT: Describe the direct effect the act or service had or will
have on financial management at all levels.
BENEFITS TO THE AIR FORCE: Describe the tangible/intangible benefit to financial management
and the Air Force.
AFI36-2846_AFRC_I 3 OCTOBER 2006                                                                       15


                                             Attachment 6

              AIR FORCE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COMPETENCY MODEL
                            (ENDURING COMPETENCIES)
Certain enduring competencies are part of the Air Force Financial Management Competency Model that
defines the knowledge, skills, and abilities required of the workforce. Specifically, the enduring compe-
tencies represent the leadership and thought skills required to effectively manage FM organizations.
These skills complement a person’s technical competencies and personal attributes and enable senior FM
leaders to fulfill the Air Force Financial Management Vision: strategic partnering, world-class financial
customer support, and decision support. Studies have proven that people who possess highly developed
enduring competencies develop and lead highly efficient organizations.
Decision Support: The ability to analyze relevant knowledge and strategies to provide decision makers
with insightful resource and financial recommendations.
Developing People: The ability to promote the development and performance of others with the right
blend of understanding, coaching, teaching, and support.
Strategic Orientation: The ability to understand a vast array of information, anticipate needs, and make
effective decisions and actions that meet important goals.
Risk Management: The ability to identify and control financial risk for the organization.
Problem Solving: The ability to identify problems, gather the proper information, and use the appropriate
analysis to create sound recommendations.
Collaborating and Influencing: The ability to build cooperative relationships across boundaries that
help different people work together effectively.
Driving Processes for Results: The ability to identify and effectively manage the people and processes
that produce results.
Leading Change: The ability to identify relevant improvements and mobilize people to implement them.
Leading Teams: The ability to help groups work together successfully, driving results through commit-
ment, motivation, and communication.
Communication: The ability to use a variety of different ways of communicating to successfully inform,
influence, and persuade others in the organization.
