                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2303
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            16 MARCH 1994

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                    DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS FOR THE
                                                                 AIR UNIVERSITY LIBRARY


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AUL/LD (Mr Robert B. Lane)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/DPPE
                                                                                   (Col David L. Chase)
Supersedes AFR 4-67, 25 June 1990.                                                              Pages: 3
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-23, Military Education. It explains the Air University Library
(AUL), which houses vital Air Force information. It tells what documents and publications the AUL
receives regularly and how to answer AUL requests for information. For purposes of this instruction, the
terms document and publication refer to information extending to writings, audio and video recordings,
computer memory tapes and diskettes, film, and any other form of information storage.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This is the first issuance of AFI 36-2303, revising AFR 4-67.



1. AUL Requirements:
   1.1. AUL needs to receive Air Force publications and documents regularly and automatically so its
   collection of documents is comprehensive enough to meet the reference and research needs of Air
   University (AU) and the Air Force.
   1.2. AUL needs copies of all publications and documents that give information on Air Force pro-
   grams, state or support policy decisions, or have research or reference value on the Air Force mission
   and its operations.
   1.3. Air Force activities that create these publications and documents send only one copy to AUL and
   establish procedures to ensure that AUL receives all the items described in paragraphs 2., 3., and 4.
   The procedures will address the media format appropriate to the specific publication or document.
   1.4. The staff, faculty, and students of AU participating in educational, doctrinal, and research pro-
   grams are the primary readers of classified documents sent to AUL. AUL handles and stores classi-
   fied information up to and including TOP SECRET, Restricted Data. AUL does not handle
   publications and documents formerly classified as Sensitive.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Each HQ USAF office of primary responsibility adds AUL to its distribution list for all publica-
   tions and documents (in the appropriate media/format) in these categories:
       • Reports and analyses.
       • Staff studies.
       • Program documents.
       • Statistical summaries.
       • Organizational and functional charts.
       • Rosters of key personnel (annually).
   2.2. HQ USAF/PER provides manpower authorization data and reports required by AUL.
   2.3. Major commands add AUL to their distribution lists for the following publications and docu-
   ments:
       •   Reports and analyses.
       •   Staff studies.
       •   Operations orders and plans.
       •   Statistical summaries.
       •   Policy directives.
       •   Instructions and manuals.
       •   Command books.
       •   Organizational and functional charts.
       •   Pamphlets.
       •   Bulletins.
       •   Unit directories (annually).
       •   Telephone directories (annually).
   2.4. When AUL requests, the commander of Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and its subordi-
   nate commands will:
       • Certify the library's need-to-know for specific reports from: AFMC laboratories; systems divi-
          sions and centers; Air Logistics Centers; Air Force contractors such as universities, compa-
          nies, laboratories, and other agencies.
       • Task these activities to send copies of their reports (in the appropriate media/format) to AUL.
   2.5. When requested, subordinate Air Force units (through squadron level) will send AUL specific
   publications and documents or place AUL on automatic distribution lists for their recurring reports.
   2.6. Air Force activities that send documents and publications to AUL are responsible for maintain-
   ing copies of documents in accordance with AFI 37-160, volume 1, The Air Force Publications and
   Forms Management Programs--Developing and Processing Publications (formerly AFRs 5-1 and
   5-8), and other pertinent directives.

3. Air Force Schools:

                                               2
   3.1. Air Force schools will add AUL to their distribution lists for:
       • Course syllabi.
       • Study guides.
       • Workbooks.
       • School prepared texts.
       • School curricula or catalogs.
       • Telephone directories (annually).

4. Forwarding Information:
   4.1. The AUL Director corresponds directly with all Air Force activities to carry out this instruction.
   Materials sent to the attention of (or for action by) the Commander, AU, or to a specific AU agency do
   not satisfy the AUL need for documents and publications. Send all publications and documents to
   AUL/LSE, Bldg 1405, 600 Chennault Circle, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6424. Information for the Air
   Force Historical Program (see AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services and Requirements) is sepa-
   rate from AUL requirements. Send that information to AFHRA/ISA, Bldg 1405, 600 Chennault Cir-
   cle, Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6424.




                                         BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel




                                                3
