BY ORDER OF THE                                                     AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-2123
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               2 OCTOBER 2008

                                                                                              PERSONNEL

                                                                MANAGEMENT OF ENLISTED AIDES




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ USAF/DPG                                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/DPG
                                                                                  (Colonel Samuel D. Cox)
Supersedes AFI 36-2123, 21 April 1994                                                          Pages: 10

This instruction implements DoD Instruction 1315.09, Utilization of Enlisted personnel on Personal
Staffs of General and Flag officers, 2 October 2007, and AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of
Air Force Military Personnel. It states procedures for assigning and utilizing enlisted aides allocated to
the staff of designated general officers. It applies to active duty Air Force enlisted aides and enlisted aide
applicants. Air National Guard and Reserves are not eligible. The authorities to collect and maintain the
data prescribed in this instruction are Title 10, United States Code, Section 981, 3639, 7579, and 8639.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
dance with Air Force Records Information management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Sched-
ule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s change of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Recent changes to AFI 36-2123; amend guidance for allocations of enlisted aide authorizations, update
enlisted aide duties and responsibilities; add enlisted aide training and proficiency; update office symbol
changes and titles; remove military personnel flight from special duty functional management responsi-
bilities; update enlisted aide application and terminating enlisted aide duty; clarify enlisted aide clothing
entitlements; and add additional guidance and action. This document is substantially revised and must be
completely reviewed.


1. Enlisted Aide Authorizations. Enlisted aide allocations are determined by the Secretary of the Air
Force based on the Public Law and Department of Defense (DoD) allocation ceiling constraints.
2                                                                          AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008


Requests for allocations must be submitted in writing through HQ USAF/DPG with final approval of the
Secretary of the Air Force.

2. Enlisted Aide Duties. Enlisted aides are authorized for the purpose of relieving general officers of
those minor tasks and details which, if performed by the officers, would be at the expense of the officers’
primary military and official duties. The duties of these enlisted personnel shall be concerned with tasks
relating to the military and official responsibilities of the officers, to include assisting general officers in
discharging their official DoD social responsibilities of their assigned positions. The propriety of such
duties is governed by the official purpose which they serve rather than the nature of the duties. No officer
may use an enlisted member for duties that contribute only to the officer’s personal benefit and that have
no reasonable connection with the officer’s official responsibilities.
    2.1. Examples of Enlisted Aide duties and responsibilities. In accordance with DoD Instruction
    1315.09 and in connection with military and official functions and duties, enlisted aides are utilized to
    undertake duties similar to the following:
       2.1.1. Ensuring professional military equipment, uniforms and associated items are prepared at all
       times.
       2.1.2. Ensuring care, cleanliness, and order of assigned quarters are maintained.
       2.1.3. Serving as point of contact in the general officer's quarters. Receive and maintain records
       of telephone calls, making appointments, and receiving guests and visitors.
       2.1.4. Assist in the planning, preparation, arrangement, and conduct of official social functions
       and activities, such as receptions, parties, and dinners.
       2.1.5. Assist in purchasing, preparing, and serving food and beverages in the general officer's
       assigned quarters. In the course of preparing and serving a meal for the general officer, the
       enlisted aide may prepare the same meal for the general officer’s dependents and others associated
       with the general officer’s military and official duties (including duties associated with social
       responsibilities) who are dining with the general officer.
           2.1.5.1. For example, social events may be used to develop professional relationships with
           civilian, military and foreign counterparts. While the specific event may appear informal, the
           general officer may use these informal events to serve a more direct purpose of building or
           enhancing a relationship that ultimately results in the general officer being more effective in
           the execution of his/her military duties and responsibilities. The general officer will use good
           judgment to ensure there is a nexus between these types of events and the desired enhancement
           of professional relationships and execution of military responsibilities.
       2.1.6. Performing tasks that aid the general officer in the performance of military and official
       responsibilities, including performing errands for the general, providing security for the quarters,
       and providing administrative assistance.
       2.1.7. Duty hours will be set by the general officer to those hours that maximize the benefit to the
       general officer by affording the aide the best opportunity to perform enlisted aide duties IAW para-
       graph 2. These hours will be commensurate with enlisted members throughout the Air Force.
           2.1.7.1. When there are special events, duty hours may be adjusted and if necessary, compen-
           satory time should be provided.
AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008                                                                                 3


      2.1.8. Nothing contained in this Instruction precludes the employment of enlisted personnel by
      the general officer on a voluntary, paid, and off-duty basis.
   2.2. Enlisted Aide Training and Proficiency.
      2.2.1. Dependent on the background and experience of an enlisted aide, specific culinary and
      serving training may be required. The general officer, in coordination with DPG, will ensure ade-
      quate training is obtained. For some general officers, the ability to prepare and serve meals for a
      large event is required. For others this may not be the case; however, given the wide range of
      requirements, it is incumbent on the general officer to outline expectations and establish a training
      plan commensurate with the needs of the general officer’s responsibilities. As such the general
      officer may direct the preparation of specific meal plans and establish some form of training that
      encompasses the full range of requirements (small and large events). Training events must be rea-
      sonably and logically related to the overall military and official functions and duties of the general
      officer. In order to avoid any appearance of impropriety, the number and scope of training events
      must be limited to the minimum required to ensure competency of the enlisted aide.

3. Enlisted Aide Special Duty Functional Management Responsibilities.
   3.1. HQ USAF/DPG (Program Manager).
      3.1.1. Has overall functional responsibility for the Enlisted Aide Special Duty Program.
      3.1.2. Develops and implements policy for management of the enlisted aide force.
      3.1.3. Ensures enlisted aide allocations are staffed with qualified volunteers by actively recruiting
      and nominating qualified candidates.
      3.1.4. Establishes, oversees and schedules training requirements for enlisted aide field to include
      the annual utilization and training workshop.
      3.1.5. Assists Joint Staff, Air Staff, major commands, direct reporting units and field operating
      agencies with enlisted aide requirements.
      3.1.6. Manages the Air Force Enlisted Aide of the Year Awards Program.
      3.1.7. Oversees deployment readiness requirements and forecasts enlisted aide deployments.
   3.2. AFPC/DPAA.
      3.2.1. Takes action to load initial assignments, reassignments, and provides assignment advice as
      necessary.
   3.3. MAJCOM A1.
      3.3.1. Appoints an enlisted aide MAJCOM functional manager on an official memorandum to
      AF/DPG, Attention: Enlisted Aide Program Manager, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC,
      20330-1040.
      3.3.2. Manages and appoints board members (if necessary) for the MAJCOM's Enlisted Aide of
      the Year Award IAW AFI 36-2810, Enlisted Aide of the Year Awards Program.
   3.4. MAJCOM Enlisted Aide Functional Manager.
      3.4.1. Serves as MAJCOM's point-of-contact on enlisted aide matters as they pertain to training,
      development and mentoring.
4                                                                     AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008


       3.4.2. Determines enlisted aide training needs and schedules through the Enlisted Aide Program
       Manager.
       3.4.3. Represents MAJCOM's enlisted aide force at annual utilization and training workshop.
       3.4.4. Holds annual MAJCOM enlisted aide training symposium as necessary.
       3.4.5. Provides input to AF/DPG on enlisted aide policy and implements policy requirements
       throughout MAJCOM.

4. Enlisted Aide Application. The enlisted aide career field is a special duty assignment and only volun-
teers are considered for the program.
    4.1. Qualifications.
       4.1.1. Must not have SRB.
       4.1.2. Meet time on station requirements IAW AFI 36-2110, Assignments.
       4.1.3. Be a second term or career airman.
       4.1.4. Must have 24 months retainability upon being hired as an enlisted aide.
       4.1.5. Member cannot have pending assignment or retraining action.
       4.1.6. Current security clearance (minimum SECRET).
       4.1.7. Worldwide qualified with ability to obtain official government passport.
    4.2. Application Package.
       4.2.1. Legible copies of the last five EPRs (must be 5’s).
       4.2.2. Resume IAW Tongue and Quill.
       4.2.3. One full length 8 by 10-inch photographs of the individual in service dress uniform, front
       view, without headgear.
       4.2.4. Letter of recommendation from commander
       4.2.5. Letter of recommendation from command chief master sergeant.
       4.2.6. Letter from first sergeant indicating member has an updated security clearance; is not on a
       control roster and does not have a UIF or other derogatory actions pending.
       4.2.7. Member must email electronic copy of package to AF/DPG workflow.
    4.3. Notification Procedures. Upon notification of being hired, HQ USAF/DPG notifies HQ AFPC/
    DPAA of the individual’s acceptance into the enlisted aide special duty. HQ AFPC/DPAA then pro-
    vides assignment instructions to the member’s MPF and HQ USAF/DPG; the losing MPF (outbound
    assignments element) processes the member’s orders. The gaining MPF changes the members control
    Air Force specialty code (CAFSC) to special duty identifier 8A200 to coincide with the date arrived
    station.

5. Terminating Enlisted Aide Duty. The enlisted aide’s tour length will typically coincide with the gen-
eral officer’s tour (exception: enlisted aide may request early release to primary AFSC from special duty
AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008                                                                                    5


identifier 8A200 after 12 months; enlisted aide is permitted to apply for advertised enlisted aide position
with increased responsibility after 24 months).
   5.1. Upon general officer’s completion of tour, the enlisted aide may request to continue as the
   officer’s enlisted aide at gaining assignment; apply for posted enlisted aide openings; or return to pri-
   mary air force specialty code (PAFSC) in accordance with Air Force needs.
   5.2. The general officer may release an enlisted aide for cause at any time due to substandard duty
   performance, failure to maintain qualitative standards, or other conduct which could be considered
   substandard.
   5.3. Enlisted aides applying from within the special duty identifier may apply for advertised open-
   ings. Additionally, they may potentially be required to fill unfilled enlisted aide openings or opt to
   return to primary AFSC.

6. Enlisted Aide Clothing Entitlements. Enlisted aides are entitled to an initial and annual clothing
allowance for specific clothing items unique to the enlisted aide special duty.

7. Additional Guidance and Action. This instruction is not all encompassing, and does not provide an
exhaustive list of all permissible activities for enlisted aides. General officers assigned one or more
enlisted aides shall adhere to the guidelines in this instruction and should consult with their servicing staff
judge advocate for advice when applying these guidelines.

8. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
   8.1. Information Collections. No information collections are accomplished by this publication.
   8.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication
   are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
   RDS located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
   8.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
       8.3.1. Adopted Forms. AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request, and AF Form
       847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
       8.3.2. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                                 RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                 Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel
6                                                                    AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction 1315.09, Utilization of Enlisted personnel on Personal Staffs of General and Flag offic-
ers, 2 October 2007
AFI 36-2810, Enlisted Aide of the Year Awards Program, 16 March 2005
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 20 April 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFRIMS RDS, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SES—Senior Executive Service
SDI—Special Duty Identifier
AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008                                                                                                7


                                                   Attachment 2

       GENERAL INFORMATION SHEET FOR AIR FORCE ENLISTED AIDE OF THE
                             YEAR PROGRAM

               NOMINATED FOR:                             ENLISTED AIDE OF THE YEAR

               CATEGORY:                                  MULTIPLE AIDE QUARTERS

               NOMINATING MAJCOM/
               AGENCY:                                    USAFE

               INCLUSIVE DATES OF
               ACHIEVEMENT:                               1 OCT - 30 SEP 03

               NOMINEE:                                   JOHN E. DOE

               GRADE:                                     MASTER SERGEANT (E-7)

               SSAN:                                      123-45-6789

               PRESENT ORGANIZATION:                      HQ DLA
               AND LOCATION/MAILING:                      8725 John J. Kingman Road
               ADDRESS & PHONE:                           Fort Belvoir, Virginia 22060-6221
                                                          Comm. (703) 767-3682
                                                          DSN 427-3682
               E-MAIL ADDRESS:                            john_doe@hq.dla.mil

               PROJECTED ASSIGNMENT
               AND REPORTING DATE:                        NONE

               DATE OF SEPARATION:                        30 DEC 2008

               DATE ARRIVED CURRENT
               DUTY STATION:                              1 JAN 2000

               # OF YEARS EXPERIENCE
               AS ENLISTED AIDE:                          3 yrs 6 mo

                                           PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT

AUTHORITY: Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 and Executive Order 9397, 22 November 1943
PURPOSE : Information is needed for verification of the individual’s name and Social Security Number (SSN) as captured
on the form at the time of the nomination.
ROUTINE USES: None
RATIONALE: This information will not be disclosed outside DoD channels.
DISCLOSURE: Disclosure is mandatory; SSN is used for positive identification
8                                                                             AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008


                                                  Attachment 3

         GENERAL OFFICER’S/COMMAND CHIEF NOMINATION COVER LETTER


APPROPRIATE LETTER HEAD




AFSLMO



MEMORANDUM FOR (Service Program Manager)



SUBJECT: NOMINATION FOR ENLISTED AIDE OF THE YEAR




     I am proud to nominate .............................................(Commander’s may add their support,
overall recommendation and emphasis of significant accomplishments limited to one to two short
paragraphs).


    Member has not had an open unfavorable information file (UIF) during the award period.




GENERAL/FLAG OFFICER                      COMMAND CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT (or equiv)
SIGNATURE                                 SIGNATURE
AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008                                                                                                9


                                                   Attachment 4

                                           SAMPLE – BIOGRAPHY


                                       SENIOR AIRMAN JOHN Q. DOE


                                                    123-45-6789


                                      AFSC: 3M031, Services Apprentice


Senior Airman John Q. Doe is a Services Apprentice assigned to the Ford’s Dining Facility as a shift
leader, Jones Air Force Base, Texas. He is 27 years old. Airman Doe was born in Lexington, Kentucky,
on 1 August 1966. He attended Central High School, graduating as class salutatorian in May 1984. He
lettered each year in football, basketball, and baseball. He served as student body president and was a
member of the math and science club. After graduating from high school, Airman Doe was locally
employed. He served as a church council officer for the Good Shepherd Church in Covington, Kentucky.
He subsequently enlisted in the Air Force in 1990 and arrived at Lackland AFB, Texas, in October 1990
for basic training. Upon graduation, he received a direct-duty assignment to the First Services Squadron,
Jones AFB, Texas, arriving in December 1990. Since arriving at Jones AFB, he has served in a variety of
positions, including storeroom clerk and his current assignment. Airman Doe is an active member of the
Big Brothers Association and assisted in his unit’s Thanksgiving dinner to feed the homeless this past
year. His military awards include the National Defense Service Medal and the Air Force Training
Ribbon. He attends Lucas College in Smith, Texas, and is working toward a Bachelor’s Degree in
Business Administration.


NOTE:
Single-space the narrative portion of the biography. Double-space between name, SSN, and AFSC.




                                           PRIVACY ACT STATEMENT


AUTHORITY: Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 and Executive Order 9397, 22 November 1943
PURPOSE : Information is needed for verification of the individual’s name and Social Security Number (SSN) as captured
on the form at the time of the nomination.
ROUTINE USES: None
RATIONALE: This information will not be disclosed outside DoD channels.
DISCLOSURE: Disclosure is mandatory; SSN is used for positive identificatio
10                                                                      AFI36-2123 2 OCTOBER 2008


                                              Attachment 5

                CITATION FORMAT FOR SPECIAL TROPHIES AND AWARDS


                           CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE AWARD OF


                      THE ENLISTED AIDE OF THE YEAR AWARD FOR 20__


                                                    TO


                                             JOHN J. JONES


Sergeant John J. Jones distinguished himself as Enlisted Aide to the Commander, Air Education and
Training Command, Randolph Air Force Base, Texas, from 1 July 1997 to 30 June 1998. Sergeant Jones
provided world-class support to the Commander... The distinctive accomplishments of Sergeant Jones
reflect great credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.




NOTE:
Print the citation in landscape format. Left and right margins must be 1 1/2 inches. Limit the citation to
approximately 50 key words that properly describe the nominee’s accomplishments or achievements.
