BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 32-1001
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              16 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                                OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A7CO                                                               Certified by: AF/A7CO
                                                                         (Col Valerie L. Hasberry)
                                                                                          Pages: 9


This Air Force Instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10,
Installations and Facilities as well as Headquarters United States Air Force Program Action
Directive (PAD) 12-03, Implementation of Enterprise-Wide Civil Engineer Transformation, and
the associated Programming Plans (P-Plans) for implementation. It provides the directive
requirements for the operations management of civil engineering. It establishes a civil engineer
worldwide baseline set of definitions, operations process descriptions, and organizational
guidance which apply to the objective Operations Flight organization for both groups and
squadrons (civil engineer groups should use the appropriate organizational equivalent to flight
used in this AFI). Contracted functions will provide the same level of service, utilize the same
Air Force mandated information technology (IT) systems, and implement the same asset and
activity management principles and processes as government operated Operations Flights in a
manner that is indistinguishable to the installation, Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Air Force
Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC), and Headquarters Air Force. This AFI applies to active duty
and reserve Air Force units. It does not apply to Air National Guard units. This publication may
be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification approval. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirement in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-
0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
 2                                                                 AFI32-1001 16 October 2014


prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been rewritten. This rewrite of AFI 32-1001 includes a mandated
organizational structure and corresponding office symbols within the Operations Flight; directs
Operations Flights to utilize Playbooks as guides for executing the requirements set forth in this
AFI; implements a new work prioritization system for work accomplished within the Operations
Flight; directs the Operations Flight to implement standardized Air Force preventive
maintenance, asset data collection, and asset analysis methodologies; and captures inspection
programs that the Operations Flight must manage in accordance with Public Law as well as Air
Force policy.
1. Main Objective. The Operations Flight’s main objective is to effectively operate, maintain,
and repair Air Force facility and infrastructure assets classified as real property or real property
installed equipment (RPIE). Operations Flights, or equivalent contracted function, must utilize
common reporting tools and procedures to gather data, conduct analysis, and make decisions on
operating, maintaining, and repairing its assets to maximize mission accomplishment and return
on investment (ROI), from an Air Force-wide, risk based perspective. (T0) Operations Flights
will achieve this as follows:
     1.1. Provide execution, management, and oversight of facility and infrastructure operations,
     maintenance and repair, materiel control, work planning, customer service, service contract
     management, and operations engineering. (T-1)
     1.2. Maintain capability to respond to and eliminate any facility or infrastructure related
     emergency condition 24 hours a day. (T-0)
1.3. Conduct all activities in compliance with applicable environmental, fire, and safety
laws, codes, and directives. (T-0)
2. Playbooks. Playbooks are tools that document standardized CE business processes, operating
procedures, and resources needed for each of the business processes. They are updated to reflect
lessons learned, new policies, and best practices. Operations Flights will utilize Playbooks to
receive guidance on how to meet the requirements dictated in this AFI. (T-2) Links to the
Playbooks can be found in Attachment 1. When applicable, supporting Playbooks will be found
in parenthesis at the end of paragraphs or subparagraphs.
3. The Operations Flight within the Objective Squadron. The Operations Flight must be
organized in accordance with the current revision of the P-Plan for PAD 12-03 – Volume (Vol)
1, and be composed of the following sections: Heavy Repair, Infrastructure Systems, Facility
Systems, and Operations Engineering. (Note: Missile Facility Maintenance Element is an
approved Air Force Global Strike Command variance.) Deviations from this construct must be
approved by submitting an organizational change request in accordance with AFI 38-101, Air
Force Organization. The organizational structure for the Operations Flight is found in Figure 1.
(T-1)
AFI32-1001 16 October 2014                                                                      3


Figure 1. Operations Flight Section Structure.




    3.1. Staffing for the Operations Engineering element must include a civil, mechanical, and
    electrical engineer as well as technicians from CEOHS, CEOHP, , CEOIU, CEOIH, and
    CEOF. (T-1).
    3.2. Elements within the Operations Flight must perform base level flight tasks as dictated in
    the current revision of the P-Plan for PAD 12-03 – Vol 2. (T-1)
4. Standardized Work Task Prioritization. Work completed by Operations Flights must be
executed and tracked according to the work prioritization system provided in the current revision
of the P-Plan for PAD 12-03 – Vol 1. (T-1)
    4.1. There are four general classifications of work. They are categorized and prioritized for
    execution as seen in Table 1. (Operations Support Playbook) (T-1)

Table 1. Work Prioritization System.

Work Priority     Work Type                   Definition
                                                  1.    All/only unscheduled (24 hours)
                                                  2.    Needed to sustain/ensure continued
                  Emergency Corrective               mission operations
1
                  Maintenance Work                3.    “Don’t go home” type of work
                                                  4.    Work       until     emergency   is
                                                     mitigated/fixed
2A (High)         Preventive Maintenance          Right-sized PM (right work/frequency)
                  (PM)/Physical Plant             Risk based PM approach
 4                                                               AFI32-1001 16 October 2014


                  Operations
                  Contingency                    Multi-craft work orders
2B (Medium)
                  Construction Training          Infused to meet AFI 10-210 requirements
                  Scheduled Sustainment          High mission/equipment sustainment risk
3A (High)         Work (Corrective               RAC 1-3 (unabated)
                  Maintenance)                   FSD I and II
                                                 High ROI corrective maintenance
                  Scheduled Sustainment          1.     Moderate             mission/equipment
3B (Medium)       Work (Corrective                   sustainment risk
                  Maintenance)                   2.     Time sensitive requirements
                                                 3.     RAC 4 and 5 (unabated)
                  Scheduled Sustainment          4.     Low mission/equipment sustainment
3C (Low)          Work (Corrective                   risk
                  Maintenance)                   5.     RAC 4 and 5 (unabated)
                  Scheduled
4A
                  Enhancement Work                Work defined and prioritized by base

4B
                  All other Enhancement           Work that is not mission priority, but
                  Work                              potentially funded by other units
     4.2. Execution methods and levels of approval for work will be based on work classification
     and dollar value. (Operations Support Playbook) (T-1)
        4.2.1. Emergency work requires immediate response. Only those actions necessary to
        mitigate the emergency are accomplished on the initial work task. If additional work is
        required to restore complete functionality, a future lower priority work requirement will
        be created and executed in a time and manner consistent with requirements of similar
        scope and nature. Emergency work must be identified to the Operations Flight by the
        quickest means possible, which may include verbal notification. The Air Force mandated
        IT system will be utilized for documentation after the call is received and a response
        dispatched. (T-1)
        4.2.2. PM must be prioritized and have resources identified for execution ahead of all
        other forms of scheduled work. It will be scheduled and approved prior to the work
        being performed. (T-1)
        4.2.3. The Work Request Review Board will review all potential project opportunities, to
        include contingency construction training and enhancement work. The decision to fulfill
        a requirement and its method of execution will be determined in the shortest possible
        amount of time. Work requests that cannot be executed or are not essential to sustaining
        the mission must not be allowed to accumulate as a back log. Stakeholders must be
        notified once a decision on a work request is made. If approved for execution, the scope
        and budgeted costs will be formally planned and approved by the appropriate authority.
        The scheduled execution of work will be based on the availability of resources and its
        overarching impact to sustainment of the mission. (T-1)
AFI32-1001 16 October 2014                                                                       5


      4.2.4. Time sensitive corrective maintenance/sustainment work will be prioritized as 3B.
      For example, dormitory change of occupancy maintenance must be accomplished within
      the necessary timeframe to maintain occupancy rates in accordance with AFI 32-6005,
      Unaccompanied Housing Management. (T-1)
      4.2.5. Funding approval levels for work accomplished in the Operations Flight must be
      delegated down by the Base Civil Engineer (BCE). These approval levels must be
      documented in writing and renewed annually by the BCE. (T-1)
   4.3. Proper coordination must be completed and documented with appropriate agencies, such
   as safety, fire, bioenvironmental, on work that requires civil engineer support prior to
   execution. (Operations Support Playbook) (T-0)
   4.4. Only Air Force mandated IT systems directly feeding Real Property Asset annual
   operating costs through labor, materiel, and contracted services will be used to track
   enterprise-wide asset management, maintenance effectiveness, and improvement
   opportunities. (T-1)
   4.5. The Operations Flight must monitor the budgeted cost and scope of work it will execute.
   Significant changes in scope or budgeted cost requires work plans and records be updated
   and approval authority revalidated. Situations that require these actions include, but are not
   limited to the following. (Operations Support Playbook) (T-0)
      4.5.1. Costs are estimated to exceed the authority of the individual who approved the
      work. (T-0)
      4.5.2. Actual costs are estimated to exceed budgeted costs by 25 percent. (T-0)
      4.5.3. The scope of work increases or decreases from the originally approved work plan,
      such as a decision to repair rather than replace RPIE or the addition of requirements to
      alter other infrastructure, facilities, or RPIE not included in the originally approved plan.
      (T-0)
   4.6. Closeout must be accomplished in a complete and accurate manner. At a minimum,
   work records must demonstrate that the following closeout actions have been addressed.
   (Operations Support Playbook) (T-1)
      4.6.1. As-built drawings are updated. (T-1)
      4.6.2. Asset records are created, retired, and associated with the appropriate facilities and
      systems. (T1)
      4.6.3. The Real Property Officer (RPO) is notified by Operations Engineering to review
      the completed work requirement. CEOE has provided all required information to satisfy
      real property accountability and reporting guidance as required by the RPO. (T-1)
      4.6.4. Associated PM records have been updated, created, and activated. (T-1)
5. Standardized Preventive Maintenance.
   5.1. The Operations Flight must inventory and conditionally assess PM assets. PM tasks
   must be defined, standardized, balanced, scheduled, monitored, and measured addressing
   life-cycle management and ROI as part of the PM program. These activities must be
   executed by CEOE in concert with CEOH, CEOF, and CEOI. These activities must be
 6                                                                 AFI32-1001 16 October 2014


     performed on a continual basis as an integral part of day-to-day operations. (Operations
     Support & Preventive Maintenance Playbooks) (T1)
     5.2. The Operations Flight must execute 100% of the scheduled PM visits for assets
     identified in the PM program. PM must be accomplished in accordance with Air Force
     approved Preventive Maintenance Task Lists (PMTL). Preventive maintenance for assets in
     the PM program must be prioritized over all other forms of work, with the exception of Work
     Priority 1, Emergency Corrective Maintenance. Bases are authorized to deviate from
     standard PM visit frequencies when frequencies are shown not produce optimum ROI. Bases
     may add additional steps to Air Force approved PMTLs, but must not reduce or ignore steps.
     (T-1)
6. Standardized Asset Data Collection and Analysis. Operations Flights must utilize a
standard method of asset data collection and analysis. (T-1)
     6.1. Asset data must be collected to support Air Force life-cycle investment decisions on
     facilities, infrastructure, and RPIE. Operations Flights must collect, maintain, update, and
     report, utilizing Air Force mandated systems, the following information sets: (T-0)
        6.1.1. RPIE inventory and condition data. (Operations Support, Preventive Maintenance,
        & Facility Condition Assessment Playbooks) (T-0)
        6.1.2. Facility condition assessment data. (Facility Condition Assessment Playbook) (T-
        0)
        6.1.3. Linear segmentation infrastructure data. (Linear Infrastructure Playbooks) (T-0)
        6.1.4. Air Force mandated IT system data fields. (Preventive Maintenance Playbook) (T-
        0)
        6.1.5. Air Force Common Output Level Standards (AF COLS) data. (AF COLS
        Playbook) (T-0)
     6.2. The Operations Flight must analyze asset data to align and de-conflict current and future
     investments. This must be accomplished in coordination with the Installation Management
     and Engineering Flights. (Activity Management Plan (AMP) Playbook) (T-1)
     6.3. The Operations Flight is responsible for multiple AMP and sub-AMPs. Lists of these
     AMPs, as well as responsibilities for AMP and sub-AMP managers, are found in the current
     revision of the PPlan for PAD 12-03 – Vol. 2. (AMP Playbook) (T-1)
7. Service Contracts. The Operations Flight must manage infrastructure and facility operations
related service contracts exceeding the $100K acquisition threshold in accordance with base
level flight tasks. Integrated Solid Waste Management, Custodial, and Grounds Maintenance
must be executed utilizing the standard Air Force Performance Work Statement template and the
current published AF COLS level. (AMP, Operations Support, & Contract Management
Playbooks) (T-1)
8. Materiel Control. The Operations Flight must perform materiel control in accordance with
base level flight tasks and maintain documents as required for audit purposes. (Operations
Support & Contract Management Playbooks) (T-1)
9. Facility Manager Program. The Operations Flight must execute and manage the base
facility manager program. This includes the execution and documentation of facility manager
AFI32-1001 16 October 2014                                                                   7


assignment, training, and communications. Facility managers must be an officer, E-5 and above,
or civilian equivalent. All facility manager records, training documents, and guidance must be
continually kept current. No facility manager, or any other facility occupant, will make or
facilitate alterations to real property without coordination and proper approval documentation
from the BCE (Operations Support Playbook) (T-1)
10. Miscellaneous Inspections.
   10.1. The Operations Flight must inventory and inspect bridges on Air Force installations
   according to Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-310-08, Bridge Inspection, Maintenance and
   Repair. This UFC implements the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1978,
   established by Public Law (PL) 95-599, in accordance with 23 CFR 650.315. The
   Operations Flight must provide the Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Operations Directorate
   (AFCEC/CO) with an update to the Federal Highway Administration National Bridge
   Inventory annually. (T-0)
   10.2. The Operations Flight must inventory, inspect and provide the required reporting for
   dams on Air Force installations according to the Federal Guidelines for Dam Safety as
   established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) of the Department of
   Homeland Security and published in FEMA 93. This section implements PL 92-367, Dam
   Safety Act, as amended by PL 104-303, PL 107-310, and PL 109-460. Additional state or
   county laws may also be applicable. The Operations Flight must provide AFCEC/CO with a
   biennial report on odd numbered years detailing the current status of the Air Force dam
   inventory, including updated inspection information. AFCEC/CO must consolidate this
   information and provide a formal report to the United States Army Corps of Engineers. (T-0)
   10.3. The Operations Flight must execute maintenance, inspection, and testing to verify that
   the Vehicle Final Denial Barrier (FDB), FDB control systems, and supporting safety systems
   are in good working order and functioning properly. Maintenance of the FDB must be
   completed in accordance with the manufacture’s recommendations, but the controls and
   supporting safety systems must be inspected and tested quarterly. Records of these
   inspections and tests must be documented in writing. The Operations Flight must report
   quarterly status of FDBs through their BCE to their MAJCOM and then AFCEC/CO. (T-1)
11. Real Property Similar Equipment (RPSE). RPSE is non-RPIE structures and equipment
deployed or permanently assigned to an installation as facility substitutes that support the
installation mission. RPSE is not real property and does not earn sustainment funds for CE. At
home station, the owning unit is responsible for accountability, maintenance, and operation of
RPSE. In deployed locations, Civil Engineers may assist with maintenance of RPSE assets when
required to sustain mission related operations.




                                           JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 8                                                           AFI32-1001 16 October 2014


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Publications:
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
PAD 12-03, Implementation of Enterprise-Wide Civil Engineer Transformation
Programming Plan for Implementation of Enterprise-Wide Civil Engineer Transformation,
Volume 1
Programming Plan for Implementation of Enterprise-Wide Civil Engineer Transformation,
Volume 2
Programming Plan for Implementation of Enterprise-Wide Civil Engineer Transformation,
Volume 3
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Playbooks
AF COLS:
https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/AFCOLS/FY14Playbook/default.aspx
AMP:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/IM/AA/AMP_4_0/Pages/Facilities_UH.aspx
Contract Management:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/ENG/PM/ContractManagement/default.aspx
Facility Condition Assessments:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/OPS/OE/FCA/default.aspx
Linear Infrastructure:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/OPS/LI/default.aspx
Operations Support:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/OPS/OE/OperationsSupport/default.aspx
Preventive Maintenance:
https://app.eis.af.mil/a7cportal/CEPlaybooks/OPS/PM/default.aspx
AFI32-1001 16 October 2014                                          9


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center’s Operations Directorate
AF COLS—Air Force Common Output Levels Standards
AMP—Activity Management Plan
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CE—Civil Engineer
CM—Corrective Maintenance
FDB—Final Denial Barrier
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiency
PM—Preventive Maintenance
PMTL—Preventive Maintenance Task List
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
ROI—Return on Investment
RPIE—Real Property Installed Equipment
RPO—Real Property Officer
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
