BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 33-115, VOLUME 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 24 MAY 2006

                                                                      Communications and Information

                                                                NETWORK OPERATIONS (NETOPS)




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFCA/ECF                                            Certified by: SAF/XCIF (Col Porter Clapp)
Supersedes AFI 33-115, Volume 1, 3 May 2004                                                Pages: 84

This Air Force instruction (AFI) implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Con-
trol, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems (will become Information Resources Management).
This instruction provides the overarching policy, direction, and structure for the Air Force Global Infor-
mation Grid (AF-GIG) and procedures necessary to manage the increasingly complex network environ-
ment. This instruction applies to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve unless
indicated otherwise. Send recommended changes or comments to Headquarters Air Force Communica-
tions Agency (HQ AFCA/EASD), 203 West Losey Street, Room 1100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222,
through appropriate channels, using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, with an
information copy to HQ AFCA/ECFP, 203 West Losey Street, Room 2100, Scott AFB IL 62225-5222,
and Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/
XCIF), 1030 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1030. Major command (MAJCOM) supple-
ments to this AFI will not reduce stated requirements. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363) and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product,
commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision makes this instruction applicable to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units at all
levels except where explicitly identified. This revision includes office symbol changes and consolidation
of the duties and responsibilities of SAF/XCI functions in Chapter 3. Air Force Network Operations and
Security Center (AFNOSC) roles and responsibilities have been updated in Chapter 4. Service Level
Agreements have moved to Chapter 13 and Chapter 9 has been added which requires use of a mainte-
nance contract and warranty plan; Chapter 10 addresses vulnerability assessment tools; Chapter 11 cov-
ers Simple Network Management Protocols (SNMP); Chapter 12 has been added to cover Domain Name
2                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


Service Management; Chapter 13 provides guidance on Service Level Agreements (SLA), and Chapter
14 covers Records and Forms Management. Other key changes include removing any reference to
NOSC-Ds, inserting E-mail updates required by HQ USAF/DP, updating references to field operating
agencies (FOA) and direct reporting units (DRU), defining Program Management Office & System Pro-
gram Office limitations, defining warfighting headquarters (WFHQ) roles and responsibilities, establish-
ing the "edu.af" domain, clarifying the third tier naming structure and removes all references to the Air
Force Enterprise Network (AFEN). Additional minor administrative corrections were made and refer-
ences updated.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                3


                                              Chapter 1

                                   GENERAL INFORMATION



1.1. Background.
   1.1.1. This AFI provides the overarching policy, direction, and structure for the Air Force-Global
   Information Grid (AF-GIG). It is a key component in the efforts to Operationalize and Professionalize
   the Network (OPTN). The goal of Network Operations (NETOPS) is to provide effective, efficient,
   secure, and reliable information network services used in critical Department of Defense (DOD) and
   Air Force communications and information processes. This instruction provides the guidance neces-
   sary to manage the increasingly complex network environment and provide customers high quality
   services. Our networks have evolved into mission critical systems supporting Air Expeditionary
   Forces (AEF) and joint operations. Continued reliance on information-based weapons systems drives
   the need for a cohesive Air Force network.
   1.1.2. Previously, management of the AF-GIG was centered around the base Network Control Cen-
   ters (NCC). Today, our goal for managing the AF-GIG is to migrate to a hierarchical environment
   whereby management of the AF-GIG is distributed across three management tiers (see Table 2.1.).
   This operational concept has evolved over time with the explosive growth and increasing interconnec-
   tivity of the many networks and information services that make up the AF-GIG. What is needed is a
   new way to manage and control the AF-GIG so it can support the increasing demands placed on it by
   the warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel.

1.2. Air Force Network Operations (AFNETOPS) Scope.
   1.2.1. General.
      1.2.1.1. Global Information Grid (GIG). The GIG is the globally interconnected, end-to-end set of
      information capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
      disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
      personnel. The GIG includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems and
      services, software (including applications), data, security services, and other associated services
      necessary to achieve Information Superiority. It also includes National Security Systems (NSS) as
      defined in section 5142 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996. The GIG supports all DOD, national
      security, and related Intelligence Community missions and functions (strategic, operational, tacti-
      cal, and business), in war and in peace. The GIG provides capabilities from all operating locations
      (bases, posts, camps, stations, facilities, mobile platforms, and deployed sites). The GIG provides
      interfaces to coalition, allied, and non-DOD users and systems. It includes any system, equipment,
      software, or service that meets one or more of the following criteria: transmits information to,
      receives information from, routes information among, or interchanges information among other
      equipment, software, and services; provides retention, organization, visualization, information
      assurance, or disposition of data, information, and/or knowledge received from or transmitted to
      other equipment, software, and services; processes data or information for use by other equipment,
      software, or services. (DODD 8100.1, Global Information Grid (GIG) Overarching Policy).
   1.2.2. Applicability.
4                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


       1.2.2.1. This instruction applies to the Air Force Total Force which includes HQ USAF, functional
       communities, MAJCOMs, direct reporting units (DRU), field operating agencies (FOA), Air
       Force Reserve and ANG. ANG units at all levels except where explicitly identified in the appropri-
       ate paragraph will follow this instruction. In all cases ANG personnel who deploy in support of
       active duty missions will comply with this instruction. This instruction also applies to units and
       work centers which perform Functional System Administrator (FSA) duties on Air Force systems
       operated on Air Force networks.
       1.2.2.2. The AF-GIG includes any Air Force-provisioned system, equipment, software, or service
       residing on the Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET), Secret Internet Protocol
       Router Network (SIPRNET) or ConstellationNet.
           1.2.2.2.1. Transmits information to, receives information from, routes information among, or
           interchanges information with other equipment, software, and/or services.
           1.2.2.2.2. Processes data or information for use by other equipment, software, and/or services.
    1.2.3. The dynamic and complex nature of the AF-GIG requires an organized management methodol-
    ogy. The Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) has become the de facto information
    technology (IT) management standard across both industry worldwide and DOD. This instruction
    implements guidance that fits into the ITIL. More information about the ITIL can be found at http://
    www.ogc.gov.uk/index.asp.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                               5


                                             Chapter 2

                           NETWORK OPERATIONS HIERARCHY



2.1. Overview.
   2.1.1. The Defense Information Infrastructure Control Concept (DIICC) and AFNETOPS Relation-
   ship.
      2.1.1.1. The AFNETOPS hierarchy adheres to the DIICC. The DIICC consists of three areas of
      distributed responsibility at global, regional, and local levels. The AFNETOPS relationships and
      responsibilities span all three levels. However, within the DOD hierarchy, the Air Force Network
      Operations and Security Centers (AFNOSC) and MAJCOM Network Operations and Security
      Centers (NOSC) are all considered regional organizations in recognition of Defense Information
      Systems Agency’s (DISA) overarching responsibility for other military services and other DOD
      agencies. The Air Force NETOPS organizations and their span of responsibilities within the Air
      Force are depicted in Table 2.1.

Table 2.1. Hierarchy of AFNETOPS.
AFNETOPS Level       Responsible Air Force Organizations
      Global         AFNOSC, DISA’s Global NOSC (GNOSC)
      (Tier 1)
     Regional        NOSC, AFRC and ANG NOSC, Functional Awareness Cell (FAC)
      (Tier 2)       ANG SIPRNET ROSC
       Local         Active Duty, AFRC and ANG NCC, ANG ROSC, NCC-Deployed (NCC-D)
      (Tier 3)       SIPRNET System Administrators

      2.1.1.2. Table 2.1. provides examples of major support activities aligned with each level of the
      AFNETOPS hierarchy. Figure 2.1. depicts the AFNETOPS command relationships between the
      global, regional, and local levels. The associated Joint, DISA, MAJCOM, and base-level elements
      are also shown. These relationships are the means for ensuring global systems interoperate with-
      out diminishing the authority of local commanders to direct and manage the IT and communica-
      tions assets under their control. Processes and procedures governing these relationships are meant
      to be complementary and minimize redundancy.
      2.1.1.3. Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (VCSAF) message, Command and Control of Air
      Force Network Operations, dated 3 July 2003, directed the appointment of the Air Force NETOPS
      Commander as the single Air Force commander responsible for applying network control and
      defensive measures in a coherent, disciplined fashion to protect the AF-GIG and the advantages it
      affords to enable Air Force operations.
         2.1.1.3.1. The AFNETOPS/CC has the authority to implement the Standardization and Evalu-
         ation (Stan/Eval) program over the entire AF-GIG, as depicted in Figure 2.2. The AFNE-
         TOPS/CC will also be authorized Direct Liaison Authority (DIRLAUTH) to MAJCOM SCs
6                                                                      AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


          and NOSCs. The 8 AF/CC serves as both the AFNETOPS/CC and the Commander of Air
          Force Forces (COMAFFOR) to the Joint Task Force-Global Network Operations (JTF-GNO)
          and is responsible for ensuring Air Force forces perform the missions and tasks assigned by
          the JTF-GNO. The COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO exercises Operational Control (OPCON) over
          attached units and supported commander directive authority or Air Force tasking authority
          over supporting forces to implement NETOPS and Network Defense (NetD) actions in sup-
          port of joint objectives. The AFNETOPS/CC may delegate directive authority to the AFNOSC
          Director.
      2.1.1.4. The 8 AF/CV is also the AFNOSC Director and will be responsible for integrating
      AFNETOPS and NetD activities across the AF-GIG.
          2.1.1.4.1. Under the integrated AFNETOPS/NetD Command and Control (C2) construct, the
          COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO will have the authority to assign tasks in response to events that
          cross MAJCOMs, affect the preponderance of the AF-GIG, or are time-critical to assure net-
          work availability and security. In general, this will include taskings to direct NOSCs’ and
          NCCs’ configuration changes, Information Operations Condition (INFOCON) changes, and
          changes to security postures. Theater supporting plans will define situations and objectives
          under which each supported/supporting relationship occurs.
NOTE: ANG units remain under control of their respective state unless activated by the President.
Therefore, this must be taken into consideration when executing C2 of the AF-GIG.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                           7


Figure 2.1. Air Force Network Operations Command Relationships.




   2.1.2. Deployed AFNETOPS Hierarchy.
      2.1.2.1. The relationship between the fixed and equivalent deployed AFNETOPS hierarchy is also
      shown in Figure 2.1. The Combatant Command J-6 establishes the Joint Communications Control
      Center (JCCC) for the JTF AOR, and gives direction through the service’s Air Communications
      Control Center (ACCC). The JCCC does the planning and high-level management of the Joint net-
      work and provides specific guidance on Joint circuits.
      2.1.2.2. DISA’s span of control in the deployed environment extends to the JTF systems control
      (SYSCON). When deployed, Air Force component ACCC supporting NOSC and NCC-Ds will
      use the approved joint suite of AFNETOPS tools (e.g., Joint Network Management System
      [JNMS]) to execute their responsibilities and forward network status to the JTF SYSCON.
8                                                                       AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


Figure 2.2. Notional AFNETOPS Organization.




2.2. Global (DISA/AFNOSC), Regional (NOSC) and Local (NCC) Organizations.
    2.2.1. Global.
       2.2.1.1. DISA’s Global NOSC (GNOSC) is responsible for the worldwide management and oper-
       ational oversight of the Defense Information Infrastructure (DII). DII network and systems man-
       agement policy and standards are developed jointly by DISA, the services, and agencies.
       2.2.1.2. DISA’s span of control ends at the Air Force base network and ANG ROSCs Service
       Delivery Points (SDP) for fixed communications, and at the Joint SYSCON SDP for deployed
       operations.
       2.2.1.3. All DOD organizations are responsible for complying with the published policies and
       standards. The NOSCs and NCCs are the primary Air Force organizations responsible for apply-
       ing and enforcing these policies at the regional and local level.
       2.2.1.4. The AFNOSC executes AFNETOPS and NetD through distributed operations. Although
       elements of the AFNOSC may be physically separated, it will remain one staff under the com-
       mand and direction of the AFNOSC Director/COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                               9


  2.2.2. Regional.
     2.2.2.1. Regional operation centers depicted in Table 2.1. perform NETOPS to ensure operational
     and administrative control by implementing Systems and Network Management (S&NM), Infor-
     mation Assurance/Network Defense (IA/NetD), and Information Dissemination Management
     (IDM) within their specific span of responsibilities.
     2.2.2.2. The supporting MAJCOM NOSC is responsible for deployed AFNETOPS and reports to
     the JTF JCCC via the warfighting headquarters (WFHQ) ACCC .
     2.2.2.3. Functional Awareness Cells (FAC). These regional level entities exist at the same
     NETOPS management tier as the Base NCC. They report to and take direction from the Base and
     supporting NOSC.
         2.2.2.3.1. FACs require only a small amount of the equipment and perform situational aware-
         ness for a functional system or mission. They act as the point of contact for all computer sys-
         tem trouble calls supporting a particular functional system or group of functional systems.
         FACs are typically owned and operated by the functional community that the computer system
         serves. The FAC evaluates problems and typically provides solutions for the application and
         data associated with that system(s).
         2.2.2.3.2. To maintain base network integrity, FACs will not operate their networks, but will
         operate their own server systems in accordance with Service Level Agreements (SLA), Mem-
         orandums of Agreement (MOA), or Memorandums of Understanding (MOU) established with
         either the NCC or NOSC if an NCC does not exist. The SLA, MOA, or MOU will include how
         core services (paragraph 6.4.) are provided by the AFNOSC, NOSC, or NCC so not to jeopar-
         dize the integrity of the AF-GIG. See Attachment 2, Service Level Agreements, for policy
         and procedural guidance.
  2.2.3. Local.
     2.2.3.1. NCCs are the local network control elements through which NOSCs exercise manage-
     ment and operational direction over their MAJCOM network segments. NCCs also generate a sit-
     uational awareness picture and partner with NOSCs and ANG ROSCs to deliver S&NM, IA/
     NetD, and IDM. They provide reliable, secure networks, and network services for base-level cus-
     tomers.

2.3. DRU and FOA NOSC realignment.
  2.3.1. The 10th Wing and the United States Air Force Academy are aligned to the Air Force Space
  Command (AFSPC) NOSC.
  2.3.2. The Air Force Pentagon Communications Agency (AFPCA) and the 11th Wing are aligned to
  the Air Mobility Command (AMC) NOSC.
     2.3.2.1. All FOAs in the National Capitol region, that are not on Air Force installations, are
     aligned behind AFPCA as communications geographically separated units (GSU). AFPCA will
     represent these FOAs to the AMC NOSC. The 70th Wing at Fort Meade is also aligned behind
     AFPCA.
  2.3.3. All DRUs and FOAs on Air Force bases are aligned behind that base NCC and will comply
  with the “One Base – One Network” guidance.
10                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


2.4. NOSC Standardization.
     2.4.1. Requirements identified by NOSCs and NCCs that are not addressed by the Combat Informa-
     tion Transport System (CITS) lead command manager or AFI 33-103, Requirements Development
     and Processing, must be approved in accordance with the following process:
        2.4.1.1. Requirements must be identified by the MAJCOM and forwarded to the AFNETOPS/CC
        and SAF/XCIF for validation. (Possible solutions may also be identified.)
        2.4.1.2. The AFNETOPS/CC and SAF/XCIF will send validated requirements to CITS Lead
        Command, HQ AFCA/ECN.
        2.4.1.3. AFCA, representing the MAJCOM, SAF/XC and the AFNETOPS/CC, will bring the pro-
        posal to the Infrastructure Architecture Council (IAC).
        2.4.1.4. If the IAC approves the tool, AFCA will develop a deployment plan and execute the plan
        under the purview of the AFNOSC and SAF/XC via the CITS program.

2.5. One Base-One Network.
     2.5.1. All Air Force units on Air Force installations will comply with the one base-one network phi-
     losophy.
        2.5.1.1. The base NCC or supporting NOSC will operate, maintain, configure, and control all base
        core services and network infrastructure.
        2.5.1.2. Ownership of all said systems moves to the base NCC and supporting NOSC.
        2.5.1.3. All program management office (PMO) and system program office (SPO) systems follow
        the same above guidance for one base-one network. In special cases, compliance waiver may be
        requested if funding restrictions prevent corrective actions or the corrections require extensive
        technical overhaul/analysis. Each exception to policy must include a plan to rectify the issue pre-
        cluding one base-one network compliance, no waiver will be permanent. Waiver requests must go
        to AFCA CITS Lead Command for review; then AFCA will forward to SAF/XCIF with recom-
        mendations for approval/disapproval.
     2.5.2. Geographically Separated Units (GSU).
        2.5.2.1. The GSU owning MAJCOM is required to pay for the circuit back to the supporting Air
        Force base based upon AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
        2.5.2.2. The base NCC and supporting NOSC will treat the GSU infrastructure as prescribed in
        paragraph 2.5.1.
        2.5.2.3. The GSU must be aligned to the base that provides servicing MPF activities for GSU per-
        sonnel. If they are not currently aligned this way – they must realign appropriately.
        2.5.2.4. The GSU will comply with base NCC and supporting NOSC policy, NOTAMs, TCNOs,
        and other directives as any unit on the base.
     2.5.3. Security Enclave Determinations.
        2.5.3.1. Units will not define themselves as security enclaves. SAF/XCIF makes the determina-
        tion as to if a system is to be a security enclave.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                11


     2.5.3.2. If a unit wishes to request an enclave determination, submit the request to AFCA for
     review. AFCA will forward the submission and their review to SAF/XCIF for final disposition.
     2.5.3.3. If a unit is declared a security enclave, paragraph 2.5.1. still applies and the NCC or sup-
     porting NOSC will operate all security hardware and core services.
12                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                                Chapter 3

                      ORGANIZATIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES



3.1. Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer
(SAF/XC). SAF/XC will:
     3.1.1. Develop, validate, and monitor execution of plans, policies, and requirements for moderniza-
     tion of Air Force Communications and Information Infostructure. Provide overall integrated oversight
     of requirements, plans, schedules, budgets, and performance criteria for all modernization efforts
     associated with communications and information infostructure.
     3.1.2. Lead the development and implementation of communications and information architectures
     for the Air Force and represent the Air Force position for joint architectures.
     3.1.3. Provide policy and guidance for IT registration and administration of the Enterprise Informa-
     tion Technology Data Repository (EITDR) according to AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Com-
     puter Security (will be incorporated in forthcoming AFI 33-204, Information Assurance Awareness
     Program).
     3.1.4. Work with program management offices to ensure all new community of interest systems/serv-
     ers are developed and implemented with the intent of the CSAF server consolidation effort. Consoli-
     dation should start at the DISA Defense Enterprise Computer Center (DECC), however, consolidation
     to the AFNOSC or NOSC is acceptable as well. Consolidation could include using remote manage-
     ment, co-location, or shared hosting consolidation as best fits the operational mission.
     3.1.5. Provide the overarching policy and oversight for all Air Force operational, system, and techni-
     cal architectures, including establishing IT standards and providing architectural support to the core
     Air Force processes.
     3.1.6. Integrate Air Force planning, budget, financial, and program management processes for IT
     investments.
     3.1.7. Review all 33-series and 37-series AFIs for currency and relevance. The Air Force-Chief Infor-
     mation Officer (AF-CIO) will ensure updates are made and published for all policy documents related
     to communications and information.
     3.1.8. Develop and define the Air Force IT services for the AF-GIG.
     3.1.9. Provide oversight of the implementation status of Air Force IT services on behalf of the Secre-
     tary of the Air Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF).
     3.1.10. Ensure Air Force IT services are in-line with the DOD GIG enterprise services.
     3.1.11. Provide oversight of the AF-GIG performance by measurement and analysis of Air
     Force-level metrics on behalf of the SECAF and CSAF.

3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space Operations (HQ USAF/XO). HQ USAF/XO is the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) for all Air Force information operations matters. Other offices hav-
ing responsibilities for individual elements affecting NetD will coordinate with HQ USAF/XO to ensure
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                13


the consistent and standardized application of NetD strategic planning, policy, guidance, and program-
matic oversight.

3.3. The Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (HQ USAF/XOI). HQ USAF/
XOI is the designated OPR and lead within HQ USAF/XO for coordinating overall NetD policy, guid-
ance, doctrine strategy and investment priorities. Department of the Air Force (Headquarters Air Force,
Air Staff and Secretariat) offices with NetD-related responsibilities will coordinate all such matters (to
include promulgation of policy and guidance, requirements derivation, and programmatics) with HQ
USAF/XOI.

3.4. Information, Services and Integration Directorate (SAF/XCI). SAF/XCI will:
   3.4.1. Oversee the day-to-day execution of Air Force communications and information programs,
   combat support, including wing-level C2, Air Force Forces (AFFOR) C2 and theater level operational
   support. Develop guidance for command and control, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnais-
   sance networks/nodes.
   3.4.2. Develop and articulate positions for communications and information force structure and orga-
   nizational issues. Analyze proposed MAJCOM force structure and organizational changes and iden-
   tify impacts on communications and information resources.
   3.4.3. Establish course requirements and planning guidance for the professional development,
   advanced education, and technical training of the communications and information workforce through
   government and civilian institutions.
   3.4.4. Lead career field managers for the communications, information, postal, multimedia, and Com-
   munication-Electronic Maintenance (2E) career fields.
   3.4.5. Be the lead for communications and information resources (Status of Resources and Training
   Systems [SORTS], AEF, Unit Type Code [UTC] Functional Area Manager). Determine training
   requirements and ensure implementation of training programs for assigned Air Force specialties.
   3.4.6. Be the lead for establishing an Air Force policy on continuity of operations plans for the
   AFNOSC, the NOSCs and NCCs.

3.5. Air Force Communications Agency (AFCA). AFCA will:
   3.5.1. Conduct network enhancement initiatives. Act as the policy and standards adjunct of SAF/XC.
   AFCA will administer the OPTN program.
   3.5.2. Support SAF/XC by managing the reviews of Information Support Plan (ISP) documents. AFI
   33-108, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications and
   Computer (C4) Systems (title will become Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technol-
   ogy and National Security Systems) will contain Air Force ISP policy and format guidance when
   updated.
   3.5.3. Address AF-GIG manpower issues. Identify future funding requirements and prepare Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM) submission in coordination with SAF/XC.
   3.5.4. Develop, review, and update Air Force-level SLAs with external agencies as required.
   3.5.5. Assist and advise NOSCs and NCCs on optimization of network infrastructures.
14                                                                               AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     3.5.6. Perform Scope EDGE mission. Specifically conduct assessments of base and NOSC network
     configuration settings for compliance with directives and technical orders. Optimize and secure
     NOSC and base network configuration settings.
     3.5.7. Employ network engineering analysis capabilities to perform quality of service (QoS) analysis
     for existing warfighter networked systems and applications when these systems and applications do
     not meet expected QoS.
     3.5.8. Provide contract oversight of the Air Force Information Technology E-Learning System (dis-
     tant learning computer based training), the Books 24x7 on-line reference ware, and the Network Con-
     trol Center Structured On-the-Job Program for network professionals.

3.6. Air Force Command and Control & Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Center
(AFC2ISRC).
     3.6.1. Force communications and information workforce are force multipliers which support all six
     distinctive capabilities the Air Force brings to any activity across the spectrum of military operations,
     whether as a single Service or in conjunction with other Services in joint operations: Air and Space
     Superiority, Global Attack, Rapid Global Mobility, Precision Engagement, Information Superiority,
     and Agile Combat Support. Two of our distinctive capabilities, Precision Engagement and Informa-
     tion Superiority, are information technology driven and information dependent. This is where the
     communications and information community plays a substantial role. The essence of precision
     engagement lies in the ability to apply selective force against specific targets and achieve discrete and
     discriminate effects. Success in doing this means correct use of enormous amounts of information –
     information that is timely, accurate and useable. Information technology enables us to find, fix, track,
     and target anything that moves on the surface of the earth. Again, success depends upon a vast amount
     of the right information, at the right place, at the right time, and in the right format via terrestrial, air-
     borne and space networks seamlessly. AFC2ISRC will:
     3.6.2. Review all policy and guidance to ensure network solutions meet warfighter requirements.
     3.6.3. Support end-to-end interoperability of network solutions.
     3.6.4. Advocate and support appropriate technology and platform implementations.

3.7. Air Force Network Operations and Security Center (AFNOSC). AFNOSC will:
     3.7.1. Provide Air Force level C2 and situational awareness for the AF-GIG. Exercise distributed pos-
     itive control for the classified and unclassified wide area network (WAN) connectivity.
     3.7.2. Enforce compliance with accreditation and other network policy.
     3.7.3. Develop options and direct configuration changes, INFOCON changes, and changes to security
     postures in response to vulnerabilities and incidents, JTF-GNO direction, and outages that cross MAJ-
     COMs, affect the preponderance of the AF-GIG, or are time critical in nature.
     3.7.4. Issue NETOPS tasking orders (NTO) as well as track, document, and report compliance with
     Time Compliance Network Orders (TCNO) and C4 Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) provisions of AFI
     33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking.
     3.7.5. Direct specific actions related to network defense.
     3.7.6. Evaluate and respond to Air Force network intrusions and malicious logic events.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                  15


   3.7.7. Identify Network Attack (NetA) threats by collecting and analyzing intelligence products, and
   developing and executing countermeasures to network vulnerabilities in coordination with all applica-
   ble organizations. Coordinate network restoration after attacks.
   3.7.8. Assist NOSCs/NCCs with computer attack damage control and recovery procedures.
   3.7.9. Provide top-level tier of technical support for NOSC and NCC WAN operations between SDPs.
   Technologies and programs to be supported include Domain Name Service (DNS), Air Force Virtual
   Private Network (VPN), and SDP technology insertion. Specific operational roles and responsibilities
   are listed in paragraph 4.2.
   3.7.10. Provide senior leaders with global visibility and situational awareness for operational status of
   AF-GIG resources and capabilities, including NIPRNET, SIPRNET, ConstellationNet and provide
   information protection related incidents and network outage via Commander’s Situation Report
   (SITREP) and Operational Reports (OPREP). Maintain awareness of potential or ongoing Combat Air
   Forces (CAF)/Mobility Air Forces (MAF) operations in order to ensure activities on the AF-GIG do
   not hinder Air Force operations.
   3.7.11. Maintain an enterprise-centric view of the AF-GIG.
   3.7.12. Identify and submit network upgrade and operational requirements to Combat Information
   Transport System (CITS) Lead Command (HQ AFCA/ECN).
   3.7.13. Make appropriate joint and Air Force notifications of ongoing or potential NetA activities.
   3.7.14. Perform trend analysis and correlation of threat and performance metrics.
   3.7.15. Provide command uptime rates for systems and services to include posting uptime rates on a
   web page.
   3.7.16. Establish a Standardization/Evaluation (Stan/Eval) program to encompass the NOSC and
   NCC operations according to AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Net-
   work Professionals (will become Network Operations Training and Standards).

3.8. Air Force Information Warfare Center, Information Operations Directorate (AFIWC/IO).
AFIWC/IO will:
   3.8.1. Maintain and sustain subject matter expertise in Network Defense (NetD) for all networks.
   Supplement AFNOSC, NOSC and NCC with NetD technical expertise as required for effective
   response to network attacks. Provide development and employment support for AFIWC developed
   network sensors and NetD weapons systems (AFIWC/IOD), as well as computer and network threat
   awareness, analysis, and intelligence support (AFIWC/IOA).
   3.8.2. Report to AFNOSCs and MAJCOM NOSCs all backdoors and unauthorized connections to Air
   Force networks discovered during the course of operations. Reports will be made immediately upon
   discovery if associated with an on-going incident and within 48 hours from discovery if not associated
   with an incident response action.
   3.8.3. Ensure the 23d Information Operations Squadron develops Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
   (TTP) for conducting Information Operations.
   3.8.4. Ensure the 92d Information Warfare Aggressor Squadron provides assistance to MAJCOMs by
   conducting computer and network vulnerability assessments and exercise red team support.
16                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     3.8.5. Ensure the 346th Test Squadron conducts formal testing and evaluation of NetD weapon sys-
     tems, as well as implementation assistance.

3.9. Major Commands (MAJCOM). Each MAJCOM (ANG operates as a MAJCOM) will:
     3.9.1. Establish and maintain a NOSC to provide command and control of the MAJCOM network
     (specific NOSC roles and responsibilities are listed in paragraph 4.3.).
     3.9.2. Develop policies, procedures, and special instructions that pertain to the MAJCOM network.
     3.9.3. Identify and submit network upgrade and operational requirements to CITS Lead Command
     (HQ AFCA/ECN).
     3.9.4. Provide network support such as engineering, strategic planning, risk management, developing
     SLAs, budgeting, inspecting, and contract management to subordinate units. Authorize adequate
     down time in order to support preventive maintenance inspections.

3.10. Air Education and Training Command (AETC). AETC will:
     3.10.1. Manage and provide formal training in support of initial, advanced, supplemental, and quali-
     fication training, delivered in-residence and through distance learning.
     3.10.2. Identify and submit course resource estimate inputs to the 2E, 3A, 3C, 3V and 33S Career
     Field Managers for training. Provide oversight of Air Force supplemental technical training. To obtain
     formal training quotas, refer to Air Force Catalog (AFCAT) 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools, and AFI
     36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program, On the Job Training Administration.
     3.10.3. Identify all training resources required to Career Field Managers.
     3.10.4. Plan and program classroom desktop equipment and training aids.
     3.10.5. Work, with other MAJCOMs where appropriate, to establish and maintain one “af.edu”
     domain. Members logged into this domain will not have access to the base infrastructure domain, but,
     all Air Force members in the .edu domain are required to have “basename.af.mil” E-mail accounts
     provided by the local base. The purpose of this domain is to establish a unique security enclave con-
     ducive to educational exchange and research without exposing the af.mil network to security risks.
        3.10.5.1. The AETC NOSC is responsible for the Air Force level functional management of this
        domain and must work with the other supporting NCCs and MAJCOMs to provide the appropriate
        level of service.
        3.10.5.2. Members of this domain are students and faculty at the United States Air Force Acad-
        emy, the Air Force Institute of Technology, and the Air University system.
        3.10.5.3. The af.edu domain will be its own separate stand alone Active Directory Forrest with
        independent core services all managed by the AETC NOSC. The infrastructure at each base
        remains the responsibility of the base NCC and MAJCOM NOSC – this is a logical overlay/sepa-
        ration only.

3.11. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). AFMC will:
     3.11.1. Provide POM inputs for technical solutions and life-cycle support to AFCA.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                            17


   3.11.2. Review all TCNO and C4 NOTAMs for applicability to all AFMC provided information sys-
   tems.

3.12. Wings and Air Base Host Units. Hosting base units will:
   3.12.1. Operate and manage NCCs to provide base level network services not managed by NOSC.
   Specific NCC operational roles and responsibilities are listed in paragraph 4.4.
   3.12.2. Submit networking sustainment and upgrade requirements to their respective MAJCOM or
   applicable supporting agency for DRUs and FOAs.
   3.12.3. Ensure units coordinate with MAJCOMs or applicable agencies for formal training require-
   ments.
   3.12.4. Ensure unit commanders appoint 3As as client support administrators (CSA) consistent with
   paragraph 4.7.
   3.12.5. Grant AFCA Scope EDGE personnel administrative access to base networks to perform com-
   pliance assessments and optimization activities, as requested by their parent MAJCOM.

3.13. Air Force Program Management Offices (PMO) and System Program Offices (SPO). P M O s
and SPOs will:
   3.13.1. Not deliver or operate network infrastructure hardware without IAC approval.
   3.13.2. Use base NCC or supporting NOSC provided network services and network core services.
   3.13.3. PMO/SPO must comply with one base-one network policy; all systems on the network must
   be configured to operate within this construct.
   3.13.4. Develop Information Support Plans in accordance with Air Force guidance, CJCSI 6212.01D,
   Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security Systems, and
   DODI 4630.8, Procedures for Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and
   National Security Systems (NSS), for any IT or NSS system that exchanges information external to
   itself, and/or is connected to the GIG.

3.14. Warfighting Headquarters (WFHQ). WFHQ will:
   3.14.1. Not operate or maintain network infrastructure hardware or core services.
   3.14.2. Use base NCC or supporting NOSC provided network services and network core services.
   3.14.3. Provide System Administration support for Air Operations Center delivered C2 systems only.

3.15. Lead Command Managers (LCM). LCMs are:
   3.15.1. Responsible for communications and information systems, equipment, commodities or ser-
   vices operated/used by more than one Air Force MAJCOM, DRU or FOA. Lead commands as advo-
   cates involves requirements, life-cycle planning, sustainment and resource management and must
   comply with AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command—Communications and Information Systems
   Management.
18                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                                Chapter 4

                        OPERATIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES



4.1. General. The AFNOSC, NOSC, and NCC are the tiered levels of AF-GIG operations working in
concert to ensure networks are available to support mission demands. These centers perform the AF-GIG
mission operation areas described in Chapter 6. Specific definitions of each tier, as well as roles and
responsibilities, are discussed in this chapter.

4.2. Air Force Network Operations and Security Center (AFNOSC). T h e A F N O S C i s t h e A i r
Force’s top network operations tier. The AFNOSC develops options and directs configuration changes
and changes to security postures in response to vulnerabilities and incidents, JTF-GNO direction, and out-
ages that cross theater NOSCs, affect the preponderance of the network, or are time critical in nature. The
AFNOSC provides Air Force-level metrics, situational awareness, and enforces compliance with accred-
itation and other network policy. Although the AFNOSC represents the top tier of the AF-GIG, it does not
relieve theater NOSC from managing, resourcing, and implementing the AF-GIG within their respective
theaters. The AFNOSC has tactical control (TACON) over the theater NOSC, base NCC and the mission
support center (MSC) or FAC to direct configuration changes, INFOCON changes, and changes to the
security posture of the AF-GIG. The AFNOSC will:
     4.2.1. Operate 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week.
     4.2.2. Interact with DISA, JTF-GNO, theater NOSCs, and the commercial sector to identify and cor-
     rect anomalies in Air Force networks, systems, and applications.
     4.2.3. Exercise DIRLAUTH for the Air Force to MAJCOMs, other Air Force agencies, sister ser-
     vices, and other external agencies for network operations and network security issues.
     4.2.4. Perform Information Dissemination Management.
        4.2.4.1. Issue NTOs as well as track, document, and report compliance with TCNOs according to
        AFI 33-138, directing all AF-GIG operational, security, and configuration based changes. Ensure
        two-person compliance procedures are followed according to AFI 33-138 when implementing
        TCNOs. Issue Air Force-level C4 NOTAMs according to AFI 33-138.
        4.2.4.2. Direct all AF-GIG operational, security, and configuration based changes.
        4.2.4.3. Draft SITREPs according to AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting. Draft Operational
        Event/Incident Reports (OPREP3) according to AFI 10-206 to document and report significant
        network events affecting Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) connections not previ-
        ously reported in SITREPs.
        4.2.4.4. Provide Help Desk services to theater NOSCs as a focal point for AF-GIG problem reso-
        lution.
        4.2.4.5. Document and track trouble calls to final resolution.
        4.2.4.6. Utilize Network Common Operating Picture (NETCOP) to consolidate NOSC up-chan-
        neled metrics of C4 systems and report overall AF-GIG metrics to SAF/XC, and other senior lead-
        ers as required.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              19


     4.2.4.7. Monitor and report status and critical metrics of Air Force IT services, as defined by the
     AF-CIO, NIPRNET, SIPRNET, and JWICS connections to senior leaders and theater NOSC,
     MSC, FAC, and base NCCs as needed or required.
     4.2.4.8. Supply data to program offices, DISA, JTF-GNO, and other agencies, as required, ensur-
     ing systemic Air Force-level problem areas are tracked and fixed.
     4.2.4.9. Provide status of on-going law enforcement investigations related to computer security
     incidents to COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO.
     4.2.4.10. Report to JTF-GNO COMAFFOR validated NetAs, suspicious activities, and security
     incidents to DOD CERT, GNOSC, Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), Informa-
     tion Warfare Flights, theater NOSCs, NCCs, and other activities, in accordance with DOD and Air
     Force guidelines.
  4.2.5. Perform System and Network Management.
     4.2.5.1. Perform continuous voice, video and data network monitoring and analysis of operations
     for identification of network availability or degradation events.
     4.2.5.2. Ensure situational awareness of CITS equipment is maintained and respond/report any
     system degradation events.
     4.2.5.3. Manage Air Force level (af.mil and af.smil.mil) DNS, naming convention for the Air
     Force, maintain a Name Server (NS) record for all Air Force name servers in the af.mil zone and
     provide technical support for the af.mil and af.smil.mil domain and sub-domains.
     4.2.5.4. Monitor Air Force-level Internet Protocol (IP) address space.
     4.2.5.5. Manage the Tactical Internet Protocol (TAC-IP) Program to provide temporary IP address
     space for deployed units.
     4.2.5.6. Administer and maintain Air Force-level system capabilities as negotiated in SLAs.
     4.2.5.7. Manage the USAF Circuit Upgrade Program, identify and report circuits that exceed
     established thresholds to the Air Force Systems Network (AFSN) office.
  4.2.6. Perform Information Assurance/Network Defense.
     4.2.6.1. Perform continuous network monitoring operations for identification of on-going attacks
     against the network or interconnected systems.
     4.2.6.2. Provide real-time analysis, response and reporting according to AFI 33-138 for network
     attacks and security incidents.
     4.2.6.3. Correlate network events with supporting network data, threat data, and technical vulner-
     ability information.
     4.2.6.4. Maintain global situational awareness of events threatening Air Force networks.
     4.2.6.5. Manage Air Force long-haul user VPN.
     4.2.6.6. Maintain secure communications with NOSCs.
     4.2.6.7. Update Access Control Lists on SDP routers.
20                                                                             AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        4.2.6.8. Analyze NETOPS security posture using security management software tools such as
        intrusion detection and vulnerability assessment.
        4.2.6.9. Analyze customer impact of all network incidents, problems and alerts, and develop cor-
        rective actions or management changes.
        4.2.6.10. Require network defense countermeasures and other defensive or corrective actions in
        response to command direction, INFOCONs, or vulnerability alerts.
        4.2.6.11. Develop and/or exercise contingency plans to continue operations in at least one loca-
        tion in the local area and at least one location outside the local area in the event of natural or unnat-
        ural disaster, utilities failure, and contractor issues.
        4.2.6.12. Conduct NetA assessments, correlate incidents, conduct spot check compliance, and
        conduct on-line surveys for suspicious activities (internal and external) across Air Force network
        domains. Notify COMAFFOR and the JTF-GNO of attacks and suspicious activities. Conduct
        trend analysis to determine patterns of attack.
        4.2.6.13. Conduct and manage Air Force vulnerability analysis and assistance functions in accor-
        dance with AFI 33-207, Computer Security Assistance Program. Notify COMAFFOR to
        JTF-GNO of technical vulnerabilities impacting Air Force computers and computer networks.
        4.2.6.14. Assist the COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO in implementing the Air Force INFOCON pro-
        gram.
     4.2.7. Coordinate with base NCC and theater NOSC to ensure presence of site personnel for trouble-
     shooting operations when requested by JTF-GNO.
     4.2.8. Participate in AFSN-led configuration control board to address AF-GIG requirements.
     4.2.9. Provide situational awareness and status of the AF-GIG to SAF/XC, AFCA and to leaders at all
     levels based on their operational needs.
     4.2.10. Assist COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO in building upon current Air Force policies and programs to
     implement and maintain a network security posture that will defeat hostile NetA and attempts to
     exploit the Air Force network.
     4.2.11. Serve as the Air Force single point-of-contact for receiving reports from and reporting com-
     puter security incidents and vulnerabilities to organizations external to the Air Force.

4.3. Network Operations and Security Center (NOSC). The theater NOSC is the mid-level organiza-
tion in the three-tiered NETOPS structure. A theater NOSC provides commanders with real-time opera-
tional network intrusion detection and perimeter defense capabilities, as well as theater-level NETOPS
and fault resolution activities. This NETOPS entity is employed at the commander’s direction to defend
information networks both in-theater and in-garrison. NOSC personnel monitor and support the
day-to-day operational issues associated with their subordinate bases and units. Their mission focus is to
ensure their theater’s operational and support systems are fully capable. As appropriate, they support their
commanders with information assurance capabilities, such as information systems security, decision anal-
ysis, and other technological capabilities. Theater NOSCs will:
     4.3.1. Operate 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                               21


  4.3.2. Assist the AFNOSC (and DISA when requested through the AFNOSC) with ensuring presence
  of on-site personnel when requested by AFNOSC Net Operations Division to perform troubleshooting
  procedures to restore faulty, Air Force owned and operated, WAN transmission equipment and cir-
  cuits.
  4.3.3. Establish SLA, MOA, or MOU with Main Operating Bases (MOB), GSUs, tenant units, Air
  Force, and MAJCOM functional communities of interest defining agreed upon levels of support.
  Additionally, maintains SLA, MOA, or MOU with other NOSCs for providing back–up services as
  needed.
  4.3.4. Perform Information Dissemination Management.
     4.3.4.1. Implement, track, document, and report compliance with TCNOs directed by the
     AFNOSC. Issue NTOs, implement, track, document and report compliance with MAJCOM-level
     TCNOs. Ensure two-person compliance procedures are followed according to AFI 33-138 when
     implementing TCNOs. Issue and review all C4 NOTAMs for applicability to all theater unique
     information systems according to AFI 33-138.
     4.3.4.2. Draft SITREPs according to AFI 10-206. Draft OPREP3s according to AFI 10-206 to
     document and report significant network events affecting theater-level systems.
     4.3.4.3. Provide Help Desk services to NCCs and other NOSC customers for the theater; forward
     lessons learned and situations requiring additional assistance to next upper level tier Help Desk.
     4.3.4.4. Provide situational awareness and visibility of the MAJCOM C4 systems as directed by
     the AFNOSC, but no less than every 12 hours, via NETCOP or other reporting methods as
     directed by the AFNOSC. As a minimum, NIPRNET, SIPRNET, Air Traffic Control and Landing
     Systems (ATCALS), Automated Security Incident Measurement (ASIM), weather systems, Auto-
     mated Message Handling System (AMHS), Global Command and Control System (GCCS) and
     base level Telephony connectivity will be monitored. Other systems may be added as require-
     ments dictate.
  4.3.5. Perform System and Network Management.
     4.3.5.1. Provide and manage external DNS service to assigned bases, and internal DNS service
     for IT services that are consolidated, and coordinate with AFNOSC Net Operations Division on
     Air Force-level DNS issues.
     4.3.5.2. Manage theater-level (theater.af.mil, theater.ds.af.mil, theater.af.smil.mil, and the-
     ater.ds.af.smil.mil) DNS and assigned IP addresses. Those theater NOSCs that manage base-level
     IP addresses will follow guidance in paragraph 4.5.4.9.
     4.3.5.3. Perform distributed control of remote access services for the theater. Follow guidance in
     paragraph 4.5.4.9.2.1.
     4.3.5.4. Provide theater level Core Services (as defined in paragraph 6.4.) to assigned bases.
     4.3.5.5. Provide Network Time Protocol (NTP) management. NOSCs will use NTP on all systems
     within the CITS Network Management and Network Defense (NM/ND) boundary to synchronize
     system clocks with a local Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver. Additionally, ensure that as
     a minimum NTP is enabled on all core servers and backbone equipment.
22                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        4.3.5.6. Detect, respond, and report network events affecting operational availability of theater
        network, user service levels, support to critical applications, and core services to the AFNOSC and
        others as appropriate.
        4.3.5.7. Provide technical assistance to assigned NCCs.
        4.3.5.8. Perform system backup and disaster recovery procedures on NOSC managed core ser-
        vices.
        4.3.5.9. Maintain capability to filter web sites to meet operational requirements, e.g., MINIMIZE.
            4.3.5.9.1. Establish local procedures for notification of MINIMIZE according to Allied Com-
            munications Publication (ACP) 121/United States Supplement (US SUP)-1, (C) Communica-
            tion Instructions General (U).
        4.3.5.10. Monitor and manage Core Services via tools provided by the CITS Program Manage-
        ment Office.
     4.3.6. Perform IA/NetD.
        4.3.6.1. Provide support to the theater/Numbered Air Force (NAF) Information Warfare Flights.
        4.3.6.2. Centrally operate and manage boundary protection and intrusion detection tools for all
        bases within their respective theater. This can be accomplished by either physically consolidating
        the servers at the NOSC or using remote management.
        4.3.6.3. Protect against unauthorized intrusions and malicious activities; monitor and report intru-
        sion detection activity according to AFI 33-138.
        4.3.6.4. Monitor, detect, and implement NetD actions.
        4.3.6.5. Maintain secure communications with AFNOSC Net Operations Division and NCCs.
        4.3.6.6. Use vulnerability assessment software tools to analyze base networks under NOSC con-
        trol for potential vulnerabilities and research/recommend appropriate protective measures. Report
        suspected vulnerabilities and recommended protective measures to the AFNOSC Net Security
        Division. Ensure vulnerability scans are run quarterly within their theater of responsibility.
        4.3.6.7. Assists in developing a theater-level network security policy according to AFI
        33-202,Volume 1.
            4.3.6.7.1. Provide any network reports requested by the theater IA office required for Certifi-
            cation and Accreditation (C&A) of theater unique systems.
        4.3.6.8. Analyze customer impact, within the theater, of all network incidents, problems and
        alerts, and develop corrective actions or management changes.
     4.3.7. Take the following measures to meet the intent of the CSAF Server Consolidation effort:
        4.3.7.1. Consolidate management of all theater external web servers (external web servers are
        those web servers that permit access to anyone from outside the .mil domain) to the NOSC. ANG
        shall consolidate to ROSC or NOSC locations where technically appropriate. Use remote manage-
        ment, co-location or shared hosting consolidation as best fits the operational mission.
        4.3.7.2. Assist in consolidating all functional community of interest IT servers. Preferred location
        is to the DISA DECC, however, consolidation to the NOSC or ANG ROSCs is acceptable as well.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              23


     Consolidation could include using remote management, co-location, or shared hosting consolida-
     tion as best fits the operational mission. In some instances, consolidation to the NCC is more
     appropriate to the operational mission.
     4.3.7.3. Manage desktop services (paragraph 6.4.4.), consolidating services to the NOSC as best
     fits the operational mission.
     4.3.7.4. Any new applications and their server(s), core services, network services, or desktop ser-
     vices and storage requirements shall meet the intent of the server consolidation architecture using
     remote management, co-location or shared hosting consolidation as appropriate to the operational
     mission in their initial operational capability and full operational capability.
  4.3.8. Provide visibility of the theater network (NIPRNET and SIPRNET) to theater commanders and
  directors.
  4.3.9. Provide NCCs, within the respective theater, visibility into NOSC-managed devices for local
  situational awareness.
  4.3.10. Oversee implementation of policies, procedures, and special instructions to NCCs.
  4.3.11. Support deployable operations and maintain joint capabilities.
  4.3.12. Provide engineering guidance to plan, install, operate, and maintain base network hardware
  and software.
  4.3.13. Perform NOSC-level systems control, maintenance, and administration functions within the
  theater network.
  4.3.14. Manage theater electronic mail global address list.
  4.3.15. Grant AFCA Scope EDGE personnel administrative access to NOSC and base networks to
  perform compliance assessments and optimization activities, as required by AFNOSC.
     4.3.15.1. Scope EDGE personnel will complete local account access requirements prior to gain-
     ing local network access or provide proof of current IA training.
  4.3.16. Perform Telephony Management and Voice Protection.
     4.3.16.1. Provide centralized management and administration of the enterprise-wide Enterprise
     Telephony Management (ETM) platform.
     4.3.16.2. Administer/disseminate Air Force and theater-wide voice protection system (VPS) pol-
     icy (rule set) and site specific policies for each base and GSU in the enterprise.
     4.3.16.3. Modify the active security policy (rule set) in the ETM platform as directed by higher
     headquarters to react to events, anomalies, and emergencies.
     4.3.16.4. Maintain trained FSAs proficient in maintaining the server’s operating system and ETM
     platform specific software.
     4.3.16.5. Utilize platform to generate command-wide reports (as needed) and ensure real time vis-
     ibility of voice networks.
     4.3.16.6. Perform all management tasks for Fault, Configuration, Accounting, Performance, and
     Security (FCAPS).
24                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


            4.3.16.6.1. Fault management tasks include but are not limited to detection, documentation
            and resolution of, application system faults, system detected telecommunication faults and
            supporting infrastructure faults.
            4.3.16.6.2. Configuration management tasks include but are not limited to collection, config-
            uration and identification of technical information of the VPS and the system’s infrastructure,
            e.g., IPs and network IDs, firewall exceptions, Telco Trunk nomenclatures, telephone numbers
            and switching items, etc.
            4.3.16.6.3. Accounting management tasks include but are not limited to control and mainte-
            nance of user accounts, system access passwords, telephony authorized control list (ACL) and
            firewall exceptions request.
            4.3.16.6.4. Performance management tasks include but are not limited to control, manipula-
            tion, report generation and analysis of system collected data for base, theater and Air Force
            level management decision.
            4.3.16.6.5. Security management tasks include but are not limited to detection, documenta-
            tion, reporting and denial of access to unauthorized telephony exploitation.
     4.3.17. Provide capability to automatically and continually capture, store, archive, and retrieve net-
     work topology and application traffic data for the purposes of all engineering functions listed in this
     document.
     4.3.18. Achieve full operational capability within 4 hours after notification in situations requiring
     increased operations tempo surge manning. Annotate the 4-hour response time in section IIB of AF
     IMT 723, Sorts Doc Statement, and state AFI 33-115, Volume 1, as the response time source refer-
     ence document. Does not apply to AFRC and ANG.
     4.3.19. Will, along with the NCC and CSAs, be responsible for public key infrastructure (PKI) enable
     devices on the network. Complete PKI responsibilities can be located in AFMAN 33-223, Identifica-
     tion and Authentication.
     4.3.20. Partner with the MAJCOM/base records manager to ensure records management procedures
     are implemented and sustained for all enterprise storage services.

4.4. Integrated Network Operations and Security Center (I-NOSC).
     4.4.1. I-NOSC is the next evolution of our Air Force networks. They will:
        4.4.1.1. Perform work done at present MAJCOM NOSCs under the command of the AFNETOPS/
        CC. These regional I-NOSCs give commanders visibility into the network to achieve operational
        objectives. I-NOSCs must establish the ability to provide commanders a real time presentation of
        their network forces. Within their theater, each I-NOSC manages functions currently performed by
        MAJCOM NOSC i.e., network defense; generates an enterprise situational awareness picture;
        manages network configuration; and provides information assurance and Spectrum management.
        This includes voice, video, and data networks supported by the GIG. I-NOSCs must quickly
        evolve toward full operational capability to remotely administer base-level file, print, and messag-
        ing servers, followed by remote management of applications servers within their AOR.
     4.4.2. Implementation.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 25


   4.4.3. The Integrated NOSC is the Air Force’s operational-level warfighting command center for net-
   work defense and network transport. The I-NOSC is the execution arm of the AFNOSC and provides
   command and control, and defense of the Air Force-provisioned portion of the GIG (Constellation-
   Net).
   4.4.4. The I-NOSC ensures Air Force networks are capable of conducting, supporting, and advancing
   coalition, joint, Air Force, and interagency operations. Through a common environment, the I-NOSC
   provides situational awareness to the AFNOSC, WFHQ, and MAJCOMs. Each I-NOSC will oversee
   the operation of the base level NCCs, while providing remote administration of enterprise-wide infra-
   structure.
   4.4.5. Implementation Strategy.
       4.4.5.1. The implementation plan (I-Plan) takes into consideration the equipment and technical
       aspects needed to satisfy I-NOSC final operating capability (FOC) for terrestrial networks. The
       I-Plan discusses personnel and the requirements to support the I-NOSCs without developing a
       plan for the personnel moves.
       4.4.5.2. Airborne and Space networks will be migrated by FY10; however, this plan will not out-
       line their full implementation into the I-NOSC.
       4.4.5.3. Initial operating capability (IOC) occurs when an I-NOSC has operational control over
       any part of the Air Force-provisioned portion of the GIG not currently under the Network Opera-
       tions Division (NOD) and National Security Directorate (NSD) control. FOC occurs when the
       entire terrestrial portion of the Air Force-provisioned portion of the GIG is under direct command
       and control of an I-NOSC.
       4.4.5.4. The strategy is divided into spirals that take command and control of the network in a
       top-down approach. Spirals are implemented across an I-NOSC’s area of responsibility (AOR).
       The spirals drill down to assume control of the enterprise network one layer at a time. This strat-
       egy is in contrast to a MAJCOM-by-MAJCOM or base-by-base strategy which would assume
       control of a MAJCOM or base in its entirety before assuming control of the next MAJCOM or
       base.
       4.4.5.5. The AF-GIG architecture must mature incrementally to migrate to the desired end-state.
       This incremental change correlates to a phased approach to establish or realign AF-GIG opera-
       tions conducted across the three network operations tiers, i.e., the AFNOSC, I-NOSCs, and NCCs.
       The first phase is near term and prescribes an architecture that will be in place by FY06. The final
       phase identifies the end state architecture which is targeted for FY11.

4.5. Network Control Center (NCC) The NCC oversees network operations, helps achieve information
assurance, and generates visibility into the base network. Wing and theater air base commanders exercise
command and control over their fixed base or deployed site networks and systems via the NCC. Local
Area Networks (LAN) and the Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN) on the base are considered part of the
base network and managed by the NCC. Thus, the NCC is the central focal point on base for the opera-
tion, maintenance, and management of all aspects of the base network to include wireless LANs (NCCs
will need to establish a memorandum of agreement with the appropriate functional community to cover
manning and training deficiencies that may exist due to legacy wireless equipment). The NCC provides
an on-site technical capability to implement physical network changes and modifications and restoration
of faulty network transmission equipment and circuits when directed by the NOSC or AFNOSC. Using
26                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


network administration, network management, and information protection tools, the NCC technicians
provide core services to FSAs, CSAs, and users. The NCC is also responsible for all PKI enabled devices
located under their area of responsibility. Complete PKI responsibilities can be located in AFI 33-202,
Volume 6, Identity Management. NCCs will:
     4.5.1. Operate 24-hours-per-day, 7-days-per-week (with either continuous manning or on-call
     after-hours response capability). ANG and AFRC operates on 40-hour work week (Monday-Friday).
     4.5.2. Ensure presence of on-site personnel when directed by NOSC or AFNOSC .
     4.5.3. Achieve full operational capability within 4 hours after notification in situations requiring
     increased operations tempo surge manning. This ensures on-site presence of personnel to meet ele-
     vated unit communications requirements. Units will annotate the 4-hour response time in section IIB
     of AF IMT 723 and state AFI 33-115, Volume 1, as the response time source reference document.
     Does not apply to AFRC and ANG.
     4.5.4. Perform Information Dissemination Management.
        4.5.4.1. Implement NETOPS tasking order (NTO) as required. Implement TCNOs according to
        AFI 33-138. Ensure two-person compliance procedures are followed according to AFI 33-138
        when implementing TCNOs. Utilize C4 NOTAMs according to AFI 33-138.
        4.5.4.2. Draft SITREPs according to AFI 10-206. Draft OPREP3s according to AFI 10-206 to
        document and report significant network events affecting base-level systems.
        4.5.4.3. Provide Help Desk services to base-level users and CSAs to serve as focal points for net-
        work, to include Air Force IT services, problem resolution. Forward lessons learned and situations
        requiring additional assistance to next upper level tier Help Desk.
        4.5.4.4. Escalate problems beyond the capability of the NCC to the NOSC for resolution and info
        the theater IA office if required.
        4.5.4.5. Provide situational awareness and visibility of the base-level C4 systems as directed by
        the NOSC, but no less than every 12 hours via NETCOP. As a minimum, NIPRNET, SIPRNET,
        Defense Switched Network (DSN), ATCALS, ASIM, weather systems, AMHS, and GCCS will be
        monitored. Other systems may be added as requirements dictate. Forward requirements to HQ
        AFCA/ECN. (Does not apply to ANG NCC. ANG Regional Operations Security Center (ROSC)
        performs this function.)
        4.5.4.6. Provide flexible and scalable levels of service to FSAs, CSAs, and users for Air Force IT
        services as defined by the SAF/XC.
        4.5.4.7. Perform System and Network Management.
        4.5.4.8. Manage internal base DNS if not centrally managed by the theater NOSC.
        4.5.4.9. Manage all base IP address space through utilization of Dynamic Host Configuration Pro-
        tocol (DHCP). DHCP will allocate dynamic IP addresses for:
            4.5.4.9.1. All noncritical workstations connected to the internal base network. Noncritical
            workstations will have a lease of 30 days applied to them; this ensures, with relative certainty,
            that the same IP is assigned to a workstation each time a new reservation is issued. In instances
            where there is a documented IP address shortage for a DHCP scope (e.g., more than 80 % uti-
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                   27


        lization), the lease time can be adjusted to a shorter lease duration for that particular scope so
        that IP addresses can be recovered more quickly. Does not apply to the ANG.
        4.5.4.9.2. Remote Access Clients. The use of a remote access modem will be accomplished
        according to AFI 33-202, Volume 1.
            4.5.4.9.2.1. In coordination with the NOSC, provide and control all remote dial-in/dial-out
            communications access services. Place the communications server capable of handling
            dial-in and dial-out services within the CITS network battle management/network defense
            (NBM/ND) boundary to prevent the possibility of back-door access. This means that orga-
            nizations will not connect external access devices to the base network. The NCC controls
            all remote dial-in/dial-out communications services. The NCC will place all remote
            dial-in/dial-out communications servers (remote access servers) on an alternate interface
            (not the internal or external interface) of the firewall. If an alternate interface is not avail-
            able the remote access server will be placed off the external interface of the firewall. (Does
            not apply to ANG NCC.)
            4.5.4.9.2.2. ANG NCC. CITS does not provide ANG NCCs with NBM/ND equipment.
            ANG purchases firewalls (CITS supported) for each NCC. The NCC controls all remote
            dial-in/dial-out communications services. The NCC will place all remote dial-in/dial-out
            communications servers (remote access servers) on an alternate interface (not the internal
            or external interface) or the firewall.
            4.5.4.9.2.3. The ANG NCC will use NTP on all systems within the security boundary to
            synchronize system clocks with a local GPS receiver or approved DOD source. Addition-
            ally, ensure that as a minimum NTP is enabled on all core servers and backbone equipment
            capable of using NTP. Preferably do not allow external NTP sources through the NBM/ND
            boundary due to inherent security problems. However, ANG NCCs that receive NTP from
            their upper level ROSC may permit NTP through the firewall by exception only (e.g., IP
            address to IP address).
            4.5.4.9.2.4. Provide NTP management. NCCs will use NTP on all systems within the
            CITS NBM/ND boundary to synchronize system clocks according to NCC technical order
            (TO). Additionally, ensure that as a minimum NTP is enabled on all core servers and back-
            bone equipment capable of using NTP. Do not allow external NTP sources through the
            NBM/ND boundary due to inherent security problems. (Does not apply to ANG NCC.)
     4.5.4.10. Move all Air Force owned networks behind the NCC/NOSC/ANG ROSC IA boundary.
     NOSC, ANG ROSC, or NCC will manage and monitor all networked devices using network man-
     agement and security tools. In all cases, host tenant agreements and service level agreements that
     result from this requirement must adhere to Air Force policy. The following scenarios apply to
     non-Air Force units residing on an Air Force base:
        4.5.4.10.1. All non-Air Force units on an Air Force installation that use the host base’s Core
        Services (see Chapter 6) must be located behind the security boundary and comply with the
        security policy for the host base network.
        4.5.4.10.2. Report all backdoors within 24 hours of discovery to NOSC. Inform NOSC on
        backdoor remediation progress.
28                                                                  AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     4.5.4.10.3. Any non-Air Force unit on an Air Force installation not using host base Core Ser-
     vices (see Chapter 6) may have their own network separate from the base network. These net-
     works must adhere to the following guidelines:
        4.5.4.10.3.1. Physically separate this network from the base network infrastructure. No
        devices on this network may attach to the base data network in any way.
        4.5.4.10.3.2. This network must connect outside the security boundary and may only com-
        municate with the base network by coming through the security boundary from the out-
        side. ANG sites will connect external site (non GSU) connections to dedicated firewall
        interface to maintain appropriate security posture.
        4.5.4.10.3.3. The using organization is responsible for funding any and all network com-
        ponents as well as any costs associated with their connectivity.
        4.5.4.10.3.4. The using organization is responsible for complying with all DOD-required
        IA measures, to include intrusion detection and vulnerability patching.
        4.5.4.10.3.5. Provide messaging services to base-level users [e.g., AMHS and Simple
        Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) electronic mail]. NCCs are not required to do this if the
        NOSC is performing these duties.
     4.5.4.10.4. All Air Force military and civilian members will be issued an E-mail address. This
     is a mandatory compliance issue.
     4.5.4.10.5. All Air Force members in a non-Air Force unit residing on an Air Force base will
     have an Air Force E-mail account supported by the local base NCC or supporting NOSC .
        4.5.4.10.5.1. All Air Force members on DOD sites will have an Air Force E-mail account
        from the Air Force base NCC or supporting NOSC which supports the members servicing
        Military Personnel Flight (MPF). If the unit does not have an Air Force servicing MPF,
        then the next paragraph applies.
        4.5.4.10.5.2. All Air Force members assigned to any non-DOD site will have an “af.mil”
        E-mail account established through the 11th Communications Squadron. Members will
        have access via web mail.
        4.5.4.10.5.3. All new accessions will have an Air Force E-mail account established upon
        completion of basic training or their commissioning source. This will either be at tech
        school or their first assignment, which ever occurs first.
        4.5.4.10.5.4. E-mail accounts will remain active and available for 60 days following a
        member’s permanent change of station (PCS). After 60 days the contents of the users
        email account will be transitioned by the loosing NCC or supporting NOSC to the newly
        created email account at the gaining base. After this transition, the old email account will
        be deleted and the gaining base NCC will notify the base MPF of the members new email
        address for loading into MILPDS. This is a requirement by AF/DP due to the closing of
        some base level MPF functions – no airman can be without an email account at any time,
        due to it being used by AFPC for personnel matters.
        4.5.4.10.5.5. The E-mail account and all associated E-mail for members separating will be
        deleted 60 days after departure. Departing members can access the account via web mail.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                               29


        4.5.4.10.6. Secure and manage the CITS Common Air Force Wireless solution.
           4.5.4.10.6.1. NCCs will control any hardware or software used to provide wireless access
           to the base network.
           4.5.4.10.6.2. All client devices using the base wireless infrastructure will meet the require-
           ments specified in AFI 33-202, Volume 1, and the CITS common Wireless Local Area
           Network (WLAN) solution or have an approved waiver on file. In addition:
           4.5.4.10.6.3. Wireless client devices must be registered with the NCC prior to connecting
           to the base wireless infrastructure. At the time of registration, the NCC will record a device
           specific authentication factor--usually the Media Access Control (MAC) address of the
           device--to be used for hardware authentication.
           4.5.4.10.6.4. Lost or stolen wireless devices must be reported to the NCC as soon as pos-
           sible. Entries for such devices will be removed from all access control lists. If recovered,
           the device-specific authentication factor will be considered compromised and will be
           changed before the device is redeployed.
           4.5.4.10.6.5. All wireless client devices must run approved Air Force-approved antivirus
           software.
           4.5.4.10.6.6. All wireless client devices must use a Federal Information Processing Stan-
           dard (FIPS) certified secure client (usually software) compatible with the wireless local
           area network gateway/switch managed by the NCC.
           4.5.4.10.6.7. Wireless client devices will not allow ad hoc wireless networking or direct
           peer-to-peer wireless networking.
           4.5.4.10.6.8. Systems with direct network access (e.g., via Ethernet) will not provide wire-
           less data connectivity. Any network device with an external wireless network interface or
           an integrated wireless interface must have the wireless interface disabled prior to connect-
           ing to the wired network via fiber or Ethernet. The method for disabling the integrated
           interface will be through the use of an automated software solution that enforces required
           security policies. Devices that have integrated wireless Network Interface Cards (NIC)
           which cannot be disabled via an automated process, require theater designated approving
           authority (DAA) approval prior to manually disabling the wireless NIC and connecting to
           the wired network. Due to their low risk, wireless pointing devices are not required to use
           encryption.
           4.5.4.10.6.9. Passwords and sensitive information will not be wireless transmitted unless
           encrypted in accordance with Air Force WLAN policy outlined in AFI 33-202, Volume 1,
           and AFMAN 33-223. This includes wireless keyboards and wireless terminals, but not
           pointing devices.
     4.5.4.11. Network Operations Requirements.
        4.5.4.11.1. Except for the ANG, must integrate into CITS and NBM/ND suite at NOSC and/or
        NCC.
        4.5.4.11.2. Must have the capability to shut down wireless access points remotely from the
        NCC and NOSC.
30                                                                     AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     4.5.4.11.3. NCCs will expand current network vulnerability scanning procedures to include
     wireless networks.
     4.5.4.11.4. Provide a core set of office automation application support services.
     4.5.4.11.5. Implement software patches and security fixes as required by the NOSC,
     AFNOSC, or program manager.
     4.5.4.11.6. Report events not previously detected by the NOSC or AFNOSC.
     4.5.4.11.7. In coordination with NOSC, plan, install, operate, and maintain base network
     hardware and software.
     4.5.4.11.8. Perform regular day-to-day system backup and recovery operations on NCC man-
     aged servers. At a minimum of once a quarter, test recovery procedures to ensure procedures
     are accurate and operational.
     4.5.4.11.9. Develop local restoral and contingency operations plans from existing operations/
     war plans. Validate restoral plans by testing them on at least a biannual basis.
     4.5.4.11.10. Maintain network and facility configuration, migration, and upgrade plans.
     4.5.4.11.11. Perform fault management for the local base network.
        4.5.4.11.11.1. Dispatch technicians to unmanned or user and subscriber locations when
        required to test, troubleshoot, and restore service.
        4.5.4.11.11.2. Coordinate with job control subscribers, local and distant support agencies,
        and contractors to isolate faults, restore service, and make repairs.
        4.5.4.11.11.3. Ensure a trouble-call process is established.
     4.5.4.11.12. Provide network and small computer maintenance support to CSAs and FSAs.
     4.5.4.11.13. Provide technical support to FSAs and CSAs when requested and maintain an
     electrostatic discharge maintenance area. See TO 00-25-234, Chapter 7, for guidance.
     4.5.4.11.14. Perform fault isolation to the line replaceable unit (LRU) and line item equipment
     level. Fault isolation methods include automated diagnostics and sound troubleshooting tech-
     niques.
     4.5.4.11.15. Perform configuration management for the local base network. Work with the
     functional on base for implementation of systems. Provide a database of ports, protocol and
     services that are associated with a particular system. ANG uses central DB and NOSC.
     4.5.4.11.16. Prepare and update network maps and facility equipment listings. Provide theater
     NOSC a copy as required.
     4.5.4.11.17. Establish a maintenance contract and warranty plan according to Chapter 10.
     4.5.4.11.18. Establish a license management program according to AFI 33-114, Software
     Management, to ensure authorized usage for base network software.
     4.5.4.11.19. Work with Planning/Implementation section and the Systems Telecommunica-
     tions Engineering Manager (STEM) to participate in the review and planning of base transmis-
     sion media and telecommunications systems networks. Makes sure replacements for legacy or
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                           31


        dumb network devices incorporate remote management capability to improve centralized
        management, performance, and quality.
        4.5.4.11.20. Perform minor application enhancement and software metering according to AFI
        33-114.
        4.5.4.11.21. Perform information technology (IT) equipment custodian (EC) duty for NCC
        equipment as directed by AFI 33-112, Computer Systems Management (will become Informa-
        tion Technology Asset Management [ITAM]).
        4.5.4.11.22. Provide assistance, when needed, and perform cryptographic equipment updates
        on devices under the control of the NCC.
        4.5.4.11.23. Provide base network/NCC hardware and software installation service.
           4.5.4.11.23.1. Hardware: NCCs install and configure network servers, routers, hubs,
           bridges, repeaters, and servers. They test and document equipment installation acceptance
           testing. The ANG shall follow NOSC direction for centrally managed enterprise systems
           (AD, Exchange, etc).
           4.5.4.11.23.2. Software: NCCs receive and inventory network software according to AFI
           33-114, test and validate new software applications and network operating systems.
               4.5.4.11.23.2.1. Distribute and install network software releases and updates, and
               assist customers with software installation and customization.
               4.5.4.11.23.2.2. Install and configure SMTP hosts, relays, and gateways. The ANG
               shall follow NOSC direction for configuration.
               4.5.4.11.23.2.3. Review site license agreements and remove software from systems
               when no longer required or authorized. Dispose or redistribute excess software accord-
               ing to AFI 33-114.
        4.5.4.11.24. Perform base NM planning.
        4.5.4.11.25. Maintain the base network characterization and validate the DISA Minimum
        Essential Circuit Listing (MECL) and the Defense Information Technology Contracting Office
        (DITCO) database product.
           4.5.4.11.25.1. Collate local and long-haul customer telecommunications circuit informa-
           tion.
           4.5.4.11.25.2. Verify current network configurations against other agency databases and
           forward corrections as required. (May be performed in your circuit actions office.)
        4.5.4.11.26. Perform base-wide configuration standardization and interface engineering.
           4.5.4.11.26.1. Prepare and update in-station system block diagrams, network maps, and
           facility equipment listings; maintain network and facility configuration plans; perform
           minor network engineering; monitor management information base variables; and advise
           and make recommendations on new systems to customers.
        4.5.4.11.27. Perform the following in conjunction with the base Communications and Infor-
        mation Systems Officer and plans function:
32                                                                    AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        4.5.4.11.27.1. Review Project Support Agreements (PSA) and coordinate corrections with
        the appropriate agencies.
        4.5.4.11.27.2. Coordinate with Engineering and Installation (EI) teams and/or commercial
        vendors prior to arrival and prepare the facility for installation team.
        4.5.4.11.27.3. Escort and assist team chiefs with installation or upgrade projects.
        4.5.4.11.27.4. Complete DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report; AF
        IMT 1261, Communications and Information Systems Acceptance Certificate; and EI
        critiques.
     4.5.4.11.28. Perform contract management for base network support.
        4.5.4.11.28.1. Consolidate and evaluate base-wide NCC-managed network and system
        components as candidates for contract maintenance support.
        4.5.4.11.28.2. Submit inputs to the unit plans function for statement of work development.
        4.5.4.11.28.3. Assist the plans function in the preparation of quality assurance surveillance
        plans and perform contract quality assurance evaluation functions as identified.
     4.5.4.11.29. Perform base network budget planning.
        4.5.4.11.29.1. Develop/submit budget input and request higher-level funding for all NCC
        requirements and operations functions.
        4.5.4.11.29.2. Monitor base network funds availability and process Government Purchase
        Card (GPC) requests for hardware and software purchases according to AFI 64-117, Air
        Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program.
     4.5.4.11.30. Remotely perform the functions and duties of a Defense Communications System
     (DCS) Primary Systems Control Facility (PSCF), patch and test facility, DCS switching cen-
     ter, or other DCS operations function, when it is technically and economically feasible and
     does not degrade quality of service in accordance with DISA procedures. To support the wing
     during contingencies, the NCC takes over the responsibility and authority of the PSCF for
     DCS service control.
     4.5.4.11.31. Conduct performance management for the local base network.
     4.5.4.11.32. Consolidate base-level network performance data, security data, and analysis
     reports, pulling information from the Air Force NETOPS hierarchy as needed. Use the consol-
     idated information to identify causes of service, performance, and security flaws. On the basis
     of the aggregated analysis, recommend changes in network configurations, hardware or soft-
     ware, procedures, and staff training.
     4.5.4.11.33. Monitor and optimize network performance.
     4.5.4.11.34. Coordinate installation, acceptance testing, quality assurance, fault isolation, and
     restoration of the infrastructure with the base’s other communications unit functions.
     4.5.4.11.35. Maintain capability to filter web sites to meet operational requirements (e.g.,
     MINIMIZE). NCCs are not required to do this if the NOSC or ANG ROSC is performing
     these duties.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              33


        4.5.4.11.36. Establish individual circuit and system parameters on non-DCS circuits. Develop
        the parameters according to DISAC 300-175-9, DCS Operating Maintenance Electrical Per-
        formance Standards, supplemented by commercial-leased equipment and circuit performance
        standards.
        4.5.4.11.37. Establish initial performance thresholds according to systems and circuit opera-
        tion specifications and operational or mission requirements.
        4.5.4.11.38. Remotely test subscriber equipment, end-to-end circuits, systems, and networks
        to verify the services provided and input and output signals meet standards.
        4.5.4.11.39. Adjust remote network element equipment to optimize service.
        4.5.4.11.40. Record configuration data, test data, failure symptoms, coordination efforts, fault
        isolation steps performed, and any other useful information. Use this information to evaluate
        and control operations, service capabilities, and service quality.
        4.5.4.11.41. Report to management on quality of infrastructure services.
           4.5.4.11.41.1. Perform system diagnostics and set global alarm thresholds and system
           parameters.
           4.5.4.11.41.2. Utilize performance tools to ensure optimum network operation, monitor
           system logs, analyze bandwidth utilization, and set global parameters to prevent adverse
           effects to the overall communications network. Core systems must have critical path
           redundancy.
        4.5.4.11.42. Perform network/circuit Quality Control (QC) testing and evaluation.
           4.5.4.11.42.1. Generate and update QC schedules.
           4.5.4.11.42.2. Plan, provide, coordinate, and verify alternate service during QC testing.
           4.5.4.11.42.3. Access and monitor Preventative Maintenance Inspection (PMI) schedules
           published by the maintenance control work center.
           4.5.4.11.42.4. Coordinate in-service/out-of-service QC testing and performance of PMIs
           with affected work centers and external agencies.
           4.5.4.11.42.5. Coordinate and deactivate alternate service once testing/PMIs are com-
           pleted and original circuit/equipment is verified operational.
           4.5.4.11.42.6. Analyze QC performance trend analysis data (collected through in-service/
           out-of-service QC testing) to identify trends or patterns of circuit/system/network degrada-
           tion, dispatch to and from user locations when required, and generate and analyze outage
           reports.
           4.5.4.11.42.7. Submit DD Form 1368, Modified Use of Leased Communication Facili-
           ties, when required, and research, prepare, and submit QC waiver requests when neces-
           sary, in the absence of a systems control facility.
        4.5.4.11.43. Conduct security management for the local base network.
           4.5.4.11.43.1. Conduct Information Protection Operations (IPO) according to applicable
           security publications and TTPs.
34                                                                   AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     4.5.4.11.44. Install and set up audit tools.
     4.5.4.11.45. Perform IA/NetD.
        4.5.4.11.45.1. Perform vulnerability assessments to test and validate security of networks
        and systems. If vulnerabilities are discovered, provide appropriate systems administrators,
        unit commanders, DAA, wing and theater IA offices, and AFNOSC with test results and
        recommendations. Report vulnerabilities found according to AFI 33-138.
        4.5.4.11.45.2. Conduct daily traffic analysis, identify and characterize incidents, and gen-
        erate incident reports with Air Force approved intrusion detection tools. Investigate each
        item to clarify and resolve suspicious activity. Report validated suspicious activity accord-
        ing to AFI 33-138. The NCC does not need to perform this function if it is done at the the-
        ater NOSC. (Does not apply to ANG NCC. ANG ROSC performs this function.)
        4.5.4.11.45.3. Review AFNOSC advisories and verify systems under NCC control are
        protected against documented vulnerabilities.
        4.5.4.11.45.4. Notify information systems security officers (ISSO), CSAs, FSAs, and/or
        users when their computers have weak configurations, vulnerabilities, and when they have
        been accessed, exploited, or destroyed by unauthorized persons or machines.
        4.5.4.11.45.5. Put users of Air Force computer systems, including computers connected to
        a network, stand-alone computers, and portable (wireless) computers, on notice that their
        use constitutes consent to monitoring as specified in AFI 33-219, Telecommunications
        Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP).
        4.5.4.11.45.6. Get AF-GIG DAA (8 AF/CC) approval before connecting to the base net-
        work infrastructure. Terminate service and/or network connectivity of local systems and
        networks that fail to comply. Does not apply to the ANG.
        4.5.4.11.45.7. Provide, manage, and control (in coordination with the AFNOSC when
        required) access to NIPRNET, SIPRNET, and the Internet.
        4.5.4.11.45.8. The NCC, in coordination with the NOSC, will manage any/all security pol-
        icy enforcement tools and monitor all networked devices.
        4.5.4.11.45.9. Equip all servers within the CITS NBM/ND boundary with host-based
        intrusion detection and network security analysis and scanning tools. Does not apply to
        ANG/NCCs.
        4.5.4.11.45.10. Identify weak configurations and security holes by auditing and monitor-
        ing events occurring on the network.
        4.5.4.11.45.11. Monitor audit and error logs for security violations.
        4.5.4.11.45.12. Test and validate network security to establish and maintain a target base-
        line for Air Force owned systems.
        4.5.4.11.45.13. Identify and secure computer systems on an affected network. Identify
        computers with exploited vulnerabilities.
        4.5.4.11.45.14. Provide any network reports requested by the wing IA office required for
        C&A of base networks and systems.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 35


               4.5.4.11.45.15. Assists in developing a base-wide network security policy according to
               AFI 33-202, Volume 1.
               4.5.4.11.45.16. Coordinate on all base unique C&A packages or requests.
               4.5.4.11.45.17. Develop local procedures to report and respond to computer security and
               virus incidents according to AFI 33-138. Work with the wing IA office to identify internal
               actions such as local reporting channels, criteria for determining who is notified, etc.
               4.5.4.11.45.18. Perform local NetD actions and respond to NOSC or AFNOSC direction.
               4.5.4.11.45.19. Ensure physical security of all local AF-GIG infrastructure components
               regardless of their locations.
               4.5.4.11.45.20. Analyze customer impact, within the base, of all network incidents, prob-
               lems and alerts, and develop corrective actions or management changes.
               4.5.4.11.45.21. In coordination with the theater NOSC, take the following measures to
               meet the intent of the CSAF Server Consolidation effort:
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.1. Consolidate all E-mail, file, internal (inside the firewall) web and
                   print servers to the theater NOSC, ANG ROSC, or NCC, using remote management,
                   co-location or shared hosting consolidation as best fits the operational mission.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.2. Consolidate functional community of interest to the NCC if they
                   cannot be consolidated at the DECC or NOSC using remote management, co-location
                   or shared hosting consolidation as best fits the operational mission.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.3. Perform remote management of desktop services (paragraph 6.4.4.),
                   consolidating services to the NCC as best fits the operational mission.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.4. Familiarize and guide FSAs and CSAs on local network operations
                   and procedures.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.5. Establish, maintain, control, and enforce the base Internet use policy
                   according to AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.6. Grant AFCA Scope EDGE personnel administrative access to base
                   networks to perform compliance assessments and optimization activities, as requested
                   by their parent MAJCOM.
                   4.5.4.11.45.21.7. Partner with the base records manager to ensure records manage-
                   ment procedures are implemented and sustained for all enterprise storage services.

4.6. Functional Systems Administrator (FSA). FSAs ensure functional communities of interest sys-
tems, servers, workstations, peripherals, communications devices, and software are on-line and sup-
ported. They must thoroughly understand the customer's mission and be completely knowledgeable of
hardware and software capabilities and limitations supporting that functional system. Their responsibili-
ties extend from the user's terminal to the server, but do not normally include the network backbone infra-
structure unless established by separate SLA, MOA, or MOU or as directed by AFFOR A-6 in deployed
environments. FSAs are not normally assigned to the NCC, but are a logical extension of NCC function-
ality. FSAs may have Air Force specialty codes (AFSC) from various functional communities (i.e., sup-
36                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


ply, personnel, maintenance, etc.) FSAs function at the IT-2 (DOD 8500.2) and ADP-2 (DOD 5200.2-R)
level. FSAs will:
     4.6.1. Comply with the policies of this instruction. Perform the responsibilities delegated by the NCC
     to optimize performance and quality of service. Consolidate systems administration duties within an
     organization or a building, if possible, merging them with the NCC based on an SLA, MOA, or MOU.
     4.6.2. Ensure servers, workstations, peripherals, communications devices, and operating system/
     application software are properly configured for network operation, are on-line, and are available to
     customers.
     4.6.3. Periodically review the organization's needs for computer resources.
     4.6.4. Define ownership of applications and determine who has permission to read, write, and exe-
     cute.
     4.6.5. Assign and maintain user IDs and passwords according to AFMAN 33-223. Administer user
     privileges on the system (e.g., when users share files).
     4.6.6. Plan for short-term and long-term loss of system hardware and software. In configuring the sys-
     tem, the FSA and network security manager must decide on contingency plans in case of the FSA’s
     absence. This may involve having another FSA administer the system remotely.
     4.6.7. Monitor the efficiency of the system (e.g., finding and resolving system bottlenecks).
     4.6.8. Perform routine system maintenance such as backing up or archiving application data files and
     adding application software updates.
     4.6.9. Serve as the system troubleshooter, a critical role in keeping the system operational. Contact
     the NCC for hardware maintenance when necessary.
     4.6.10. Work with the NCC to implement network security policies and procedures as outlined in the
     base network security policy.
     4.6.11. Ensure end user training is conducted.
     4.6.12. Provide user manuals that include sign-on and sign-off procedures, use of basic commands,
     software policies, user responsibilities, etc.
     4.6.13. Implement software patches and security fixes as required by the AFNOSC or program man-
     agement office. Test and validate the proper operation and configuration with appropriate patches and
     fixes, as required above, prior to restoring any device to the network.
     4.6.14. Ensure physical security of unit AF-GIG components.
     4.6.15. Monitor difficulty reports, heads-up messages, and system advisory notices.
     4.6.16. Prior to gaining MAJCOM installation of network equipment on ANG sites, ANG/SC
     approval is required.

4.7. Client Support Administrator (CSA). CSAs serve as the first line of help to resolve customers’
administrative and technical problems. CSAs are usually not assigned to the NCC, though are logically an
extension of the Help Desk team. CSAs take direction from the NCC and FSA. NCC direction takes pre-
cedence over FSA direction. CSAs install, configure, and operate client/server devices. The CSA will be
a 3A0X1 unless none are assigned. When a 3A0X1 is not assigned, any AFSC or occupational series can
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                37


perform CSA duties once trained and certified. Foreign nationals can be assigned CSA duties if trained
and certified. CSAs will:
   4.7.1. Comply with the policies of this instruction and AFI 33-115, Volume 2.
   4.7.2. Perform the installation of equipment, connection of peripherals, and the installing/deleting of
   client level software. Ensure physical security of unit AF-GIG components.
   4.7.3. Configure client level software, modify software configuration, and perform basic configura-
   tion management functions.
   4.7.4. Provide software application assistance for commonly used office automation applications pur-
   chased from standard Air Force support contracts. Include support to standard wireless office automa-
   tion devices.
   4.7.5. Perform initial client workstation diagnostics and troubleshooting of client workstations
   assigned to them.
   4.7.6. Assign, modify, and delete passwords and user privileges according to AFMAN 33-223.
   4.7.7. Report security breaches and distribute security information according to AFI 33-138 and local
   policies.
   4.7.8. Coordinate support issues with all agencies (e.g., customers, FSA, NCC, etc.).
   4.7.9. Notify the unit EC of any hardware relocation and equipment problems.
   4.7.10. Obtain an implementation checklist from the theater NOSC, NCC, or FSA, before installing
   any equipment. Assist with installing, testing, and accepting new systems according to the terms of
   the purchase contract and instructions.
   4.7.11. Coordinate with the facility manager and the base civil engineer for facility support require-
   ments.
   4.7.12. Periodically review the organization's needs for computer resources.
   4.7.13. Validate computer equipment requirements the unit EC submits.
   4.7.14. When requested, assist the unit EC with computer hardware and software inventories.
   4.7.15. Promote user awareness concerning unauthorized or illegal use of computer hardware and
   software.
   4.7.16. Identify organization deficiencies and operational needs that computer use can solve.
   4.7.17. Ensure organizations do not use shareware or public domain software until approved for use
   by the DAA after the ISSO, CSA or FSA ensures it is free of viruses, hidden defects, and obvious
   copyright infringements.
   4.7.18. Assist unit with client workstation (C&A) process.
   4.7.19. Implement client workstation software patches, security fixes, and service releases according
   to local NCC instructions.
   4.7.20. Perform E-mail management, when technically feasible.
       4.7.20.1. Create/Configure mailboxes (user, custom).
       4.7.20.2. Create Public/Personal/Private folders.
38                                                                    AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     4.7.20.3. Move mailboxes.
     4.7.20.4. Perform mail box maintenance.
     4.7.20.5. Create Distribution lists.
     4.7.20.6. Track messages (concepts – read receipts).
     4.7.20.7. Perform Directory Service support; ability to create directories on shared drives and
     assign/grant permissions.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              39


                                              Chapter 5

       AIR FORCE GLOBAL INFORMATION GRID (AF-GIG) ACTIVE DIRECTORY
                             MANAGEMENT



5.1. Overview.
   5.1.1. Standardization of naming conventions for Active Directory objects and attributes are critical
   for interoperability and configuration control reasons.

5.2. Authority.
   5.2.1. Per SAF/XCI guidance, “Rigorous central control will be exercised over Active Directory
   naming conventions.” HQ AFCA/ECSO is the lead for all Active Directory concerns to include the
   responsibility for establishing naming conventions. Theater NOSCs and base-level NCCs are respon-
   sible for enforcement of naming conventions. AF-GIG naming convention guidance can be found in
   AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging. Additional information or questions should be referred to
   afca.ecso@scott.af.mil.
   5.2.2. The Air Force will have multiple forests consisting of a single forest per MAJCOM. This
   requirement holds true for both NIPRNET and SIPRNET. Additional roots will not be considered.
   5.2.3. HQ AFCA/ECSO is the Air Force focal point for Active Directory requirements, standardiza-
   tion and processing. In all cases, HQ AFCA/ECSO will be formally notified of all Active Directory
   planning and implementation. MAJCOMs will send a copy of their Active Directory implementation
   to HQ AFCA/ECSO.
40                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                                 Chapter 6

      MISSION AREAS, NOSC OPERATIONS, CREW POSITIONS AND CORE SERVICES



6.1. Mission Areas. AFNETOPS Mission Areas are the overarching activities performed by assigned
CSAs to maintain and operate the AF-GIG and enable Air Force operations. These actions promote infor-
mation assurance and enable crew members to maximize operational availability, optimize performance,
and mitigate risks.
     6.1.1. Systems and Network Management (S&NM).
        6.1.1.1. The S&NM mission area includes the range of computing hosts and applications con-
        nected by transmission systems, both wired and wireless, that carry voice, data, sensor, and video
        throughout the AF-GIG. It includes switched, fiber channel, routed, video teleconferencing
        (VTC), satellite communications, and wireless networks. S&NM comprises the functions of
        FCAPS management.
        6.1.1.2. This mission area is focused on Assured Resource (System and Network) Availability and
        on Assured Information Delivery. The objectives of this focus are achieved by configuring and
        allocating AF-GIG system and network resources; ensuring effective and efficient processing,
        connectivity, routing, and information flow; accounting for resource usage; and maintaining
        robust AF-GIG capabilities in the face of component or system failure and/or adversarial attack.
     6.1.2. Information Dissemination Management (IDM).
        6.1.2.1. The IDM mission area provides the right information to the right person in the right for-
        mat at the right place and time in accordance with commander's information dissemination poli-
        cies while optimizing the use of information infrastructure resources. IDM, a subset of
        information management, provides services that address awareness, access, and delivery of infor-
        mation. It involves the operations of compiling, cataloguing, caching, distributing, and retrieving
        data. It also manages the information flow to users and enables execution of the commander’s
        information policy IDM relies on information awareness, information access, delivery manage-
        ment, and dissemination support.
        6.1.2.2. This mission area is focused on Assured Information Protection and Assured Information
        Delivery whose objectives are achieved through the efficient movement of information into,
        within, and out of the AF-GIG, the secure storage of information, and the capacity to rapidly com-
        pile and catalogue new collections of information for availability to prospective users. Decisions
        regarding availability must be guided by warfighter needs, access commensurate with information
        security requirements, and the most efficient and effective modes of information delivery and
        retrieval.
     6.1.3. Information Assurance/Network Defense (IA/NetD).
        6.1.3.1. The IA/NetD mission area helps ensure the availability, integrity, identification, authenti-
        cation, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation of friendly information and information systems while
        denying the adversaries access to the same information/information systems. It also provides
        end-to-end protection to ensure data quality and protection against unauthorized access and inad-
        vertent damage or modification.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                     41


       6.1.3.2. This mission area is focused on Assured Resource (Systems and Networks) Availability
       and on Assured Information Protection. The objectives of this focus are achieved by instituting
       agile capabilities to resist adversarial attacks, through recognition of such attacks as they are initi-
       ated or are progressing, through efficient and effective response actions to counter the attack and
       safely and securely recover from such attacks; and by reconstituting new capabilities from reserve
       or reallocated assets when original capabilities are destroyed.

6.2. Network Operations and Security Center (NOSC) Organization.
   6.2.1. NOSC Operations. NOSC operations are listed here to provide a standard set of operations that
   the NOSC provides. NOSC operations are critical to ensuring continuity across the Air Force and to
   effectively manage the AF-GIG. Figure 6.1. depicts the NOSC operations within their respective
   computer systems squadron (CSS) or communications squadron (CS). It is also possible that these
   functions may be split across more than one flight within the organization. The Mission Ops area rep-
   resents the core crew while the Network Ops, Mission Systems, and Ops Support areas represent the
   supporting functions to the NOSC.
NOTE: Figure 6.1. This figure does not depict organizational structure, however, it does capture the
functions performed within the organization supporting the NOSC.

Figure 6.1. Network Operations and Security Center (NOSC) Operations.




       6.2.1.1. Mission Operations. The Mission Operations element is the core of the NOSC. They are
       responsible for C2 and maintaining situational awareness over the theater network. They monitor
       and report on events affecting their theater network. They direct changes to the network in order to
       ensure a sound network defensive posture and efficient movement of data.
42                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        6.2.1.2. Network Operations. The Network Operations element consists of the Network Manage-
        ment, Event Management and Information Protection Operations areas. Event Management incor-
        porates multiple work sections because events happen in all areas. Together Network Operations
        and Network Management work hand in hand to operate, defend and respond to events that affect
        the theater network. Additionally, within this element are individuals from the Office of Special
        Investigations, Intelligence, and Information Warfare Flights.
        6.2.1.3. Mission Systems. The Mission Systems element consists of the network administration
        (NA), database management and event management. These elements provide operating system,
        application, and messaging administration. They are also responsible for server consolidation
        efforts and maintaining C2, functional, and theater unique systems. They manage and respond to
        events with respect to their areas of responsibility. Event management incorporates multiple work
        sections because events happen in all areas. In other words, the event can be infrastructure related
        (router down), systems related (server crashed), or even IA related (antivirus needs updated). So in
        effect event management is everyone's responsibility. Database management generally falls under
        the Application Services technician's responsibility, but may be contracted out.
        6.2.1.4. Operations Support. The Operations Support element provides support to the NOSC in
        the areas of training, standardization/evaluation, engineering (system integration), planning and
        scheduling.

6.3. Crew Positions.
     6.3.1. Overview. Crew members coordinate with personnel at their tier or other tiers as necessary in
     order to provide Core Services to their customers and ensure the availability and security of the
     AF-GIG. Attachment 3 identifies the basic crew positions located at each tier of the network hierar-
     chy. Theaters may augment positions to perform specific functions, as required. Crew members will
     use standardized tools and software approved for Air Force-wide use in the Infostructure Technology
     Reference Model (i-TRM) and/or the theater DAA. Legacy software tools may also be used, but orga-
     nizations need to plan how they are going to migrate to the standardized tools.
     6.3.2. The original crew position construct was very NCC focused with only four crew positions
     existing at the theater level. The CSAF mandate for server consolidation and centralized management
     at the NOSC now requires NCC crew positions to be replicated at the theater level.
     6.3.3. Figure 6.2. depicts the crew force relationships within a NOSC. The Crew Commander, Oper-
     ations Controller, Enterprise Controller, Network Defense Controller, and Voice Controller positions
     are the foundation of the NOSC. These crew positions monitor and report on events affecting their
     theater network. Additionally, certain crew positions (Network Defense Controller and Enterprise
     Controller) direct the actions of those crew positions subordinate to them. The NOSC is responsible
     for maintaining operational awareness of the entire theater network and conducting situational report-
     ing, coordinating event response and network change implementation as necessary. Event manage-
     ment is also depicted here because events happen in all areas.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                43


Figure 6.2. Network Operations and Security Center (NOSC) Crew Position Structure.




   6.3.4. The crew positions within an NCC (see Figure 6.3.) are set up similarly to that of the NOSC.
   Over time, as the NOSC assumes management of NCC resources, the number of personnel required to
   fill a crew position at the NCC may decrease, but the position will still remain. For example, the dif-
   ference between an Infrastructure Technician within the NM area of the NOSC, versus NCC, lies in
   the scope of their responsibilities. The Infrastructure Technician at the NOSC may be responsible for
   the base's external router and switches, whereas the NCC Infrastructure Technician would be respon-
   sible for the vast number of routers and switches within the base network.
44                                                                            AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


Figure 6.3. Network Control Center (NCC) Crew Position Structure.




     6.3.5. Crew Position Descriptions. For a complete listing and description of crew positions, please
     refer to Attachment 3.
     6.3.6. Training and Certification. Crew members will be certified by position according to AFI
     33-115, Volume 2, and Air Force Job Qualification Standards (AFJQS). These establish an Air
     Force-wide baseline of mandated and enforceable training for network professionals. All individuals
     filling an Air Force network crew position role are required to be certified in that position. This is not
     to be confused with commercial certification (Cisco Certified Network Associate [CCNA], Microsoft
     Certified Engineer [MCSE], etc.). Individuals become Air Force certified by following the procedures
     set forth in AFI 33-115, Volume 2. All individuals in initial and mission qualification training status
     must be supervised by an individual certified in the same crew position when performing duties on the
     AF-GIG. US contractors who provide professional network services (all crew positions) to the Air
     Force are bound by the requirements stated in contractual agreements. Contractor personnel assigned
     to perform specific NETOPS tasks are subject to evaluation. All future contracts (including modifica-
     tions to existing multiyear contracts) for NETOPS tasks, subsequent to this instruction, must cite this
     instruction and state contractor personnel are subject to evaluation. When results show more training
     is required, the contract Quality Assurance Evaluator will discuss requirements with the appropriate
     contracting officer and prepare a proper course of action. AFCA provides a template for contract
     statements of work on the OPTN web page at https://private.afca.af.mil/optn
        6.3.6.1. Assigned crew positions at ANG NCC locations will reflect and be tailored to the autho-
        rized strength of the unit. Under the current authorized manning, ANG communication units will
        not be able to fill all the recommended crew positions. Training plans will be adopted to compen-
        sate for the availability of assigned personnel during Unit Training Assemblies (UTA). Gaining
        units should assist upon request, to augment the training and certification of their assigned ANG
        units.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              45


6.4. Core Services.
   6.4.1. Overview. As stated above, Mission Areas are the overarching activities performed by network
   professionals. NOSC operations are performed by a highly trained and certified crew force consisting
   of standard crew positions. Core, Functional, and Desktop Services then, are the products provided by
   our network professionals to the Air Force community and will not be provided by any organization
   other than the base NCC or supporting NOSC.
   6.4.2. Core Services are those services defined by the Air Force IT community as central components
   of the AF-GIG. They embody the seamless, secure, and reliable transport of timely and trusted infor-
   mation across the AF-GIG.
       6.4.2.1. Core services are:
          6.4.2.1.1. Electronic Messaging.
          6.4.2.1.2. Address Management.
          6.4.2.1.3. Directory Services.
          6.4.2.1.4. Information Assurance and Security Hardware. (Simple network management pro-
          tocol [SNMP] monitoring and control of 1) software, 2) bandwidth, and 3) hardware [ports,
          interfaces, etc.])
          6.4.2.1.5. Domain Name Servers (DNS).
          6.4.2.1.6. Exchange.
          6.4.2.1.7. Windows Internet Naming Service (WINS).
          6.4.2.1.8. Domain Controllers (PDC/BDC) remote (PDC/BDC)
          6.4.2.1.9. Dynamic Host Control Protocol (DHCP) server.
          6.4.2.1.10. Local Directory Service Agent (LDSA).
          6.4.2.1.11. Defense Message System (DMS).
   6.4.3. Functional services enable the functional workforce(s) to focus on their core competencies.
   AF-GIG network professionals host functional applications on reliable, secure platforms of AF-GIG
   servers. Functional applications will be supported by the functional community in accordance with the
   SLA, MOA, or MOU between the functional organization and the NOSC/NCC. See Attachment 2
   for policy guidance on SLAs.
   6.4.4. Desktop services include the common, secure, reliable desktop environment, typically the
   end-user’s interface with the AF-GIG.
       6.4.4.1. Desktop Services are:
          6.4.4.1.1. Air Force Standard desktop.
          6.4.4.1.2. Print services.
          6.4.4.1.3. Standard wireless office automation devices.
46                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                               Chapter 7

             INFORMATION EXCHANGES, RELATIONSHIPS, AND REPORTING



7.1. General. Air Force network operations organizations exchange information internally, between each
other, and with external agencies. Information is exchanged to facilitate the maintenance and operation of
the AF-GIG, to provide situational awareness, to facilitate integrated Defensive Counter-Information, and
to provide commanders with a common operating picture. The picture is developed from information
obtained while conducting NETOPS. Generally, the root source of this information comes from “raw”
FCAPS data. FCAPS data is monitored, collected, analyzed, processed and reported by the AFNOSC,
NOSC, and NCC using software tools that provide a complete view of the AF-GIG. The primary organi-
zations exchanging information are depicted in Figure 7.1.

Figure 7.1. Information Exchanges.




7.2. Network Status and Management Reports. Network status and management actions will be
reported via scheduled and unscheduled reports. Unscheduled reports focus on the immediate status of the
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                  47


network and are generally tied to events or incidents. Scheduled reports are associated with information
exchange and long-term metric analysis.
   7.2.1. Reports and Notifications.
       7.2.1.1. Information may be exchanged by network operations organizations internally, between
       each other, and with external agencies using several types of NTOs, reports, and/or notices.
       OPREP3, SITREP, TCNO, and C4 NOTAM are some examples of these. (NOTE: AFNOSC/
       NOSC/NCCs may pass informational copies of OPREP3s or SITREPs, but the issuing authority
       for OPREP3s is the wing command post.) Manually reported information completes the data col-
       lection function and provides the critical human element in the network equation. The human ele-
       ment and the need for timely, accurate information are essential. NM software could potentially
       automate some manual exchanges, as long as network professionals still maintain positive control
       over the AF-GIG.
       7.2.1.2. Operational Event/Incident Reports (OPREP3). OPREP3s are reported using operational
       channels, e.g., Command Posts, to notify commanders immediately of any event or incident that
       may attract international, national, US Air Force, or significant news media interest. They provide
       immediate up-channel notification of local network intrusions and probes, INFOCON level
       changes, and network degradations. They are generally tied to events. An NCC may notify the
       wing command post of the need to send an OPREP3, and draft the verbiage, but NCCs do not
       issue OPREP3s. They only forward the draft to the command post and request it be sent. For
       detailed OPREP3 reporting instructions see AFI 10-206.
       7.2.1.3. Situation Report (SITREP). SITREPs are submitted through Command and Control
       channels and are used to report significant outages. This is a narrative report that keeps addressees
       informed, and enables higher levels of command to prepare for potential effects of ongoing situa-
       tions. They are submitted at daily, weekly, or monthly intervals, or as directed. Like OPREP3s, an
       NCC may notify the wing command post of the need to send a SITREP, and draft the verbiage, but
       NCCs do not issue SITREPs. They only forward the draft to the wing command post and request
       it be sent. For detailed SITREP reporting instructions see AFI 10-206.
       7.2.1.4. Information Operations Condition (INFOCON). INFOCONs are used to define a defense
       posture and response based on the status of information systems, military operations, and intelli-
       gence assessments of adversary capabilities and intent. The INFOCON system is a DOD method-
       ology providing a structured approach to react and defend against adversarial attacks on DOD
       computers and telecommunications systems. This is accomplished by directing actions to estab-
       lish a heightened or reduced defensive IA posture based on assessed threats or hostilities. INFO-
       CON levels are: NORMAL (normal activity), ALPHA (increased risk of attack), BRAVO
       (specific risk of attack), CHARLIE (limited attack), and DELTA (general attack).
           7.2.1.4.1. DOD-wide INFOCONs are declared by the Commander, United States Strategic
           Command (USSTRATCOM), and disseminated by the JTF-GNO to the COMAFFOR to
           JTF-GNO via AMHS or voice message. The Air Force-wide INFOCON normally mirrors the
           DOD-wide INFOCON, but may exceed it if conditions warrant. The Air Force Chief of Staff
           has delegated the authority to set Air Force-wide INFOCONs to the COMAFFOR to
           JTF-GNO.
           7.2.1.4.2. Official notification for INFOCON changes come through operational reporting
           channels in the form of INFOCON Change Alert Messages (ICAM), NTOs or OPREP3s. The
48                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


            NOSCs use TCNOs to implement actions to attain INFOCON protection measures. INFO-
            CON level attainment is officially reported by NCCs using SITREPs through command post
            channels; it is also reported in response to the NOSCs via C4 NOTAM or TCNO compliance.
            The SITREP is the official operational report, not the TCNO or C4 NOTAM.
            7.2.1.4.3. Theater NOSCs will ensure subordinate bases comply with NTOs, directed INFO-
            CON actions via TCNO and track compliance. AFNOSC will compile an Air Force-wide
            report and forward it to the COMAFFOR to JTF-GNO as appropriate. Subordinate Air Force
            units (e.g., MAJCOM, NAF, wing, or base level) may declare a higher INFOCON if local con-
            ditions warrant.
        7.2.1.5. Time Compliance Network Order (TCNO). TCNOs are downward-directed operations,
        security, or configuration management-related orders issued by the AFNOSC or theater NOSCs.
        The TCNO provides a standardized mechanism to issue one "order" from the AFNOSC to
        NOSCs/MSCs/NCCs/FACs directing changes to the AF-GIG. TCNOs do not replace INFO-
        CONs, OPREP3s, SITREPs, or Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO).
            7.2.1.5.1. TCNOs may be generated internally to direct the implementation of an operational
            or a security vulnerability risk mitigation procedure or fix action (e.g., software patch), or
            issued in response to DISA-generated Information Assurance Vulnerability Alerts (IAVA).
            TCNOs are used to address Air Force or theater wide incidents/problems and not for isolated
            internal incidents unless impact is determined to be system-wide.
            7.2.1.5.2. See AFI 33-138 for TCNO reporting and compliance details and formats.
        7.2.1.6. Command, Control, Communications, and Computers Notice to Airmen (C4 NOTAM).
        C4 NOTAMs are informative in nature and are not used to direct actions. They are used by all
        organizations within the NETOPS hierarchy. They are the primary means of tracking compliance
        and disseminating network information that does not require specific actions. However, in some
        cases, acknowledging receipt of a C4 NOTAM may be required. There are four types of C4 NOT-
        AMs. They are: Informative, Scheduled Event, Unscheduled Event, and Summary. For descrip-
        tions of each type of C4 NOTAM and procedures on use refer to AFI 33-138.
     7.2.2. Helpdesk, Trouble Resolution and Reporting.
        7.2.2.1. The Help Desk is an operation that provides technical information to customers and
        solves technical problems by providing support and information. The Help Desk should provide
        an efficient and effective means to answer customers’ questions and solve their problems. At the
        heart of a Help Desk operation is a sophisticated database that contains all the information neces-
        sary to handle events. The Help Desk assists the CSA who provides end-user support, an NCC or
        NOSC working to resolve a network outage, or the AFNOSC providing senior leadership with sit-
        uational awareness of the AF-GIG. The Help Desk is actually a global repository of information or
        knows where to retrieve information about customers, vendors, hardware, software, locations, net-
        works, SLAs, problems, and solutions. The database also identifies the interrelationships among
        these items.
        7.2.2.2. The Help Desk will provide network assistance and trouble resolution and will be based
        on a fully integrated trouble ticketing system. The trouble ticketing system should be able to auto-
        matically assign priorities and set response times and escalation timelines based on the criticality
        of the system being reported on. The trouble ticketing system will be able to share and communi-
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 49


     cate fix actions across all three network tiers. The Help Desk system should also be integrated
     with an Automated Call Distribution (ACD) system wherever possible.
     7.2.2.3. The Help Desk consists of three different levels. Each of these levels exist at each tier of
     the Network Operations Hierarchy outlined in Chapter 2. These Help Desk levels are:
        7.2.2.3.1. Level 1 (CSA). Level 1 support should have end-to-end responsibility for each cus-
        tomer/CSA request. The help desk technician should be empowered to resolve as many
        requests as possible. Level 1 provides a single point of contact to the customers for servicing a
        request.
        7.2.2.3.2. Level 2 (NCC). Level 2 client support provides advanced technical expertise to
        Level 1. Their responsibility is to analyze the requests routed to them and resolve the prob-
        lems. Resources at this level are typically those individuals working in the functional areas
        outlined in Attachment 3.
        7.2.2.3.3. Level 3 (NOSC/ANG ROSC). Level 3 support is comprised of highly specialized
        technical experts. Calls which cannot be solved at Levels 1 and 2 are routed to this level.
        Resources at this level are typically composed of engineers, system integrators and/or
        third-party providers/vendors.
        7.2.2.3.4. In the absence of a fully automated system, ensure a system is implemented to man-
        ually link trouble tickets. An example of how this could be accomplished would be by record-
        ing the appropriate ticket number of the organization that has assumed responsibility for the
        service interruption at each level as the ticket is escalated.
     7.2.2.4. Base-level users experiencing problems with network Core Services (see Chapter 6) or
     systems (including common office applications) will first contact their CSA. If the local CSA is
     unable to fix the trouble, the CSA will enter a trouble ticket into the Help Desk system or contact
     the Help Desk by phone for ticket submission. CSAs and users will be able to automatically track
     and view the status of troubles submitted by them. Help Desk personnel will resolve problems by
     identifying fix actions to the CSA or customer by web interface, E-mail, phone, or by attempting
     a remote fix action. If local physical access or replacement of equipment is required, the Help
     Desk will dispatch appropriate base-level personnel. Trouble resolution for many network Core
     Services or systems will be orchestrated by the regional NOSC Help Desk. The AFNOSC Help
     Desk will handle all trouble tickets related to all Air Force systems under their control. The trouble
     resolution process and information exchanges are shown below in Figure 7.2.
50                                                   AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


Figure 7.2. Trouble Ticket Reporting and Tracking.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 51


                                               Chapter 8

                               AIR FORCE TECHNICAL ORDERS



8.1. General.
   8.1.1. The purpose of the Air Force Technical Order (TO) system is to provide concise and clear
   instructions for safe and effective operation and maintenance of centrally-acquired and managed Air
   Force military systems. All Air Force personnel are responsible for controlling and using TOs as orga-
   nizational property in conjunction with official duties. Compliance with Air Force TOs is mandatory.
   8.1.2. Technical publications are essential for network support to function properly and to provide the
   operations activity with accurate information. Technical publications include TOs, commercial manu-
   als, and specialized publications. Set up and maintain these publications according to AFPD 21-3,
   Technical Orders, and 00-5 series technical orders.

8.2. Maintaining Air Force Technical Orders (TO).
   8.2.1. Publications Manager.
      8.2.1.1. AFNOSC, theater NOSCs, base NCCs, and any other organizations utilizing CITS equip-
      ment will appoint a primary and alternate publications manager. This function could be consoli-
      dated with Maintenance Support Flight if available as identified in AFI 21-116, Maintenance
      Management of Communications-Electronics.
      8.2.1.2. The publications manager will be responsible for:
          8.2.1.2.1. Establishing an independent TO account with the base Technical Order Distributing
          Office (TODO). Ensure that the account is on requirement for all the TOs and any associated
          TCTOs.
          8.2.1.2.2. Maintaining those TOs required for support of all CITS equipment. Maintain addi-
          tional TOs required for training and deploying.
          8.2.1.2.3. Ensuring TOs are adequate, accurate and readily available to Network Professionals
          (TO 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System) and maintaining sufficient requirement to sup-
          port operational load. TOs should not be removed from the primary work locations simply to
          accommodate the staff.
          8.2.1.2.4. Identifying any errors, contradictions, or procedures requiring clarification, by fol-
          lowing specific procedures in TO 00-5-1. See TO 00-5-1 for specific guidance on preparing
          AFTO IMT 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply.
          8.2.1.2.5. Ensuring TCTOs are managed and issued in accordance with procedures in TO
          00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process. TCTOs are military orders
          issued by order of the Secretary of the Air Force and as such, shall be complied with as speci-
          fied in the TCTO.
          8.2.1.2.6. Utilizing AFMQCC 200-6 (current version) Technical Order Control Check Sheet
          and other applicable guidance to aid units in maintaining technical order programs.
52                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                                 Chapter 9

 MANAGING COMPUTER AND NETWORK EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS
                         AND WARRANTIES



9.1. General.
     9.1.1. Air Force organizations at all levels of the AF-GIG NETOPS hierarchy are responsible for the
     sustainment of computer and network equipment. Sustainment includes acquisition of spare parts,
     contract maintenance and warranty management. A Logistics Support Plan should be developed as
     described in AFI 21-116 to ensure sustainment of new and existing computer and network systems.
     This chapter provides guidance on determining the quantity/types of spares to purchase as well as
     maintenance and warranty management requirements for all organizations that operate and maintain
     computer and network equipment. This chapter is not intended to replace or duplicate guidance found
     in other AFIs (e.g., AFI 21-116 or AFI 33-112) but merely provides guidance to ensure there is a log-
     ical process in place to determine the quantities/types of spares required to sustain the computer or
     network equipment. Additional guidance is provided to ensure computer and network equipment
     maintenance contracts and warranties are managed in the most cost efficient manner.

9.2. Acquisition of Spares.
     9.2.1. A Logistics Support Plan will be developed according to AFI 21-116 by AFNOSC/NOSC/NCC
     personnel or other organizations that operate and maintain computer and network equipment. The
     Logistics Support Plan will be used to determine the quantity of operational spares to be maintained
     on-hand. When developing the plan, consider technical information such as: reliability data from the
     manufacturer; order and shipping time; and mean time between failure rates. Network personnel
     should also consider mission impact factors such as whether the item is a single point failure item and/
     or is mission critical. Ultimately it is the commander's decision, based on past experience with low
     density/commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) systems, that determine the quantity of on-hand operational
     spares required to ensure mission accomplishment. However, the method or rationale used to deter-
     mine the quantity of on-hand operational spares must be documented in the Logistics Support Plan as
     specified in AFI 21-116.
     9.2.2. Special consideration should be given to the quantity of access layer switches to maintain as
     operational spares. It will be at the discretion of the Communication System Officer (CSO), in con-
     junction with the commander, to determine the number of uninstalled access layer switches to keep in
     the inventory as backups.
     9.2.3. Units will track equipment downtime by equipment item. The downtime information along
     with reliability data obtained from the manufacturer can be used as determining factors when comput-
     ing operational spares requirements.

9.3. Equipment Identification.
     9.3.1. AFNOSC/NOSC/NCC personnel or any other organizations that operate and maintain com-
     puter and network equipment will comply with AFI 33-112 as it pertains to equipment identification
     and accountability
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 53


   9.3.2. All computer and network equipment will be categorized as installed, operational spare, or
   available excess in Information Technology Asset Management (ITAM). Validate ITAM status codes
   during inventories and update as equipment status changes. An operational spare is a piece of service-
   able equipment required to sustain operations in the interval between ordering and replenishment.
   This equipment has the latest operating system version, security patches, and quality of service
   enhancements already loaded and facilitates “plug and play” (PnP) replacement. Equipment assets
   that are not installed on a system or identified as an operational spare will be identified as available
   excess in ITAM. Equipment identified as excess in ITAM will be made available to other Air Force
   installations or turned in to Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO).
   9.3.3. All uninstalled backbone and WAN switches will be identified as operational spares and not
   identified as excess in ITAM.

9.4. Maintenance Contract and Warranty Plan.
   9.4.1. Evaluate all maintenance options included in the technical solution to determine the most
   cost-effective coverage prior to selecting a maintenance option. When possible, utilize only one main-
   tenance option per equipment item. Network personnel (for locally purchased) or PMO for (centrally
   managed equipment) will obtain equipment reliability data from the manufacturer as part of the tech-
   nical solution process. In addition, evaluate the cost of all maintenance alternatives before exercising
   options to extend existing maintenance contracts or placing equipment on maintenance contracts at
   the end of warranty periods. During the evaluation, identify and exclude highly reliable equipment
   from maintenance contracts when possible. Consider entire life cycle costs in making this analy-
   sis--not just the initial acquisition and first 1-2 years costs.
      9.4.1.1. Network personnel validate operational and fiscal needs before ordering contracted main-
      tenance on network and computer systems. Network personnel will establish a conscientious con-
      tract management plan to track equipment warranty information to ensure contract maintenance
      funds are not used to repair equipment already under warranty.
      9.4.1.2. All organizations will record and track equipment warranty information using the SAF/
      XCIAS created Contract Maintenance and Warranty Plan database. This database can be down-
      loaded from the AFCA Maintenance and Supply web site, https://private.afca.af.mil/c-e_maint/
      , https://private.afca.af.mil/supply/.
      9.4.1.3. Network personnel must conduct thorough research to determine the feasibility of includ-
      ing or excluding highly reliable, access layer switches from maintenance contracts. Under no cir-
      cumstance should access layer switches coded as operational spares or excess, be included in
      maintenance contracts. It will be the discretion of the CSO to determine the number of uninstalled
      access layer switches to keep in the inventory as operational spares.
      9.4.1.4. Backbone switches and routers that provide inter-building and WAN connectivity should
      be added to maintenance contracts to ensure current operating system and security patches are
      authorized and applied.
      9.4.1.5. Backbone switches and routers that provide interbuilding and WAN connectivity should
      be added to maintenance contracts to ensure current operating system and security patches are
      authorized (unless already covered under existing Air Force contracts such as CITS Life Cycle
      Support). The commander always retains the authority to include specific critical items on main-
      tenance contracts to ensure operational network reliability. However, if the decision is made to
54                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        include highly reliable assets or assets already under warranty in a maintenance contact, the unit
        should be prepared to justify the decision and the reasons should be thoroughly documented.
        9.4.1.6. Refer to AFI 33-202, Volume 1, and the Air Force systems security instruction (AFSSI)
        and manual (AFSSM) 5000-series publications (https://www.afca.scott.af.mil/ip) for guidance
        on managing maintenance contracts for systems that process classified information.

9.5. Uninstalled Equipment.
     9.5.1. Uninstalled equipment is defined as operational spares and equipment that have been identified
     as excess. Units will maintain a list of uninstalled network equipment and must review the list prior to
     purchasing additional equipment. Uninstalled equipment should also be used to satisfy new approved
     requirements whenever possible.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                 55


                                              Chapter 10

                            VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT TOOLS



10.1. General.
   10.1.1. The CITS Enterprise Network Support Center (ENSC) at HQ SSG/DOYN is chartered by the
   CITS Program Management Office, HQ ESC/NI, to provide 24/7 technical support to CITS NBM/ND
   users worldwide.
   10.1.2. In addition to providing technical support, the CITS ENSC is tasked to provide Vulnerability
   Assessment Tool (VAT) license keys to all NCCs equipped with the CITS NBM/ND suite, as well as
   to theater NOSCs. Once the VAT license key has been issued, the base/theater SC (or A6) will exer-
   cise the authority and responsibility for its use.
   10.1.3. Other Air Force entities may have the need to request license keys for VATs. Once a VAT
   license key request is approved and key issued, the cognizant authority will exercise this authority and
   assume responsibility for usage. This chapter establishes procedures and responsibilities for NCC,
   NOSC, CITS ENSC and all other personnel.

10.2. Vulnerability Assessment Tools (VAT) License Key Request Procedures.
   10.2.1. NCC. The base-level communications unit commander (SC), who is the cognizant authority
   for the base installation NCC, will request the VAT license key from the CITS ENSC. When there are
   multiple base-level SCs (e.g., host-tenant environments), tenant SCs will forward key request through
   the host command’s SC, who will then forward to the ENSC. ANG or Air Force Reserve tenant sites
   that are not located on an active duty base may request their own license keys from the respective
   ANG or Reserve base-level SC. DRU/FOA/MSCs that do not fall within the host-tenant environment
   may request their own license keys from the CITS ENSC.
   10.2.2. NOSC. The theater SC or NOSC chief/deputy (when acting on behalf of the theater SC) is the
   cognizant authority for the theater NOSC and will request the VAT license key. Initial key requests can
   be forwarded directly to the CITS ENSC.
   10.2.3. All Other Requests. This category refers to Air Force organizations not residing on an Air
   Force base or Air Force tenants who are not serviced by the base NCC. Only the individual who is the
   cognizant authority for the base tenant or Air Force organization may request the VAT license key. Air
   Force tenants residing on an Air Force base, but not serviced by the base NCC, will forward their
   request to the base-level communications unit commander (SC), who is the cognizant authority for the
   base installation NCC. Air Force organizations not residing on an Air Force base will forward the key
   requests directly to the ENSC CITS Help Desk equivalent of the owner of the network and request an
   internet security systems (ISS) internet scanner Key from that entity

10.3. Training and Affidavits.
   10.3.1. All Vulnerability Assessment Specialists (VAS) must be trained according to paragraph
   10.3.2. These are the only individuals authorized to perform vulnerability assessment scans.
56                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     10.3.2. Training must be provided by an approved Air Force/MAJCOM sponsored IP tools course or
     “through the use of on the job training (OJT)” by an individual who was trained on the VAT at an
     approved Air Force sponsored instructor-led IP tools course. The person conducting the training must
     have attended an Air Force approved instructor-led course and have the training certificate on file in
     their AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder. Personnel receiving training through OJT
     must have a copy of the signed training affidavit filed in their OJT records. (See Attachment 4 for
     affidavit example).

10.4. Key Requests and Renewals.
     10.4.1. All key requests will be requested on official Air Force letterhead as described below and in
     Attachment 4. When issued, the key will be set to expire in 180 days for security and risk mitigation
     reasons, unless issued as a special one time key according to paragraph 10.4.5. Typically, keys expire
     every June 30th and December 31st. Key renewal requests should be submitted at least 4 weeks prior
     to key expiration, as the CITS ENSC will not automatically send the replacement key. Additionally,
     new letters must be sent each 6 months. The request letter can be mailed or faxed to the CITS ENSC
     at:
     HQ OSSG/SWSN
     ATTN: CITS ENSC INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY (ISS) KEY AGENT
     10 Baker Street
     Maxwell AFB-Gunter Annex AL 36114
     FAX (334) 416-3377, DSN 596-3377
     Voice (334) 416-5771, DSN 596-5771 option 2,1,9
     10.4.2. The ENSC will only issue renewal keys to persons holding valid formal training credentials
     from an Air Force approved instructor-led course. Cognizant authorities must ensure at least one for-
     mally trained VAS is assigned to the NCC/NOSC at all times (preferably two).
     10.4.3. Provide the request type, IP address range and complete mailing address as follows (Table
     10.1.):

Table 10.1. Key Requests and Renewals.
Request Type:                [Initial -or- Replacement]
Specify VAT key IP           xxx.yy.0.0 - xxx.yy.255.255 (Example)
Address Range(s):
Complete Mailing             [Provide the complete VAS name and mailing
Address:                     address, including building and room number]

     10.4.4. Provide the base-level SC point of contact (POC) and telephone number.
     10.4.5. Special Requests. A special one-time key may be requested for a special project, e.g., conduct
     of Security Test and Evaluation (ST&E), deployment of information system for mission accomplish-
     ment or exercise, conduct of C&A effort when not supported by base NCC, etc. Special one-time keys
     will be issued with a key life of 10, 30, 60, or 90 days. Special one-time key requests require the same
     request submission and training requirements as other key requests.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                               57


   10.4.6. Deviations to key request procedures because of inability to meet training, certification, or
   other requirements will be forwarded by ENSC to HQ AFCA/CAFT for resolution.

10.5. Combat Information Transport System (CITS) ENSC Procedures.
   10.5.1. The appointed VAT Key Agents will be the individuals that will actually cut the license key
   and are responsible to ensure compliance with this procedure. The appointment letters will be kept
   current and maintained by ENSC.
   10.5.2. Upon receipt of the written key request, the ENSC will verify its authenticity and ensure all
   pertinent information is provided according to paragraph 10.3. and Attachment 4. After verification,
   the ENSC will cut the key for the specified IP domain range with a default expiration date of 180 days
   and place it in removable media. The ENSC will maintain the original key request letter and the
   ENSC response for tracking purposes.
   10.5.3. The ISS license key disk may be mailed using US certified mail. The address shall contain the
   VAS name as a part of recipient address. Emergency key requests can be delivered by overnight mail
   when it has been prepaid, and requester has arranged pickup. Keys will not be E-mailed. The VAS
   name(s) will be provided to applicable NOSC upon request.
      10.5.3.1. In order to improve response time and save Air Force funds, ENSC will use their secure
      web site (https://support.cits.lab.gunter.af.mil). This is a UNIX-based site with secure sockets
      layer (SSL) enabled that performs a DNS forward and reverse lookup to ensure that users are on
      the Air Force network. Additionally, ENSC will only load the keys to this server after the official
      request. Users will only have read permissions to download the keys. Immediately after confirm-
      ing their download, ENSC will remove the key from the server.
58                                                                            AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                                 Chapter 11

               SIMPLE NETWORK MANAGEMENT PROTOCOL MANAGEMENT



11.1. General.
     11.1.1. Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is often used to remotely configure network
     devices. SNMP Community strings act as passwords and are used to authenticate management traffic
     sent to a managed device from a management station.
     11.1.2. Most equipment is shipped with public, private and/or factory default community strings con-
     figured. These community strings must be changed to prevent unauthorized access.

11.2. Minimum Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) Community String Requirements.
     11.2.1. Each community string must contain a minimum of eight characters comprised of at least one
     uppercase character, one lowercase character, one number, and one special character (!@$%^&*,
     etc.). Do not use the # special character since some software programs may interpret any characters
     preceded by the # as a comment. Modify systems unable to support eight character community strings
     at the earliest and most cost-effective opportunity. In the interim, use the maximum number of charac-
     ters the system is capable of supporting. Configure SNMP agents to send traps to, or accept packets
     from, only authorized hosts. Where technically applicable, implementation of SNMPv3 is highly rec-
     ommended.
     11.2.2. Community strings will not contain dictionary words spelled forward, backward, or split with
     a number or special character. Community strings will not contain the machine name, base name or
     any other easily decipherable phrase. Public (read) and private (set) strings will not be set to the same
     value.
     11.2.3. Change community strings every 90 days according to AFMAN 33-223. Also change commu-
     nity strings when personnel with knowledge of the community strings are permanently transferred to
     another location or terminate employment. Ensure procedures are in place so the affected NCC,
     NOSC, CSA, and FSA are notified when an employee (military, civilian, or contractor) transfers,
     retires, separates, or is terminated. Global strings will not be used; separate strings will be used for
     logical divisions of network.

11.3. Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and Network Management.
     11.3.1. NCC will perform network management monitoring on all equipment operated or maintained
     by the NCC. When technically possible enable SNMP on all AF-GIG infrastructure devices, network
     management servers, security management servers, web proxy servers, firewalls, DNS servers,
     domain controllers, DHCP servers, and Active Directory servers. Ensure that SNMP connectivity
     between NCC, ANG ROSC, and NOSC is fully functional.
     11.3.2. NOSC will perform network management monitoring on all equipment operated or main-
     tained by NOSC. When technically possible enable SNMP on all AF-GIG infrastructure devices, net-
     work management servers, security management servers, web proxy servers, firewalls, DNS servers,
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                            59


  domain controllers, DHCP servers, and Active Directory servers. Ensure that SNMP connectivity
  between NCC and NOSC is fully functional.
  11.3.3. When technically possible, NOSCs will develop and enable access control lists or other meth-
  ods to prevent unauthorized read and write privileges from illicit or rogue management stations.
     11.3.3.1. Disable or remove SNMP on devices if not managed (e.g., printers, plotters, print serv-
     ers, workstations, etc.) when technically possible.
     11.3.3.2. Ensure SNMP vulnerability scans are run monthly within the theater using vulnerability
     assessment tools to analyze base networks under NOSC/NCC control.
60                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                               Chapter 12

                            DOMAIN NAME SERVICE MANAGEMENT



12.1. General.
     12.1.1. Domain Name Service (DNS) is a critical part of AF-GIG that associates IP addresses to host
     names. The DNS naming convention impacts not only all three NETOPS tiers, but also has the poten-
     tial to impact addresses/host names across the DOD. This fact necessitates the standardization of DNS
     administration throughout the AF-GIG. This chapter provides guidance and procedures to ensure the
     naming convention maintains a hierarchical structure. A hierarchical structure is provided that maxi-
     mizes the ability to comply with AFNOSC advisories, protect Air Force domains and provide a stan-
     dard for Air Force messaging configuration and delivery.
     12.1.2. The DNS policy described within the chapter applies to external DNS (base/majcom.af.mil)
     hierarchy only and not to the internal Active Directory naming standards (base.majcom.ds.af.mil).

12.2. Air Force-Level Domain Name Service (DNS).
     12.2.1. The AFNOSC is the top of the Air Force enterprise DNS hierarchy and the only authorized
     Air Force point-of-contact to internet DNS registries. The NIC assigns blocks of IP addresses to the
     AFSN Program Management Office. AFSN manages the IP addresses and reassigns the IP addresses
     to Air Force users.
     12.2.2. All correspondence and issues with the NIC pertaining to af.mil templates, DISN host, and
     specific user templates shall be processed through the AFNOSC. The specific user templates pro-
     cessed through the AFNOSC pertain to modifications on previously registered networks and
     point-of-contact (technical and/or administrative) for domains, DISN host and IP addresses. All other
     user templates, correspondence and issues with the NIC pertaining to IP registration shall be pro-
     cessed through AFSN. The user will maintain a valid record in the locally generated database of who
     is authorized (WHOIS) database at the NIC.

12.3. Air Force Third-Level Domain Name Service (DNS).
     12.3.1. Air Force Third Level (e.g., basename.af.mil) Domains. Only bases are eligible to register a
     third level domain under af.mil. Third level domain names will not be used for Air Force organiza-
     tions. All other DOD organizations will register through their respective second level domain admin-
     istrators using the registration procedures established by those offices. Ensure that SNMP
     connectivity between NCC and NOSC is fully functional. The only exceptions are MAJCOM-
     name.af.mil and www.af.mil.
     12.3.2. Third level domains must reside on a minimum of two (2) domain name servers, be a part of
     the ‘.mil’ domain, and be on a network registered with the DOD NIC. Ensure that SNMP connectivity
     between NCC and NOSC is fully functional.
        12.3.2.1. Registration is coordinated through the AFNOSC and a point-of-contact list will be
        maintained at the AFNOSC. Technical and administrative points-of-contact for the domain, the
        domain name, and its name servers must be registered with the DOD NIC.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                61


12.4. DNS Management Requirements.
   12.4.1. All DNS servers must:
      12.4.1.1. Reside on a network that has ‘in-addr’ (reverse domain name) service.
      12.4.1.2. Be protected by a firewall or filtering router which permits only DNS queries from
      appropriate clients and appropriate zone transfers to other name servers. Under current CITS
      guidelines, the external DNS sits outside of the base (Tier 3) firewall. However, the DNS server
      could be moved to a screened subnet (third burb) off of the firewall and still be afforded the
      required protection.
      12.4.1.3. Be located in a room that has positive access control.
      12.4.1.4. Be protected by an Uninterruptible Power System (UPS) or backup power supply.
      12.4.1.5. Allow domain transfer only between master and slave name servers and only run the
      DNS service on the name servers. All other unnecessary services (e.g., http, ftp, telnet, send mail,
      NetBIOS, etc.) will be turned off on the name servers.
      12.4.1.6. Include for each domain a Start of Authority (SOA) record containing an administrator
      E-mail address. E-mail address will match the format of “hostmaster@domain” (e.g., hostmas-
      ter@usafe.af.mil).
      12.4.1.7. Ensure access accounts on the name servers are limited to the domain administrators at
      the base communications squadron/NOSC and have the latest AFNOSC approved secure version
      of DNS/Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND).

12.5. Exceptions to Domain Name Service (DNS) Management Policy.
   12.5.1. Exceptions to this guidance will be staffed through the organization's parent command/orga-
   nization to SAF/XCIF with info copy to HQ AFCA/ECFP, for evaluation and approval/disapproval.
   The request must describe the following: the scope of the mission, the function performed, the cus-
   tomers serviced by the organization and justification for a nonstandard domain name rather than using
   that of their parent command.
   12.5.2. A copy of the approval/disapproval will be filed with the record set of the publication at HQ
   AFCA/ECFP. The exception remains in effect until this publication is revised, or the approving offi-
   cial cancels it in writing. Once the publication is revised the requester must renew the exception.
62                                                                       AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                              Chapter 13

SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS, MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, MEMORANDUM OF
                           UNDERSTANDING



13.1. Service Level Agreements (SLA), Memorandums of Agreement (MOA), Memorandums of
Understanding (MOU). The NCC or NOSC will establish SLAs, MOAs/MOUs as appropriate, with
customers whose network support requirements exceed the core services defined in paragraph 6.4. or the
Air Force IT service defined by the AF-CIO. SLAs define division of responsibilities for network opera-
tions and services to minimize duplication of effort between organizations. MOAs and MOUs define the
resources each party will provide to support delivery of negotiated services. SLAs quantify the level of
support for the services defined in a MOA or MOU. Whenever possible, SLAs will identify the minimum
levels of support required by the users rather than acceptable failure rates (uptime rates as opposed to
downtime rates). SLAs will also describe the prioritization of systems and services included in the SLA.
A master SLA may be necessary for large/complex functions with multiple system SLAs. See Attach-
ment 2 for a sample SLA, MOA/MOU.

13.2. NOSC, ANG ROSC and NCCs. An MOA/MOU must be established and maintained between the
NOSC, ANG ROSC and their NCCs to fully diagram the core systems managed by the NOSC at the
respective bases and the level of service to be expected.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              63


                                             Chapter 14

      INFORMATION COLLECTIONS, RECORDS, AND FORMS OR INFORMATION
                       MANAGEMENT TOOLS (IMT)



14.1. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools (IMT).
   14.1.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   14.1.2. Records. Records pertaining to operational capability reporting are created by this publica-
   tion. Retain and dispose of these records according to AFRIMS RDS, Table 11-4 (will become Table
   10-16), located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.
   14.1.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
      14.1.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs. DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report;
      DD Form 1368, Modified Use of Leased Communication Facilities; AF Form 623, Individual
      Training Record Folder; AF IMT 723, SORTS DOC Statement; AF IMT 847, Recommenda-
      tion for Change of Publications; AF IMT 1261, Communications and Information Systems
      Acceptance Certificate; and AFTO IMT 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommenda-
      tion and Reply.
      14.1.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs. No forms or IMTs are prescribed by this publication.



                                           MICHAEL W. PETERSON, Lt, Gen, USAF
                                           Chief, Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer
64                                                                    AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION



References
Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996
ACP 121/US-SUP-1, (C) Communication Instruction General (U)
DODI 4630.8, Procedures for Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and
National Security Systems (NSS), June 30, 2004
DOD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program, January 1987 w/Change 1, February 12, 1990; Change 2,
July 14, 1993, and Change 3, February 23, 1996
DODD 8100.1, Global Information Grid (GIG) Overarching Policy, September 19, 2002
DODI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implementation, February 6, 2003
DISAC 300-175-9, DCS Operating Maintenance Electrical Performance Standards
CJCSI 6212.01D, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and National Security
Systems, 8 March 2006
AFPD 21-3, Technical Orders
AFPD 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) Systems (will become Information
Resources Management)
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command—Communications and Information Systems Management
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications-Electronics
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 33-108, Compatibility, Interoperability, and Integration of Command, Control, Communications and
Computer (C4) Systems (will become Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology and
National Security Systems)
AFI 33-112, Computer Systems Management (will become Information Technology Asset Management
(ITAM)
AFI 33-114, Software Management
AFI 33-115, Volume 2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals (will become Net-
work Operations Training and Standards)
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use
AFI 33-138, Enterprise Network Operations Notification and Tracking
AFI 33-202, Volume 1, Network and Computer Security
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                     65


AFI 33-202, Volume 6, Identity Management
AFI 33-207, Computer Security Assistance Program
AFI 33-219, Telecommunication Monitoring and Assessment Program (TMAP)
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program, On The Job Training Administration
AFCAT 36-2223, USAF Formal Schools
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (will become AFMAN 33-363)
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures
TO 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System
TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACCC—Air Communications Control Center
AEF—Air Expeditionary Forces
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force (Forms and IMTs Only)
AF-GIG—Air Force-Global Information Grid
AFC2ISRC—Air Force Command and Control & Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Center
AFCA—Air Force Communications Agency
AF-CIO—Air Force Chief Information Officer
AFEN—Air Force Enterprise Network
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFIWC—Air Force Information Warfare Center
AFJQS—Air Force job qualification standard
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNETOPS—Air Force network operations
AFNOSC—Air Force Network Operations and Security Center
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPCA—Air Force Pentagon Communications Agency
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
66                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


AFSC—Air Force specialty code
AFSN—Air Force systems network
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMHS—Automated Mail Handling System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—area of responsibility
ASIM—automated security incident measurement
AFSSI—Air Force systems security instruction
AFSSM—Air Force systems security manual
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
C2—command and control
C4—command, control, communications, and computers
C&A—certification and accreditation
CITS—Combat Information Transport System
COMAFFOR—Commander, Air Force Forces
CS—communications squadron
CSA—client support administrator
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CSS—computer systems squadron
CSO—Communication Systems Officer
DAA—designated approving authority
DCI—defensive counter-information
DCS—Defense Communications System
DECC—Defense Enterprise Computer Center
DHCP—dynamic host configuration protocol
DII—defense information infrastructure
DIICC—defense information infrastructure control concept
DIRLAUTH—direct liaison authority
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DISN—Defense Information Systems Network
DITCO—Defense Information Technology Contracting Office
DNS—domain name service
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                             67


DOC—designed operational capability
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—direct reporting unit
DSN—defense switched network
EC—equipment custodian
ECPA—Electronic Communications Privacy Act
EI—engineering and installation
EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
ENSC—Enterprise Network Support Center
ETM—Enterprise Telephony Management
FAC—functional awareness cell
FOA—field operating agency
FOC—final operating capability
FCAPS—fault, configuration, accounting, performance, and security
FSA—functional system administrator
FWA—fraud, waste, and abuse
GAL—global address list
GCCS—Global Command and Control System
GIG—global information grid
GNO—global network operations
GNOSC—global NOSC
GPS—Global Positioning System
GSU—geographically separated unit
IA—information assurance
IAC—Infrastructure Architecture Council
IAVA—information assurance vulnerability alerts
IDM—information dissemination management
INFOCON—information operations condition
I-NOSC—Integrated Network Operations and Security Center
IP—internet protocol
I-Plan—implementation plan
IPO—information protection operations
68                                                    AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


IQT—initial qualification training
ISP—information support plan
IS—information systems
ISS—information systems security
ISSO—information systems security officer
IT—information technology
ITAM—information technology asset management
ITIL—Information Technology Infrastructure Library
i-TRM—infostructure technology reference model
JCCC—Joint Communications Control Center
JNMS—Joint Network Management System
JTF—Joint Task Force
LAN—local area network
LRU—line replaceable unit
MAJCOM—major command
MAN—metropolitan area network
MECL—minimum essential circuit listing
MOA—memorandum of agreement
MOU—memorandum of understanding
MSC—Mission Support Center
MTBF—Mean Time Between Failure
NA—network administration
NOD—Network Operations Division
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NCC—Network Control Center
ND—Network defense
NETCOP—network common operating picture
NETOPS—network operations
NetA—network attack
NetD—network defense
NIC—Network Interface Card
NIPRNET—non-secure internet protocol router network
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                   69


NM—network management
NBM/ND—network battle management / network defense
NOSC—Network Operations and Security Center
NOTAM—notice to airmen
NTP—network time protocol
NTO—NETOPS tasking order
OJT—on the job training
OPCON—operational control
OPREP—operational report
OPREP3—operational event/incident reports
OPTN—operationalizing and professionalizing the network
O&ST—order and shipping time
ORM—operational risk management
PKI—public key infrastructure
PMI—preventive maintenance inspection
PMO—program management office
POC—point of contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PSCF—Primary Systems Control Facility
QC—quality control
QoS—quality of service
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROE—rules of engagement
ROSC—Regional Operations and Security Center
S&NM—systems and network management
SDP—service delivery point
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SIPRNET—secret internet protocol router network
SITREP—situation report
SMTP—simple mail transfer protocol
SNMP—simple network management protocol
SLA—service level agreement
70                                                                         AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


SOA—start of authority
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
SPO—system program office
SYSCON—systems control
TAC-IP—tactical internet protocol
TACON—tactical control
TCNO—time compliance network order
TCTO—time compliance technical order
TMAP—Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program
TO—technical order
TODO—Technical Order Distributing Office
TTP—tactics, techniques, and procedures
UPS—Uninterruptible Power System
UTA—unit training assemblies
VAS—vulnerability assessment specialists
VAT—vulnerability assessment tool
VoIP—voice over internet protocol
VPN—virtual private network
VPS—Voice Protection System
WAN—wide area network
WFHQ—warfighting headquarters
WHOIS—locally generated database of who is authorized
WLAN—wireless local area network

Terms
Backdoor—Data circuit that does not pass through a hardware level firewall prior to entering the local
base.
Combat Information Transport System (CITS)—Program managing the life cycle of infostructure
systems. Life cycle management includes acquisition, sustainment, implementation, and maintenance
activities. CITS is composed of four systems, or pillars: the information transport system (ITS), the Voice
Switching System (VSS), the Net Battle Management/Net Defense (NBM/ND) system, and the
Telecommunications Management System (TMS). All these assets combine to provide inter-base
connectivity to link in-garrison command and control (C2) and combat support systems to the Defense
Information System Network (DISN) utilizing NIPRNET and SIPRNET connectivity.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                   71


Client/server—A network application architecture which separates the client (usually the graphical user
interface) from the server. Each instance of the client software can send requests to a server or application
server.
Client Support Administrator (CSA)—Person who ensures functional communities of interest
systems, servers, workstations, peripherals, communications devices, and software are on-line and
supported.
Computer—A device or machine for making calculations or controlling operations that are expressible
in numerical or logical terms.
Computer Network—A system for communication among two or more computers. These networks may
be fixed (cabled, permanent) or temporary (as via modems).
Computer Program—An example of computer software that prescribes the actions ("computations")
that are to be carried out by a computer.
Database—A collection of information stored in a computer in a systematic way, such that a computer
program can consult it to answer questions.
Excess Equipment—An item is considered excess when it is no longer required due to mission change,
equipment upgrades, technology changes, obsolescence, etc. The item is also considered excess when the
total quantity on hand exceeds the required quantity, as identified in the technical solution/requirements
document, plus the number of authorized spares as identified in the Logistics Support Plan.
Foreign National (FN)—Individual who is not a US citizen including US military personnel, DOD
employees and contractors that are governed by the host nation Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA).
Global Information Grid (GIG)—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating and
managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support personnel.
Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF)—For a particular interval, the total functional life of a population
of an item divided by the total number of failures within the population. The definition holds for time,
rounds, miles, events, or other measures of life unit. A basic technical measure of reliability.
Network Professional—Military, DOD civilian, contractor, or local national who fill a crew position in
accordance with AFI 33-115, Volume 1, criteria. These individuals have been trained and certified to
verifiable skill levels. They actively manage, configure and control the network and ensure DOD
Information Assurance posture is maintained.
Operational Spare—An operational spare is a piece of serviceable equipment required to sustain
operations in the interval between ordering and replenishment.
Order and Shipping Time (O&ST)—The time elapsing between the initiation of stock replenishment
action for a specific activity and the receipt by that activity of the materiel resulting from such action.
Order and shipping time is applicable only to materiel within the supply system, and it is composed of the
distinct elements, order time, and shipping time. See also level of supply.
Reliability—The ability of a system and its parts to perform its mission without failure, degradation, or
demand on the support system. See Mean Time Between Failure (MTBF).
Single Point Failure (SPF) Items—Single point failure items are items whose failure will render a
system inoperative and/or unable to perform its designated mission. Also can be described as any part of
72                                                                          AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


the system that can, if it fails, cause an interruption of required service from that system. This can be as
simple as a process failure or as catastrophic as a computer system crash.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                              73


                                            Attachment 2

SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT, MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, MEMORANDUM OF
                          UNDERSTANDING



A2.1. Sample. The following is a sample of a SLA, MOA/MOU format between the service provider and
the customer. The sample agreement shows only minimum topics that should be addressed; however,
ensure the chosen document covers NCC Core Services (see Chapter 6).
   1. Introduction. Parties (organizations) involved:
      a. Service provider: (i.e., DAA or NCC).
          (1) POC names.
          (2) Location or office symbol.
          (3) Telephone numbers.
      b. End-user organization.
          (1) POC names.
          (2) Location or office symbols.
          (3) Telephone numbers
   2. Purpose. The purpose of this document is to state the relationship between the service provider
      and the end-user organization. It specifies the services and commitments of the NCC as well as
      the expectations and obligations of the end-user organization.
   3. Responsibilities of Service Provider (Name of the Organization). The service provider agrees that
      they will:
      a. Specify what resources they will use.
      b. Describe how they will inform the customer of infrastructure changes and new or changed
         service.
      c. State security methods that they will use to protect infrastructure resources from unauthorized
         access, monitoring, or tampering.
      d. Describe process used to notify and coordinate with end-user organization about planned out-
         ages of connectivity, equipment, or electricity.
      e. Explain the coordination process for service degradation or failure correction and state how
         customer will be kept informed of status.
      f. Describe materials that will be provided to customer to minimize procedural errors.
      g. Explain customer support performance criteria and workload limitations (e.g., hours of opera-
         tion, response times, and expected maximum calls).
      h. Describe what performance data and analysis reports they will provide to the customer organi-
         zation to show service quality and level of customer support provided.
74                                                                            AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


        i. State what customer training is available and what role the service providers will play in cus-
           tomer training.
        j. Perform periodic surveys to monitor customer satisfaction.
        k. State the security measures they will use to protect infrastructure resources from unauthorized
           access, monitoring, or tampering.
     4. Responsibilities of End-User Organization.
        a. The end-user organization agrees that it will:
             (1) Describe the process used to ensure end-users know procedures for getting help.
             (2) Coordinate with service provider on any planned and in-progress major configuration
                 changes (e.g., network installation/expansion, TCP/IP port requirements, changes in
                 topology, system upgrades, relocation, etc.).
             (3) CSAs and SAs will provide, upon request, equipment layout, network schematic, network
                 connectivity (attached via backbone or stand alone), and their exact location.
             (4) Describe how they will use the performance and trend analysis data from service provider
                 and provide feedback to improve service.
             (5) Develop end-user contingency operations plans and capabilities.
             (6) Identify what resources they will matrix or transfer to the service provider.
             (7) Provide service provider with access to equipment both electronically and physically as
                 needed.
             (8) Agree to perform the certification effort and comply with wing or NCC security policy.
             (9) Coordinate with the service provider at least annually to discuss changes in service levels
                 and SLAs.
             (10)Support the resourcing of IT necessary to meet agreed SLAs, MOAs/MOUs. If IT cannot
                 be resourced adequately, adjust levels downward sufficiently to ensure they can be met by
                 the expected resource levels.
             (11)Annually review the IT restoration priorities. Update missions, functions, and systems
                 requiring IT support to ensure all IT has the restoration priority necessary to meet mission
                 needs.
        b.   During a trouble call, the end users will:
             (1) Contact organization’s CSA first, if available.
             (2) Describe what minimum information they will provide (e.g., name, organization, location,
                 telephone number, equipment number, user-id, E-mail address).
             (3) Provide service provider with a description of problem, its priority, and potential mission
                 impact.
             (4) Work with the service provider during fault isolation process, as needed.
             (5) Negotiate for increased workload/expansion for contingencies or new support.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                  75


   5. Customer Escalation Procedures. The two parties agree to the following procedures in case they
      need to escalate resolution of the problem (e.g., when the customer is not satisfied with the service
      provided).
       a. Escalation Levels, To Whom, and Phone Numbers.
          (1) 1st
          (2) 2nd
          (3) 3rd
   6. Conclusion.
       a. Parties agree that the terms of this agreement will remain in effect for (5 years, 6 months, etc.)
          and are subject to review (annually, semiannually, etc.).
       b. The parties agree to the following mechanism for initiating an out-of-cycle SLA, MOA/MOU
          review:
       c. Service levels and procedures established herein were agreed to by parties represented by the
          undersigned.
___________________________________ ________________________________
(Service Provider Representative Signature) (End-User Organization Signature)
Attachments (add as needed):
   1. Hours of Operation
   2. Definitions of Terminology
   3. Lists of Support Equipment and Software
   4. Summaries of Applicable Contracts
   5. Contingency Plan
76                                                                           AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


                                               Attachment 3

                                           CREW POSITIONS



A3.1. General. This attachment identifies the crew positions located at each network operations level.
Table A3.1. illustrates the relationship between tiered-level crew positions and specific NETOPS Mission
Areas. Crew positions are grouped into three functional areas. These areas are Information Protection
Operations (IPO), Network Management (NM), and Network Administration (NA).

A3.2. Functional Area Descriptions.
     A3.2.1. Network Administration (NA) Positions. This functional area is responsible for central man-
     agement of server hardware, operating systems and applications. Responsibilities include some of the
     core services (as outlined in Chapter 6) provided by the NOSC/NCC to the base or MAJCOM popu-
     lace. The individuals assigned to this functional area are the base experts in system administration and
     also provide technical assistance to FSAs and CSAs who provide administration support from their
     servers to their end-user workstations. NA positions are divided into three positions: Configuration
     Management Technician, Application Services Technician, and Messaging Technician. Network
     Administration personnel function at the IT-1 (DODI 8500.2, Information Assurance (IA) Implemen-
     tation) and ADP-1 (DOD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program) level.
     A3.2.2. Network Management (NM) Positions. This functional area provides proactive and reactive
     management of resources by monitoring and controlling the network infrastructure, available band-
     width, hardware, and distributed software resources. Responsibilities include some of the core ser-
     vices (as outlined in Chapter 6) provided by the NOSC/NCC to the base or MAJCOM populace. NM
     responds to detected security incidents, network faults (errors) and user reported outages. NM is fur-
     ther divided into two positions: Infrastructure Technician and Network Services Technician. Network
     Management personnel function at the IT-1 (DODI 8500.2) and ADP-1 (DOD 5200.2-R) level.
     A3.2.3. Information Protection Operations (IPO) Positions. This functional area implements and
     enforces national, DOD, and Air Force security policies and directives. It provides proactive security
     functions established to assist Air Force organizations in deterring, detecting, isolating, containing,
     and recovering from information system (IS) and network security intrusions. This area conducts IPO
     employing hardware and software tools to enhance the security of their networks. The personnel in
     this area install, monitor, and direct proactive and reactive network information protection defensive
     measures to ensure the availability, integrity, and reliability of base networked and stand-alone infor-
     mation resources. Information Protection Operations are divided into three crew positions: Boundary
     Protection Specialist, Intrusion Detection Specialist, and Vulnerability Assessment Specialist. Infor-
     mation Protection Operations personnel function at the IT-1 (DODI 8500.2) and ADP-1 (DOD
     5200.2-R) level.

A3.3. Unit Level Positions.
     A3.3.1. Client Support Administrator (CSA). CSAs serve as the first line of help to resolve custom-
     ers’ administrative and technical problems. CSAs are usually not assigned to the NCC, though are log-
     ically an extension of the Help Desk team. CSAs take direction from the NCC and FSA. NCC
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                77


   direction takes precedence over FSA direction. CSAs install, configure, and operate client/server
   devices. The CSA will be a 3A0X1 unless mission requirements exceed available manning. When a
   3A0X1 is not assigned, any AFSC or occupational series can perform CSA duties once trained and
   certified. CSAs function at the IT-2 (DODI 8500.2) and ADP-2 (DOD 5200.2-R) level.

A3.4. Network Control Center (NCC) and Network Operations and Security Center (NOSC) Crew
Positions.
   A3.4.1. Configuration Management Technician. Installs and configures the network operating system
   for all servers to Air Force specifications. Establishes print services and maintains standardized file
   storage directory structures. Creates user accounts in accordance with Air Force standard naming con-
   ventions and provides file, print, and messaging access. Maintains directory services supporting the
   Air Force Directory, performs preventive maintenance and ensures data recovery capability through
   proper data backup scheduling and execution.
   A3.4.2. Application Services Technician. Installs, configures, operates, and maintains net-
   work-launched user applications and the trouble ticketing system and its database.
   A3.4.3. Messaging Technician. Installs, configures, operates, and maintains network messaging
   applications. Maintains accuracy of the Global Address List (GAL) as well as local address lists sup-
   porting the Air Force Directory and Air Force White Pages.
   A3.4.4. Network Services Technician. Maintains the NM systems to include backup of these systems.
   They are responsible for collecting and archiving the data necessary to conduct detailed infrastructure
   mapping and analysis, producing time-sensitive displays and threshold alerts, and developing course
   of action scenarios. Controls all base IP address space through use of DHCP, or static configuration.
   Maintains DNS servers for internal and external name resolution.
   A3.4.5. Infrastructure Technician. Modifies switch, router, and hub configurations to ensure optimum
   network performance. Configures access control lists to grant/restrict network access to authorized
   users and processes. Uses approved NM software and tools to perform their tasks. Infrastructure tech-
   nicians are experts in operating and configuring routers and switches, in addition to a variety of hubs
   and transmission media.
   A3.4.6. Intrusion Detection Specialist. Uses Air Force standard automated security tools to deter,
   detect, isolate network intrusions, and recover compromised systems after attack.
   A3.4.7. Vulnerability Assessment Specialist. Performs internal network security assessments, using
   Air Force standard automated security tools to minimize and/or eliminate threat of network intrusion
   by proactively probing network defenses to identify vulnerabilities. Ensures systems are compliant
   with TCNO requirements and updates/reports status. Determines and reports the information protec-
   tion posture of the base network. Ensures all current network security tools and patches are imple-
   mented across all internal base systems. Base will maintain ability to monitor, detect, analyze,
   summarize, report, control, isolate, contain, recover and correct vulnerabilities.
   A3.4.8. Boundary Protection Specialist. Installs, configures, and maintains the CITS IA suite. Oper-
   ates and maintains firewall(s), web proxy and caching servers, and E-mail gateway server to protect
   base information resources from internal and external threats.

A3.5. Air Force Network Operations and Security Center (AFNOSC) and Network Operations and
Security Center (NOSC) Positions.
78                                                                            AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


     A3.5.1. Network Defense Controller. Network defense controllers oversee intrusion detection,
     boundary protection and vulnerability assessment operations to defend the AF-GIG. Network defense
     controllers develop a network defense visibility display, direct time sensitive adjustments to the net-
     work security posture to minimize or counter operational risk, and collect and store the data and met-
     rics necessary to conduct Operational Risk Management (ORM). They also direct security measures
     such as identification/authentication controls, internal encryption, and intrusion detection for the
     NOSC or NCCs under their control. Network Defense Controllers function at the IT-1 (DOD 8500.2)
     and ADP-1 (DOD 5200.2-R) level.
     A3.5.2. Enterprise Controller. Enterprise Controllers oversee network administration and network
     management operations for the AF-GIG. They are responsible for monitoring network management
     software and generating ad hoc queries for network assistance, and directing courses of action. Enter-
     prise controllers maintain a “watch” on network performance characteristics and infrastructure centers
     of gravity, and recommend adjustments. They centrally monitor server, user, and server-launched
     applications to ensure efficient use. They also create and report appropriate metrics within their area
     of responsibility. Enterprise Controllers function at the IT-1 (DOD 8500.2) and ADP-1 (DOD
     5200.2-R) level
     A3.5.3. Voice Controller. Voice Controllers are responsible for operating, managing, and maintaining
     the ETM platform and help provide situational awareness of all MAJCOM voice networks (e.g., DSN,
     public switched telephone network, and Federal Telecommunications System 2001). Voice Control-
     lers develop VPS security policies, custom report development, recurring and ad-hoc report genera-
     tion, moves/adds/changes associated with VPS policy, troubleshooting and system maintenance,
     upgrades system backups, and regular administrative reporting. They are also responsible for coordi-
     nating VPS-related issues with individual bases. Voice Controllers function at the IT-1 (DOD 8500.2)
     and ADP-1 (DOD 5200.2-R) level.

A3.6. Crew Positions at All Levels.
     A3.6.1. Crew Commander. Crew Commander is the only officer crew position. They serve at all three
     levels of NETOPS hierarchy--the AFNOSC, NOSC, and NCC. NCCs with limited manning may uti-
     lize Operations Controllers in place of Crew Commanders. Responsibilities include successful mis-
     sion execution, maintaining crew integrity, and ensuring crew members are trained and certified.
     Crew Commanders conduct changeover briefings and prepare daily standup briefings. They coordi-
     nate with wing/base-level Operations Security (OPSEC) and counterintelligence (AFOSI) personnel
     on defense counter-information (DCI) plans/operations, and deconflict NetD activities with on-going
     aerospace operations and missions. Additionally, they maintain daily logs, coordinate with external
     customers, and review SITREPs, OPREP3s, INFOCONs, TCNOs, and C4 NOTAMs. Crew com-
     manders maintain restoration and recovery plans and procedures and ensure positive control over net-
     work defense operations. In short, they maintain tactical and operational control over their assigned
     crew.
     A3.6.2. Operations Controller. Operations controllers serve at each tier of the network operations
     hierarchy. They are required at the AFNOSC and NOSC, but optional at the NCC. The operations
     controller cannot be dual hatted with another crew position (e.g., they cannot fill an enterprise control-
     ler position and operations controller position during the same shift). Operations controllers are sea-
     soned network professionals (preferably a senior NCO) and certified in at least one crew position.
     They are the right-hand of the crew commander. They advise crew commanders of critical situations
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                79


  and recommend courses of action. Additionally, they help maintain daily logs, and review SITREPs,
  OPREP3s, INFOCONs, TCNOs, and C4 NOTAMs. Operations controllers help crew commander
  ensure positive control over their assigned crew.
  A3.6.3. Help Desk Technician/Event Manager. Help Desk technicians are in essence event managers.
  At the NCC level Help Desk technicians are the CSA and FSA point of contact to the NCC. They uti-
  lize a standard trouble ticketing database for inputting, assigning, resolving and closing trouble tick-
  ets. Event managers are responsible for maintaining a real-time view of the base network, theater
  network, or AF-GIG ability to perform its designed functions. Event managers also prepare monthly
  metrics showing operational performance. Help Desk technicians and event managers must be certi-
  fied in at least one crew position. Helpdesk/Event Managers function at the IT-1 (DOD 8500.2) and
  ADP-1 (DOD 5200.2-R) level.
80                                              AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


Table A3.1. Network Operations Mission Areas.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                                                          81


                                                                                     Systems and   Information     Information
                                                                                      Network      Dissemination    Assurance
                                                                                     Management    Management
     UN                                       Functional Systems Administrator
     IT                                         Client Support Administrator
                                                  Event Manager/Help Desk
                                                      Configuration Management
          Network Admin Positions




                                                             Technician
                                                         Application Services
                                                             Technician
                                                        Messaging Technician




                                                    Boundary Protection Specialist
          Information Protection




     NC                                             Intrusion Detection Specialist
      C                                               Vulnerability Assessment
                                                             Specialist




                                                       Infrastructure Technician
          Network Mgt




                                                     Network Services Technician
CR
 E                                                 Operations Controller
W                                                    Crew Commander
PO
                                                     Network Defender
SI
                                                    Boundary Protection Specialist
          Information Protection Operations




TI
 O                                                  Intrusion Detection Specialist
NS                                                    Vulnerability Assessment
                                                             Specialist




                                                    Enterprise Controller
                                                      Configuration Management
          Network Admin Positions




     N                                                       Technician
     OS                                            Application Services Technician
     C                                                  Messaging Technician
82                                                                   AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006




                              Network Operations Mission Areas
                                                  Systems and    Information
                                                                                Information
                                                   Network      Dissemination
                                                                                 Assurance
 CR                                               Management    Management
EW                   Network Defense Controller
 PO
SIT                     Enterprise Controller
ION
      AFNOSC         Event Manager/Help Desk
  S
                        Operations Controller

                         Crew Commander

      Table Key:Shading indicates under consideration for each table entry.
AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006                                                                       83


                                            Attachment 4

VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST APPOINTMENT AND KEY REPLACEMENT
                              REQUEST



A4.1. Vulnerability Assessment Specialist (VAS) Appointment and Key Replacement Request.
This attachment is an example of a VAS appointment and Vulnerability Assessment Tool (VAT) key
replacement request.
MEMORANDUM FOR HQ SSG/SWSN (CITS ENSC ISS KEY AGENT)
FROM: 2004 CS/SC
SUBJECT: Vulnerability Assessment Specialist (VAS) Appointment and Vulnerability Assessment Tool
(VAT) Key Replacement Request
1. The below individual is appointed as the VAS for ___________________ AFB:


            Rank/Name:
          Office Symbol:
         Phone Number:
         E-mail Address:
       ISS Training Info:
          Training Date:
               Affidavit: I will use ISS for official government purposes only on the
                          ______________ AFB network or ________ network
                          according to the Internal Control Tools (ICT) as published
                          in Air Force approved publication or message.




                              ______________________________
                                        APPOINTEE SIGNATURE
84                                                                       AFI33-115V1 24 MAY 2006


2. The above appointed person will use this memorandum, formal ISS training completion, and the
domain-specific ISS key as their authority to run ISS on our network. Request ISS key be shipped to the
below address:


           Request Type: [Initial -or- Replacement]
       Specify ISS key IP xxx.yy.0.0 - xxx.yy.255.255 (Example)
       Address Range(s):
       Complete Mailing [Provide the complete ISS/VAS Operator name and
                 Address: mailing address, including building and room number]


3. The ISS POC is ____________________________ DSN ____________.




JOHN E. DOE, Major, USAF
Commander


cc: VAS Appointee
