BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE INSTRUCTION 36-815
CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           CANNON AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                        Supplement
                                                                                   19 SEPTEMBER 2006

                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                                                 ABSENCE AND LEAVE

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 27 MSS/DPC                                        Certified by: 27 MSS/CC (Maj Donna M.G. Pike)
                                                                                           Pages: 2

This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-815,
Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002. The purpose of this supplement is to establish and delegate spe-
cific authority to commanders/supervisors of civilian employees to grant annual leave, sick leave, leave
without pay, and other specialized forms of leave and absence. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this document are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (to be
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers
as required.
1.2.1. The Civilian Personnel Officer is designated.
1.2.3. Immediate (first level) supervisors are authorized to approve all leave requests for their employees,
unless otherwise redesignated by higher-level management.
2.4. Employees will request unscheduled and emergency annual leave through their immediate supervi-
sors or the second-level supervisor in the absence of the immediate supervisor, not later than two hours
after the start of their duty day. Employees will be advised if, due to the work situation, the request must
be made sooner than two hours after the start of the workday. Employees who occupy positions providing
security, utilities, or safety services, may be required to request unscheduled or emergency leave at least
two hours before their shift begins. (NOTE: Employees will not assume the requested leave is approved
until the supervisor’s determination is made.)
2.10.1.4. The appropriate Group Commander approves exigencies for all employees under their direct
command jurisdiction; the 27th Mission Support Group Commander also approves exigencies for all
employees in Wing Staff Agencies.
2.10.6. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that employees use their restored annual leave in accor-
dance with the time period specified in the AFI. Employees with 40 hours or less of restored leave should
be encouraged to use the restored leave before using regular annual leave. Employees with more than 40
hours of restored leave should be encouraged to prorate the use over the entire time limit. Supervisors
2                                                 AFI36-815_CANNONAFB 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


must ensure that when restored leave is used, it is charged against the restored leave balance and not
against the annual leave balance.
3.11.3. NOTE: Coordination with the Civilian Personnel Flight will be obtained prior to informing
employees of the decision to approve or disapprove the request. Supervisors will forward employee’s
request for advance sick leave, along with their recommendations for approval, to 27 MSS/DPC as far in
advance as possible. This will assist employees in avoiding a possible leave without pay situation.
4.4. NOTE: Coordination with the Civilian Personnel Flight is required prior to informing employees of
the decision to approve or disapprove the request.
7.2. If it is known in advance that an activity will be closed, arrangements should be made to have
affected employees work in another area or take annual leave, credit hours, comp time, or leave without
pay.
9.2. All requests to become a Leave Recipient must be coordinated through the Civilian Personnel Flight
prior to approval/disapproval. Approving authority of the applications to become a leave recipient is des-
ignated to Group Commanders. The 27th Mission Support Group Commander is also appointed the
approving official for all other civilian personnel not otherwise included in the above organizations ser-
viced by the Civilian Personnel Flight.
9.3. Contact 27 MSS/DPC for additional information and assistance.
9.5.2. The Civilian Personnel Flight will notify the civilian payroll office and/or the servicing Defense
Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) agency that the employee has been approved to accept volunteer
leave donations.



                                               SCOTT D. WEST, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 27th Fighter Wing
